COUNTY CODE
of
PAYETTE COUNTY, IDAHO
1996
Code current through:
Ord. 2024-05, passed December 23, 2024
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
         This code of the County of Payette, as supplemented, contains
ordinances up to and including ordinance 2024-05, passed December 23, 2024.
Ordinances of the County adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions
of this code to the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith.
Consult the County office in order to ascertain whether any particular
provision of the code has been amended, superseded or repealed.
                     American Legal Publishing
                     Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not amend the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
ADOPTING ORDINANCES
ORDINANCE NO. 101
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING THE COUNTY CODE OF PAYETTE COUNTY, IDAHO
   BE IT ORDAINED by the Board of County Commissioners of Payette County,
Idaho:
   Section 1: From and after the date of passage of this Ordinance, the County
Code of the County of Payette, Idaho, prepared by Sterling Codifiers, Inc.,
containing the compilation of all ordinances of a general nature together with
the changes made to said ordinances, under the direction of the governing body
of the County, shall be accepted in all courts without question as the Official
Code and law of the County as enacted by the Board of County Commissioners.
   Section 2: There is hereby adopted, as a method of perpetual codification,
the loose-leaf type of binding together with the continuous supplement service,
provided by Sterling Codifiers, Inc., whereby each newly adopted ordinance of a
general and permanent nature amending, altering, adding or deleting provisions
of the Official County Code is identified by the proper catchline and is
inserted in the proper place in each of the official copies, three (3) copies
of which shall be maintained in the office of the County Clerk, certified as to
correctness and available for inspection at any and all times that said office
is regularly open.
   Section 3: All ordinances of a general nature included in this Official
County Code shall be considered as a continuation of said ordinance provision
and the fact that some provisions have been deliberately eliminated by the
governing body shall not serve to cause any interruption in the continuous
effectiveness of ordinances included in said Official County Code. All
ordinances of a special nature, such as tax levy ordinances, bond ordinances,
franchises, vacating ordinances and annexation ordinances shall continue in
full force and effect unless specifically repealed or amended by a provision of
the County Code. Such ordinances are not intended to be included in the
Official County Code.
   Section 4: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of such Code, or
to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such
Code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the County to be
misrepresented thereby. Any violation of this Section shall be considered a
misdemeanor subject to the penalties as provided in Section 1-4-1 of this Code.
A separate violation shall be deemed to have occurred for each action committed
in violation of this Section.
   Section 5: All ordinances or part of ordinances in conflict herewith, are,
to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
   Section 6: This Ordinance and the Code adopted by the same shall be in full
force and effect from and after its passage and approval in accordance with
law, as printed and published in book form by order of the Board of County
Commissioners.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/baae6294dc957d6005b68e441f4b47ed17813bca/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1199.gif]
 
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL COUNTY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon the adoption by the Board of County Commissioners, this County Code is
hereby declared to be and shall hereafter constitute the Official County Code
of Payette County, State of Idaho. This County Code of ordinances shall be
known and cited as the PAYETTE COUNTY CODE and is hereby published by authority
of the Board of County Commissioners and shall be supplemented to incorporate
the most recent legislation of the County as provided in Section
1-1-3  of this Chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this County Code by title in any legal documents. (1996 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
This County Code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be
received without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of
this State as the ordinances of the County of general and permanent effect,
except the excluded ordinances enumerated in Section
1-2-1 of this Title. (1996 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending the County Code shall set forth the title, chapter and
section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this County Code. All
such amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this County Code. Each such replacement page
shall be properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of
the County Code. (1996 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this County Code in such a manner that
the meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages
may be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by
the Board of County Commissioners. The County Clerk shall see that the
replacement pages are properly inserted in the official copies maintained in
the office of the County Clerk. Any person having custody of a copy of the
County Code shall make every effort to maintain said Code current as to the
most recent ordinances passed. Such person shall see to the immediate insertion
of new or replacement pages when such are delivered or made available to such
person through the office of the County Clerk. Said Code books, while in actual
possession of officials and other interested persons, shall be and remain the
property of the County and shall be returned to the office of the County Clerk
when directed so to do by order of the Board of County Commissioners. (1996
Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Ways And Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the County passed prior to the adoption of this
County Code are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this County
Code or are by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to
the saving clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the
following ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances;
appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations;
franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances
establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public places;
improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to elections;
ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the
County; and all special ordinances. (1996 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this County Code or by virtue of the
preceding Section, excepting as the County Code may contain provisions for such
matters, in which case, this County Code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (1996 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Prior Acts: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as
to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done,
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or
claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any
such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   Scope Of Section: This Section shall extend to all repeals, either by
express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any
new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Actions Now Pending: Nothing contained in this Chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the County herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this Code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this Chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the County under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this County Code. (1996 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this County Code or any part thereof is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of
the remaining portions of this Code, or any part thereof. The Board of County
Commissioners hereby declares that it would have passed each section,
subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof
irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections, subsections,
subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases be declared
unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective. (1996 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: Definitions, General
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
   A.   Whenever any word in any section of this County Code importing the
plural number is used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or
persons, any single matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included,
although distributive words may not have been used. When any subject matter,
party or person is referred to in this County Code by words importing the
singular number only, or a particular gender, several matters, parties or
persons and the opposite gender and bodies corporate shall be deemed to be
included; provided, that these rules of construction shall not be applied to
any section of this County Code which contains any express provision excluding
such construction or where the subject matter or context may be repugnant
thereto.
   B.   The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the County has been
changed in the content of this County Code to "Title", "Chapter", "Section"
and/or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and
clarification purposes only. Such change to the County's ordinances is not
meant to amend passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (1996
Code)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this Code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
BOARD: The Board of County Commissioners of Payette County, Idaho.
CODE: The County Code of Payette County.
COMMISSIONERS: The Board of County Commissioners, Payette County, Idaho.
COUNTY: The County of Payette, State of Idaho 1 .
COUNTY CLERK: The Clerk of the District Court of the County of Payette, State
of Idaho. State law provides that the Clerk of the District Court be ex officio
Auditor, Recorder and Clerk of the Board of County Commissioners.
EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this Code to a County employee by
title only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of Payette
County".
GENDER: A word importing either the masculine or feminine gender only shall
extend and be applied to the other gender and to persons.
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive to the sensibilities of reasonable persons, or any
act or activity creating a hazard which threatens the health and welfare of
inhabitants of the County, or any activity which by its perpetuation can
reasonably be said to have a detrimental effect on the property of a person or
persons within the community.
OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this Code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this Code.
OFFICERS: Whenever reference is made in this Code to a County officer by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of Payette
County".
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Shall include every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
STREET: Shall include alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places and sidewalks.
TENANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who occupies
the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with others.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person, or in case he is unable to write, by his proper
mark. (1996 Code) !DEFEND!
 
Notes
1 1. I.C. § 31-146.
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of the County Code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or
reenacted. (1996 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Application Of Provisions
1-4-3: Liability Of Officers
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY:
Any person convicted of a violation of any ordinance of the county, may be
fined in a sum not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for any offense
and such person may be confined in jail for a period not to exceed one year.
Either or both such fine and imprisonment may be imposed; and in addition
thereto, any person so convicted shall pay such costs as the court may assess.
(Ord. 2012-08, 7-16-2012)
1-4-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Application Of Penalty: The penalty herein provided shall be applicable
to every section of this code and ordinance of the county, the same as though
it were a part of each and every code section and separate ordinance. Any
person convicted of a violation of this code or any ordinance of Payette County
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, unless otherwise specified. A separate
offense shall be deemed committed for each day during or on which a violation
occurs or continues. (Ord. 1998-11, 11-29-1999)
   B.   Imposition Of Penalty: In all cases where the same offense is made
punishable or is created by different clauses or sections of this code, the
prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed; but not more than one
recovery shall be had against the same person for the same offense; provided,
that the revocation of a license or permit shall not be considered a recovery
or penalty so as to bar any other penalty being enforced.
   C.   Breach Of Provisions: Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to
do any act constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this code and
there shall be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the
provisions of this chapter shall apply. (1996 Code)
1-4-3: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intention of
the board of county commissioners to impose such fine or penalty on such
officer or employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the section
creating the duty. (1996 Code)
CHAPTER 5
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
SECTION:
1-5-1: Board Established; Election And Terms Of Office
1-5-2: Qualifications
1-5-3: Bond
1-5-4: Organization; Meetings
1-5-5: Powers And Duties
1-5-1: BOARD ESTABLISHED; ELECTION AND TERMS OF OFFICE:
There is hereby established for the County of Payette a Board of County
Commissioners which shall consist of three (3) members, one from each district
in the County. At the general election in 1936, two (2) members were elected
for a term of two (2) years and one member for a term of four (4) years; at
each biennial election thereafter, one member is to be elected for a term of
two (2) years and one for a term of four (4) years, it being further provided
that at the general election in 1936, the Commissioner from County Commissioner
District Number One shall be elected for a term of four (4) years, and that the
four (4) year term shall be allotted thereafter in rotation to Districts Number
Two, Three and One 1 . (1996 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. I.C. § 31-703.
1-5-2: QUALIFICATIONS:
No person shall be elected to the Board of County Commissioners, unless such
person has attained the age of twenty one (21) years at the time of the
election, is a citizen of the United States and shall have resided in the
County one year next preceding his election and in the district which he
represents for a period of ninety (90) days next preceding his election 1 .
(1996 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. I.C. § 34-617.
1-5-3: BOND:
Each County Commissioner shall execute an official bond in the sum of five
thousand dollars ($5,000.00) 1 . (1996 Code)
 
Notes
1 3. I.C. § 31-2015.
1-5-4: ORGANIZATION; MEETINGS:
   A.   Officers:
      1.   Chairman: The members of the Board of County Commissioners shall, at
their first regular meeting on the second Monday of January next after their
election, elect a chairman from their number.
      2.   County Clerk 1 : The County Auditor is ex officio Clerk of the Board
of County Commissioners. The Clerk of the Board of County Commissioners shall
have the duties as set out in Idaho Code section 31-708, as amended.
   B.   Meetings:
      1.   Regular Meetings: The regular meetings of the Board of County
Commissioners shall be held at the County seat every Monday unless it is a
legal holiday, in which case they meet on Tuesday, or if the Board determines
that County affairs require regular meetings more often, then at such times as
may be provided for in advance by ordinance, and must continue, from time to
time, until all the business before it has been addressed. Such other meetings
must be held to canvass election returns, equalize taxation and for other
purposes as are prescribed by law or provided for by the Board of County
Commissioners.
      2.   Adjourned Meetings: Adjourned meetings may be provided for, fixed
and held for the transaction of business, by an order duly entered of record,
in which must be specified the character of business to be transacted at such
meetings, and none other than that specified must be transacted.
      3.   Special Meetings: If, at any time after the adjournment of a regular
meeting, the business of the County requires a meeting of the Board of County
Commissioners, a special meeting may be ordered by a majority of the Board of
County Commissioners. The order must be entered of record, and five (5) days'
notice thereof must, by the County Clerk, be given to each member not joining
in the order. The order must specify the business to be transacted, and none
other than that specified must be transacted at such special meeting.
      4.   Public Meetings: All meetings of the Board of County Commissioners
must be public, and the books, records and accounts must be kept at the office
of the clerk, open at all times for public inspection, free of charge. The
clerk of the Board of County Commissioners must give five (5) days' public
notice of all special or adjourned meetings, stating the business to be
transacted, by posting three (3) notices in conspicuous places, one of which
shall be at the County Courthouse door.
   C.   Quorum; Procedures: A majority of the Board of County Commissioners
constitutes a quorum. The Chairman must preside at all meetings of the Board,
and in case of his absence or inability to act, the members present must, by an
order, select one of their number to act as chairman temporarily. Any member of
the Board of County Commissioners or its clerk may administer oaths to any
person concerning any matter submitted to the Board of County Commissioners or
connected with its powers or duties. (1996 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection 1-6A-2A of this Title for bond.
1-5-5: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The Board of County Commissioners shall have those powers and duties set out in
Idaho Code section 31-801 et seq., as amended. (1996 Code)
CHAPTER 6
COUNTY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
ARTICLE A. COUNTY CLERK
SECTION:
1-6A-1: Office Established; Election And Term
1-6A-2: Bonds
1-6A-3: Duties As Auditor And Recorder
1-6A-1: OFFICE ESTABLISHED; ELECTION AND TERM:
There is hereby established the office of the County Clerk who shall be ex
officio Auditor and Recorder and ex officio Clerk of the Board of County
Commissioners 1 . The County Clerk shall be elected by the qualified voters of
the County at the time and in the manner prescribed by law for the election of
members of the legislature 2  and shall hold office for a term of four (4)
years 3 . (1996 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection 1-5-4A2 of this Title.
2 2. I.C. § 34-614.
3 3. Const. Idaho, art. 5, § 16.
1-6A-2: BONDS:
   A.   County Clerk: The County Clerk shall execute an official bond in the
penal sum of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) with two (2) sufficient
sureties, to be approved by the District Judge, conditioned that such person
will faithfully perform the duties of such office and at all times account for
and pay over all monies in his or her hands as County Clerk, and the penalty of
such bond may, at any time, be increased by the District Judge. The County
Clerk may require a bond from any deputy clerk 1 .
   B.   County Clerk/Recorder: The County Clerk/Recorder shall execute an
official bond in the sum of not less than five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) nor
more than twenty thousand dollars ($20,000.00) to be fixed by the Board of
County Commissioners and to cover the duties and liabilities as Recorder,
Auditor and Clerk of the Board of County Commissioners 2 . (1996 Code)
 
Notes
1 4. I.C. § 31-2015.
2 5. I.C. § 31-2015.
1-6A-3: DUTIES AS AUDITOR AND RECORDER 1 :
   A.   County Auditor: The duties of the County Auditor shall be as set forth
in Idaho Code section 31-2301 et seq., as amended.
   B.   County Recorder: The duties of the County Recorder shall be as set
forth in Idaho Code section 31-2401 et seq., as amended. (1996 Code)
PA570   1-6B
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection 1-5-4A2 of this Title for duties as Clerk of the Board of
  Commissioners.
CHAPTER 6
COUNTY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
ARTICLE B. COUNTY TREASURER
SECTION:
1-6B-1: Office Established; Election And Term
1-6B-2: Bonds
1-6B-3: Duties
1-6B-1: OFFICE ESTABLISHED; ELECTION AND TERM:
There is hereby established the office of County Treasurer who shall serve as
ex officio County Tax Collector. The Treasurer shall be elected for a term of
four (4) years as provided by law 1 . (1996 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. Const. Idaho, art. 18, § 6.
1-6B-2: BONDS:
   A.   County Treasurer: The County Treasurer shall execute an official bond
in an amount double the probable amount of money that may, at any time, come
into his hands as such Treasurer, to be fixed by the Board of County
Commissioners; provided, if surety bond be given as provided in Idaho Code
section 41-2604, as amended, the bond need not exceed twenty five percent (25%)
of the probable amount that may be on hand at any one time, but in no case to
be less than ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) 1 .
   B.   Tax Collector: The official bond of the Tax Collector shall be not less
than two thousand dollars ($2,000.00) nor more than fifty thousand dollars
($50,000.00) to be fixed by the Board of County Commissioners 2 . (1996 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. I.C. § 31-2015.
2 3. I.C. § 31-2015.
1-6B-3: DUTIES:
   A.   Duties As County Treasurer: The duties of the County Treasurer shall be
as set forth in Idaho Code section 31-2101 et seq., as amended.
   B.   Duties As Tax Collector: The duties of the County Tax Collector in
relation to the collection of revenue are prescribed in Idaho Code title 63, as
amended. (1996 Code)
PA570   1-6C
CHAPTER 6
COUNTY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
ARTICLE C. COUNTY ASSESSOR
SECTION:
1-6C-1: Office Established; Election And Term
1-6C-2: Bond
1-6C-3: Duties
1-6C-1: OFFICE ESTABLISHED; ELECTION AND TERM:
There is hereby established the office of County Assessor who shall be elected
for a term of four (4) years as provided by law 1 . (1996 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. Const. Idaho, art. 18, § 6.
1-6C-2: BOND:
The County Assessor shall execute an official bond in the sum of five thousand
dollars ($5,000.00) 1 . (1996 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. I.C. § 31-2015.
1-6C-3: DUTIES:
The County Assessor shall perform the duties prescribed in Idaho Code title 63,
as amended, relating to revenue 1 . (1996 Code)
PA570   1-6D
 
Notes
1 3. I.C. § 31-2501.
CHAPTER 6
COUNTY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
ARTICLE D. COUNTY PROSECUTING ATTORNEY
SECTION:
1-6D-1: Office Established; Election And Term
1-6D-2: Qualifications
1-6D-3: Bond
1-6D-4: Powers And Duties
1-6D-1: OFFICE ESTABLISHED; ELECTION AND TERM:
There is hereby established the office of County Prosecuting Attorney who shall
be elected for a term of four (4) years as provided by law 1 . (1996 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. Const. Idaho, art. 18, § 6.
1-6D-2: QUALIFICATIONS:
No person shall be elected to the office of Prosecuting Attorney, unless he has
attained the age of twenty one (21) years at the time of his election, is
admitted to the practice of law within this State, is a citizen of the United
States and a qualified elector within the County 1 . (1996 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. I.C. § 34-623.
1-6D-3: BOND:
The County Prosecuting Attorney shall execute an official bond in the sum of
two thousand dollars ($2,000.00) 1 . (1996 Code)
 
Notes
1 3. I.C. § 31-2015.
1-6D-4: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The County Prosecuting Attorney shall have those powers and duties set out in
Idaho Code title 31, chapter 26, as amended. (1996 Code)
CHAPTER 6
COUNTY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
ARTICLE E. COUNTY SHERIFF
SECTION:
1-6E-1: Office Established; Election And Term
1-6E-2: Bond
1-6E-3: Powers And Duties
1-6E-1: OFFICE ESTABLISHED; ELECTION AND TERM:
There is hereby established the office of County Sheriff who shall be elected
for a term of four (4) years as provided by law 1 . (1996 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. Const. Idaho, art. 18, § 6.
1-6E-2: BOND:
The County Sheriff shall execute an official bond in the sum of ten thousand
dollars ($10,000.00) 1 . (1996 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. I.C. § 31-2015.
1-6E-3: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The County Sheriff shall have those powers and duties as set out in Idaho Code
title 31, chapter 22, as amended. (1996 Code)
CHAPTER 6
COUNTY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
ARTICLE F. COUNTY CORONER
SECTION:
1-6F-1: Office Established; Election And Term
1-6F-2: Bond
1-6F-3: Powers And Duties
1-6F-1: OFFICE ESTABLISHED; ELECTION AND TERM:
There is hereby established the office of County Coroner who shall be elected
for a term of four (4) years as provided by law 1 . (1996 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. Const. Idaho, art. 18, § 6; and I.C. § 34-622.
1-6F-2: BOND:
The County Coroner shall execute an official bond in the sum of one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00) 1 . (1996 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. I.C. § 31-2015.
1-6F-3: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The County Coroner shall have those powers and duties as set out in Idaho Code
section 31-2801 et seq., as amended. (1996 Code)
CHAPTER 7
PUBLIC HEARINGS
SECTION:
1-7-1: Conduct
1-7-2: Rules Of Procedure
1-7-3: Indigence Hearings
1-7-1: CONDUCT:
   A.   Rules Established: The following rules are hereby established and shall
be observed in the conduct of any public hearings before the Board of County
Commissioners or the County Planning and Zoning Commission. These rules shall
be known as the "County Rules of Procedure".
   B.   Holding Of Hearings: Hearings shall be held in all cases required by
Idaho Code or by a County ordinance. (Ord. 67, 3-4-1991, eff. 3-15-1991)
1-7-2: RULES OF PROCEDURE:
Hearings shall be conducted by a member of the Board of County Commissioners, a
member of the Planning and Zoning Commission, any person permitted by statute,
or any person designated by the Board of County Commissioners or the Planning
and Zoning Commission.
   A.   Testimony: At a hearing, a party requesting relief from the Board of
County Commissioners or Planning and Zoning Commission shall be allowed the
opportunity to present oral testimony and such exhibits as the hearing officer
may deem appropriate. Any affected party shall be allowed to produce
information either orally or in a written form which the hearing officer deems
appropriate.
   B.   Signing Name Before Speaking: No person shall be allowed to testify or
speak before the Board of County Commissioners or Planning and Zoning
Commission unless such person has signed his name and written his residential
address thereafter on a sign-up sheet which shall be provided. This rule will
not apply to staff or technical witnesses directed by the hearing officer, the
Planning and Zoning Commission or the Board of County Commissioners to give
information or evidence at the hearing.
   C.   Recognition By Hearing Officer: No person shall be permitted to speak
until such person has been recognized by the hearing officer.
   D.   Time Limit: The hearing officer may set a time limit on presentations,
but not less than three (3) minutes.
   E.   Sergeant At Arms: The hearing officer may appoint a sergeant at arms
who shall have the authority to remove disruptive or unruly persons from the
hearing at the officer's direction.
   F.   Recording Of Testimony: All public hearings shall be recorded
electronically and all persons speaking at such hearings shall speak before a
microphone, shall identify themselves and speak in such a manner as will ensure
that a recorded testimony of remarks will be accurate and trustworthy.
   G.   Interruption Prohibited: A speaker will not be interrupted by Board of
County Commissioners or Planning and Zoning Commission members or members of
the public until his time limit has expired or until he has finished his
statement.
   H.   Question And Answer Period: At the conclusion of the speech, members of
the Planning and Zoning Commission and members of the Board of County
Commissioners, when recognized by the hearing officer, shall be allowed to
question the speaker. The speaker shall be limited in his responses to answer
the questions asked. The question and answer period shall not be included in
the speaker's time limit.
   I.   Findings Of Fact: When the public hearing is quasi-judicial in nature
or one after which the Board of County Commissioners or Planning and Zoning
Commission is required to make findings of fact, the hearing officer may
require the speaker to swear or affirm that his testimony will be true and
correct.
   J.   Time Of Conducting Hearings: A hearing officer may conduct a hearing at
any time established by the Planning and Zoning Commission or Board of County
Commissioners. (Ord. 67, 3-4-1991, eff. 3-15-1991)
1-7-3: INDIGENCE HEARINGS:
In indigence hearings and all other hearings before the Board of County
Commissioners, the Idaho Rules of Civil Procedure and the Idaho Rules of
Evidence shall be in full force and effect and shall be observed by all
participants. (Ord. 67, 3-4-1991, eff. 3-15-1991; 1996 Code)
CHAPTER 8
PERSONAL PROPERTY SUBJECT TO TAX ASSESSMENT
SECTION:
1-8-1: Report Required
1-8-2: Assessment Sticker
1-8-3: Penalty
1-8-1: REPORT REQUIRED:
   A.   All persons owning, buying, transporting, delivering and/or selling
personal property, such as mobile homes and/or trailer houses used as
dwellings, within the County, which personal property is to be used and/or
located within the County and is subject to tax assessment by authority of
Idaho Code title 63, shall immediately report to the County Assessor, of the
ownership, purchase, transportation, delivering or sale of said personal
property.
   B.   The person owning or purchasing personal property subject to assessment
shall be obligated to complete a detailed report of said personal property,
such as mobile homes and/or trailer houses used as dwellings, within fifteen
(15) days after a printed form has been supplied to said person by the County
Assessor. (Ord. 22, 6-17-1974, eff. 6-19-1974)
1-8-2: ASSESSMENT STICKER:
The County Assessor, at his discretion, may affix an emblem, label or sticker
upon personal property, to-wit: mobile homes and/or trailer houses used as
dwellings, assessed and once so affixed shall not be removed, but shall be
displayed, while the personal property is located in Payette County. (Ord. 22,
6-17-1974, eff. 6-19-1974)
1-8-3: PENALTY:
It shall be a misdemeanor for any person to violate the provisions of this
Chapter; a person convicted of such violation shall be subject to penalty as
provided in Section 1-4-1 of this Title. (Ord. 22, 6-17-1974, eff. 6-19-1974;
1996 Code)
CHAPTER 9
INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM
SECTION:
1-9-1: Creation Of Right
1-9-2: Interpretation And Limitation
1-9-3: Petition Requirements
1-9-4: Time For Filing Of Initial Petitions
1-9-5: Certificate Of Review By Prosecuting Attorney
1-9-6: Form, Approval, Printing, And Perfection Of Petitions
1-9-7: Circulation Of Petitions And Verification Of Signatures By Petition
Circulator
1-9-8: Petition And Signatures Void
1-9-9: Number Of Petitioners Required
1-9-10: Time For Filing Of Completed Petitions
1-9-11: County Clerk's Verification And Certification Of Signatures
1-9-12: Removal Of Signatures
1-9-13: Action On Proper Petitions
1-9-14: Conduct Of Election
1-9-15: Prohibited Acts
1-9-1: CREATION OF RIGHT:
The people of Payette County shall have the right to enact ordinances through
the initiative process, and to repeal ordinances through the referendum
process, according to the procedures set forth herein. (Ord. 2007-12, 10-9-
2007)
1-9-2: INTERPRETATION AND LIMITATION:
Nothing within the terms and language of this chapter should be considered or
interpreted to allow for procedures herein to divest or otherwise interfere
with the normal powers and duties of the board of county commissioners of
Payette County regarding their right to adopt or repeal any ordinance pursuant
to state law; nor shall the language of this chapter be considered or
interpreted to allow for the violation of substantive or procedure requirements
of state law. (Ord. 2007-12, 10-9-2007)
1-9-3: PETITION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Form Of Petition:
      1.   Initiative: The following shall be substantially the form of
petition for any law proposed by the initiative:
         THIS INITIATIVE (OR REFERENDUM as the case may be) PETITION IS BEING
CIRCULATED BY A PAID SIGNATURE GATHERER. THE SIGNATURE GATHERER IS EMPLOYED BY
OR HAS CONTRACTED WITH     , THE MAIN OFFICE OR HEADQUARTERS OF WHICH IS
LOCATED AT (city and state). (In Bold Red Type)
[OR, THIS INITIATIVE (OR REFERENDUM as the case may be) PETITION IS BEING
CIRCULATED BY AN UNPAID VOLUNTEER. (In Bold Red Type)]
WARNING
It is a crime for anyone to sign any initiative or referendum petition with any
name other than his or her own, or to knowingly sign his name more than once
for the measure, or to sign such petition when he or she is not a qualified
elector.
INITIATIVE PETITION
To the Payette County Clerk:
"We the undersigned citizens and qualified electors of Payette County, State of
Idaho, respectfully demand that the following proposed ordinance, to wit:
(setting out full text of proposed measure) shall be submitted to the qualified
electors of Payette County, State of Idaho, at an election to be held on the
day of , 20 , and each elector says: I have personally signed this petition; I
am a qualified elector of the State of Idaho; my residence and post office are
correctly written after my name."
Signature Printed Name Residence City Post Office Date
(Street & Number)
(Here follow numbered lines for signature.)
      2.   Referendum: The petition for referendum on any act passed by the
board of Payette County commissioners shall be in substantially the same form
as designated in subsection A1 of this section with appropriate title change,
setting out in full the text of the ordinance to be subject to referendum to be
referred to the people for their approval or rejection. (Ord. 2007-12, 10-9-
2007)
1-9-4: TIME FOR FILING OF INITIAL PETITIONS:
   A.   For Referendum: Initial petition for referendum containing not fewer
than twenty (20) signatures of qualified electors of the county shall be filed
not less than thirty (30) days following the final publication of the ordinance
to be subject to referendum as provided in section 31-717, Idaho Code.
   B.   For Initiative: Initial petitions for an initiative shall contain no
fewer than twenty (20) signatures of qualified electors of the county. (Ord.
2007-12, 10-9-2007)
1-9-5: CERTIFICATE OF REVIEW BY PROSECUTING ATTORNEY:
   A.   Before beginning to circulate any petition for initiative or for
referendum, the person or persons or organization or organizations under whose
authority the measure is to be initiated or referred shall send or deliver to
the county clerk a copy of such petition duly signed by at least twenty (20)
qualified electors of the county which shall be filed by the county clerk in
his office, and who shall immediately transmit a copy of the petition to the
prosecuting attorney for the issuance of the certificate of review as provided
in Idaho Code section 34-1809.
   B.   After receiving a copy of the petition from the county clerk, the
county prosecuting attorney may confer with the petitioner and shall, within
twenty (20) working days from receipt thereof, review the proposal for matters
of substantive import and shall recommend to the petitioner such revision or
alteration of the measure as may be deemed necessary and appropriate. The
recommendations of the prosecuting attorney shall be advisory only and the
petitioner may accept or reject them in whole or in part. The prosecuting
attorney shall issue a certificate of review to the county clerk certifying
that he or she has reviewed the measure for form and style and that the
recommendations thereon, if any, have been communicated to the petitioner, and
such certificate shall be issued whether or not the petitioner accepts such
recommendations.
   C.   Within fifteen (15) working days after the issuance of a certificate of
review, the petitioner, if he desires to proceed with his sponsorship, shall
file the ballot measure with the county clerk for assignment of a ballot title.
The county clerk shall thereupon submit to the prosecuting attorney two (2)
copies of the measure filed.
   D.   Within ten (10) working days after receiving said copies, the county
prosecuting attorney shall prepare a ballot title as prescribed by Idaho Code
section 34-1809.
   E.   A copy of the ballot title as prepared by the county prosecuting
attorney shall be furnished by the county clerk with his or her approval form
of any initiative or referendum petition to the petitioner.
   F.   Any person who is dissatisfied with the ballot title or the short title
provided by the county prosecuting attorney may appeal to the board of county
commissioners praying for a different title and setting forth the reason why
the title as prepared by the county prosecuting attorney is insufficient or
unfair. No appeal shall be allowed on a ballot title unless the appeal is taken
within ten (10) days after said ballot title is filed with the county clerk.
(Ord. 2007-12, 10-9-2007)
1-9-6: FORM, APPROVAL, PRINTING, AND PERFECTION OF PETITIONS:
   A.   All petitions and sheets for signatures shall be printed on a good
quality bond or ledger paper, on pages eight and one-half inches (81/2") in
width by thirteen inches (13") in length, with a margin of one and three-
fourths inches (13/4") at the top for binding, and the sheets for signatures
shall have numbered lines thereon from one to twenty (20) signatures. The
petition shall be prepared in sections, with each section numbered
consecutively. Each section of a petition must have a printed copy of the
petition as the first page, and each section shall have attached to it no more
than ten (10) sheets for signatures. The ballot title shall be used and printed
on the covers of the petition when in circulation. The short title shall be
printed in type not less than 20-point on the covers of all such petitions. The
general title shall be printed in type not less than 14-point on the covers of
all such petitions. If the general title does not fit on the cover, then it
should be printed in 14-point type on the page immediately following the cover.
   B.   The Payette County clerk shall indicate, in writing on the petition,
that he or she has approved it as to form, and shall inform the person or
persons, organization or organizations under whose authority the petition is to
be circulated, in writing, that the petition must be perfected with the
required number of certified signatures within one hundred eighty (180) days
following the date of approval as to form.
   C.   After the form of the initiative or referendum petition has been
preapproved by the county clerk, the petition shall be printed by the person or
persons or organizations under whose authority the measure is to be initiated
or referred and circulated in the county for the signatures of legal voters.
   D.   Any petition that has not been perfected with the required number of
certified signatures with the one hundred eighty (180) days allowed shall be
declared null and void ab initio in its entirety. (Ord. 2007-12, 10-9-2007)
1-9-7: CIRCULATION OF PETITIONS AND VERIFICATION OF SIGNATURES BY PETITION
CIRCULATOR:
Any person who circulates any petition for an initiative or referendum shall be
a resident of Payette County and at least eighteen (18) years of age. Each and
every sheet of every such petition containing signatures shall be verified on
the face thereof in substantially the following form, by the person who
circulated said sheet of said petition, by his or her affidavit thereon, and as
a part thereof:
State of Idaho,
ss.
County of Payette County
I,                 , being first duly sworn, say: That I am a resident of
Payette County and at least eighteen (18) years of age; that every person who
signed this sheet of the foregoing petition signed his or her name thereto in
my presence; I believe that each has stated his or her name, post office
address and residence correctly; that each signer is a qualified elector of the
State of Idaho and a resident of the county of Payette.
Signed:                                
Address
Subscribed and sworn to before me this         day of               ,
20          
(Notary Seal)
Notary Public
Residing at
(Ord. 2007-12, 10-9-2007)
1-9-8: PETITION AND SIGNATURES VOID:
Any petition upon which the signatures are obtained by a person not a resident
of Payette County and at least eighteen (18) years of age shall be void. The
definition of resident in section 34-107(1) to (4), Idaho Code, shall apply to
the circulators of initiative and referendum petitions. However, if a person
moves outside the county of Payette with the intention of making it his
permanent home, he shall be considered to have lost his residence in this
county for the purposes of this chapter. (Ord. 2007-12, 10-9-2007)
1-9-9: NUMBER OF PETITIONERS REQUIRED:
Petitioners for initiative or referendum shall be equal to twenty percent (20%)
of the qualified electors voting in the county in the last general election.
(Ord. 2007-12, 10-9-2007)
1-9-10: TIME FOR FILING OF COMPLETED PETITIONS:
Completed petitions, with the requisite number of signatures, shall be filed
with the county clerk not more than one hundred eighty (180) days after the
date of form approval as set out in section 1-9-6 of this chapter. (Ord. 2007-
12, 10-9-2007)
1-9-11: COUNTY CLERK'S VERIFICATION AND CERTIFICATION OF SIGNATURES:
The county clerk shall, within sixty (60) calendar days of the deadline for the
submission of the signatures, verify the signatures contained in the petition.
In addition, the county clerk shall, within sixty (60) days of the deadline for
submission of the signatures, certify as to the number of qualified electors'
signatures on the petition. (Ord. 2007-12, 10-9-2007)
1-9-12: REMOVAL OF SIGNATURES:
   A.   The signer of any initiative or referendum petition may remove his or
her own name from the petition by crossing out, obliterating or otherwise
defacing his or her own signature at any time prior to the time when the
petition is presented to the county clerk for signature verification.
   B.   The signer of any initiative or referendum petition may have his or her
name removed from the petition at any time after presentation of the petition
to the county clerk but prior to verification of the signature, by presenting
or submitting to the county clerk a signed statement that the signer desires to
have his name removed from the petition. The statement shall contain sufficient
information to clearly identify the signer. The county clerk shall immediately
strike the signer's name from the petition, and adjust the total of certified
signatures on the petition accordingly. The statement shall be attached to, and
become a part of the initiative or referendum petition. (Ord. 2007-12, 10-9-
2007)
1-9-13: ACTION ON PROPER PETITIONS:
   A.   Upon final certification of the petition, the county clerk shall:
      1.   Promptly, by certified mail, inform the petitioners and shall also
notify the Payette County commissioners at their next meeting that the
initiative or referendum petition is in proper form, having the requisite
number of verified signatures.
      2.   Schedule an election for the initiative or referendum to be held on
the nearest date set out in subsections A2a through A2d of this section,
provided that the date falls more than forty five (45) days after the county
clerk has certified the petition:
         a.   The first Tuesday in February each year; or
         b.   The fourth Tuesday in May of each year; or
         c.   The first Tuesday in August of each year; or
         d.   The Tuesday following the first Monday in November of each year.
   B.   If the petition is for a referendum, the Payette County commissioners
shall have thirty (30) days from the date of certification of the petition to
repeal the ordinance being referred to the voters. In the event the
commissioners repeal the ordinance, the referendum petition shall be declared
null and void.
   C.   If the petition is an initiative petition, the Payette County
commissioners shall have thirty (30) days to pass an ordinance substantially as
proposed by the petition. In the event the commissioners pass such an
ordinance, the initiative petition shall be null and void.
   D.   In the event the Payette County commissioners neither repeal the
ordinance which is the subject of a referendum petition, nor enact an ordinance
which is the subject of an initiative petition, a countywide election shall be
held as set out in subsection A of this section. (Ord. 2007-12, 10-9-2007)
1-9-14: CONDUCT OF ELECTION:
   A.   Initiative or referendum elections, whether special or general, shall
be conducted and the results thereof canvassed and certified in all respects as
near as practicable, in like manner as general elections, except as otherwise
provided.
   B.   The county commissioners shall meet within five (5) days after said
election to canvass the votes cast at such election, and the Payette County
clerk shall immediately announce the results. Any initiative measure approved
by a majority of the votes cast shall be in full force and effect from the date
of such announcement. Any ordinance which is the subject of a referendum and
for which a majority of the votes were cast in favor of repealing the ordinance
shall be repealed, effective on the date of such announcement. (Ord. 2007-12,
10-9-2007)
1-9-15: PROHIBITED ACTS:
A person is guilty of a misdemeanor who:
   A.   Signs any name other than his own to any initiative or referendum
petition;
   B.   Knowingly signs his or her name more than once to the same initiative
or referendum petition;
   C.   Knowingly signs his name to any county initiative or referendum
petition if he or she is not a registered county elector;
   D.   Wilfully or knowingly circulates, publishes or exhibits any false
statement or representation concerning the contents, purport or effect of any
initiative or referendum petition for the purpose of obtaining any signature of
any such petition, or for the purpose of persuading any person to sign any such
petition;
   E.   Presents to any officer for filing any initiative or referendum
petition to which is attached, appended or subscribed any signature which the
person so filing such petition knows to be false or fraudulent, or not the
genuine signature of the person purporting to sign such petition, or whose name
is attached, appended or subscribed thereto;
   F.   Circulates or causes to circulate any initiative or referendum
petition, knowing the same to contain false, forged or fictitious names;
   G.   Makes any false affidavit concerning any initiative or referendum
petition or the signatures appended thereto;
   H.   Offers, proposes or threatens for any pecuniary reward or
consideration:
      1.   To offer, propose, threaten or attempt to sell, hinder or delay any
initiative or referendum petition or any part thereof or any signatures
thereon;
      2.   To offer, propose or threaten to desist from beginning, promoting or
circulating any initiative or referendum petition;
      3.   To offer, propose, attempt or threaten in any manner or form to use
any recall petition or any power of promotion or opposition in any manner or
form for extortion, blackmail or secret or private intimidation of any person
or business interest;
   I.   While serving as a public officer, knowingly makes any false return,
certification or affidavit concerning any initiative or referendum, or the
signatures appended thereto. (Ord. 2007-12, 10-9-2007)
PA570   2-T
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
ORCHARD REVIEW BOARD
SECTION:
2-1-1: Purpose
2-1-2: Definitions
2-1-3: Creation
2-1-4: Membership
2-1-5: Control Procedures
2-1-6: Right Of Entry
2-1-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to enable the county to more effectively control
and prevent the spread of orchard pests, and by these actions protect the
viability, productiveness, and competitiveness of the orchard industry in the
county, and ensure the industry's continued contribution to the economy of the
county. The authority to control agricultural pests is granted to the board of
commissioners by Idaho Code section 25-2601. (Ord. 73, 3-9-1992)
2-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
BOARD: The orchard review board.
NEGLECTED OR ABANDONED: Any orchard or private orchards where standard orchard
or private orchard management practices as described in state and regional
publications are not being met and one or more pest, pathogen, disease, or
condition of economic consequence to the particular crop being grown exist.
ORCHARD: An area that has fruit tree(s), wild or cultivated.
PRIVATE ORCHARD: Privately owned fruit tree(s), fruit from which is used solely
for the consumption of the owner's family members. (Ord. 2006-10, 6-12-2006)
2-1-3: CREATION:
Pursuant to the authority granted under Idaho Code section 25-2603, the board
of county commissioners hereby creates an orchard review board to control
orchard pests. (Ord. 73, 3-9-1992)
2-1-4: MEMBERSHIP:
   A.   Appointment: The orchard review board shall be composed of five (5)
members appointed by the Payette County board of commissioners. Two (2) of the
members shall be from the commercial orchard industry, one shall be a private
citizen and resident of the county with no commercial ties to the orchard
industry, one member shall be a private orchardist or retired commercial
orchardist or have some background or knowledge of orchard management and fruit
production, and the fifth member shall be that person employed by the
University of Idaho as the Payette County agricultural extension agent. All
board members will be protected by Payette County errors and omissions
insurance while acting in his or her capacity as a board member.
   B.   Term Of Office: The orchard review board members shall serve for a term
of two (2) years.
   C.   Compensation: The orchard review board members shall serve without
salary or other compensation.
   D.   Powers And Duties:
      1.   Powers: The orchard review board is vested with the power to control
pests as provided in this chapter, subject to review by the board of county
commissioners.
      2.   Duties: It shall be the duty of the orchard review board to review
and act on all complaints involving orchard pests in orchards private or
otherwise. When the board cannot resolve issues leading to the complaint, the
Payette County prosecuting attorney and sheriff shall, at the request of the
Payette County commissioners, assist in the enforcement of this chapter.
      3.   Notification: Any notice requirements under this chapter shall be
accomplished by ten (10) days' notice in writing, to control pests identified;
or if such land is unoccupied or owned by a nonresident, or the resident cannot
be located, such notice shall be mailed to the owner's address, or if address
is unknown, posted upon the land or premises where such pests are to be
controlled. (Ord. 2006-10, 6-12-2006)
2-1-5: CONTROL PROCEDURES:
   A.   Written Complaints; Notification Of Landowner: Only signed written
complaints shall be reviewed and investigated by the board. Upon receipt of a
complaint, the board shall immediately notify the landowner of the complaint
and name a voting member to act as a contact for the landowner. That board
member shall arrange with the landowner a time for the appointed investigatory
team to examine the orchard or private orchard in question.
   B.   Investigation Team: The board shall appoint three (3) investigators to
carry out the field inspection of any orchard or private orchard under review
by the board. The investigatory team shall be composed of that board member
named as the contact person for the landowner, and that person employed by the
University of Idaho as the Payette County agricultural extension agent to act
as an advisor. The other member of the investigatory team shall be determined
by the board.
   C.   Inspection Procedures: The orchard review board in conjunction with
that person employed by the University of Idaho as the Payette County
agricultural/University of Idaho agricultural extension service, any other
agricultural extension specialist deemed necessary, and a representative of the
Idaho department of agriculture, division of plant industries, will establish
the inspection procedures to be used by any orchard review board investigatory
team. Such procedures shall be reviewed by the board of county commissioners
and must be approved by the board of county commissioners prior to
implementation.
   D.   Written Notice To Control Pests: If the investigatory team finds that
an orchard or private orchard does in fact contain orchard pests, the landowner
in question shall be given written notice to control such pests within ten (10)
days of receipt of the notice. Such notice shall comply with subsection 2-1-
4D3, "Notification", of this chapter.
   E.   Failure To Comply; Show Cause Hearing: If the landowner fails to
control the specified pest or pests within ten (10) days, the landowner in
question shall be given notice, not less than seven (7) days before the
hearing, to appear before the board to show cause why the board should not
initiate steps to control the pest or pests. Such notice shall comply with
subsection 2-1-4D of this chapter.
   F.   Contract To Control: Unless the landowner can show that the
agricultural pests do not exist, or that they do exist but it is not necessary
to control them, such landowner shall be requested to enter into a contract
with the orchard review board specifying a time in which such pests will be
controlled by the landowner, and any other provisions determined by the orchard
review board to be necessary for the fulfillment of the purposes of this
chapter.
   G.   Examination Of Remedies: In the event that the orchard review board and
the landowner cannot reach an agreement on how to resolve the situation, the
board shall have the right and authority to take action, including, but not
limited to, funding, education, contract spraying, orchard or private orchard
destruction and uprooting, and/or chemical herbiciding of tree stumps.
   H.   Request For Hearing: Any landowner subject to an investigation by the
orchard review board or under an agreement with the board may at any time
request, through their orchard review board contact person, a hearing before
the orchard review board. Granting of the request for a hearing shall be at the
discretion of the orchard review board.
   I.   Refusal To Comply; Abatement By Orchard Review Board; Costs: If the
landowner does not appear at the hearing, or does appear, but refuses to enter
into the contract as requested by the orchard review board, or fails to comply
with the terms of the contract, the orchard review board may cause control
procedures to be initiated as soon as practicable at the owner's expense.
Collection of said expenses shall be made through a private course of action
brought by the members of the orchard review board. (Ord. 2006-10, 6-12-2006)
2-1-6: RIGHT OF ENTRY:
   A.   Authorized Agent: Any agent authorized by the orchard review board to
carry out an inspection on its behalf may enter upon any property within the
county for the purpose of administering this chapter and any other power
exercisable pursuant thereto, including the taking of specimens, general
inspection, and the performance of such acts as are necessary for the
controlling and preventing the spread of orchard pests and diseases.
   B.   Entry Without Consent: Such entry may be without consent, and no action
for trespass or damages shall lie so long as such entry and any activities
connected therewith are undertaken and prosecuted with reasonable care.
   C.   Denied Access: Should any such authorized agent of the orchard review
board be denied access to such property where such access was sought to carry
out the provisions of this chapter, the orchard review board shall apply to any
court of competent jurisdiction seeking an order directing the landowner to
allow the board or its authorized agent to enter the land to exercise any power
under this chapter. If such an order is made necessary by the landowner, such
landowner shall be liable for attorney fees and legal costs associated with
obtaining such order. (Ord. 73, 3-9-1992)
PA570   2-2.txt
CHAPTER 2
GOPHER EXTERMINATION DISTRICT
SECTION:
2-2-1: Short Title
2-2-2: Commission Created
2-2-3: Additional Member Qualifications
2-2-4: District Boundaries
2-2-5: Rules For Organization And Meetings
2-2-6: Powers And Duties
2-2-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the PAYETTE COUNTY GOPHER
EXTERMINATION ORDINANCE. (Ord. Amd. 25, 12-17-2001)
2-2-2: COMMISSION CREATED:
There is hereby created a commission to be known as the gopher extermination
district commission. Said commission shall consist of all three (3) members of
the board of county commissioners, hereinafter called "commissioners". (Ord.
Amd. 25, 12-17-2001)
2-2-3: ADDITIONAL MEMBER QUALIFICATIONS:
The commissioners may provide for additional membership on the gopher
extermination district commission as deemed necessary. The number of members
should not exceed five (5). Each member of the commission shall be a current
resident of Payette County and shall have resided in Payette County for a
minimum of two (2) years. (Ord. Amd. 25, 12-17-2001)
2-2-4: DISTRICT BOUNDARIES:
The gopher extermination district shall include and comprise all of the lands
and area incorporated and unincorporated in Payette County, Idaho. (Ord. Amd.
25, 12-17-2001)
2-2-5: RULES FOR ORGANIZATION AND MEETINGS:
   A.   Conducting Meetings; Commission Action: The commission shall, when
there is business to transact, conduct its meetings at a time and place
designated in the bylaws. A simple majority of members will constitute a quorum
and is necessary to conduct official business at a meeting. The commission
shall adopt such rules and regulations as it deems necessary to carry into
effect decisions and proposals of this chapter and it shall hold such meetings
and meet at such designated place from time to time and conduct public hearings
as the commission may determine.
   B.   Chairman: The officers of the commission shall consist of a chairman
elected by the board of county commissioners.
   C.   Open Meetings; Records: All meetings shall be open to the public and a
written record of the meetings shall be kept and made available to the public
pursuant to law. (Ord. Amd. 25, 12-17-2001)
2-2-6: POWERS AND DUTIES:
Said commission shall have the power to contract on behalf of such district,
and levy special assessments and/or special taxes within the district, and the
hiring and supervision pertaining to the activities and functions of the
district will be governed by the Payette County commissioners. (Ord. Amd. 25,
12-17-2001)
CHAPTER 3
DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEE ADVISORY COMMITTEES
SECTION:
2-3-1: Development Impact Fee Advisory Committees
2-3-2: Committee Membership
2-3-3: Committees Charge
2-3-4: Advisory Committee Organization
2-3-5: Committee Reporting
2-3-6: Review Of Committee's Reports And Recommendations
2-3-1: DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEE ADVISORY COMMITTEES:
The following named development impact fee advisory committees of Payette
County ("county") are established as standing permanent committees:
   A.   Payette County Development Impact Fee Advisory Committee; and
   B.   Parma Rural Fire Protection District Development Impact Fee Advisory
Committee by an intergovernmental agreement; and
   C.   New Plymouth Fire Protection District Development Impact Fee Advisory
Committee by an intergovernmental agreement; and
   D.   Sand Hollow Rural Fire Protection District Development Impact Fee
Advisory Committee by an intergovernmental agreement. (Ord. 2023-10, 8-21-2023)
2-3-2: COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP:
The members of the Payette County Development Impact Fee Advisory Committee
shall be appointed (including vacancy appointments) by the Payette County Board
of Commissioners ("county board of commissioners"). The members of the
development impact fee advisory committees established by an intergovernmental
agreement shall be appointed as provided in the intergovernmental agreement
(including vacancy appointments) for a term stated of at least one (1) year.
   A.   Notice of Committee Appointments: Pursuant to the intergovernmental
agreements, notice of appointments shall be provided to the county clerk and
the county board of commissioners within seven (7) days of any such
appointment.
   B.   Committee Membership Requirements: There shall be no fewer than five
(5) members on the development impact fee advisory committees ("advisory
committees") and two (2) or more members must be active in the business of
development, building, or real estate. All members must reside within the
service area of the applicable capital improvement plan. No members shall be
employees or officials of the county; or any the district, whose service area
is the subject of the applicable capital improvements plan, with which the
county has an intergovernmental agreement to enact an impact fee ordinance.
(Ord. 2023-10, 8-21-2023)
2-3-3: COMMITTEES CHARGE:
Each development impact fee advisory committee established by this chapter
shall serve as an advisory committee to the county board of commissioners. In
the case of advisory committees established by an intergovernmental agreement,
the advisory committees shall also serve as an advisory committee to the
governing body of any district with whom the county has an intergovernmental
agreement to enact an impact fee ordinance. Each advisory committee is charged
with the following responsibilities:
   A.   Assist in adopting land use assumptions; and
   B.   Review the capital improvements plan; and
   C.   Monitor and evaluate implementation of the capital improvements plan;
and
   D.   File with the impact fee administrator and the county clerk (at least
annually) a report of any perceived inequities in implementing the capital
improvements plan or imposing development impact fees; and
   E.   Advise the county board of commissioners and the governing body of the
other party (per the respective intergovernmental agreement) of the need to
update or revise land use assumptions of capital improvements plans; and
   F.   The county and the governing body of the other party (per the
respective intergovernmental agreement) shall make available to the advisory
committees, upon request, all financial and accounting information,
professional reports in relation to development and implementation of land use
assumptions of the capital improvements plans, and of the need for periodic
updates to the capital improvements plan(s). (Ord. 2023-10, 8-21-2023)
2-3-4: ADVISORY COMMITTEE ORGANIZATION:
The impact fee administrator shall staff the advisory committee in order to
provide the committee with needed information for the committee's review and
for the committee's compliance with the Open Meeting Law (Chapter 2 of Title 74
Idaho Code).
   A.   The advisory committee shall select its officers, which include a
chairman, vice chairman and a secretary of the committee; and
   B.   The chairman shall conduct the meetings of the committee. The duties of
the chairman shall be performed by the vice chairman in the absence of the
chairman or as delegated by the chairman. The chairman and the vice chairman
shall be members of the committee; and
   C.   The impact fee administrator shall serve as the secretary of the
committee and shall take minutes and post agenda notices as required by the
Open Meeting Law. The secretary is not a member of the committee; and
   D.   The committee shall establish a regular meeting schedule; and
   E.   The agenda of each meeting shall include the approval of the minutes of
the last meeting and the secretary shall provide a copy of the approved minutes
to the county commissioners and to the respective governing body of the party
with whom the county has an intergovernmental agreement; and
   F.   Fifty (50) percent of the membership of the committee shall constitute
a quorum. Once a quorum is established for a meeting, the subsequent absence of
a member present for creating the quorum shall not dismiss the quorum; and
   G.   A majority vote of those present at any meeting is sufficient to carry
motions. (Ord. 2023-10, 8-21-2023)
2-3-5: COMMITTEE REPORTING:
The advisory committees report directly to the county commissioners and to the
respective governing body of the party with whom the county has an
intergovernmental agreement. (Ord. 2023-10, 8-21-2023)
2-3-6: REVIEW OF COMMITTEE'S REPORTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS:
The county commissioners and the respective governing body of any district with
whom the county has an intergovernmental agreement shall each consider the
advisory committee's recommended revision(s) to the capital improvements plan
(as relevant) at least once every twelve (12) months. Each advisory committee
shall make recommendations intended to ensure that the development impact fees
are equitable, so that the impact fee charged to a development do not exceed a
proportionate share of system improvements costs, and that the procedures for
administering impact fees remain efficient. (Ord. 2023-10, 8-21-2023)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS AND LICENSING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
LIQUOR
SECTION:
3-1-1: State Law Adopted
3-1-2: Beer And Wine Licenses
3-1-3: Liquor By The Drink; Collection Of Fees
3-1-4: Hours Of Operation
3-1-1: STATE LAW ADOPTED:
   A.   Adoption Of State Law: There is hereby adopted for the purpose of
governing the licensing, sale and use of alcoholic beverages within the County,
the laws of the State, being particularly Idaho Code, title 23, as presently in
effect or as may hereafter be amended by the legislature and as contained in
that certain volume "Idaho Liquor and Beer Laws", revised through the acts of
the 1969 Legislature, published by authority of the Department of Law
Enforcement, Liquor Law Division, as the same may be revised by the legislature
or the governing body of the County. The Idaho Liquor and Beer Laws, as
amended, are hereby adopted and incorporated as an ordinance of the County as
fully as though set forth at length herein.
   B.   Copies On File: Three (3) copies of the Idaho Liquor and Beer Laws,
together with all amendments thereto, all duly certified by the County Clerk,
shall be kept on file in the office of the County Clerk for use and examination
of and by the public. (Ord. 12, 3-29-1971)
3-1-2: BEER AND WINE LICENSES 1 :
   A.   Short Title: This Section shall be known as the PAYETTE COUNTY BEER AND
WINE ORDINANCE.
   B.   Purpose: The purpose of this Section is to establish the requirements
necessary to obtain a beer and/or wine license and a time period within which a
decision must be made by the Board of County Commissioners following submission
of an application to them for a beer and/or wine license, transfer or renewal.
   C.   Application To Obtain License: Application for a beer and/or wine
license, transfer or renewal thereof, shall be made to the Board of County
Commissioners on a form prescribed by the Board of County Commissioners which
may require the information as set forth in Idaho Code section 23-1010.
   D.   Time Limits:
      1.   The Board of County Commissioners shall act upon an application for
a beer and/or wine license or a transfer or renewal thereof within twenty one
(21) days from the receipt of the application by the Board of County
Commissioners.
      2.   The procedure for processing applications for beer and/or wine
licenses and transfers or renewals shall be governed by Idaho Code 2 , and any
rules and regulations promulgated by the Board of County Commissioners in
accordance with Idaho Code title 67, chapter 52, the Administrative Procedure
Act.
   E.   Review Of Beer And Wine Licenses:
      1.   Any license issued pursuant to the provisions of this Section may be
reviewed by the Board of County Commissioners if the County Sheriff's office
must respond to the establishment which holds the license to investigate
complaints concerning the use, consumption or serving of beer and/or wine, six
(6) or more times during the year in which the license is valid.
      2.   The review of the license shall be in conformity with the procedure
for processing applications, transfers or renewals as provided in subsection D
of this Section. (Ord. 38, 11-21-1983)
 
Notes
1 1. I.C. §§ 23-1015, 23-1315, 23-1318, 31-714, 31-801 and 31-828.
2 1. I.C. §§ 23-1015, 23-1315 and 23-1318.
3-1-3: LIQUOR BY THE DRINK; COLLECTION OF FEES 1 :
   A.   Population: On each state license for the sale of liquor by the drink
which is issued by the state director of law enforcement within the boundaries
of a town or village, Payette County shall collect an annual license fee,
according to population, as follows:
 
Population of 1,000 or less  $ 75.00 per year
Population of 1,001 to 3,000 125.00 per year
Population of 3,001 or more  187.50 per year
 
   B.   Unincorporated Boundaries: On each state license for the sale of liquor
by the drink which is issued by the state director of law enforcement within
the unincorporated boundaries of Payette County, the county shall collect an
annual license fee in the amount of one hundred dollars ($100.00).
   C.   Golf Courses:
      1.   On each state license for the sale of liquor by the drink which is
issued by the state director of law enforcement to a golf course within the
boundaries of Payette County, the county shall collect an annual license fee in
the amount of seventy five dollars ($75.00).
      2.   A "golf course" is defined as an actual course used for the playing
of the game of golf, having not less than nine (9) tees, fairways and greens
laid out and used in the normal and regular manner of a golf course. Eighteen
(18) hole courses must have a total yardage of at least two thousand (2,000)
yards as measured by totalling all of the tee-to-green distances.
   D.   Proration Of Fee: A license holder who operates for only a portion of
the year may have his license fee prorated from the date he commences operation
to the end of the calendar year, but in no event for less than six (6) months.
(Ord. 79, 8-2-1993)
 
Notes
1 2. I.C. §§ 23-904 and 23-916.
3-1-4: HOURS OF OPERATION:
   A.   Beer And Wine:
      1.   It shall be a misdemeanor to offer for sale, dispense, give away or
consume or permit or allow to be consumed any "beer" or "wine" as the same is
defined in Idaho Code sections 23-1001(a) and 23-1303(a) on the premises of any
licensed vendor between the hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and six o'clock
(6:00) A.M. in the county. (Ord. 2000-5, 2-28-2000)
      2.   Any patron present on the licensed premises after the sale of beer
or wine has stopped as provided for in subsection A1 of this section, shall
have reasonable time, not to exceed thirty (30) minutes to consume any beverage
served prior to two o'clock (2:00) A.M.
   B.   Liquor By The Drink:
      1.   It shall be a misdemeanor to sell, offer for sale, dispense, give
away or consume or permit or allow to be consumed any liquor upon any licensed
premises as follows:
         a.   From two o'clock (2:00) A.M. on Christmas Day until ten o'clock
(10:00) A.M. on the following day;
         b.   On any other day between the hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and
ten o'clock (10:00) A.M.;
         c.   On any day of a general or primary election until after the time
when the polls are closed.
      2.   Any patron present on the licensed premises after the sale of liquor
by the drink has stopped as provided in subsection B1 of this section, shall
have a reasonable time not to exceed thirty (30) minutes, to consume any
beverages served prior to two o'clock (2:00) A.M.
   C.   Cities: Any incorporated city within the county may, by ordinance,
further limit the sale of beer, wine or liquor by the drink provided said
ordinance complies with state and federal law.
   D.   Penalty: The penalty for a violation of this section shall be as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 71, 9-3-1991, retroactive to 9-1-1991; amd. 1996
Code)
CHAPTER 2
JUNK DEALERS
SECTION:
3-2-1: License Required
3-2-2: Definition
3-2-3: Application; Contents
3-2-4: Location Requirements
3-2-5: Continued Compliance; Revocation
3-2-6: Zoning Restrictions
3-2-7: Penalty
3-2-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of being a junk
dealer within the county, without first procuring a license to conduct such
business. (Ord. 59, 6-7-1988)
3-2-2: DEFINITION:
For the purpose of this chapter a "junk dealer" shall be defined as any person,
partnership or corporation who shall store or keep, including, but not limited
to, automobiles, trucks, cars, car bodies, truck bodies, chassis, any of which
have not been licensed and which are not in a running condition and not being
presently repaired, or farm machinery, construction equipment, industrial
equipment, tires, barrels, metal salvage, lumber, appliances, paper, bottles,
or any discarded items, and who shall store and keep those items for the
purpose of converting to scrap metal or recycling or for the purpose of salvage
or for the purpose of removing and selling parts taken from them. For purposes
of this chapter a junk dealer is any entity defined herein, or any other
person, partnership or corporation who owns, operates, manages or participates
in any activity which is commonly understood to be a junkyard, salvage yard,
recycling center, wrecking yard, or boneyard. (Ord. 59, 6-7-1988)
3-2-3: APPLICATION; CONTENTS:
   A.   Contents: All persons who are now junk dealers or who become junk
dealers, shall make an application for a license to conduct or carry on such
business; said application shall be in writing and addressed to the board of
county commissioners, stating the name of the applicant, the kind of business
for which the license is required, and the place where said business is to be
conducted.
   B.   Presentation; Issuance: The application shall be filed with the county
clerk and shall be presented to the board of county commissioners at its next
regularly scheduled meeting or at a special meeting called for that purpose. If
a majority of the members of the board of county commissioners vote to grant
such license, the license shall then be issued to the applicant upon his paying
to the county clerk the license fee hereinafter provided for.
   C.   Fee: Any junk dealer shall procure and pay a license fee to the county
in the sum of fifty dollars ($50.00) for an annual license, which license shall
be based upon a calendar year and shall not be subject to proration and shall
not be transferable.
   D.   License Nontransferable: The license so issued shall specify the name
of the person to whom it is issued and shall designate the particular place at
which the business is to be carried on. The place of business of a junk dealer
shall not be transferred without prior notice and approval of the board of
county commissioners. (Ord. 59, 6-7-1988)
3-2-4: LOCATION REQUIREMENTS:
Prior to receiving a license, an applicant shall demonstrate that any location
where he is proposing to transact business of a junk dealer will meet or
satisfy the following requirements:
   A.   Will be completely enclosed by at least a solid eight foot (8') high
sight obscuring fence constructed of cyclone fencing with nylon privacy
webbing, or a material approved by the board of county commissioners;
   B.   Will not result in storage of automobiles, junk, recyclable or salvage
material being visible from any public highway or adjoining property;
   C.   Will require that the entrance to the storage area be recessed and
located at a point not directly visible from any public highway or adjoining
property;
   D.   Will incorporate landscaping outside the fence that is compatible with
surrounding landscaping (lawn strip and trees);
   E.   Will require that the owner or operator of such use shall have a
continuous obligation to maintain adequate repair of the fence and landscaping;
   F.   Will require a plan or drawing of the facility be approved by the board
of county commissioners prior to any construction;
   G.   Will comply with all EPA regulations regarding the storage and disposal
of toxic wastes including, but not limited to, oil, gasoline and other
petroleum products;
   H.   Will not pose a danger of groundwater contamination in the opinion of
the Idaho department of health and welfare, division of environmental quality;
   I.   Will provide access into the interior of the yard;
   J.   Will drain all fluids including, but not limited to, gasoline, battery
acid, transmission fluid, rear end fluid, brake fluid, crank case oil, and
properly dispose of the same prior to placing an automobile on the site;
   K.   Will remove all tires from all vehicles before permanent placement on
the site;
   L.   Will have driveways between and around all junk or accumulation of
junk, automobiles or piles of automobiles which shall be at least fifteen feet
(15') wide and maintained free from an accumulation of rubbish, equipment or
other articles or materials. Driveways shall be spaced with a maximum grid
system unit of fifty feet by one hundred fifty feet (50' x 150') as prescribed.
The driveways shall be sufficient to provide fire crews with access to all
areas of the wrecking yard;
   M.   Will have no vegetation upon the site which is sufficient to ignite or
sufficient to sustain a fire; and
   N.   Will remove all heavy metals, such as lead, and properly dispose of
them before placing any vehicle on the site. (Ord. 2012-09, 10-22-2012)
3-2-5: CONTINUED COMPLIANCE; REVOCATION:
   A.   Compliance Required: During the life of the license, all requirements
set forth above shall continue to be met by the junk dealer and the place of
business or yard shall, at all times, conform to and comply with those
requirements.
   B.   Revocation: In the event the requirements of this chapter and the
provisions set forth in Idaho Code, are not met during the life of the junk
dealership, the board of county commissioners shall have the option, in
addition to any other penalties imposed by this chapter, of revoking the
license of the junk dealer and requiring him to cease and desist the operation
of his business. In addition, if a cease and desist order is issued by the
board of county commissioners, the junk dealer shall remove all scrap material,
all waste material, all auto bodies, all trucks, cars, tractors or other
nonvegetation. In the event the dealer does not comply with that requirement,
the board of county commissioners can authorize the cleanup of the site and
bill the dealer. In addition, any charges not paid within thirty (30) days of
the billing by the board of county commissioners can be placed as a lien upon
the real property and collected by the county tax collector. (Ord. 2012-09, 10-
22-2012)
3-2-6: ZONING RESTRICTIONS:
Automobile wrecking yards, salvage yards, or recycling centers will be allowed
only in I-1 and I-2 zones. (Ord. 2012-09, 10-22-2012)
3-2-7: PENALTY:
In addition to any other penalties provided herein, any person who operates a
junk dealership, any salvage yard, junkyard, or auto wrecking yard without a
license, or who violates any terms or conditions of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 59, 6-7-1988; amd. 1996 Code)
CHAPTER 3
AMBULANCE AND WHEELCHAIR COACHES
SECTION:
3-3-1: Business License Required; Exceptions
3-3-2: Application For License
3-3-3: Investigation
3-3-4: Public Hearing
3-3-1: BUSINESS LICENSE REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Responsibility To Obtain License: It shall be unlawful for any person,
either as owner, agent or otherwise, to furnish, operate, conduct, maintain,
advertise or otherwise be engaged in the business of the transportation of
patients in the ambulance business or operate an invalid or wheelchair coach
business within Payette County without first obtaining a license from the Board
of County Commissioners as hereinafter provided.
   B.   Supervision Of Vehicle Operators: It shall be unlawful for an
ambulance, invalid or wheelchair coach, to be operated, and no person shall
drive, attend or permit to be operated, within the County, unless the
ambulance, the invalid or wheelchair coach, shall be under the immediate
supervision and direction of a person who is qualified as a driver, technician,
or driver/technician.
   C.   Exceptions To Licensing: No license shall be required for an ambulance
which:
      1.   Is operated by an agency of the United States;
      2.   Is operated from a location or headquarters outside of, and
transports patients within, who are picked up beyond the limits of the County;
      3.   Is operated from a location or headquarters outside the limits of
the County and either:
         a.   Picks up patients beyond the limits of the County to be
transported to locations within the County; or
         b.   In the case of an emergency where no County based ambulance is
available, picks up patients within the County to be transported;
      4.   Is owned and operated by a city within the County, but no such
outside ambulance shall be used to pick up patients within the County for
transportation, unless the ambulance operator has a current, valid license
issued pursuant to this Chapter. (Ord. 18, 5-21-1973)
3-3-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Application for ambulance license or a license to operate an invalid or
wheelchair coach shall be made upon forms prepared or prescribed by the Board
of County Commissioners and shall contain:
   A.   The name and address of the applicant and the owner of the ambulance or
invalid or wheelchair coach.
   B.   The trade or fictitious name, if any, under which the applicant does
business and/or proposes to do business.
   C.   The training and experience of the applicant in the transportation and
care of the patients.
   D.   A description of each ambulance, invalid or wheelchair coach, including
the make, model, year of manufacture, motor and chassis number, current State
license number, the length of time the ambulance, invalid or wheelchair coach
has been in use; and size, design and color scheme of each vehicle.
   E.   The location and description of the place or places from which it is
intended to operate.
   F.   Such other information as the Board of County Commissioners shall deem
reasonably necessary. (Ord. 18, 5-21-1973)
3-3-3: INVESTIGATION:
   A.   The County Sheriff shall determine if the motor vehicles described in
the application are fit and suitable for use as ambulances or as invalid or
wheelchair coaches.
   B.   It shall be the duty of the Health Authority to determine whether the
applicant has complied with the laws of the State and the ordinances of the
County, relating to health, safety and sanitation. (Ord. 18, 5-21-1973)
3-3-4: PUBLIC HEARING:
Upon filing of an application, the County Clerk shall fix a time and place for
public hearing before the Board of County Commissioners. Ten (10) days' written
notice of said hearing shall be given to the applicant by certified mail to all
persons to whom ambulance operators license or wheelchair coach license have
previously been issued. Notice shall be given to the general public by posting
the time and place of said hearing in the County Courthouse in the City of
Payette. Any interested person may file with the County Clerk a memorandum in
support of or in opposition to the issuance of a license. (Ord. 18, 5-21-1973;
1996 Code)
CHAPTER 4
PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
SECTION:
3-4-1: Purpose
3-4-2: Definitions
3-4-3: License Requirements And Exemptions
3-4-4: License Application
3-4-5: Bonds
3-4-6: Fees; Review; Investigation; License Issuance
3-4-7: License Expiration
3-4-8: License Exhibition
3-4-9: Transfer Prohibited
3-4-10: Restrictions
3-4-11: License Revocation
3-4-12: Notice And Hearing On Revocation
3-4-13: Appeals
3-4-14: Violations And Penalty
3-4-15: Severability
3-4-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter shall be to minimize the unwelcome disturbance of
citizens and the disruption of privacy and to otherwise protect the health,
safety and welfare of residents of the county by regulating, controlling and
licensing door to door solicitors and peddlers. (Ord. 2003-9, 9-29-2003)
3-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms, and phrases, and their derivations, when used in
this chapter shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except
where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
CHARITABLE: Includes the words philanthropic, benevolent, education, civic,
cultural, religious or fraternal.
COUNTY CLERK: The office of the Payette County clerk.
PEDDLER: Any person who goes upon the premises of any private residence in
unincorporated areas of Payette County, not having been invited by the occupant
thereof, who sells or offers to sell any commodity or article of any nature.
This definition includes, but is not limited to, any person who solicits orders
and makes deliveries to purchasers.
PEDDLING: All activities ordinarily performed by a peddler as indicated under
the definition of "peddler" in this section.
PERSON: Any natural person or any firm, corporation, association, club, group,
society or other organization.
SOLICITATION: Includes all activities ordinarily performed by a solicitor as
described in the definition of "solicitor" in this section.
SOLICITOR: Any person who goes upon the premises of any private residence in
unincorporated Payette County, not having been invited by the occupant thereof,
for the purpose of taking orders for, or offering to take orders for, goods,
wares or merchandise, or any article for future delivery, or for services to be
performed in the future, or for making, manufacturing or repairing of any
article or thing whatsoever for future delivery. (Ord. 2003-9, 9-29-2003)
3-4-3: LICENSE REQUIREMENTS AND EXEMPTIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in peddling or soliciting within
the unincorporated areas of Payette County without first securing a license
issued by the county clerk; provided however, that the following are exempted
from these provisions:
   A.   Any organization exempt from taxation under 26 USC 501;
   B.   Any political organization or group seeking funds or membership;
   C.   Any solicitation upon premises owned or occupied by an organization,
group or person upon whose behalf the solicitation is made; and
   D.   Any solicitation in the form of a collection at a regular meeting of a
charitable organization or group.
   E.   Any fundraising activity promoted by a public or private school, as
long as the solicitor or peddler is a person enrolled as a student in the
public or private school.
   F.   Solicitation of funds or order by telephone. (Ord. 2003-9, 9-29-2003)
3-4-4: LICENSE APPLICATION:
The applicant for a license under this chapter shall file with the county clerk
an application on the form available through the county clerk's office. (Ord.
2003-9, 9-29-2003)
3-4-5: BONDS:
All applications made pursuant to this chapter must be accompanied by a bond in
the amount of five hundred dollars ($500.00) in the form of a surety bond,
cashier's check or a letter of credit from a financial institution running to
the county clerk.
An action on the bond, cashier's check or letter of credit may be brought
directly by any person damaged by the action of a licensee under this chapter.
Upon expiration of the license, the county clerk shall return the bond,
cashier's check or letter of credit within ninety (90) days after receipt of a
written request for its return. (Ord. 2003-9, 9-29-2003)
3-4-6: FEES; REVIEW; INVESTIGATION; LICENSE ISSUANCE:
The application must be accompanied by a fee in the amount of twenty five
dollars ($25.00) made payable to the county clerk for the processing of the
application and investigation of the facts contained therein.
Upon receipt of the application or license renewal and required fee, the county
clerk will cause the application to be reviewed and conduct an investigation
thereof for a period not to exceed fourteen (14) days.
In the event the applicant or his employee has been convicted of a violation of
any municipal, county, state or federal law, except traffic violations, in the
previous five (5) years; or if the applicant has made a false statement on the
application, then the application may be denied by either the county clerk or
board of Payette County commissioners.
All approvals shall be made by the board of Payette County commissioners.
Denial shall be noted on the application and the applicant shall be notified in
writing sent to the address provided thereon. The county clerk shall also
notify the applicant of the right to appeal on denial, pursuant to section 3-4-
13 of this chapter. (Ord. 2003-9, 9-29-2003)
3-4-7: LICENSE EXPIRATION:
All licenses issued pursuant to this chapter shall expire one year from the
date of issuance. (Ord. 2003-9, 9-29-2003)
3-4-8: LICENSE EXHIBITION:
The license issued pursuant to this chapter must be worn or otherwise exhibited
in a conspicuous way during solicitation or peddling. (Ord. 2003-9, 9-29-2003)
3-4-9: TRANSFER PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any license issued, pursuant to this chapter, to be
transferred to a party other than the licensee. (Ord. 2003-9, 9-29-2003)
3-4-10: RESTRICTIONS:
The following restrictions shall apply to peddling and soliciting in
unincorporated Payette County:
   A.   Hours Restriction: Peddlers and solicitors shall only engage in their
activities between the hours of nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. and seven o'clock (7:
00) P.M. A special permit may be sought by licensed peddlers and solicitors, in
which case the board of Payette County commissioners may grant an exception to
this subsection.
   B.   Prohibited Activities: The board of Payette County commissioners may,
from time to time, prohibit the activities allowed under this chapter if it
determines such prohibitions are necessary to protect the public health, safety
and welfare.
   C.   Child Labor Restrictions: Restrictions relating to minimum age as set
forth in the child labor provisions of the fair labor standards act, 29 USC
section 201 et seq. (1938), as amended, and the child labor law of Idaho, Idaho
Code section 44-1301 et seq., as amended, are hereby adopted and constitute
restrictions under this chapter. (Ord. 2003-9, 9-29-2003)
3-4-11: LICENSE REVOCATION:
Any application made for or license issued pursuant to this chapter may be
revoked by the county clerk or board of Payette County commissioners on any of
the following grounds:
   A.   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement in the application;
   B.   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made by the licensee in the
course of conducting solicitation or peddling activities;
   C.   Conducting peddling or solicitation activities contrary to the
provisions of this chapter;
   D.   Conducting peddling or soliciting activities in such a manner as to
create a public nuisance, constitute a breach of the peace or endanger the
health, safety, or general welfare of the general public. (Ord. 2003-9, 9-29-
2003)
3-4-12: NOTICE AND HEARING ON REVOCATION:
Notice of a hearing for revocation of a license issued pursuant to this chapter
shall be provided in writing and shall set forth specifically the grounds for
the proposed revocation and the time and place for hearing. Notice shall be
mailed to the licensee at the address shown on the license application or last
known address.
The revocation hearing shall be before the board of Payette County
commissioners who shall take evidence with regard to the grounds for a
revocation. (Ord. 2003-9, 9-29-2003)
3-4-13: APPEALS:
Any person aggrieved by any action of the county clerk or board of Payette
County commissioners taken pursuant to this chapter, shall have the right to
appeal such action or decision to the board of Payette County commissioners
within fourteen (14) days after the notice of the action has been mailed to the
person(s), corporation(s) or organization(s) addressed as shown on the
application.
An appeal may be taken by filing a written statement setting forth the grounds
for the appeal with the county clerk or board of Payette County commissioners.
A hearing shall be set no later than twenty (20) days from the date of receipt
of the party's written statement, with the notice and time of the hearing to be
provided in the same manner as provided herein. (Ord. 2003-9, 9-29-2003)
3-4-14: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTY:
A violation of the provisions of this chapter shall be treated as a
misdemeanor. Each day of violation of any provision of this chapter shall be
considered a separate offense, punishable as described herein. (Ord. 2003-9, 9-
29-2003)
3-4-15: SEVERABILITY:
The provisions of this chapter are hereby declared severable. In the event any
section is found to be invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, such will
not affect the validity of the remaining sections contained herein. (Ord. 2003-
9, 9-29-2003)
CHAPTER 5
CABLE TELEVISION ENTERPRISES
SECTION:
3-5-1: Short Title And Purpose
3-5-2: Definitions
3-5-3: License Required
3-5-4: Application For License
3-5-5: Grant Of Authority
3-5-6: Nonexclusive License
3-5-7: Term Of License
3-5-8: License Fee And Inspection Of Records
3-5-9: Operational Standards
3-5-10: Occupancy And Use Of Easements And Public Rights Of Way
3-5-11: Licensee Liability, Indemnification
3-5-12: Limitations On License
3-5-13: Local Office Complaints
3-5-14: Compliance With Applicable Laws And Ordinances
3-5-15: Prohibited Acts Or Conditions
3-5-16: Procedure On Violations
3-5-17: Penalties
3-5-1: SHORT TITLE AND PURPOSE:
This chapter shall be known as PAYETTE COUNTY CABLE TELEVISION LICENSING
ORDINANCE. The purpose of this chapter shall be to regulate the installation
and operation of a community antenna television system within the
unincorporated portions of Payette County. (Ord. 2010-01, 12-7-2009)
3-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words and their
derivations shall have the meanings given herein. Where not inconsistent with
the context, words used in the present tense include the future tense, words in
the plural include the singular and words in the singular include the plural.
The word "shall" is always mandatory and not directory. All words and phrases
not otherwise defined herein shall have their ordinary and customary meaning.
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS: The Payette County board of county
commissioners.
COMMUNITY ANTENNA TELEVISION SYSTEM (CATV, CATV SYSTEM OR SYSTEM): A system of
antennas, coaxial cables, waveguides, fiber optic cables, or other conductors,
equipment or facilities designed, constructed or used for the purpose of
providing television, FM radio, or other services by cable through its
facilities as herein contemplated.
COUNTY: The county of Payette, Idaho.
EASEMENT: A grant of right to use a strip of land for specific purposes,
including public utility easements granted for facilities providing service to
and used by the public.
LICENSE AREA: The area within Payette County outside the corporate limits of
any municipal corporation within Payette County.
LICENSEE: A grantee of rights under this licensing ordinance.
PERSON: Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
PUBLIC RIGHTS OF WAY: Any alley, dedication or street as those terms are
defined pursuant to the Payette County subdivision ordinance, as amended.
SUBSCRIBER: Any person or entity lawfully and under the authority of the
licensee who is receiving for any purpose the CATV service of the licensee
herein. (Ord. 2010-01, 12-7-2009)
3-5-3: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   No person shall engage in the business of operating a CATV system
without having obtained a license for such purpose from the board of county
commissioners.
   B.   This license is nontransferable, unless so agreed to in writing by the
board of county commissioners. (Ord. 2010-01, 12-7-2009)
3-5-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Application for a license to engage in the business of operating a CATV system
shall be made by the person or his duly designated agent by filing an
application with the clerk of the board of county commissioners. Such
application shall contain the following information:
   A.   The name and address of the applicant, and should the applicant be a
corporation, the names and addresses of all officers and directors of said
corporation.
   B.   If the applicant be a corporation, the applicant shall file with the
clerk of the board of county commissioners its annual report of its operations
during the preceding fiscal year.
   C.   Such information as may be required to determine the legal, character,
financial, technical and other qualifications of the applicant.
Within thirty (30) days following receipt of the application, the clerk shall
submit said application to the board of county commissioners. The board of
county commissioners shall, at a regular or special meeting, adopt a resolution
to either approve the application as submitted, approve the application with
modification or deny said application. (Ord. 2010-01, 12-7-2009)
3-5-5: GRANT OF AUTHORITY:
Upon the approval by the board of county commissioners, of the legal,
character, financial, technical and other qualifications of the applicant, the
board of county commissioners may grant to the applicant the right and
privilege to construct, operate, maintain and remove a CATV system within the
license area for the distribution of television signals, FM radio, or other
services by cable subject to the terms, conditions, and provisions contained
herein. Said grant of authority shall include the right and privilege to erect,
install, construct, repair, replace, reconstruct, maintain and retain in, on,
over, under, upon, across and along any public way or easement now laid out or
dedicated and all extensions thereof and additions thereto in the license area
such poles, wires, cable, conductors, ducts, conduit vaults, manholes,
amplifiers, appliances, attachments, and other properties as may be reasonably
necessary and appurtenant to the CATV system. (Ord. 2010-01, 12-7-2009)
3-5-6: NONEXCLUSIVE LICENSE:
The right to use and occupy the easements and public ways for the purposes
herein set forth shall not be exclusive and the board of county commissioners
reserves the right to grant similar rights, privileges, and licenses to any
other person. (Ord. 2010-01, 12-7-2009)
3-5-7: TERM OF LICENSE:
The license and rights herein granted shall be in force and effect for a term
of five (5) years from the effective date of the license. The license shall be
automatically renewed by the continued payment of the license fee stated below,
unless written notice is given by the board of county commissioners within
ninety (90) days of the expiration of the term of license. In such event, the
licensee shall have the opportunity to appear before the board of county
commissioners and present its reasons for renewal of the license. (Ord. 2010-
01, 12-7-2009)
3-5-8: LICENSE FEE AND INSPECTION OF RECORDS:
   A.   The licensee shall pay to the county an amount equal to two percent
(2%) of the gross income from subscribers of cable television service residing
within the license area during the previous calendar year. Such payment for the
previous calendar year shall be made to the Payette County auditor, on or after
January 1, but no later than March 1 of each year.
   B.   A licensee shall permit any duly authorized representative of the board
of county commissioners or the Payette County auditor to inspect, examine and
transcribe any and all records kept and maintained by the licensee regarding
gross income from subscribers within the license area in order to verify the
license fee tendered. (Ord. 2010-01, 12-7-2009)
3-5-9: OPERATIONAL STANDARDS:
The licensee shall maintain and operate the system and render efficient service
in accordance with such rules and regulations as are, or may hereinafter be
promulgated by the federal communications commission. (Ord. 2010-01, 12-7-2009)
3-5-10: OCCUPANCY AND USE OF EASEMENTS AND PUBLIC RIGHTS OF WAY:
   A.   Use: All transmission and distribution structures, lines and equipment
erected by the licensee within the licensed area shall be so located as to
cause minimum interference with the proper use of public rights of way and
easements and to cause minimum interference with the rights or reasonable
convenience of property owners who adjoin any of the said public rights of way
or easements and not to interfere with existing public utility installations.
In all areas of the licensed area where the cables, wires or other like
facilities of both electrical and telephone utilities are placed underground,
the licensee shall place its cables, wires or other like facilities underground
to the maximum extent existing technology reasonably permits.
   B.   Restoration: In case of any disturbance of pavement, sidewalk,
driveway, other surfacing or landscaping of said rights of way or easements,
the licensee shall, at its own expense, replace and restore all paving,
sidewalk, driveway, other surfacing or landscaping of any public rights of way
or easements.
   C.   Tree Trimming: The licensee shall have authority to trim any trees upon
and overhanging the public rights of way and easements so as to prevent the
branches of such trees from coming in contact with wires and cables of the
licensee.
   D.   Notice: Before entering upon any property for any of the reasons stated
in subsection A, B or C of this section, the licensee shall first give written
notice to the property owners at least forty eight (48) hours in advance,
unless there is a service disruption requiring immediate action. (Ord. 2010-01,
12-7-2009)
3-5-11: LICENSEE LIABILITY, INDEMNIFICATION:
The licensee shall at all times protect and hold harmless the county from all
claims, actions, suits, liability, loss, expense or damages of every kind and
description resulting from the construction, installation, operation or
maintenance by the licensee of its CATV system within the licensed area. The
licensee shall, concurrently with the filing of an application for license,
file with the clerk of the board of county commissioners and at all times
thereafter maintain in full force and effect for the term of said license or
renewal thereof, at the licensee's sole expense, a general comprehensive
liability insurance policy, in protection of the county, its officers, boards,
commissions, agents and employees, in a company authorized to do business in
the state of Idaho and in a form satisfactory to the prosecuting attorney,
protecting the county, its officers and employees against liability for loss or
damage for personal injury, death and property damage occasioned by the
operations of the licensee under said license in a minimum amount of:
 
$250,000.00 for property damage to any 1 person
$500,000.00 for property damage in any 1 occurrence
$500,000.00 for personal injury to any 1 person
$1,000,000.00 for personal injury in any 1 occurrence
 
(Ord. 2010-01, 12-7-2009)
3-5-12: LIMITATIONS ON LICENSE:
This license shall be a privilege to be held in personal trust by the original
licensee. It cannot in any event be sold, transferred, leased, assigned or
disposed of, in whole or in part, either by forced or involuntary sale, merger,
consolidation, or otherwise without the consent of the board of county
commissioners expressed by resolution. An entity merged into a parent company
or a subsidiary shall not be required to reapply. (Ord. 2010-01, 12-7-2009)
3-5-13: LOCAL OFFICE COMPLAINTS:
The licensee shall maintain a local business office, or agent which the
inhabitants of the licensed area may telephone during regular business hours
without incurring added message or toll charges for any complaint regarding the
installation of the CATV system, the quality of service, equipment malfunction
or similar matters. An office shall be deemed local if it is located within
forty (40) miles of Payette County. (Ord. 2010-01, 12-7-2009)
3-5-14: COMPLIANCE WITH APPLICABLE LAWS AND ORDINANCES:
The licensee shall at all times during the term of this license be subject to
all lawful exercise of applicable laws, ordinances, regulations, and statutes
by the federal, local or state government including, but not limited to, the
provisions and regulations of the Payette County highway district. (Ord. 2010-
01, 12-7-2009)
3-5-15: PROHIBITED ACTS OR CONDITIONS:
From and after the effective date of this chapter, it shall be unlawful for any
person to construct, install or maintain within any easement or public right of
way within the licensed area any equipment or facilities for distribution of
any television signals or radio signals through a CATV system, unless a license
authorizing such use has first been obtained, and unless such license is in
full force and effect. In addition, it shall be unlawful for any licensee, its
agents, servants or subcontractors to violate any provision of this chapter.
Should a violation of this chapter be committed by an agent, servant or
subcontractor of the licensee, prosecution of such violations may be commenced,
pursuant to section 3-5-16 of this chapter, against the licensee or against the
agent, servant or subcontractor, or against both. (Ord. 2010-01, 12-7-2009)
3-5-16: PROCEDURE ON VIOLATIONS:
Upon knowledge by the board of county commissioners of any violation or belief
that a violation is about to occur, the board of county commissioners may
request the Payette County prosecuting attorney to commence action, criminal or
civil, to correct the violation and to punish the same.
In the event any action is taken or any construction commenced in violation of
the provisions of this chapter, the proper authorities of the county, in
addition to other remedies, may institute any appropriate action or proceeding
to prevent such unlawful action or construction to restrain, correct or abate
such violation or to prevent any illegal act, conduct, business or use in or
about such premises. (Ord. 2010-01, 12-7-2009)
3-5-17: PENALTIES:
Each violation of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor. Each day such violation
continues constitutes a separate offense and shall be punishable by
imprisonment in the county jail not exceeding six (6) months, or by a fine not
exceeding one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), or by both. (Ord. 2010-01, 12-7-
2009)
PA570   4t.txt
TITLE 4
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
NUISANCES
SECTION:
4-1-1: Authority And Purpose
4-1-2: Definitions
4-1-3: Public Nuisance Unlawful; Responsible Party
4-1-4: Nuisances Declared; Civil Enforcement Procedure
4-1-5: Criminal Enforcement Procedure
4-1-6:    Interference With Authorized Person
4-1-1: AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE:
This article is enacted pursuant to authority conferred by article 12, section
2, Idaho Constitution, and Idaho Code sections 31-714, 31-801, 31-828, 63-902,
and 63-1311. Its purpose is to provide for, and further, the health and/or
safety of the public by providing a procedure for abating public nuisances
which can create traffic safety hazards, fire hazards, health hazards, and
other harm upon the health and/or safety of the public. (Ord. 2024-01, 1-8-
2024)
4-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
PUBLIC NUISANCE: The following are hereby defined as public nuisances:
   A.   Improper sewage disposal such that sewage or effluent is discharging
into unpermitted structures, onto the surface of the ground, or discharging
into a body of water.
   B.   Failure to keep waste, refuse, or garbage in an enclosed building or
properly contained in a closed, insect and rodent proof container designed or
reasonably adapted for such purpose.
   C.   Accumulation of carcasses of animals, birds, or fish by failing to bury
or otherwise dispose of in a sanitary manner within twenty-four (24) hours
after death.
   D.   A condition or use of premises or property which creates a health
hazard by permitting, allowing, or fostering the harboring and nesting of
rodents, vermin, disease-vectoring insects, or parasites.
   E.   Any use which causes the release of foul, toxic, or contaminating
substances onto the ground or into the air, provided however, agricultural uses
shall be exempt from this section.
   F.   A condition or use of premises or property which creates a fire hazard
or any traffic or safety hazard to members of the public.
SUMMARY ABATEMENT: The abatement of a public nuisance by the County, or by a
contractor hired by the County, without obligation to give prior notice of the
abatement action to the owner or occupant of the property. (Ord. 2006-2, 2-14-
2006; amd. Ord. 2024-01, 1-8-2024)
4-1-3: PUBLIC NUISANCE UNLAWFUL; RESPONSIBLE PARTY:
   A.   Unlawful: It is unlawful for any person to create, cause, maintain or
knowingly allow to exist a public nuisance on any premises or real property
which the person owns, rents, leases, occupies, manages or of which the person
has charge or possession.
   B.   Agricultural Operations: The application and enforcement of this
article shall not contravene Title 22, Chapter 45 of the Idaho Code in that no
public nuisance shall exist under this article if the use or condition of the
property exists pursuant to an agricultural operation in accordance with
generally recognized agricultural practices.
   C.   Administration And Enforcement: The Payette County Sheriff, and/or
designated Code Enforcement Officer(s), shall be responsible for the
administration and enforcement of the provisions of this article.
   D.   Responsible Party: Where a nuisance exists upon property that is
vacant, abandoned, and/or uninhabited; the owner of record, whether a natural
person or persons or an entity of any kind, shall be presumed to be responsible
for creating, causing, committing, maintaining, and/or allowing such nuisance.
Such owner of record shall be subject to any and all penalties imposed as set
forth herein, and shall be responsible for payment of any and all costs
incurred in abating the nuisance. The owner of record shall bear the burden of
rebutting this presumption. (Ord. 2006-2, 2-14-2006; amd. Ord. 2024-01, 1-8-
2024)
4-1-4: NUISANCES DECLARED; CIVIL ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURE:
   A.   Request For Voluntary Compliance: If it is determined by a Code
Enforcement Officer that a nuisance exists on any property, the Sheriff, or his
designee, shall cause a written request for voluntary compliance to be issued
to the owner, occupier, and/or person in control of such property. Such request
for voluntary compliance shall contain the street address and parcel number of
the property, describe the nuisance existing thereon, request voluntary action
to eliminate the nuisance, and establish the time period for voluntary
elimination of said nuisance, which shall be ten (10) days from the date of the
request for voluntary compliance.
   B.   Order Of Abatement: If, following the issuance of a request for
voluntary compliance pursuant to subsection (1) of this section, a Code
Enforcement Officer finds that a nuisance still exists on any property, the
officer shall cause an order of abatement to be issued to the owner, occupier,
and/or person in control of such property. Such order of abatement shall
contain the street address and parcel number of the property, describe the
nuisance existing thereon, order the abatement of the nuisance, establish the
time period for abatement, specify the penalty for noncompliance, and describe
the opportunity and time for appeal. The Sheriff, or his designee, shall issue
such order of abatement to the owner, occupier, or person in control of the
property on which the nuisance exists in one or more of the following ways:
      1.   By hand delivery upon such owner, occupier, or person in control of
the property; or
      2.   By certified mail to such owner, occupier, or person in control of
the property, at the address shown on the last available assessment roll, or as
otherwise known; or
      3.   By posting such notice and order at a conspicuous place on the
property.
   C.   Time Period For Abatement: It shall be the duty of the owner, occupier,
or person in charge or control of any property where any nuisance exists, to
abate such nuisance within ten (10) calendar days from notice pursuant to this
section, however, the Sheriff, or his designee, may require summary abatement
of a nuisance condition where such condition presents an imminent threat to
human health or safety.
   D.   Summary Abatement: Nothing contained herein shall prevent the Sheriff's
Office from requiring, undertaking, or causing summary abatement of a nuisance
condition where such condition presents an imminent threat to human health or
safety The Sheriff's Office shall only abate that part or portion of the
nuisance that constitutes an imminent threat.
   E.   Appeal: Within seven (7) calendar days from the date of service,
mailing, or posting of the order of abatement, the owner, occupier, and/or
person in charge or control of the subject property may appeal to the Board by
filing a written appeal with the issuing Code Enforcement Officer, which appeal
shall enumerate the grounds for appeal. The Board shall consider written and
oral testimony from the appellant and shall affirm, withdraw, or modify the
order of abatement. The decision of the Board shall be final. If the Board
affirms the order, the appellant shall have five (5) calendar days from the
date of such affirmation to abate the nuisance as ordered.
   F.   Abatement Procedures: The Board, upon recommendation by the Sheriff, or
his designee, and after providing notice as provided herein, may abate or cause
the abatement of any nuisance where the owner, occupant, agent or person in
control of property does not comply with abatement notice. If the Board directs
the abatement of the nuisance a service fee shall be imposed against the owner
of the subject property for services provided. The fees imposed pursuant to
this section shall be reasonably related to, but shall not exceed, the actual
cost of the service being rendered. The Board shall cause the fee to be
collected in the following manner:
      1.   Recovery Of Abatement Service Fee: Payette County shall send to the
owner, occupier, and/or person in control of the subject property, by regular
mail, a billing statement requiring payment to cover the costs of abating the
nuisance and the administrative services as established by fee schedule. Unless
paid as voluntarily, as provided below, such charge shall be collected in the
same manner provided by law for the collection of real and personal Property
Taxes.
      2.   Automatic Lien Of Abatement Service Fee: Upon abatement, an
automatic lien in the amount of the abatement service fee shall attach to the
subject property, and a notice of lien shall be recorded within seventy two
(72) hours. Upon payment of the charges in full the lien shall be released.
      3.   Certification Of Abatement Costs: If full payment is not made within
thirty (30) days of the mailing of the billing statement requiring payment of
abatement service fee, the Board shall certify such charge to be placed on the
Property Tax roll.
   G.   Certificate Of Noncompliance: In lieu of abatement, the Board may
record a Certificate of Noncompliance detailing the violations existing on the
property. Such certificate shall be removed upon remedy of the enumerated
violation.
   H.   Injunction: The County may also take civil action to obtain an order
enjoining the ongoing maintenance of such property free from nuisance, and/or
to recover any and all costs enforcement and/or litigation including, but not
limited to attorney fees and court costs. (Ord. 2006-2, 2-14-2006; amd. Ord.
2024-01, 1-8-2024)
4-1-5: CRIMINAL ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURE:
It shall be unlawful for any person who allows the existence of a public
nuisance to continue after a request for voluntary compliance. Each and every
day in which any such violation continues after ten (10) days from the date of
the request for voluntary compliance may be deemed a separate offense. Upon
conviction violations shall be punishable according to section 1-4-1 of the
County's Ordinance, General Penalty. Criminal enforcement shall not foreclose
use of other remedies in this chapter. The Payette County Sheriff and/or
designated Code Enforcement Officer(s) shall have the authority to issue
citations to violators of this ordinance. (Ord. 2006-2, 2-14-2006; amd. Ord.
2024-01, 1-8-2024)
4-1-6: INTERFERENCE WITH AUTHORIZED PERSON:
It shall be unlawful, and shall be a misdemeanor punishable as provided in
Idaho Code section 18-113, to interfere with the Sheriff, Code Enforcement
Officer, or any law enforcement officer in the performance of duties connected
with enforcement of this article. Such interference shall include, but not be
limited to, removal of notices posted on the property pursuant to this article
or impediment or harassment of the authorized person in the performance of
their duties under this article. (Ord. 2006-2, 2-14-2006; amd. Ord. 2024-01, 1-
8-2024)
CHAPTER 2
SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT
SECTION:
4-2-1: Title
4-2-2: Purpose; Intent
4-2-3: Definitions
4-2-4: Applicability
4-2-5: Solid Waste Department Established
4-2-6: Solid Waste Fund Established
4-2-7: Rule Making Authority
4-2-8: Use Of System Required
4-2-9: Waste Products Deposited, Ownership Rights
4-2-10: Scavenging And Unauthorized Salvaging
4-2-11: Permits For Municipal And Private Disposal Systems
4-2-12: Responsibilities Of Commercial Haulers And/Or Producers Of Commercial
Solid Waste
4-2-13: Improper Disposal At Approved Disposal Site
4-2-14: Penalty And Remedies
4-2-1: TITLE:
This Chapter shall be known as the PAYETTE COUNTY SOLID WASTE ORDINANCE. (Ord.
72, 10-15-1991)
4-2-2: PURPOSE; INTENT:
The purpose of this Chapter shall be to provide a framework for the solid waste
disposal system within the County. It is the intent of the Board of County
Commissioners, through enactment of this Chapter, to exercise all powers
granted to them in the field of solid waste management by relevant provisions
of the Idaho Constitution and the Idaho Code. (Ord. 72, 10-15-1991)
4-2-3: DEFINITIONS:
The terms listed in this Section shall have the meanings set forth herein,
throughout this Chapter:
PERSON: Any person, corporation, partnership, association, firm, or other
business or nonprofit entity.
SOLID WASTE: As defined in 40 CFR part 258.2 and including any subsequent
amendments or changes thereto, said definition as of the date of the passage of
the Ordinance codified in this Chapter is as follows: any garbage, or refuse,
sludge from a waste water treatment plant, water supply treatment plant, or air
pollution control facility and other discarded material, including solid,
liquid, semi-solid, or contained gaseous material resulting from industrial,
commercial, mining, and agricultural operations, and from community activities,
but does not include solid or dissolved materials in domestic sewage, or solid
or dissolved materials in irrigation return flows or industrial discharges that
are point sources subject to permit under 33 U.S.C. 1342, or source special
nuclear, or by-product material as defined by the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as
amended (68 Stat. 923).
SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL SITE: Shall include any landfill or other disposal
facility and any land upon which containers are placed for public disposal of
solid waste, whether said land is publicly owned or is provided by a contractor
performing pursuant to an agreement with Payette County.
SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL SYSTEM: All lands, sites, facilities, equipment, and
manpower necessary or used for, the collection, transportation, storage,
treatment, processing, reuse, recycling, or other means necessary for the
handling and disposal of solid waste. Said system shall include all public and
private disposal sites as approved subsequent to the adoption of the Ordinance
codified in this Chapter.
SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL SYSTEM COMPONENT: Any public or privately owned site,
collection location disposal facility, transportation element, or other
functioning part of the solid waste disposal system for Payette County where
one or more phase of solid waste disposal is carried out. Component shall not
include the solid waste receptacle provided by a commercial solid waste hauler
or generator for use by a single business, customer, or client, unless said
receptacle is to be removed from the site where it regularly rests for
transportation to or emptying at another location. (Ord. 72, 10-15-1991; 1996
Code) !DEFEND!
4-2-4: APPLICABILITY:
From the date of approval and publication of the Ordinance codified in this
Chapter as required by law, all solid waste generated within the County and all
solid waste generated elsewhere, but proposed or destined for disposal within
the County, shall comply with the standards and procedures set forth herein.
All solid waste shall be managed, whether during storage, collection, transfer,
transport, processing, separation, incineration, composting, treatment, reuse,
recycling or disposal, to prevent health hazards, public nuisances, or
pollution of the environment. This Chapter does not regulate discharges into
the waters of the County, except as those discharges are not governed by State
and Federal law. (Ord. 72, 10-15-1991)
4-2-5: SOLID WASTE DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED:
   A.   Establishment: There is hereby established a County Solid Waste
Department which is subject to direct supervision by the Board of County
Commissioners. The Board of County Commissioners may delegate responsibility
for the operation of the Department to an employee selected by majority vote of
the Board of County Commissioners.
   B.   Duties And Responsibilities: The Department shall be responsible for
carrying out the terms of this Chapter and for implementing the solid waste
policies adopted by the Board of County Commissioners. The Department shall
perform such duties as are necessary to operate the waste disposal system in
the County. Said duties shall include maintaining liaison with local, State,
and Federal regulatory agencies on behalf of the Board of County Commissioners.
   C.   Scope Of Authority: The scope of authority to be exercised by the Board
of County Commissioners through creation of the Solid Waste Department is
intended to extend as far as allowed by the Idaho Constitution and by the
statutes empowering and requiring counties to be responsible for solid waste
disposal within their jurisdiction, including, but not limited to, Idaho Code
title 31, chapter 44. (Ord. 72, 10-15-1991)
4-2-6: SOLID WASTE FUND ESTABLISHED:
   A.   New Landfill Fund:
      1.   Established: For the purposes of financing the operation of the
Solid Waste Department, there is hereby created a New Landfill Fund to be
maintained as a separate fund within the County budget. This Fund shall support
all activities made necessary for the continued operation of the solid waste
system in the County.
      2.   Special Accounts Within Fund: The Board of County Commissioners may,
by resolution, establish special accounts within the New Landfill Fund for
stated purposes to meet anticipated operation needs of the solid waste system
as it deems necessary and proper.
   B.   Revenue Options: The Board of County Commissioners may choose from the
various revenue options made available to counties to support solid waste
activities as outlined in Idaho Code section 31-4404 and elsewhere.
   C.   User Fees:
      1.   Established: User fees may be charged to real property owners and
other system users as the Board of County Commissioners deem necessary to
support solid waste system operation. In accord with the provisions of the
State statute, said fees may be established at any time by the Board of County
Commissioners through passage of a resolution setting forth the fees to be
charged for the system.
      2.   Amendment Of User Fees: Said fee resolution may be amended at any
time to accommodate changes in the fee system and operating policies deemed
appropriate by the Board of County Commissioners. A resolution establishing
fees shall remain in full force and effect until subsequently repealed or
amended. All previously adopted resolutions of the Board of County
Commissioners not inconsistent with the terms of this Chapter are hereby
ratified, approved and confirmed.
   D.   Tax Levy: If taxes are ever to be levied for the support of the solid
waste system, the rate shall be established through the annual budget process
and certified to the State Tax Commission as required by law. (Ord. 72, 10-15-
1991; 1996 Code)
4-2-7: RULE MAKING AUTHORITY:
The Board of County Commissioners shall have authority to adopt and implement
rules necessary for operation of the County Solid Waste System. Said rules may
be adopted by passage of an ordinance by the Board of County Commissioners and
may be enforced by imposition of additional fees and charges to cover costs
incurred through noncompliance and/or by such other administrative remedies as
the Board of County Commissioners deems appropriate in the circumstances. (Ord.
72, 10-15-1991; 1996 Code)
4-2-8: USE OF SYSTEM REQUIRED:
From the effective date of the Ordinance codified in this Chapter, all persons
discarding or disposing of solid waste in the County shall use the County Solid
Waste Disposal System, unless prior authority is granted by the Board of County
Commissioners. The system shall consist of all components of the disposal and
collection system operated by the County, the collection and disposal systems
operated by cities within the County, and such private disposal systems as may
comply with permitting requirements established by this Chapter and applicable
State and Federal regulations. (Ord. 72, 10-15-1991)
4-2-9: WASTE PRODUCTS DEPOSITED, OWNERSHIP RIGHTS:
   A.   Ownership Upon Delivery: Upon delivery of solid waste to an approved
disposal site, all rights of ownership and exclusive possession to lawfully
deposited solid waste shall vest in the County or in the owner of the site, if
the site is not County- owned. Any waste disposal sites provided by contractors
who collect or haul solid waste pursuant to contracts with the County shall be
considered County-operated sites for purposes of this Section and ownership of
solid waste lawfully deposited and delivered to any such site shall vest in the
County.
   B.   Right To Recycle: The County reserves the right to authorize recycling
of materials in the waste stream in accordance with standards and condition to
be set by the Board of County Commissioners.
   C.   Hazardous Or Improperly Handled Wastes: Hazardous or improperly handled
wastes shall be disposed of in compliance with this Chapter and other
applicable laws and regulations. (Ord. 72, 10-15-1991)
4-2-10: SCAVENGING AND UNAUTHORIZED SALVAGING:
   A.   Scavenging Or Salvaging Prohibited: No person shall scavenge or attempt
to salvage materials from waste delivered to or deposited at a solid waste
disposal site.
   B.   Interference: No person shall interfere or intercede in any way with
the lawful activities of residents of the County or disposal system users who
are delivering or depositing solid waste for disposal at any approved solid
waste site or with commercial haulers or County employees who are removing or
handling waste which has been deposited at an approved disposal site.
   C.   Posted Regulations: No person shall act in violation of the posted
regulations at any approved solid waste disposal site.
   D.   Solid Waste Fees: No person shall dispose of waste at a County-operated
disposal system component without having paid his/her solid waste fees or other
obligations on a current basis.
   E.   Violation: Any person who violates any provisions of this Section shall
be deemed to have violated this Chapter and shall be subject to the provisions
of Section 4-2-14 of this Chapter. (Ord. 72, 10-15-1991; 1996 Code)
4-2-11: PERMITS FOR MUNICIPAL AND PRIVATE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS:
   A.   Permit Required; Exception: No person shall operate a solid waste
disposal system component without a permit, properly issued by the Solid Waste
Department. This requirement shall not apply to a municipal corporation
operating a disposal system for its residents, wholly within its own corporate
limits.
   B.   Procedural Standards: Permits may be granted for operation of waste
disposal system components upon compliance with the procedural standards set
forth in this Chapter and its attendant rules and upon compliance with
applicable rules for disposal sites and practices adopted by the Board of
County Commissioners and appropriate State and Federal agencies. Permit
applicants shall bear full responsibility for showing compliance with the
standards applicable to their proposed operation of a solid waste disposal
system component.
   C.   Permit Fees: Fees may be charged for permit issuance as established by
resolution of the Board of County Commissioners.
   D.   Unapproved Sites; Exemption: No person shall dispose of solid waste
within the County at a location not approved for disposal by the County and
State and Federal regulatory agencies unless a prior exemption has been granted
in accordance with rules adopted by the Board of County Commissioners.
   E.   Criteria For Permits: Permits for operation of a solid waste disposal
site may be obtained from the County Solid Waste Department. To obtain a permit
for operation of a disposal site, the applicant must show that it meets at
least the following criteria:
      1.   Compliance With Zoning Regulations: The site proposed complies with
requirements of the Title 8 of this Code and other applicable land use
regulations of the County.
      2.   Site Approval: The site has been reviewed and approved as an
appropriate location for a solid waste disposal site by the Southwest Health
District and any State or Federal agency having jurisdiction.
      3.   Operations Plan: An operations plan for use and closure of the site
has been approved by the Southwest Health District and any State or Federal
agency having jurisdiction.
      4.   Performance Bond: Any private site operator has posted a performance
bond to guarantee adequate financial resources to assure proper operation and
closure of the site.
      5.   Compliance With County Regulations: Operation and closure will
comply with any regulations adopted by the Board of County Commissioners
regarding the operation of solid waste disposal sites.
      6.   Hazardous Wastes: The operator has provided adequate safeguards to
see that no hazardous wastes, as such are classified by County, State, or
Federal regulations, are to be disposed of in the solid waste disposal site.
(Ord. 72, 10-15-1991)
4-2-12: RESPONSIBILITIES OF COMMERCIAL HAULERS AND/OR PRODUCERS OF COMMERCIAL
SOLID WASTE:
   A.   Compliance Required: Any person who engages in collection, hauling, or
disposal of solid waste within the County or who generates solid waste as
result of commercial or industrial activities shall comply with the provisions
of this Chapter and any regulations adopted pursuant to authority established
by this Chapter.
   B.   Report Of Amounts Collected: Any person collecting or hauling solid
waste within the County or any generator of commercial solid waste within the
County shall report the amounts of solid waste collected and hauled from
accounts within the County, or generated, as the case may be, when requested,
no more frequently than on a bimonthly basis to the County Solid Waste
Department. Said reports shall be filed in a form acceptable to the Solid Waste
Department.
   C.   Report Of Disposal Location; Bond: Any person collecting or hauling
solid waste within the County, or any generator of commercial solid waste
within the County, shall also report the location of disposal of all solid
waste hauled or generated, no more frequently than bimonthly, on forms
acceptable to the County Solid Waste Department. The County may, by regulation,
establish bond requirements to assure performance of responsibilities
established by this Chapter.
   D.   Failure To Comply; Surcharge: Failure of solid waste collectors,
haulers and/or commercial solid waste generators to comply with regulations
implemented to carry out responsibilities established by this Chapter may
result in imposition of a surcharge on fees charged to the hauler for use of
County-operated disposal facilities. Such failure shall also be considered a
violation of this Chapter, subject to all penalties and remedies otherwise
prescribed herein and in Idaho Code section 31-4410. (Ord. 72, 10-15-1991)
4-2-13: IMPROPER DISPOSAL AT APPROVED DISPOSAL SITE:
Any person who deposits or disposes of any hazardous or otherwise dangerous
waste matter at, or provides for delivery of same to an approved solid waste
disposal site, shall be liable for the full costs of controlling and
eliminating any posed health hazard and/or properly disposing of said dangerous
materials, as may be incurred by the County or other public agency. (Ord. 72,
10-15-1991)
4-2-14: PENALTY AND REMEDIES:
Violation of the provisions of this Chapter shall be subject to the following
penalties and/or remedies:
   A.   Civil Responsibility For Violation: To obtain compliance with the
requirements of this Chapter, the County may initiate civil action in a court
of competent jurisdiction. Said action may be either legal or equitable in
nature and may seek any remedy deemed appropriate by the Board of County
Commissioners or otherwise authorized by Idaho Code section 31-4410 to carry
out the purposes of this Chapter.
   B.   Criminal Misdemeanor Liability: Any violation of this Chapter shall be
considered a misdemeanor subject to punishment to the maximum allowed by Idaho
Code section 18-113 or its successor. The maximum penalties provided for a
misdemeanor violation are as provided in Section 1-4-1 of this Code. A separate
violation shall be deemed to have occurred for each action committed in
violation of this Chapter and for each day that a violation remains uncorrected
after notice of violation has been delivered to the alleged violator. The
penalty provisions of Idaho Code section 31-4410 are incorporated into this
Section and are made part of it as if set forth fully herein. (Ord. 72, 10-15-
1991; 1996 Code)
CHAPTER 3
SEPTAGE AND PUMPABLE WASTE TRANSPORTATION
SECTION:
4-3-1: Purpose
4-3-2: Definitions
4-3-3: Requirements For Transport
4-3-4: Septage Application
4-3-5: Pumpable Waste Disposal
4-3-6: Penalty And Civil Enforcement
4-3-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this Chapter is to regulate the transportation and disposal of
pumpable waste and land application of septage within the County limits in
order to protect the health and safety of residents and the environment in
which they live. (Ord. 88, 8-15-1994)
4-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this Section:
ANNUAL APPLICATION RATE: The maximum amount of domestic septage that can be
applied to a unit area of land during a three hundred sixty five (365) day
period.
DOMESTIC SEPTAGE: Either liquid or semi-solid material removed from a septic
tank, cesspool, portable toilet, Type III marine sanitation device, or similar
treatment works that receives only domestic sewage. Domestic septage does not
include liquid or solid material removed from a septic tank, cesspool, portable
toilet, Type III marine sanitation device, or similar treatment works that
receives either commercial wastewater or industrial wastewater and does not
include grease removed from a grease trap.
DOMESTIC SEWAGE: Waste and wastewater from humans or household operations that
is discharged to or otherwise enters a treatment works.
PUMPABLE WASTES: Nonseptage pumpable wastes which include materials from grease
traps, car wash sumps, service station sumps, industrial waste, commercial
cleaning waste, and municipal sludge.
SEPTAGE: Either liquid or semi-solid material removed from a septic tank,
cesspool, portable toilet, Type III marine sanitation device, or similar
treatment works that receives domestic, commercial or industrial sewage and
does not include grease removed from a grease trap. (Ord. 88, 8-15-1994)
4-3-3: REQUIREMENTS FOR TRANSPORT:
Septage, domestic or otherwise, and nonseptage pumpable waste shall not be
transported in the County except in compliance with this Chapter. Specific
requirements include the following:
   A.   Southwest District Health Department Permit:
      1.   Permit Required: All septage and pumpable waste in transit within
the County shall be transported by operators permitted as septage or pumpable
waste haulers or septage applicators by the Southwest District Health
Department.
      2.   Permit Documentation: Septage and pumpable waste transport vehicle
operator(s) must carry documentation of the current permit(s) in the waste
transportation vehicle whenever in operation or in transit.
      3.   Proof Of Licensure: Each such operator must carry proof of necessary
permit status in all transporting vehicles at all times, and must provide proof
of licensure upon demand to any peace officer, County employee or official
representative of the Southwest District Health Department.
   B.   Equipment Used:
      1.   Cleanliness: Trucks and implements employed in septage and pumpable
waste transportation shall be kept externally clean, and tanks holding waste
shall be kept closed and mechanically locked to prevent opening under impact
whenever in transit.
      2.   Splashing Or Leakage Prohibited: No vehicle shall be permitted to
exhibit any visible splashing or leakage of septage that can drip off or be
washed off by precipitation or by splashed water.
   C.   Manifest; Records:
      1.   Progressive Manifest: Septage and pumpable waste transporter(s)
shall maintain a progressive manifest in each vehicle, acknowledged by the
operator, incorporating a statement of location of origin for each load,
including the component parts thereof, if more than one source contributes to
the load.
      2.   Coordinate Records: Each operator shall also maintain coordinate
records regarding the time and place of discharging or disposal of any such
cargo, with date and transporter's signature.
      3.   Maintenance Of Records; Inspection: Septage and pumpable waste
transporters shall maintain copies of said manifests in their business records
for five (5) years and shall allow inspection of such records upon written
inquiry by County employees or officials.
      4.   Failure To Maintain: Failure to maintain accurate and truthful
records of this type shall constitute a violation of this Chapter.
   D.   Environmental Damage; Costs Of Cleanup:
      1.   Responsibility For Damage; Cleanup Costs: Any person who dumps,
spills or otherwise allows septage or pumpable waste to be discharged into the
environment except in accordance with the transportation and application
provisions of this Chapter shall be responsible for payment of all costs of
cleanup including the costs of emergency response, repair or replacement of
equipment, and such other supply and personnel costs as may be reasonably
incurred in remedying environmental damage and harm to equipment by virtue of
such discharge.
      2.   Enforcement Costs: The legal costs of enforcing compliance with the
terms of this Chapter shall be considered a cleanup cost for purposes of
reimbursement. (Ord. 88, 8-15-1994; 1996 Code)
4-3-4: SEPTAGE APPLICATION:
Septage collected in the County shall not be disposed of other than in a
municipally operated treatment works unless the following conditions are
complied with:
   A.   Septage Application Permit: Septage land application on any location
within the County may only be conducted by an applicator with a septage
application permit from the Southwest District Health Department on a site with
approval by local zoning authorities subject to terms and conditions
established by the County.
   B.   Temporary Storage And Disposal: Domestic septage being temporarily
stored for disposal will be deposited only at a publicly operated domestic
septage transfer facility.
   C.   Domestic Septage Processing: Domestic septage processing and handling
shall comply with applicable Federal regulations found at 40 CFR part 503.13(c)
- application rate; 503.14(e)(3) - management; 503.16(b) - minimum site
monitoring requirements and frequency; 503.17(b) - minimum record keeping;
503.32(b)(2) - pathogen reduction; 503.32(b)(5)(i) through (b)(5)(v) - site
restrictions; 503.33(b)(12) - vector reduction.
   D.   pH Level: All domestic septage will be pH stabilized by the addition of
lime, hydrated lime, or an alkaline agent that will elevate the pH to twelve
(12) (minimum) and maintain the pH at that level for at least thirty (30)
minutes prior to land application.
   E.   Application Sites: Domestic septage shall be applied only to sites
having an appropriate permit from the Southwest District Health Department and
in compliance with zoning requirements after treatment as required by this
Chapter. No person shall discharge or dispose of improperly treated or
untreated septage contrary to the terms of this Chapter.
   F.   Equipment Used:
      1.   Cleanliness: Trucks and implements employed in land application of
septage shall be kept externally clean, and tanks holding septage shall be kept
closed and mechanically locked to prevent opening under impact whenever in
transit within the County.
      2.   Splashing Or Leakage Prohibited: Any visible splashing or leakage of
septage that can drip off or be washed of by precipitation or splashed water
outside of the defined boundaries of a land application site is hereby
prohibited. (Ord. 88, 8-15-1994; 1996 Code)
4-3-5: PUMPABLE WASTE DISPOSAL:
No person shall discharge or dispose of improperly treated or untreated
pumpable waste contrary to the terms of this Chapter. Pumpable waste shall not
be disposed of in a manner or at a facility specifically approved for disposal
operations unless the following conditions are complied with:
   A.   Land Application Permit: Land application of pumpable waste on any
location within the County may only be conducted by one with a land application
permit from the Idaho Department of Health and Welfare, Division of
Environmental Quality or Southwest District Health Department on a site
approved by County zoning authorities subject to terms and conditions
established by the County. No person shall discharge or dispose of improperly
treated or untreated pumpable waste contrary to the terms of this Chapter.
   B.   Municipal Sludge:
      1.   Land Application: Land application of properly treated municipal
sludge may only be conducted upon written approval of the Idaho Department of
Health and Welfare, Division of Environmental Quality. Location of the DEQ
approved site shall be reported in writing to the Planning and Zoning
Administrator/Building Inspector, Southwest District Health Department and all
property owners adjacent to the disposal site at least three (3) working days,
excluding weekends, prior to commencement of land application activities.
      2.   Report: The report shall describe the location, an estimated
gallonage of the material to be applied and an estimated length of time
operations will take to complete.
   C.   Equipment Used:
      1.   Cleanliness: Trucks and implements employed in land application of
pumpable waste shall be kept externally clean, and tanks holding pumpable waste
shall be kept closed and mechanically locked to prevent opening under impact
whenever in transit within the County.
      2.   Splashing Or Leakage Prohibited: Any visible splashing or leakage of
waste that can drip off or be washed off by precipitation or splashed water
outside of the defined boundaries of a land application site is hereby
prohibited. (Ord. 88-A, 4-3-1995; 1996 Code)
4-3-6: PENALTY AND CIVIL ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Misdemeanor: Violation of the terms of this Chapter shall be subject to
penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code for each violation.
   B.   Additional Remedies: The County may also compel compliance with the
terms of this Chapter or recover costs of remedying violations of terms of this
Chapter by initiating civil action in a court of competent jurisdiction. (Ord.
88, 8-15-1994; 1996 Code)
CHAPTER 4
TRANSPORTATION OF GARBAGE, RUBBISH AND REFUSE
SECTION:
4-4-1: Transportation Regulated
4-4-2: Transportation Restricted
4-4-3: Violation; Penalty
4-4-1: TRANSPORTATION REGULATED:
In the interest of the general health, safety and welfare of the public, the
transportation of and hauling of garbage, rubbish, debris, paper, litter,
glass, cans, scrap metal, nails, tacks, barbed wire, boards, trash, lighted
material, and other waste substance shall hereafter be regulated. (Ord. 21, 5-
6-1974)
4-4-2: TRANSPORTATION RESTRICTED:
It shall be unlawful and constitute a misdemeanor for any person to transport
or haul garbage, rubbish, debris, paper, litter, glass, cans, scrap metal,
nails, tacks, barbed wire, boards, trash, lighted material or any other waste
substance upon the public highways within the County unless said waste
substances are covered with a suitable material attached to the vehicle or in
covered containers by which the waste substances are transported or hauled to
prevent the waste substance from being blown, scattered or lost from the
vehicle providing the transportation of the same. (Ord. 21, 5-6-1974)
4-4-3: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Violations of Section 4-4-2 of this Chapter are considered infractions and
shall be processed by the Sheriff or the Sheriff's deputies in accordance with
the Idaho Infraction Rules and the current Idaho Infraction Penalty Schedule,
as amended. Such infractions are punishable by fixed penalty, which includes
court costs for each offense in accordance with the Idaho Infraction Rules and
the current Idaho Infraction Penalty Schedule, as amended. The trial of an
infraction shall be governed by the Idaho Infraction Rules. (Ord. 1998-12, 10-
13-1998)
CHAPTER 5
HAZARDOUS MATERIAL DISPOSAL
SECTION:
4-5-1: Definition
4-5-2: Disposal Of Hazardous Material Prohibited
4-5-3: General Classes Of Products Containing Hazardous Material
4-5-4: Activities Commonly Generating Hazardous Material Waste Or By-Products
4-5-5: Material Identity, Burden Of Proof
4-5-6: Owner's Claim Of Nonhazardous Material Or Container
4-5-7: Rejection Of Suspected Hazardous Materials
4-5-8: Penalty For Noncompliance
4-5-9: Cleanup And Disposal Costs
4-5-1: DEFINITION:
"Hazardous material" is a material or combination of materials which, when
discharged in any quantity into State waters, presents a substantial present or
potential hazard to human health, the public health, or the environment. These
materials have been further defined by the United States Environmental
Protection Agency or the State of Idaho Division of Environmental Quality to be
ignitable, corrosive, reactive, toxic or any combination of the aforementioned
characteristics. Detailed listings of hazardous materials are stated in current
Code of Federal Regulations, part 40.B., Classes of Products Commonly
Containing Hazardous Material. (Ord. 61, 10-31-1988, eff. 10-31-1988)
4-5-2: DISPOSAL OF HAZARDOUS MATERIAL PROHIBITED:
The "disposal of hazardous material", as defined by the Federal and State
agencies having authority to regulate waste disposal, is prohibited at all
waste disposal sanitary landfills operated by, for, or in the County, and onto
any public (or private) property in the jurisdiction of the County commencing
at the effective date of the Ordinance codified in this Chapter. (Ord. 61, 10-
31-1988, eff. 10-31-1988)
4-5-3: GENERAL CLASSES OF PRODUCTS CONTAINING HAZARDOUS MATERIAL:
General classes of products often containing hazardous material include, but
are not limited to, the following:
   A.   Pesticide/herbicide containers and material contaminated by spilled
pesticides/herbicides;
   B.   Electrical switch gear, transformers and other components;
   C.   Asbestos products, insulations;
   D.   Acids and bases;
   E.   Solvents, oils, and liquid fuels;
   F.   Wood preservatives and treated wood;
   G.   Lead-acid batteries (with exceptions);
   H.   Paints and stains; sealers;
   I.   Household and industrial cleaning products;
   J.   Printing supplies;
   K.   Some nonferrous metals and alloys;
   L.   Compounds containing nonferrous metals;
   M.   Halogenated organic compounds (chlorinated, fluorinated, brominated,
iodated);
   N.   Waste lubricating oils and greases; and
   O.   Industrial waste treatment sludges (in some cases). (Ord. 61, 10-31-
1988, eff. 10-31-1988)
4-5-4: ACTIVITIES COMMONLY GENERATING HAZARDOUS MATERIAL WASTE OR BY-PRODUCTS:
Activities that are likely to generate hazardous materials include, but are not
limited to:
   A.   Manufacturing and chemical formulating;
   B.   Agricultural, gardening, and lawn maintenance services (pesticides);
   C.   Construction demolition activities;
   D.   Electrical construction and maintenance;
   E.   Dry cleaning;
   F.   Wood preserving;
   G.   Printing;
   H.   Vehicle and machine maintenance;
   I.   Painting;
   J.   Metalworking and woodworking;
   K.   Equipment repair;
   L.   Furniture manufacture and refinishing;
   M.   Medicine and dentistry; and
   N.   Tanning and leather work (with exceptions). (Ord. 61, 10-31-1988, eff.
10-31-1988)
4-5-5: MATERIAL IDENTITY, BURDEN OF PROOF:
Any person transporting hazardous materials or containers for the purpose of
delivery to or disposal at a sanitary landfill shall have: 1) a manifest
describing the material, methods of neutralization, and certification of
neutralization by licensed testing laboratory, or 2) an affidavit signed by not
less than two (2) persons that the material or container has been neutralized
in accordance with the labeled instructions along with a complete copy of the
manufacture's label. Said manifest or affidavit shall state the following
facts:
   A.   Date, time;
   B.   Name of owner;
   C.   Production definition - (Copy of manufacturers label) substance,
concentrations, use;
   D.   Neutralizing agent used;
   E.   Procedure used for rinse and cleaning;
   F.   Quantity and general description of present state, i.e., color, volume,
viscosity, etc.; and
   G.   Signatures and dates. (Ord. 61, 10-31-1988, eff. 10-31-1988)
4-5-6: OWNER'S CLAIM OF NONHAZARDOUS MATERIAL OR CONTAINER:
An owner's or manufacturer's claim that material has been effectively
neutralized, thus eliminating the materials from causing harmful human or
environmental effects, must be supported by statements of acceptance from the
EPA or Idaho DEQ. Said acceptance shall clearly define methods, materials and
conditions for neutralization and shall be supplied upon demand to the operator
and Board of County Commissioners. (Ord. 61, 10-31-1988, eff. 10-31-1988)
4-5-7: REJECTION OF SUSPECTED HAZARDOUS MATERIALS:
   A.   Rejection By Operator: Operator on duty at the sanitary landfill may
reject any material or container not accompanied by an affidavit or manifest.
   B.   Notice Of Rejection: Notice of rejection shall be given to the
transporter containing the following information:
      1.   Date, time;
      2.   Name of operator on duty;
      3.   Product container, produce sensory description (if available);
      4.   Amount or quantity;
      5.   Color, size, general description of rejected containers; and
      6.   Signatures and dates.
   C.   Filing Notice Of Rejection: A copy of the rejection notice shall be
filed within seventy two (72) hours with the County Clerk with a copy forwarded
to the Board of County Commissioners. (Ord. 61, 10-31-1988, eff. 10-31-1988)
4-5-8: PENALTY FOR NONCOMPLIANCE:
It shall be a misdemeanor to dispose of or attempt to dispose of hazardous
materials of any kind in any sanitary landfill, or on any public (or private)
land under County jurisdiction, in the County. Penalties for such misdemeanor
shall apply without reference to any penalties that may be assessed for
hazardous material disposal activities not conforming to State or Federal laws.
(Ord. 61, 10-31-1988, eff. 10-31-1988)
4-5-9: CLEANUP AND DISPOSAL COSTS:
Cleanup by a certified, bonded contractor, disposal at a licensed disposal
site, and payment of all associated actual costs shall be the responsibility of
owner of the materials. Actual cost of cleanup shall include, but not limited
to the following:
   A.   Investigation;
   B.   Testing and monitoring;
   C.   Site evaluation and cleanup procedure reports;
   D.   Consultants;
   E.   Legal counsel;
   F.   Cleanup contractor, materials and equipment;
   G.   Disposal costs; and
   H.   Penalties. (Ord. 61, 10-31-1988, eff. 10-31-1988)
PA570   4-6.txt
CHAPTER 6
LITTERING
SECTION:
4-6-1: Definitions
4-6-2: Littering Prohibited
4-6-3: Penalty
4-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
PRIVATE PREMISES: All property including, but not limited to, vacant land or
any land, buildings or other structures designed or used for residential,
commercial, business, industrial, institutional or religious purposes, together
with any yard, grounds, walk, driveway, fence, porch, steps, vestibule, mailbox
and other structure appurtenant to it, except any public place.
PUBLIC PLACE: Any and all streets, sidewalks, boulevards, alleys or other
public ways, lakes, rivers, watercourses or fountains and any and all public
parks, squares, spaces, grounds and buildings. (Ord. 2001-8, 12-3-2001)
4-6-2: LITTERING PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to place, cause or allow to be thrown, or
dispose of in any manner any litter, garbage, waste or peelings of vegetables
or fruits, rubbish, ashes, cans, bottles, wire, paper, cartons, boxes, parts of
automobiles, tires, debris, furniture, glass, oil, filthy or odoriferous
objects or anything else of an unsightly or unsanitary nature upon any public
place or private premises, unless duly authorized. (Ord. 2001-8, 12-3-2001)
4-6-3: PENALTY:
Any violation of this chapter shall be considered a misdemeanor. (Ord. 2001-8,
12-3-2001)
CHAPTER 7
SMOKING
SECTION:
4-7-1: Prohibited
4-7-2: Smoking Outside Courthouse
4-7-3: County Employees Disciplined
4-7-4: Penalty
4-7-1: PROHIBITED:
No person shall, at any time, smoke any tobacco, tobacco related product,
filler or other plant or weed in any of the following places owned or operated
by the county:
   A.   Inside any county vehicle.
   B.   Inside any county building or facility. (Ord. 2002-8, 11-12-2002)
4-7-2: SMOKING OUTSIDE COURTHOUSE:
No person shall, at any time, smoke any tobacco, tobacco related product,
filler or other plant or weed within twenty feet (20') of the Payette County
courthouse except at the southeast entrance to the courthouse. "NO SMOKING
WITHIN 20 FEET OF COURTHOUSE" signs shall be posted at all other areas. A
"WARNING:   SMOKING PERMITTED" sign shall be posted at the southeast entrance.
(Ord. 2004-6, 7-12-2004)
4-7-3: COUNTY EMPLOYEES DISCIPLINED:
Any county employee violating this chapter shall be subject to appropriate
discipline, including a reprimand, suspension or termination. (Ord. 2004-6, 7-
12-2004)
4-7-4: PENALTY:
It shall be a misdemeanor to violate section
4-7-1 or
4-7-2 of this chapter. (Ord. 2004-6, 7-12-2004)
CHAPTER 8
OPEN BURNING
SECTION:
4-8-1: Purpose
4-8-2: Definitions
4-8-3: Open Burning Prohibited; Exemptions
4-8-4: Prohibited Burning
4-8-5: Enforcement and Penalties
4-8-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this ordinance is to provide for the health and safety of
Payette County citizens, as well as to protect property within Payette County
by preventing dangerous fires pursuant to County authority under Idaho Code
section 31-714. (Ord. 2023-08, 6-12-2023)
4-8-2: DEFINITIONS:
 
          The term “attended” as used under this chapter shall mean actively supervised, and
ATTENDED: responsibly ignited with proper fire management precautions. All flames, embers,
          coals, sparks, or hot spots shall be completely and fully extinguished such that
          they cannot reignite.
OPEN      The burning of any materials wherein the products of combustion are emitted into
BURNING:  the ambient air without passing through a stack, chimney, or spark arrester from
          an enclosed chamber. (Ord. 2023-08, 6-12-2023)
 
4-8-3: OPEN BURNING PROHIBITED; EXEMPTIONS:
Open burning, and fireworks, as defined by Idaho Code title 39 chapter 26, and
any special or aerial fireworks (e.g., “bottle rockets”) as defined by Idaho
Code section 39-2602, shall be prohibited in the County from July 1 through
October 1 or as determined by resolution of county commissioners.
   A.   Exemptions. This chapter shall not apply to open burning that is:
      1.   Authorized for agricultural purposes by the Idaho Department of
Agriculture.
      2.   Ditch banks and fence rows when attended and controlled.
      3.   Authorized pursuant to a permit or license issued by any other
local, State or Federal governmental agency of competent jurisdiction.
      4.   Conducted by any employee, contractor or agent of any local, State
or Federal governmental agency in the course of performance performing of their
official duties or employment.
      5.   Authorized by and in compliance with federal regulations on federal
land.
      6.   Recreational fires, which shall include a defined area, container or
structure designated for the burning of solid fuel, natural gas or propane. The
fire must be contained within a non-combustible barrier consisting of stone,
brick, concrete, metal or similar noncombustible material in such a manner to
prevent the escape of combustible materials and which shall be attended as
defined above.
      7.   Cooking fires which shall include the burning of conventional fuel
materials such as charcoal, natural or propane gas, or wood pellets, to cook
food in a receptacle such as a barbeque grill, or barbeque pit which was
originally designed or manufactured for such a purpose.
      8.   Residential burning in , including the use of burn barrels, in
enclosed receptacles with appropriate spark arrestors or screen.
      9.   Commercial fireworks as permitted by Idaho Code section 39-2605; or
in-season fireworks as permitted by Idaho Code section 39-2606 and/or Payette
County Ordinance 5-3-4. All other uses are prohibited. (Ord. 2023-08, 6-12-
2023)
4-8-4: PROHIBITED BURNING:
The following shall be prohibited from burning at all times:
   A.   Plastics.
   B.   Dead animals or animal waste.
   C.   Materials from vehicles such as junk motor vehicles or parts, tires,
and other rubber material.
   D.   Construction material such as asphaltic materials, tar and petroleum
materials, paints, treated wood, and insulated wire.
   E.   Trade waste, including any waste generated by construction, commercial,
or industrial activity. (Ord. 2023-08, 6-12-2023)
4-8-5: ENFORCEMENT, PENALTIES AND COSTS:
   A.   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to limit any expense,
penalty, or liability assessed by any other local, State, or Federal
governmental agency.
   B.   The provisions of this chapter may be enforced by the Sheriff and/or
any peace officer of the State of Idaho authorized by the Sheriff. In addition,
the Sheriff and/or any peace officer of the State of Idaho authorized by the
Sheriff, is authorized to extinguish or cause to be extinguished any open fire
ignited or maintained in violation of this chapter.
   C.   Operation Of Other Laws Not Affected: Nothing in this chapter or any
permit shall exempt any person from the operation of or compliance with any
other State, Federal or local law, regulation or ordinance.
   D.   No Liability: Payette County, its officials, employees and agents shall
not be liable for any claim or cause, regardless of the nature thereof, arising
directly or indirectly from the granting or denial of any permit under this
chapter or performance of any official duty hereunder.
   E.   A violation of any of the provisions of this chapter shall be an
infraction upon a first violation, punishable by a fine as set forth for “other
infractions” in the Idaho Infraction Rule 9 (Idaho Infraction Penalty Schedule)
and shall be a misdemeanor upon a subsequent conviction within five (5) years.
Provided, however, a violation of this chapter where property damage to a third
party occurs shall be a misdemeanor. A misdemeanor shall be punishable by
imprisonment in a county jail not exceeding six (6) months, or by a fine not
exceeding one thousand dollars ($1,000), or by both. (Ord. 2023-08, 6-12-2023)
TITLE 5
LAW ENFORCEMENT
CHAPTER 1
LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS 1
SECTION:
5-1-1: Peace Officer Training
 
Notes
1 1. See Article 1-6E of this Code.
5-1-1: PEACE OFFICER TRAINING:
   A.   The Board of County Commissioners declares that it desires to qualify
to receive aid for police training from the Law Enforcement Planning Commission
under the provisions of Idaho Code chapter 51.
   B.   Pursuant to Idaho Code chapter 51, the County while receiving aid from
the Law Enforcement Planning Commission pursuant to Idaho Code chapter 51, will
adhere to the standards for employment and training established by the Idaho
Peace Officer Standards and Training Advisory Council. (Ord. 15, 7-6-1971; 1996
Code)
CHAPTER 2
CURFEW
SECTION:
5-2-1: Curfew Established
5-2-2: Exceptions
5-2-3: Encouraging Delinquency Of A Minor
5-2-4: Prima Facie Evidence; Violation
5-2-5: Penalties
5-2-1: CURFEW ESTABLISHED:
   A.   Under Age Sixteen: It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of
sixteen (16) years to be or to remain, and it shall be unlawful for any parent,
guardian or other person having the care and custody of any person under the
age of sixteen (16) years to permit such person to be or to remain, in or upon
any street, alley, public ground, public places or any place open to the public
or exposed to public use within the County, between the hours of eleven o'clock
(11:00) P.M. and five o'clock (5:00) A.M.
   B.   From Age Sixteen To Eighteen: It shall be unlawful for any person from
the age of sixteen (16) years to eighteen (18) years to be or to remain, and it
shall be unlawful for any parent, guardian or other person having the care and
custody of any person between the age of sixteen (16) years to eighteen (18)
years to permit such person to be or to remain, in or upon any street, alley,
public ground, public places or any place open to the public or exposed to
public use within the County, between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00)
midnight and five o'clock (5:00) A.M. (Ord. 65, 4-30-1990)
5-2-2: EXCEPTIONS:
The provisions of Section
5-2-1 of this Chapter shall not apply to any person who is accompanied by his
parent, guardian or other adult person having the care and custody of him, or
to any person who is in the performance of an errand or duty directed by his
parent, guardian or other adult person having the care and custody of him, nor
to any person who is actually at the time engaged in legitimate employment for
profit. (Ord. 65, 4-30-1990)
5-2-3: ENCOURAGING DELINQUENCY OF A MINOR:
It shall be unlawful for any person by any act or neglect, to encourage, aid or
cause any person under the age of eighteen (18) years to come within the
purview of Sections
5-2-1 and
5-2-2 of this Chapter. (Ord. 65, 4-30-1990)
5-2-4: PRIMA FACIE EVIDENCE; VIOLATION:
   A.   Under Age Sixteen: The presence of a person under the age of sixteen
(16) years in or upon any street, alley, public ground, public places or any
place open to the public or exposed to public use within the County, between
the hours of eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. and five o'clock (5:00) A.M. not being
accompanied by his parents, guardian or one having legal custody of said child
nor being in the performance of an errand or duty directed by his parent,
guardian or other adult person having the care and custody of him, nor being
actually engaged in legitimate employment for profit shall be prima facie
evidence of a violation of this Chapter.
   B.   From Age Sixteen To Eighteen: The presence of a person between the ages
of sixteen (16) years and eighteen (18) years in or upon any street, alley,
public ground, public places or any place open to the public or exposed to
public use within the County, between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00)
midnight and five o'clock (5:00) A.M. not being accompanied by his parent,
guardian or one having legal custody of said child, or being in the performance
of an errand or duty directed by his parent, guardian or other adult person
having the care and custody of him, nor being actually engaged in legitimate
employment for profit shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of this
Chapter. (Ord. 65, 4-30-1990)
5-2-5: PENALTIES:
Violation of this Chapter by a minor child shall bring said child within the
purview of the Youth Rehabilitation Act of the State, and violation of this
Chapter by an adult shall be punishable as set forth in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 65, 4-30-1990; 1996 Code)
CHAPTER 3
FIREWORKS
SECTION:
5-3-1: Definitions
5-3-2: Permits Required For Retail Sales
5-3-3: Authorized Dates For Sale And Use
5-3-4: Prohibitions
5-3-5: Penalties
5-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
The definitions adopted by the Idaho legislature in Idaho Code section 39-2602
are hereby adopted. (Ord. Amd. 52, 6-9-1997)
5-3-2: PERMITS REQUIRED FOR RETAIL SALES:
   A.   The county requires a permit for the retail sale of nonaerial common
fireworks, pursuant to Idaho Code section 39-2602.
   B.   An application for permit may be obtained from the county clerk on a
form approved by the board of county commissioners. Said form shall comply with
Idaho Code regarding retail sales of nonaerial fireworks.
   C.   The applicant must provide at the time of the application a bond or
valid certificate of public liability and property- casualty insurance
providing coverage of up to one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) for
personal injury and property damage.
   D.   The county will assess a fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00) for
issuing a permit and will assess an inspection fee in the amount of twenty five
dollars ($25.00). All fees are to be paid to the county clerk's office.
   E.   An inspection by the county sheriff's department will include an on
site inspection of any temporary fireworks facility and/or stand.
   F.   The permit shall be issued if the application is complete and in
compliance with applicable law, shall be valid for twelve (12) months from the
date of issuance and shall be nontransferable.
   G.   The permit required under this section may be revoked if the permittee
violates any provisions of Idaho Code section 39-2601 et seq. A permit
revocation proceeding shall comply with the provisions of chapter 52, title 67,
Idaho Code.
   H.   The applicant shall display the permit in public view at the location
listed on the permit. (Ord. Amd. 52, 6-9-1997)
5-3-3: AUTHORIZED DATES FOR SALE AND USE:
Nonaerial common fireworks may be sold at retail and used beginning at twelve
o'clock (12:00) midnight June 18, and ending at twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight
July 5, and beginning at twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight December 26, and
ending at twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight January 1. (Ord. Amd. 52, 6-9-1997)
5-3-4: PROHIBITIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person, except in compliance with this chapter,
to:
   A.   Deploy or use any fireworks or nonaerial common fireworks within five
hundred feet (500') of any nonirrigated lands.
   B.   Deploy or use any fireworks, except for nonaerial common fireworks,
within the unincorporated areas of Payette County.
   C.   Deploy or use fireworks or nonaerial common fireworks in any area that
constitutes a severe fire threat based on the vegetative conditions during the
current fire season as determined by the county commission or authority having
jurisdiction, provided that notice of such areas is given in advance. (Ord.
2006-8, 5-30-2006)
5-3-5: PENALTIES:
Any violation of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor punishable by up to a one
thousand dollar ($1,000.00) fine and six (6) months in the Payette County jail,
or both. In addition to, or in lieu of, any criminal charges, the county shall
be allowed to bring an action for abatement. In any such action the county
shall be allowed to recover all fees and costs. (Ord. 2006-8, 5-30-2006)
CHAPTER 4
PUBLIC ASSEMBLIES
SECTION:
5-4-1: Definitions
5-4-2: Permit Required
5-4-3: Permit Application; Fee
5-4-4: Application Approval
5-4-5: Cash Deposit Or Bond; Liability Insurance
5-4-6: Inspection
5-4-7: Location, Hours And Sound Levels Restricted
5-4-8: Alcoholic Beverages
5-4-9: Narcotic And Dangerous Drugs Prohibited
5-4-10: Crowd Limitations
5-4-11: Responsibility; Revocation Of Permit
5-4-12: Exclusion
5-4-13: Hardship
5-4-14: Compliance
5-4-15: Penalty
5-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this Section:
ASSEMBLY: All assemblies of the public gathered either indoors or outdoors.
HEALTH AUTHORITY: Southwest District Health or the Idaho Department of Health
and Welfare, or its successor.
SHERIFF: The Payette County Sheriff, his duly authorized deputies and
representatives. (Ord. 17, 7-26-1971; 1996 Code)
5-4-2: PERMIT REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person, landowner, or lessor to allow, promote,
conduct, permit or cause to be advertised, an assembly that said person,
landowner or lessor believes or has reason to believe will attract five hundred
(500) or more persons, whether or not a charge or contribution is required for
admission, unless a completed application, in compliance with this Chapter, has
been submitted to the County Clerk for the operation of said assembly. One such
permit shall be required for each assembly. Criminal or civil liability for
failure to comply with the provisions of this Chapter shall rest in all
persons, landowners or lessors who are responsible for obtaining permits under
this Section. (Ord. 17, 7-26-1971)
5-4-3: PERMIT APPLICATION; FEE:
   A.   Fee: No assembly shall be held in the County unless the person,
landowner or lessor sponsoring said entertainment assembly shall first obtain a
permit as hereinafter provided, and shall comply with all regulations herein
provided. The fee for said permit to cover the cost of inspecting facilities
and issuing and administering same prior to the event shall be:
Number Reasonably     Fee
Anticipated To Attend
Number Reasonably     Fee
Anticipated To Attend
500 to 999            $ 50.00
1,000 to 1,499        100.00
1,500 to 1,999        150.00
2,000 to 2,499        200.00
2,500 to 2,999        250.00
3,000 to 3,499        300.00
4,000 or more         350.00
 
   B.   Application:
      1.   Written Application: Written application for each entertainment
assembly permit shall be made to the County Clerk thirty (30) days or more
prior to the first day upon which such assembly is to be or may be held by
filing the same with the County Clerk and shall be signed by the person
organizing and sponsoring said assembly and verified upon oath. No person who
has not reached the age of twenty one (21) years shall be entitled to make
application for a permit or to sponsor an assembly. Each application shall
state the names of all persons organizing, promoting or sponsoring said
assembly; said application shall state the dates, the number of days and the
hours of the day of the assembly; it shall state the location to be utilized
for said assembly; and it shall state that the applicant or applicants will
abide by all rules and regulations of this Chapter and other regulations and
law for the protection of the health, morals and safety of the persons employed
therein, and for the patrons or participants thereof, and for the public. Each
application shall be accompanied by the fingerprints and a three inch by five
inch (3" x 5") photograph of each and every organizer, promoter and sponsor of
said assembly. Said fingerprints and photographs shall be taken by the Sheriff
at the request of the applicant.
      2.   Transfer Or Assignment: Any permit issued as herein provided shall
be kept posted in a conspicuous place upon the premises of said assembly. No
permit shall be transferable or assignable without the consent of the Board of
County Commissioners. In the event that an application for a permit shall be
withdrawn or denied, a rebate or refund of the deposited fee may be allowed by
the Board of County Commissioners. If a request for rebate or refund is made by
an applicant, any affected agency or department may show expenses incurred with
regard to the particular application for permit. The Board of County
Commissioners shall deduct such expenses from the deposited fee and rebate or
refund to the applicant the sum, if any, that may remain. (Ord. 17, 7-26-1971)
5-4-4: APPLICATION APPROVAL:
   A.   Affected Agencies Or Departments: Within five (5) days after the
application for said permit is made, the applicant shall submit a copy of the
application, together with other information as required by this Chapter, to
the appropriate affected agencies or departments as hereinafter enumerated. No
permit shall be issued unless the respective agency or department has approved
as to each condition.
   B.   Physical Facility; Submission Of Plans; Filing Of Approval: When any
type of physical facility is required or subject to approval hereunder,
preliminary approval may be granted based upon specific plans proposed and
submitted by the applicant. All such facilities shall be in existence five (5)
or more days before the event for which an application is submitted and shall
be subject to inspection by the approving agencies or departments. Should the
actual facility or construction fail to meet the standards approved in the
proposed plans, such preliminary approval shall be withdrawn and any and all
permits granted subject to such approval shall be withdrawn. Approval shall be
on forms provided and shall be filed with the County Clerk. (Ord. 17, 7-26-
1971)
   C.   Conditions For Approval:
      1.   Sanitary Facilities: The Health Authority shall have the
responsibility for approving all sanitation and related facilities to ensure
that reasonable minimum standards have been or will be met by the applicant. In
this regard, the application must provide the Health Authority with a sketch
and other detailed information showing the type, number and location or
proposed location of all toilets, washing facilities, water supply facilities,
food preparation and food service facilities. Approval by the Health Authority
shall indicate the number, type and location (when appropriate) of the toilet,
washing and water supply facilities. If food is to be served on the premises,
approval must be given as to the type of food preparation and food service
facilities to be provided. (Ord. 17, 7-26-1971; 1996 Code)
      2.   Fire Protection Standards:
         a.   Proper Approval Required: No permit shall be granted hereunder
unless the applicant has shown that the appropriate fire protection district
officer has approved fire protection devices and equipment available. Such
approval must extend to any building, tent, stadium or enclosure wherein or
whereupon more than ten (10) persons may be expected to congregate at any time
during the course of such assembly for which a permit is hereunder required,
and to potentially flammable material in the area, including but not limited to
trees, grass and brush. If site for which the permit is applied is located
outside a fire protection district, the applicant must show approval from the
Sheriff.
         b.   Motorized Racing Event: Approved minimum fire protection
equipment for any type of motorized racing event shall include three (3) five
(5) pound CO2 fire extinguishers. (Ord. 17, 7-26-1971)
      3.   Medical Services:
         a.   Health Authority Approval Required: The Health Authority shall
have responsibility for approving plans as to medical service required for the
assembly. Each assembly shall have as a minimum one ambulance and a first aid
station staffed by two (2) adult individuals trained in first aid techniques.
(Ord. 17, 7-26-1971; 1996 Code)
         b.   Motorized Racing Event: All motorized racing events must have an
ambulance with attendants present on standby at the start of all races and
during all races and time trials or the race or time trial must stop until the
ambulance and attendants are present.
      4.   Public Safety; Traffic Control And Crowd Protection: The applicant
must submit his plans for public safety at the assembly to the Sheriff for his
approval.
         a.   Personnel Required: Adequate traffic control and crowd protection
policing must have been contracted for or otherwise provided by the applicant.
There shall be provided one traffic- control person for each two hundred fifty
(250) persons expected or reasonably expected to be in attendance at any time
during the event.
         b.   Fitness Of Personnel: The applicant shall submit the names and
necessary background information on forms provided by the Sheriff for all
traffic control and crowd control personnel to be utilized during the assembly
for investigation by the Sheriff as to fitness. All such personnel must meet
the following minimum standards in order to be approved as suitable by the
Sheriff:
            (1)   Be twenty one (21) through sixty five (65) years of age.
            (2)   Be in good physical health.
            (3)   Never have been convicted of a felony or misdemeanor
involving moral turpitude.
            (4)   Either have received reasonable minimum training in law
enforcement or have on-the-job experience in law enforcement.
         c.   Identifying Uniform; Relief Schedule: All policing personnel must
wear an appropriate identifying uniform and must be on duty during the entire
assembly unless a relief schedule has been planned and approved. A relief
schedule will be approved by the Sheriff only when sufficient policing strength
on duty has been maintained to meet the abovedescribed minimum strength
standards.
         d.   Duties: It shall be the duty of policing personnel to report any
violations of the law to the Sheriff, his deputies, or representatives and to
take whatever action as can reasonably be expected of them to enforce the law.
      5.   Parking Facilities: The applicant shall provide the Sheriff with a
scale drawing showing adequate parking facilities have been made available
within or adjacent to the location for which the permit is requested. Such
parking facilities shall provide parking space for one vehicle for every four
(4) persons expected or reasonably to be expected to attend such event.
Adequate ingress and egress shall be provided from such parking area to
facilitate the movement of any vehicle at any time to or from the parking area;
provided, that should buses be used to transport the public to said event it
shall be shown that public parking or parking as described above is available
at any site within the County from which buses are scheduled to pick up persons
to transport them to said event. (Ord. 17, 7-26-1971)
5-4-5: CASH DEPOSIT OR BOND; LIABILITY INSURANCE:
   A.   Indemnification Limits:
      1.   Attendance Less Than Five Thousand: No permit shall be issued
hereunder unless the applicant has on deposit with the County Treasurer the sum
of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) cash or bond as an indemnity to save and
protect the streets, pavements, bridges, road signs and other property of the
County from any and all damages that may be caused by vehicles, employees, or
participants in such assembly and to be used, if necessary, to restore the
grounds where such assembly is held to a sanitary condition and pay all charges
and losses to the County for damages to the streets, bridges, and other
property.
      2.   Attendance Over Five Thousand: A twenty five thousand dollar
($25,000.00) bond shall be required if over five thousand (5,000) persons are
reasonably anticipated to attend the assembly.
   B.   Additional Services Required: Should the licensed event require police,
sanitary and/or fire protection services in excess of services customarily
supplied, such added expense shall be recoverable from the principal and its
surety out of the cash on deposit and/or the bond. The deposit or its balance
shall be returned when the Board of County Commissioners certifies to the
Treasurer that no damage has been done and that the County did not incur
additional expenses due to said licensed event or that the cost of the above
has been paid by the permittee.
   C.   Liability Insurance: In addition, the permit applicants shall be
required to furnish evidence of liability insurance providing for a minimum of
one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) bodily injury coverage per person;
three hundred thousand dollars ($300,000.00) bodily injury coverage per
occurrence and one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) property damage
coverage, naming the County as an additional insured. (Ord. 17, 7-26-1971)
5-4-6: INSPECTION:
No application shall be granted hereunder unless the applicant shall in writing
upon the application for such permit consent to allow law enforcement, public
health and fire control officers to come upon the premises for which the permit
has been granted for the purpose of inspection and enforcement of the terms and
conditions thereunder. (Ord. 17, 7-26-1971)
5-4-7: LOCATION, HOURS AND SOUND LEVELS RESTRICTED:
   A.   Location; Hours Of Operation: No assembly shall be conducted in the
unincorporated areas of the County within one thousand feet (1,000') of any
residence between the hours of one minute after twelve o'clock (12:01) midnight
and nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. and in all other areas between the hours of two
o'clock (2:00) A.M. and nine o'clock (9:00) A.M.
   B.   Sound Level: The use of amplified sound shall be regulated in such a
manner that it shall not interfere with normal usage of any school, church,
residence or other permanent place of human habitation unless prior written
consent is obtained from all affected persons. A sound level in excess of
seventy (70) decibels between nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. and ten o'clock (10:00)
P.M. and in excess of fifty (50) decibels between ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and
nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. (as measured upon the A scale of a standard sound
level meter on affected property) shall constitute interference. (Ord. 17, 7-
26-1971)
5-4-8: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES:
No person conducting an assembly, nor any person having charge or control
thereof at any time when an assembly is being conducted shall permit any person
to bring into said assembly or upon the premises thereof, any alcoholic
beverage, nor permit any alcoholic beverage to be consumed on the premises, and
no person during said time shall take or carry onto said premises or drink
thereon any alcoholic beverage. In accordance with Idaho statutes, this
provision shall not apply to the sale and consumption of alcoholic beverages
from a facility located on the premises of an assembly when licensed by the
State. (Ord. 17, 7-26-1971)
5-4-9: NARCOTIC AND DANGEROUS DRUGS PROHIBITED:
No person conducting an assembly, nor any person having charge or control
thereof at any time when an assembly is being conducted shall permit any person
to bring into said assembly, or upon the premises thereof, any "narcotic" or
"dangerous drug", as defined by Idaho statutes, nor permit narcotic or
dangerous drugs to be used on the premises. (Ord. 17, 7-26-1971)
5-4-10: CROWD LIMITATIONS:
   A.   If at any time during said assembly the size of the crowd exceeds ten
percent (10%) of the number of persons expected to be in attendance, the
Sheriff, or any of his deputies, shall require the permittee or sponsor to
limit further admissions until sanitation, parking, fire, health, traffic,
medical, and crowd control requirements have been brought into conformity with
standards herein.
   B.   All assemblies operating without a permit under the terms of this
Chapter due to the fact that less than five hundred (500) persons were
reasonably anticipated to attend shall limit attendance therein to four hundred
ninety nine (499) persons. (Ord. 17, 7-26-1971; 1996 Code)
5-4-11: OPERATOR RESPONSIBILITY; REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
The burden of preserving order shall be upon the operator of the assembly. Any
permit granted under this Chapter may be revoked at any time without notice or
formal hearing by the Board of County Commissioners an/or the County Sheriff
upon their finding that any police, sanitary or fire rule or regulation set
forth by this Chapter and/or State law has been violated. The revocation of any
permit granted under this Chapter shall not preclude the imposition of further
penalties as provided for in this Chapter and State law. (Ord. 17, 7-26-1971)
5-4-12: EXCLUSION:
This Chapter shall not apply to any regularly organized and supervised school
district activity or program that takes place on school property, nor to any
activity of a municipal corporation or government agency. A permit shall not be
required for nonrecurring assemblies of a duration not greater than one day if
the duration is no longer than eight (8) hours during said day. However, no
person shall conduct or permit an entertainment "assembly" as defined by this
Chapter unless notice in writing of the event is filed with the County Clerk at
least ten (10) days prior to the event. Such notice shall state the time,
place, nature of the event and the names of persons responsible. (Ord. 17, 7-
26-1971)
5-4-13: HARDSHIP:
Should the application of any provision or condition of this Chapter be
determined to be unduly harsh or prove to be an extreme hardship to any
applicant under the circumstances existing at the time an application is made
for a permit hereunder, the Board of County Commissioners may, in the exercise
of its discretion, waive any of the requirements of this Chapter as the same
may apply to said applicant taking into consideration the extreme hardship
which would be created if strict compliance with this Chapter were required.
(Ord. 17, 7-26-1971)
5-4-14: COMPLIANCE:
Compliance with the terms and conditions of this Chapter shall constitute
minimum health, sanitation and safety provisions, and failure to comply with
the terms and conditions of this Chapter and State law shall constitute a
public nuisance and shall be subject to all criminal, civil and equitable
remedies as such. (Ord. 17, 7-26-1971)
5-4-15: PENALTY:
Any person who shall violate or fail to comply with any provision of this
Chapter, or, who, having obtained a permit hereunder, wilfully fails to
continue to comply with the terms and conditions thereunder, or who shall
counsel, aid or abet such a violation or failure to comply shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. A failure from day to day to comply with this Chapter shall
be a separate offense for each such day. (Ord. 17, 7-26-1971; 1996 Code)
CHAPTER 5
DOGS
SECTION:
5-5-1: Definitions
5-5-2: License Requirements
5-5-3: License Tags
5-5-4: Police Authority
5-5-5: Offenses And Conditions
5-5-6: Harboring Of Dangerous Dogs
5-5-7: Guard Dogs Excepted
5-5-8: Keeping Guard Dogs
5-5-9: Insurance
5-5-10: Identification Photographs
5-5-11: Pit Bulls Prohibited (Rep. by Ord. 2017-1, 1-23-2017)
5-5-12: Responsibility
5-5-13: Action For Damages
5-5-14: Restrictions (Rep. by Ord. 2017-1, 1-23-2017)
5-5-15: Impoundment Procedures
5-5-16: Disposition Of Unclaimed Dogs
5-5-17: Owners To Pay Costs
5-5-18: Procedure For Declaring A Dog Dangerous
5-5-19: Penalties
5-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
CONFINED: Keeping an animal within an enclosure that cannot be readily or
easily opened by any person other than the owner or with the owner's assistance
or consent and from which an animal cannot escape.
   A.   A dangerous dog is "confined" as the term is used in this chapter if
such dog is securely confined indoors or confined in a securely enclosed and
locked pen or structure upon the premises of the person in possession of such
dog in a manner described in this chapter. At a minimum, such pen or structure
must have secure sides and a secure top. If the pen or structure has no bottom
secured to the sides, the sides must be embedded in the ground no less than two
feet (2') (0.6096 m). Said pen or structure shall be sufficiently secured with
redundant locking mechanisms to prevent unauthorized persons from releasing the
enclosed animal. Said pen shall also be sufficiently secure to keep the animal
from releasing itself. A list of approved building materials for such
structures will be maintained by the sheriff and made available upon request.
All such structures shall be constructed in such a manner, and of such
materials, as approved by the county building inspector and the sheriff or his
appointed representative. A certificate of inspection of the structures shall
be made a part of that dog's file at the Payette County sheriff's office.
   B.   A dangerous dog is "unconfined" as the term is used in this chapter if
such dog is not securely confined indoors or confined in a securely enclosed
and locked pen or structure upon the premises of the person in possession of
such dog as defined in this chapter. At a minimum, a pen or structure must have
secure sides and a secure top. If the pen or structure has no bottom secured to
the sides, the sides must be embedded in the ground no less than two feet (2')
(0.6096 m). Said pen or structure shall be sufficiently secure to keep
unauthorized persons from readily or easily releasing the enclosed animal. Said
pen shall also be sufficiently secure to keep the animal from releasing itself.
A list of approved building materials for such structures will be maintained by
the sheriff and made available upon request. All such structures shall be
constructed in such a manner, and of such materials, as approved by the county
building inspector and/or the sheriff or his appointed representative. A
certificate of inspection of the structures shall be made a part of that dog's
file at the Payette County sheriff's office.
DANGEROUS DOG: A. Any of the following, only one of which is required to
declare a dog dangerous:
   1.   Any dog that makes an unprovoked attack that causes bodily injury to a
human being and the attack occurs off the owner's premises. "Bodily injury"
means lacerations, broken bones, punctures of the skin, or any physical injury
resulting in death;
   2.    A dog that has bitten, attacked, approached in a dangerous, vicious,
or terrorizing manner or otherwise endangered livestock without provocation and
the event occurs off the owner's premises;
   3.   A dog that, without intentional provocation, has chased or approached a
person on the streets, sidewalks, or any public place in a menacing, vicious,
or terrorizing manner or with an apparent attitude of attack, whether or not
the attack is consummated or is capable of being consummated;
   4.   A dog that bites or attacks and causes serious injury or death to
another dog while the other dog is on the owner's property or under the dog
owner's control;
   5.   Any dog, which on private property, when unprovoked, in a vicious or
terrifying manner approaches in an apparent attitude of attack, or bites, or
inflicts injury, or otherwise attacks a mailman, meter reader, serviceman,
delivery man, or other person who is on the dog owner's property with
permission;
   6.   Any dog which, whether on public or private property, in a vicious or
terrifying manner approaches in an apparent attitude of attack, or bites, or
inflicts injury, or otherwise attacks the sheriff, a deputy sheriff, police
officer, ordinance or animal control officer or agent, or other county employee
in the performance of their duties; or
   7.   Any dog, which is bred, trained, owned, possessed, or kept for the
purpose of dogfighting.
   B.   The term "dangerous dog" shall not apply to the following:
   1.    Any dog used by the sheriff or police for law enforcement purposes.
   2.   Any dog on the owner's premises causing injury to a person committing a
trespass or other tort, or causing injury to a person committing or attempting
to commit a crime at the time of the injury, or causing injury to one who is
teasing, tormenting or assaulting the dog in a manner that an ordinary and
reasonable person would conclude was intentionally antagonizing the dog.
GUARD DOG: Any dog trained or used to protect persons or property by attacking
or threatening to attack any person found within the area patrolled by the dog
and that is either securely enclosed within that area at all times or under the
continuous control of a trained handler.
ORDINANCE OFFICER: That person employed or assigned by the Payette County
sheriff's office who has as their primary responsibility the enforcement of all
county ordinances including all animal control ordinances.
OWNER: Any person who owns, possesses, keeps, exercises control over,
maintains, harbors, feeds, waters, transports, or sells a dog or one who
assists another in possession, sale, transport, harboring, feeding, watering or
maintenance thereof. An owner need not have any pecuniary, proprietary or
economic interest in a dog.
SECURE TEMPORARY ENCLOSURE: A secure enclosure used for purposes of
transporting a dog and which includes a top and bottom permanently attached to
the sides except for a door for removal of the animal. Such enclosure shall be
of such material and of such construction that when the door is closed the dog
cannot exit the enclosure on its own. (Ord. 2017-1, 1-23-2017)
5-5-2: LICENSE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   License Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to own or keep a
dangerous dog within Payette County prior to the issuance of a county of
Payette dog license. No license shall be issued to the owner of any dangerous
dog prior to complete compliance with all sections of this chapter. Compliance
with this chapter shall be verified by the sheriff, or his designee.
   B.   Dangerous Dog Annual License Fees:
      1.   The Payette County clerk, or a designee, is hereby authorized to
issue a license to any person who presents a completed dangerous dog license
application along with veterinary certification of rabies vaccination,
compliance with all requirements of this chapter, and upon payment of one
hundred dollars ($100.00) per head for each dangerous dog. A list of specific
dogs, which have been declared or adjudicated as dangerous, will be maintained
by the Payette County sheriff and such list will be provided to the Payette
County clerk's office. Owners presenting veterinary certification that the
dangerous dog has been spayed or neutered will pay seventy five dollars
($75.00) per head. All licenses issued will be valid from the date of issue and
will expire on December 31 of each year.
      2.   The owner of a dangerous dog shall keep the current license for such
dangerous dog through annual renewal. Such license is not transferable and
shall be renewable only by the holder of the license or by a member of the
immediate family of such licensee. A special license tag of such color and
design that will allow clear and easy visual identification of the animal as a
dangerous dog will be issued to the owner at the time the dangerous dog license
is issued. This tag shall be worn at all times by the dog.
   C.   Due Date: Such license fees shall be due and payable on January 1 of
each year, except as hereinafter provided.
   D.   Penalty And Exceptions: If any license fee is not paid on or before
January 31 of each year, the Payette County clerk shall collect a penalty in
addition to said license fee in the sum of ten dollars ($10.00); provided,
however, that any dog born subsequent to January 31 of any year shall be
licensed by the payment of the appropriate license fee, without penalty, within
four (4) months after its birth, and thereafter the penalty shall be added as
hereinbefore set forth, and any dog brought into the county subsequent to
January 31 of any year shall be licensed by the payment of the appropriate
license fee, without penalty, within thirty (30) days after being brought into
the county, and thereafter the penalty shall be added as hereinbefore set
forth. (Ord. 2017-1, 1-23-2017)
5-5-3: LICENSE TAGS:
   A.   Tag To Be Worn: Every owner shall be required to provide each dangerous
dog a collar or harness to which the license tag must be securely affixed, and
shall ensure that the collar and the tag are constantly worn. Show dogs, during
showing, are exempted from wearing the collar and tag.
   B.   Lost Tag: Replacement dangerous dog license tags shall be issued by the
county clerk upon certification that the original tag was lost or destroyed and
upon payment of ten dollars ($10.00) for each such replaced tag.
   C.   Unlawful To Remove: No person shall remove or cause to be removed the
collar or tag from any licensed dog without consent of the owner, keeper or
harborer thereof. (Ord. 2017-1, 1-23-2017)
5-5-4: POLICE AUTHORITY:
   A.   Fresh Pursuit: In the enforcement of any provision of this chapter, any
sheriff, sheriff's deputy, peace officer, police officer, ordinance officer or
other public officer, is authorized to enter the premises of any person to take
possession of licensed or unlicensed roaming, fierce, or dangerous dogs when in
pursuit of any such dog at the time the dog goes onto private property.
   B.   Exhibit License: It shall be unlawful for any owner or person keeping
or harboring a dog for which a license is required by this chapter to fail or
refuse to exhibit the license or tag upon demand by a sheriff, sheriff's
deputy, police officer, ordinance officer, or other designated county official.
   C.   Interference With Police: Any person who shall molest, interrupt,
hinder or prevent the sheriff, or any peace officer, ordinance officer, or
other public officer, in the discharge of his duty herein prescribed, shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor.
   D.   Authority To Enter Premises: In the enforcement of any provision of
this chapter, any sheriff, deputy sheriff, ordinance officer, or other public
officer, is authorized to enter the premises of any person to take possession
of any unlicensed or licensed, roaming, or dangerous dogs, whether or not in
pursuit of any such dog, if the dog is in plain view of the officer from a
public area. (Ord. 2017-1, 1-23-2017)
5-5-5: OFFENSES AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Running At Large Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any "owner" as
defined in section 5-5-1 of this chapter, to permit a dog to be, remain, or run
at large, off or away from the premises of the owner, possessor, or keeper
thereof, unless: 1) upon the private premises of another with the consent of
the person in possession of such premises; or 2) such dog be under the direct
and immediate care and control of a person and controlled by a leash not
exceeding fifteen feet (15') in length; or 3) such dog(s) trained for hunting
and are being legitimately operated while off leash on private or public lands
as hunting dogs and such dogs are under the supervision of a licensed hunter
(so long as such dogs have not been declared dangerous dogs); or 4) such dogs
be safely confined in a motor vehicle. No dog shall be left inside a vehicle
when the temperature and/or humidity are high or when temperatures are near or
below freezing. Dogs secured in the bed of a pickup or cargo area of any truck
must be secured in such a manner as to prevent any part of their body from
extending past the edge of the platform or bed, to the extent the pickup or
truck is parked in parking area open to the public.
   B.   Impoundment: Any dog found running at large may be immediately seized,
captured or taken up and impounded and such dog may be so taken without the
necessity of filing a complaint. Such dog shall be impounded and disposed of in
accordance with provisions in this chapter.
   C.   Disturbances: It shall be unlawful for any "owner" as defined in this
chapter, to keep any dog within the county limits which by loud, continuous,
frequent, or habitual barking, howling, whining, or yelping, annoys or disturbs
any neighborhood or person. Any dog, which has persistently created the noises
referred to in this subsection, as demonstrated by two (2) or more convictions
of the owner thereof for violating this subsection, is declared to be a public
nuisance and may be impounded.
   D.   Sanitary Conditions: Every person who shall keep, maintain or harbor a
dog shall maintain his premises, including, but not limited to, dog pens or
runs, in a clean and sanitary condition so that they shall not be offensive, a
harborage for vermin, or a health hazard.
   E.   Inspection: Whenever any person applies for and is granted a license to
maintain a dangerous dog, the application is permission from the applicant for
the sheriff, or his designee, to make whatever inquiry is deemed necessary,
including, but not limited to, entry onto the applicant's property to ensure
ongoing compliance with all provisions of this chapter. Any entry shall be
limited to the purpose of compliance inspections of the licensed premises and
the licensed animal, and will be made in the presence of the owner whenever
practical. (Ord. 2017-1, 1-23-2017)
5-5-6: HARBORING OF DANGEROUS DOGS:
   A.   Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or harbor a
fierce or dangerous animal or dog without first complying with the terms of
this chapter. It shall be an affirmative defense to charges under this section
if the actual or intended victim of any attack has made an unlawful entry into
the dwelling of the owner.
   B.   Dangerous Dog Unconfined: No "owner", as defined in this chapter, of a
dangerous dog shall suffer or permit such animal to go unconfined on the
premises of such person.
   C.   Dangerous Dog Leashed And Muzzled: No "owner", as defined in this
chapter, shall suffer or permit such dog to go beyond the premises of such
person unless such dog is securely leashed and muzzled. When on leash, the
leash shall consist of a short high tensile strength material with a maximum
length of three feet (3') (0.9144 m). A dangerous dog shall not be required to
be muzzled when shown either in a sanctioned American Kennel Club or United
Kennel Club show. (Ord. 2017-1, 1-23-2017)
5-5-7: GUARD DOGS EXCEPTED:
Dogs maintained as guard dogs, as defined in section 5-5-1 of this chapter and
in compliance with this chapter shall not be included under this. (Ord. 2017-1,
1-23-2017)
5-5-8: KEEPING GUARD DOGS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to place or maintain guard dogs in any area
for the protection of persons or property unless the following provisions are
met:
   A.   The dogs shall be confined to an enclosed area adequate to ensure they
will not escape; or
   B.   They shall be under the absolute control of a handler at all times when
not securely enclosed; and
   C.   In either instance of subsection A or B of this section, the owner or
other persons in control of the premises upon which a guard dog is maintained
shall post warning signs on, over or next to all exterior doors stating that
such dog is on the premises. At least one such sign shall be posted at each
driveway or entranceway to said premises. Such signs shall be in lettering
clearly visible from either the curb line or a distance of fifty feet (50'),
whichever is less, and shall contain a telephone number where some person
responsible for controlling such guard dog can be reached twenty four (24)
hours a day; and
   D.   Prior to the placing of a guard dog on any property, the person or
persons responsible for the placing shall inform the sheriff, ordinance
officer, the fire department and any utilities who have personnel that come
upon premises or any business that is invited to come or send employees upon
the premises, in writing, of their intention to post said dog or dogs, the
number of dogs to be posted, the location where said dog or dogs will be
posted, the approximate length of time said dog or dogs will be guarding the
area, the daily hours said dog or dogs will be guarding the area, the breed,
sex, age and rabies tag number of said dog or dogs. Such notice must be renewed
every six (6) months. (Ord. 2017-1, 1-23-2017)
5-5-9: INSURANCE:
All owners of dangerous dogs as defined in this chapter shall, within ten (10)
days of the effective date of this section, provide proof to the Payette County
clerk of public liability insurance in a single incident amount of no less than
one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) for bodily injury to or death of any person
or persons or for damage to property owned by any persons which may result from
the ownership, keeping or maintenance of such animal. This policy shall include
the county of Payette as an additional named insured, with minimum limits of
coverage of one million dollars ($1,000,000.00), and shall have the effect of
saving harmless and defending the county of Payette and its officers, agents
and employees from all suits, claims, demands or actions at law or in equity
arising directly or indirectly as the result of injury to persons or damage to
property occasioned by the maintenance of the dangerous dog by the owner. The
policy shall contain a provision requiring the insurance company to provide
written notice to the sheriff not less than fifteen (15) days prior to any
cancellation, termination, or expiration of the policy. (Ord. 2017-1, 1-23-
2017)
5-5-10: IDENTIFICATION PHOTOGRAPHS:
All owners, keepers or harborers of dangerous dogs must within ten (10) days of
the effective date of this section provide to the county clerk two (2) color
photographs of the registered animal clearly showing the color and approximate
size of the animal. (Ord. 2017-1, 1-23-2017)
5-5-11: PIT BULLS PROHIBITED:
(Rep. by Ord. 2017-1, 1-23-2017)
5-5-12: RESPONSIBILITY:
Owners of dogs shall be liable for any damage done by their dogs to any person,
domestic animal, livestock, or property, or for any costs incident to taking up
and keeping their dog. Additionally, the owners of any dog which shall bite any
person while such person is on or in a private place, including the property of
the owner, shall be liable for such damages as may be suffered by persons
bitten, regardless of the former dangerousness of such dog or the owner's
knowledge of such dangerousness.
A person is lawfully upon private property of such owner within the meaning of
this chapter when he or she is on such property in the performance of any duty
imposed upon him by the laws of this state or by the laws of postal regulations
of the United States, or when he or she is on such property upon invitation,
expressed or implied, of the owner thereof; or when he or she is on such
property in the performance of a duty relative to public safety, which shall
include policemen, firemen, or other authorized members of boards or agencies
of county government; provided, however, no owner of any dog shall be liable
for any damages to any person or his property when such person shall
mischievously or carelessly provoke or aggravate the dog inflicting such
damage. (Ord. 2017-1, 1-23-2017)
5-5-13: ACTION FOR DAMAGES:
If any dangerous animal shall, when unprovoked, kill or wound, or assist in
killing or wounding any sheep, goat, lamb, cattle, horse, hog, swine, fowl, or
other domestic animal, belonging to or in the possession of any person, or
shall, when unprovoked, attack, assault, bite or otherwise injure any human
being or assist in attacking, assaulting, biting or otherwise injuring any
human being while out of or within the enclosure of the owner or keeper of such
dangerous animal, or while otherwise, on or off the property of the owner
whether or not such dangerous animal was on a leash and securely muzzled or
whether the dangerous animal escaped without fault of the owner or keeper, the
owner or keeper of such animal shall be liable to the person aggrieved as
aforesaid, for all damage sustained, to be recovered in a civil action, with
costs of suit. It is rebuttably presumed as a matter of law that the owning,
keeping or harboring of a dangerous animal in violation of this chapter is a
nuisance. It shall not be necessary, in order to sustain any such action, to
prove that the owner of such dangerous animal knew that such dangerous animal
possessed the propensity to cause such damage or that the dangerous animal had
a dangerous nature. Upon such attack or assault, the sheriff or his designee is
hereby empowered to confiscate and destroy such dangerous animal, if the
conduct of such dangerous animal or its owner constituted a violation of the
provisions of this chapter, punishable by the confiscation and destruction of
the animal. (Ord. 2017-1, 1-23-2017)
5-5-14: RESTRICTIONS:
(Rep. by Ord. 2017-1, 1-23-2017)
5-5-15: IMPOUNDMENT PROCEDURES:
   A.   Impounding: The sheriff, his designee, or other animal control officer
having probable cause to believe that any person has violated any provision of
this chapter for which an animal may be impounded including, but not limited
to, a determination that a dog is dangerous, may impound such an animal;
provided, however, that if any dog so found at large or determined to be
dangerous that cannot be safely taken up and impounded, such dog may be
destroyed forthwith if the officer determines that the dog poses a threat to
public safety. If a dog is found to be in need of shelter or care when an owner
is arrested or detained, the dog shall be impounded. Any action taken by a
sheriff, sheriff's deputy, police officer, ordinance officer or other
designated county employee, in the performance of his duties, that requires the
death, injury or destruction of a dangerous dog or dangerous dog found running
at large, shall not be considered to be cruel or inhumane treatment of the
animal.
   B.   Biting Dogs Or Dogs With Rabies: Any dog which bites any person and
causes a break in the skin of that person, regardless if the bite is provoked
or unprovoked, or is suspected of having rabies, shall be seized and impounded
for a period of ten (10) days as required by state law. The sheriff and health
department shall be so notified and the animal disposed of only under their
direction. A complete registry shall be kept of every dog so impounded,
entering the breed, color and sex of such dog, whether licensed, and time and
place of taking. If licensed, the name and address of the owner and the number
of the license tag shall be entered.
   C.   Impoundment Fees:
      1.   Any person who owns, possesses, keeps, is in charge of the care of
or who is responsible for a dog, shall be liable for all impound and quarantine
fees provided for in this chapter. The impound or quarantine fees for any dog
which is impounded for running at large, for biting, for being suspected of
being infected with rabies, or for any other reason shall be as follows: for
the first occurrence of impounding or quarantining a dog, the responsible party
thereof shall pay to the county a fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) for the taking
up of such animal; for the second occurrence of impounding or quarantining a
dog, the responsible party thereof shall pay to the county a fee of seventy
five dollars ($75.00) for the taking up of such animal; for the third or any
subsequent occurrence of impounding or quarantining a dog, the responsible
party thereof shall pay the county a fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00) for
the taking up of such animal for each such occurrence. Said fees shall be paid
to the sheriff's office and are in addition to any fines or restitution ordered
by the court. In addition to the fees set forth above, in the event a dog is
impounded or quarantined for biting or being suspected of having rabies, a fee
of ten dollars ($10.00) per day shall be paid for each day the dog is in the
possession of the county.
   D.   Care Of Impounded Animals: Any animal impounded under the provisions of
this chapter shall be provided with proper care, food and water while so
confined.
   E.   Additional Fees For Care: All dogs impounded and held for more than
three (3) days as required by state law, or this chapter, will require the
owner to pay a ten dollar ($10.00) fee per day for each twenty four (24) hour
period, or portion thereof, that the dog is impounded. (Ord. 2017-1, 1-23-2017)
5-5-16: DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED DOGS:
All dogs impounded shall be kept for a maximum period of three (3) days. If
possession of any dog is not recovered as above set forth, the dog may be
disposed of by delivery to any person who will pay the license fee and costs
herein provided, by delivery to a third party humane shelter, or the dog may be
destroyed in a humane manner. (Ord. 2017-1, 1-23-2017)
5-5-17: OWNERS TO PAY COSTS:
The owner or representative of the owner of any dog which may be taken up and
impounded under the provisions of this chapter, may recover possession of such
dog upon payment to the county the impoundment fees, and other costs herein
provided together with payment to the appropriate animal shelter, if any,
unless such dog is of a prohibited class of dog or subject to a court order to
the contrary. (Ord. 2017-1, 1-23-2017)
5-5-18: PROCEDURE FOR DECLARING A DOG DANGEROUS:
   A.   Declaration Of Dangerous: The animal control officer or sheriff, or his
designee may find and declare a dog dangerous if he has probable cause to
believe the animal falls within the definition as set forth in this chapter.
The finding shall be based upon:
      1.   A written complaint of a citizen who is willing to testify that the
animal has acted in a manner which causes such animal to fall within the
definition of a "dangerous dog"; or
      2.   Actions of the dog witnessed by any law enforcement officer; or
      3.   Other substantial evidence admissible in court under the Idaho rules
of evidence.
   B.   Exceptions:
      1.   No dog may be declared to be a dangerous dog when at the time of the
dangerous behavior, the precipitating cause constituted justified provocation.
Justified provocation includes, but is not limited to, the following:
         a.   The dog was protecting or defending a person within the immediate
vicinity of the dog from an attack or assault;
         b.   The person was committing a crime or offense upon the property of
the owner or custodian of the dog;
         c.   The person was at the time, or had in the past, wilfully
tormented, abused or assaulted the dog;
         d.   The dog was responding to pain or injury or protecting its
offspring;
         e.   The dog was working as a hunting dog, herding dog or predator
control dog on the property of, or under the control of, its owner or keeper,
and the damage or injury sustained was to a person who was interfering with the
dog while the dog was working in a place where it was lawfully engaged in such
activity, including public lands;
         f.   The dog was a service animal individually trained to do work or
perform tasks for a person with a disability; or
         g.   The person was intervening between two (2) or more animals
engaged in aggressive behavior or fighting.
      2.   The burden of proof on establishing that the dog falls into one of
the exceptions described in subsection B1 of this section is on the owner/
possessor of the dog.
   C.   Determination: At the conclusion of the investigation, the sheriff may:
      1.   Determine that the dog is not dangerous and, if the dog is
impounded, may waive any impoundment fees incurred and, afterward, release the
dog to its owner; or
      2.   Determine that the dog is dangerous and order the owner to comply
with all requirements of this chapter for keeping a dangerous dog, and if the
dog is impounded, release the dog to its owner only after the owner has paid
all fees incurred for the impoundment and licensing of the dog. Fees must be
paid within ten (10) days after final determination that the dog is dangerous
or the sheriff may cause the dog to be humanely destroyed; or
      3.   Determine that the dog is dangerous and order the destruction of the
dog pursuant to this chapter.
   D.   Notification Of Dangerous Dog Declaration: Within five (5) business
days after declaring a dog dangerous, the sheriff or his designee shall serve
written notice on the owner or possessor of the dog of its designation as a
dangerous dog in one of the following methods:
      1.   Certified mail to the owner's or possessor's last known address, if
known; or
      2.   Personally served to the owner or to another person eighteen (18)
years of age or older and mentally competent residing at the owner or
possessor's residence; or
      3.   Posting a notice at the owner or possessor's last known address.
   E.   Owner Not Found: If the sheriff cannot, with due diligence, locate the
owner of a dog that has been declared dangerous, or if the owner of such dog
shall fail or refuse to accept service of the required notice, the sheriff
shall cause the dog to be impounded for not less than ten (10) business days.
If, after ten (10) business days, the owner fails to claim the dog or accept
service of the required notice, the sheriff may cause the dog to be humanely
destroyed.
   F.   Contents Of Declaration: The declaration shall state at least:
      1.   A description of the dog.
      2.   The name and address of the owner or possessor of the dog, if known.
      3.   The whereabouts of the dog, if known, if such dog is not in the
custody of the owner.
      4.   A summary of the facts upon which the declaration that the dog is
dangerous is based.
      5.   The availability of a hearing before the board of county
commissioners in case the person objects to the declaration if a request is
made within five (5) calendar days; that the owner can be represented by an
attorney at all stages of the hearing; and that the owner can appeal an adverse
decision by the board of county commissioners to the district court in
accordance with this section.
      6.   The restrictions and conditions placed on the animal as a result of
the declaration that the dog is a dangerous dog and the date upon which the
owner shall be required to have complied with such restrictions.
      7.   With regard to a declaration of a dangerous dog that is determined
to be a threat to public safety, an order for euthanasia of the dog within five
(5) days unless an appeal is filed in the interim.
      8.   The penalties for violation of the restrictions, including the
possibility of destruction of the animal, and imprisonment or fining of the
owner.
   G.   Objection By Owner; Hearing Before The Board Of County Commissioners:
If the owner of the animal wishes to object to the declaration of a dangerous
dog by the sheriff:
      1.   The owner may, within five (5) days of receipt of the declaration,
request a hearing before the board of county commissioners by submitting a
written request to the sheriff.
      2.   Any facts which the petitioner wishes to be considered may be
submitted either in writing or orally at the hearing. The person seeking to
have the dog declared potentially dangerous or dangerous bears the burden of
persuasion by a preponderance of the evidence. The formal rules of evidence
shall not be applied but both parties shall have the right to present
testimony, ask questions, be represented at their own expense and appeal an
adverse ruling. After the hearing, the board of county commissioners shall make
a final determination whether the dog is or is not a "dangerous dog", as
defined in this chapter.
      3.   At the conclusion of a hearing conducted under this section, that
decision shall be final unless the dog owner applies to a court of competent
jurisdiction for any remedies that may be available.
   H.   Appeal: The owner of the animal has the right to appeal the board of
county commissioners' determination that a dog is dangerous.
      1.   The owner may, within five (5) days of receipt of the board of
county commissioners' written finding, request a hearing before the district
court by submitting a written request to the clerk of the court.
      2.   If the court finds that there is insufficient evidence to support
the declaration, it shall be rescinded and the restrictions imposed thereby
annulled, and the animal, if impounded, shall be released into the owner's
custody without payment of the impound fees.
      3.   If the court finds sufficient evidence to support the declaration,
it may impose court costs on the appellant, and may impose additional
restrictions or penalties on the animal or owner as provided herein.
      4.   In the event the court finds that the animal is not a dangerous dog,
no court costs shall be assessed against the county or the animal control
agency or officer.
      5.   Following service of a declaration of dangerous dog, the sheriff, if
circumstances require as a matter of public safety, shall impound the animal at
the owner's expense, pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, until a court
orders either its redemption or destruction.
   I.   Consequences Of A Dangerous Dog:
      1.   If the sheriff, his designee, or animal control officer determines
that a dog is a dangerous dog, or affirmed after appeal, the owner shall comply
with the requirements within this chapter.
      2.   If the sheriff, his designee, or animal control officer has probable
cause to believe a dog is a dangerous dog and may pose an immediate threat to
public safety, he may impound the dog pending final disposition of the case.
      3.   If a dangerous dog has been impounded and determined to pose a
threat to public safety, the sheriff may only return the dog to its owner if
the owner has:
         a.   Met the license requirements of section
5-5-2 of this chapter and, where applicable, agreed to comply with the
aforementioned requirements;
         b.   Met or agreed to comply with any additional security or care
requirements established by the sheriff, board of county commissioners, or
court.
      4.   The sheriff may humanely destroy a dog if:
         a.   The dog has been determined to be a threat to public safety if it
is returned to the owner;
         b.   The owner fails to comply with the registration requirements of
section
5-5-2 of this chapter; the requirements of section
5-5-3 of this chapter; or any special requirements imposed by the sheriff,
board of county commissioners, or court of law;
         c.   The owner fails to reimburse the county/animal control agency for
the costs and expenses of the dog's impoundment; or
         d.   The owner forfeits the dog for humane destruction. (Ord. 2017-1,
1-23-2017)
5-5-19: PENALTIES:
   A.   Except as provided herein, any person who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to
penalty as provided in this code for each offense.
   B.   A first offense conviction of allowing a dog to run at large in
violation of subsection
5-5-5A of this chapter or a first offense of harboring a barking dog in
violation of subsection
5-5-5C of this chapter, shall be deemed an infraction. A second or subsequent
offense of allowing a dog to run at large in violation of subsection
5-5-5A of this chapter or a second or subsequent offense of harboring a barking
dog in violation of subsection
5-5-5C of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor and subject to penalty as
provided in this code for each offense.
   C.   In addition to what is expressed herein, any dog which attacks a human
being, any domestic animal, or any livestock, may be ordered destroyed when, in
the court's judgment, such dog represents a continuing threat of harm to human
beings, domestic animals, or livestock. In addition, after a hearing, the judge
may order any dog destroyed which habitually creates a nuisance to any
neighborhood or person. The conviction of an owner for a second or subsequent
offense of allowing a dog to bark or create noise which is a nuisance to the
neighborhood or another person, shall be sufficient to establish that a dog
habitually creates a nuisance.
   D.   Any person found guilty of violating this chapter shall pay all
expenses, including shelter, food, any veterinary expenses necessitated by the
seizure of the dog for the protection of the public, and such other expenses as
may be required for the care or destruction of any such dog. (Ord. 2017-1, 1-
23-2017)
CHAPTER 6
EXOTIC ANIMALS
SECTION:
5-6-1: Definitions
5-6-2: Prohibited Acts
5-6-3: Penalties
5-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
WILD OR EXOTIC ANIMAL: Any animal which is wild, fierce, dangerous, noxious or
naturally inclined to do harm. "Wild animals", however domesticated, shall also
include, but not be limited to:
   A.   Dog family (Canidae): All except domesticated dogs, including wolf,
fox, coyote, dingo, wolf hybrids, etc.
   B.   Cat family (Felidae): All except commonly accepted domestic cats,
including lions, pumas, panthers, mountain lions, leopards, jaguars, ocelots,
margays, tigers, wild cats, etc.
   C.   Bears (Ursidae): All bears, including grizzly bears, brown bears, black
bears, etc.
   D.   Weasels (Mustelidae): All, including weasels, martens, mink, wolverine,
ferrets, badgers, otters, ermine, mongoose, etc.
   E.   Raccoons (Procyonidae): All raccoons and civets.
   F.   Porcupine (Erethizontidae): All porcupines.
   G.   Skunks.
   H.   Snakes: All venomous and constricting snakes.
   I.   Venomous lizards.
   J.   Crocodillians: All alligators, caimans, crocodiles, gavials, etc.
   K.   Venomous fish and piranha.
   L.   Venomous invertebrates. (Ord. 2005-4, 5-16-2005)
5-6-2: PROHIBITED ACTS:
It shall be unlawful for any person, corporate or entity to harbor, keep,
maintain or possess within the county of Payette any wild or exotic animal,
except those persons who are expressly licensed or permitted in writing by the
Idaho department of fish and game to keep and/or rehabilitate any such animal
so long as that person or persons are in compliance with the terms of such a
license and the animal kept or rehabilitated is domestic to the state of Idaho.
(Ord. 2005-4, 5-16-2005)
5-6-3: PENALTIES:
A person, firm, corporation or entity violating any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof
shall be fined in an amount not exceeding three hundred dollars ($300.00) or be
imprisoned in the county jail for a period not exceeding six (6) months, or be
both so fined and imprisoned. (Ord. 2005-4, 5-16-2005)
CHAPTER 7
RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
SECTION:
5-7-1: Definitions
5-7-2: Residing In Recreational Vehicles Prohibited
5-7-3: Violation
5-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
"Recreational vehicle" means a motor home, travel trailer, truck camper or
camping trailer, with or without motive power, designed for human habitation
for recreational or emergency occupancy. School buses or van type vehicles
which are converted to recreational use are also defined as recreational
vehicles. (Ord. 2009-02, 4-13-2009)
5-7-2: RESIDING IN RECREATIONAL VEHICLES PROHIBITED:
For purposes of this chapter, a person shall be living, residing or staying in
a recreational vehicle if they use or occupy a recreational vehicle within
Payette County for thirty (30) or more days in any twelve (12) month period. No
person shall live, reside or stay in any recreational vehicle outside of a
licensed recreational vehicle park. (Ord. 2009-02, 4-13-2009)
5-7-3: VIOLATION:
Any violation of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor punishable by not more
than six (6) months in the Payette County jail or a fine of not more than one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or both. (Ord. 2009-02, 4-13-2009)
CHAPTER 8
TOW POLICY
SECTION:
5-8-1: Definitions
5-8-2: Driving Tow Truck To Scene Of Accident Prohibited Unless Called By
Dispatch
5-8-3: Soliciting Tow Business At Scene Of Law Enforcement Tow Prohibited
5-8-4: Response To Certain Private Calls For Towing Services Prohibited
5-8-5: Certain Remuneration Or Consideration Prohibited
5-8-6: Dispatch
5-8-7: Licensee Responsibilities
5-8-8: License Required; Expiration Date; Location
5-8-9: Eligibility And Requirements For Placement On Tow Rotation
5-8-10: License Application; Inspections; Issuance
5-8-11: Random Inspections; Violations; Suspensions; Revocations; Hearings
5-8-12: Tow Truck Specifications And Capabilities
5-8-13: Fees For Law Enforcement Towing
5-8-14: Requirements And Operating Procedures For Emergency Tow Companies
5-8-15: Use As Emergency Vehicle Prohibited
5-8-16: Penalties
5-8-17: Severability
5-8-18: When Effective
5-8-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms will have the following meanings:
ACCIDENT: Any occurrence in Payette County which results in a wrecked or
disabled vehicle, and which results in either the injury or death of any
person, or damage to property of any one person in excess of one thousand five
hundred dollars ($1,500.00), or both.
BUSINESS DAY: Monday through Friday excluding holidays declared by the Board of
Payette County Commissioners.
COMPANY OWNER: Any person who has an ownership interest in a business, meaning
a corporation; LLC; sole proprietor; partnership; or any other duly formed
organization under the laws of Idaho.
CONVICTION: Finding or plea of guilt, whether or not the sentence is imposed,
suspended, deferred, or withheld; and whether or not the case or charge is
dismissed under Idaho Code section 19-2604 or any comparable statute or
procedure.
DISABLED VEHICLE: A vehicle which has been abandoned or rendered unsafe to be
driven as the result of some occurrence other than an accident including, but
not limited to: a) mechanical failures or breakdowns; b) fire; c) vandalism; d)
a vehicle which is in a safe driving condition, but the owner is not present,
able or permitted to drive; or e) any other occurrence which reasonably
necessitates removal of the vehicle by a tow truck.
DISPATCH: The person or persons in the Payette County Sheriff's Office assigned
by the Sheriff to route law enforcement agency calls for tow truck service by
the use of tow truck rotation list.
EMERGENCY TOW COMPANY: A person to whom a law enforcement towing license has
been issued.
IMPOUND OFFICER: Any employee designated by the Payette County Sheriff to
handle law enforcement towing duties.
LAW ENFORCEMENT TOW: Provision of a tow truck to the owner of a wrecked or
disabled vehicle by dispatch when a law enforcement agency has become involved.
LICENSEE: A person licensed to engage in law enforcement towing as called to do
so from time to time by dispatch.
OWNER: A person who holds legal title to a vehicle, or who has legal right of
possession of a vehicle, or legal right of control of a vehicle.
PAYETTE COUNTY: That area which is within the jurisdiction of the Board of
Payette County Commissioners.
PERSON: An individual, assumed name entity, proprietorship, partnership, joint
venture, association, corporation, or other legal entity.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Items that are not affixed to the vehicle such as, but not
limited to: papers, cellphones, portable radios, clothes, luggage, tools, or
other items.
TOW TRUCK: A vehicle designed to be used primarily for removing wrecked or
disabled vehicles from any street.
TOW TRUCK ROTATION LIST: A list of qualified licensed tow companies maintained
by dispatch and which is used to determine the priority of the tow truck to be
dispatched to the scene of a law enforcement tow. Only those businesses which
have a tow truck and tow truck driver located within Payette County shall be on
the rotation list. The business must also conform to subsection 5-8-8B of this
chapter.
WRECKED VEHICLE: A vehicle that has been damaged as the result of overturning
or colliding with another vehicle or object so as to reasonably necessitate the
vehicle be removed by a tow truck. (Ord. 2018-3, 3-26-2018; amd. Ord. 2023-07,
5-22-2023)
5-8-2: DRIVING TOW TRUCK TO SCENE OF ACCIDENT PROHIBITED UNLESS CALLED BY
DISPATCH:
No person may knowingly drive a tow truck, licensed or unlicensed, to the scene
of any accident or incident in Payette County for the purpose of removing a
vehicle from the area unless the tow truck has been called to the scene by
dispatch. (Ord. 2018-3, 3-26-2018; amd. Ord. 2023-07, 5-22-2023)
5-8-3: SOLICITING TOW BUSINESS AT SCENE OF LAW ENFORCEMENT TOW PROHIBITED:
No person may solicit in any manner, directly or indirectly, at the scene of a
law enforcement tow in Payette County, the business of towing, removing,
repairing, wrecking, storing, trading, or purchasing a vehicle. (Ord. 2018-3,
3-26-2018)
5-8-4: RESPONSE TO CERTAIN PRIVATE CALLS FOR TOWING SERVICES PROHIBITED:
A tow truck shall not knowingly respond to a private request for towing service
within the County when an accident is involved. A tow truck may respond to a
private request for towing service to a disabled vehicle not involved in an
accident, or to a private request for other towing services not requiring the
involvement of a law enforcement agency; provided, however, if, upon arrival on
the scene, a licensee discovers an accident is involved, the licensee shall
immediately notify dispatch. (Ord. 2018-3, 3-26-2018)
5-8-5: CERTAIN REMUNERATION OR CONSIDERATION PROHIBITED:
Emergency tow companies are prohibited from soliciting or accepting any
remuneration or consideration of any type from any repair shop, garage or other
repair facility given for the purpose of influencing such emergency tow
company's decision as to where a disabled or wrecked vehicle should be taken
for repair. It shall be a rebuttable presumption that any such remuneration or
consideration was given for the purpose of influencing said decision. (Ord.
2018-3, 3-26-2018)
5-8-6: DISPATCH:
   A.   If a law enforcement officer determines a tow truck is needed at the
scene of a law enforcement tow for a wrecked or disabled vehicle, dispatch
shall call either the towing service, whether licensed or unlicensed, indicated
to the law enforcement officer by the express preference of the owner, or, if
the owner does not of his or her own initiative expressly request a particular
towing service, the next available emergency tow company on the tow truck
rotation list. Dispatch shall indicate to the emergency tow company the color,
year, make, body and general condition of the vehicle to be towed. Based on the
information provided, the tow company shall provide all necessary towing
equipment.
   B.   In order to be placed on the tow rotation the tow company must be able
to respond to a call from dispatch within thirty (30) minutes, or in a
reasonable time based upon road conditions and maintain a storage lot within
Payette County accessible within thirty (30) minutes from any portion of the
service area. (Ord. 2018-3, 3-26-2018; amd. Ord. 2023-07, 5-22-2023)
5-8-7: LICENSEE RESPONSIBILITIES:
   A.   Tow truck companies licensed to perform law enforcement towing are
responsible for wrecked and disabled vehicles and the contents therein, from
the time of on scene pick up until the vehicle is removed from licensee's
premises or is otherwise released from licensee's custody and control. Any
damage or loss to said vehicle or contents while in the custody and control of
licensee is the sole responsibility of licensee and Payette County assumes no
liability for any such loss or damage.
   B.   Turning Down A Call: If a tow truck turns down a call or is unable to
respond, it will be passed on its position on the rotation list. A tow service
may not refer its calls to another tow truck service.
   C.   Unavailability: If any tow company becomes unavailable for any reason,
the company may notify dispatch of the dates regarding their unavailability and
their rotation slots will be skipped during that time frame.
   D.   Indemnification: Each tow company on the rotation shall defend and
indemnify the county of Payette, and its officers, agents, employees, or other
individuals associated with the County of Payette for any claim against the
same arising out of a company's operation of a tow truck. (Ord. 2018-3, 3-26-
2018; amd. Ord. 2023-07, 5-22-2023)
5-8-8: LICENSE REQUIRED; EXPIRATION DATE; LOCATION:
   A.   No person may provide law enforcement towing inside the County without
first obtaining a law enforcement towing license. The license issued to an
emergency tow company authorizes the licensee and all its bona fide employees
to engage in dispatched law enforcement towing from the tow truck rotation
list. Only one license may be issued to each emergency tow company owner, and a
tow company owner can have no more than one tow company on the tow truck
rotation list at any point in time. Licensed tow companies may not subcontract
with other towing agencies, licensed or unlicensed, for the provision of law
enforcement towing services. Applications for law enforcement towing licenses
may be obtained at the Payette County Sheriff's Office beginning on May 1 of
each year, and all completed applications must be received by the Payette
County Sheriff no later than May 31 of each year. Incomplete applications will
not be accepted. Tow service inspections for the upcoming licensing year shall
be conducted by the Payette County Sheriff's Office during June of each year.
All such licenses shall expire on June 30 of the following calendar year. The
fee for said license shall be set by resolution of the Board of County
Commissioners.
   B.   Licensees shall maintain a permanent and established place of business
within Payette County, and shall promptly notify the Payette County Sheriff of
any change of address. (Ord. 2018-3, 3-26-2018; amd. Ord. 2023-07, 5-22-2023)
5-8-9: ELIGIBILITY AND REQUIREMENTS FOR PLACEMENT ON TOW ROTATION:
   A.   Tow truck companies must be established Idaho businesses, filed with
Idaho Secretary of State, or have a registered agent listed with the Idaho
Secretary of State.
   B.   The company name shall be prominently displayed on the driver's and
passenger's side doors and be permanently affixed to the vehicle.
   C.   Tow truck companies may not assign, contract, or utilize the services
of anyone to respond to a call or supervisor or safeguard items recovered under
this agreement who has been convicted of any offense:
      1.   That pertains to alteration or removal of a vehicle's identification
number, theft and/or injury to vehicles, unlawful possession of burglary tools,
petit theft, grand theft, robbery, arson, extortion, forgery, false
imprisonment, or burglary within the past ten (10) years.
      2.   Any offense, the elements of which include the infliction or threat
of bodily injury or death to a person or persons, including, but not limited
to, homicide, rape, assault, kidnapping, menacing or coercion within the past
ten (10) years.
      3.   Reckless driving or driving under the influence of any drug or
intoxicating liquor, regardless of whether the incident resulted in bodily
injury or death, hit and run, any drug use, possession or sale, and evading a
police officer within the preceding five (5) years.
      4.   Any crime, whether a felony or misdemeanor, that is a sex crime or
the elements of which would fall under Idaho's Sex Crime Statutes, including,
but not limited to, sexual assault, sexual harassment, sexual exploitation of a
minor, and child molestation. A sex crime includes, but is not limited to, any
offense for which an individual must register as a sex offender.
      5.   Any felony crime against property, including theft, or criminal
trespass, providing that such crime will be disqualifying only if: a) the
conviction occurred within the ten (10) years preceding the date of
determination, or b) the applicant or tow company agent/owner has any previous
conviction of such a crime.
   D.   No tow truck company can be placed on the rotation list if the Company
Owner of that towing company is also a Company Owner of another towing company
on the County's rotation list.
      1.   This includes a Company Owner that is a majority or minority owner.
      2.   This includes if the Company Owner is an executive of the towing
company previously placed on the rotation list.
      3.   This includes if the Company Owner's business is the parent company
of another towing company already on the rotation list.
      4.   This includes if the Company Owner's business is a subsidiary of
another towing company already on the rotation list.
   E.   Any person or tow service provider may seek a waiver of the
requirements outlined in subsection B C of this section by submitting a request
for waiver within fourteen (14) days of notification along with any evidence or
information the appealing party feels relevant to mitigate or refute the
disqualifier.
      1.   The inspection officer will review the information and make a
determination whether to grant or deny the requested waiver.
      2.   A denial may be appealed within fourteen (14) days from the denial
by the inspection officer to the Sheriff. A denial by the Sheriff will be
considered final. Failure to exhaust your administrative remedies will result
in a denial of your waiver.
   F.   Tow truck companies must submit the name, date of birth and social
security number of each driver for driver's status and criminal record checks.
(Ord. 2018-3, 3-26-2018; amd. Ord. 2023-07, 5-22-2023)
5-8-10: LICENSE APPLICATION; INSPECTIONS; ISSUANCE:
   A.   Contents Of Application: A person desiring to obtain a Payette County
law enforcement towing license shall lodge with the Payette County Sheriff a
written application upon a form provided for that purpose, which must be signed
by the applicant or his authorized agent. The following information shall be
required in the application:
      1.   Owner name, address to which all official correspondence may be
sent, telephone number and signature.
      2.   Company name, address and telephone number.
      3.   Number and types of tow trucks to be operated.
      4.   A statement as to whether or not the applicant wishes to participate
in the tow truck rotation list.
      5.   A copy of the applicant's public liability insurance policy.
      6.   A description of the applicant's impound yard and its location.
      7.   A copy of a valid driver's license of any person who may operate a
tow truck. This subsection places upon the licensee a continuing duty to
provide copies of valid driver's licenses.
   B.   Inspections: Upon the lodging of the application, the impound officer
shall direct the applicant to appear for an inspection of the tow truck(s) at a
time and place to be determined by the impound officer. The impound officer
shall conduct an inspection of the tow truck(s) and the business premises of
the applicant, as necessary, to determine if each tow truck and emergency tow
company complies with this chapter.
   C.   Action On Application: The impound officer may, at any time, in his or
her discretion, require additional information from an applicant to clarify
items on the application. Failure to cooperate with the impound officer's
request for additional information may result in the denial of a license. Upon
completion of the processing of the application, the impound officer shall
forward the application and the impound officer's recommendation to the Sheriff
for action thereon. The section shall not be deemed as placing any liability
upon Payette County or the Payette County Sheriff's Office. The County of
Payette shall have no liability under any theory of liability, for permitting
tow trucks to be operated on roads. Any person or company who operates a tow
truck is responsible for procuring liability insurance sufficient to cover any
foreseeable risk.
   D.   Issuance: The Sheriff shall, within thirty (30) days of receipt of an
application for a law enforcement towing license, either approve or deny said
application. The Sheriff shall issue a law enforcement towing license if the
Sheriff finds that the emergency tow company meets the requirements of this
chapter. The Sheriff shall refuse to issue or reissue a license if the Sheriff
finds that the emergency tow company does not meet the requirements of this
chapter. Upon issuance of a license, the tow company owner shall be provided
inspection stickers for each vehicle which passes the required inspection.
Annual inspection stickers must be displayed on the driver's side windshield of
each licensed tow truck. If at any time during the license year, an emergency
tow company violates the requirements of this chapter, the license may be
suspended or revoked in accordance with this chapter. (Ord. 2018-3, 3-26-2018)
5-8-11: RANDOM INSPECTIONS; VIOLATIONS; SUSPENSIONS; REVOCATIONS; HEARINGS:
   A.   Inspections: Any Payette County Sheriff's Deputy or the impound officer
is authorized to conduct random equipment and safety inspections of any tow
truck company licensed to conduct law enforcement tows.
   B.   Violations And Temporary Suspensions: The following violations shall
result in a written warning by the impound officer. Any repeat(s) of the same
violation shall result in an immediate temporary suspension from the tow truck
rotation list for a period not to exceed three (3) days. More than three (3)
repeats of the same violation shall result in the imposition of a license
revocation or suspension of more than three (3) days of licensee's law
enforcement tow license in accordance with subsection C of this section.
      1.   Failure to notify dispatch that tow company's on scene arrival time
will exceed thirty (30) minutes.
      2.   Failure to have the required equipment for each operating tow truck
and to have such equipment in good operating condition.
      3.   Use of magnetic striping/signage on tow trucks.
      4.   Listing more than one tow truck company on a tow truck.
      5.   Charging tow customers in excess of the tow rates established by the
Payette County Board of Commissioners for law enforcement tows.
      6.   Subcontracting law enforcement tows through other tow companies,
licensed or unlicensed.
      7.   Failing to comply with subsection
5-8-10  A.7. of this chapter.
      8.   Failure of any licensee or driver to obey a lawful order of a
Sheriff's Deputy or other police officer at the scene of an event wherein a tow
truck driver has been requested by Payette County Sheriff's Office or any other
police agency.
   C.   License Suspensions And Revocations: If the impound officer finds that
any of the following violations have been committed, the impound officer shall
issue an immediate twenty four (24) hour suspension of the licensee's law
enforcement tow license, and make a recommendation to the Sheriff or his
designee for revocation or suspension of said law enforcement tow license for
more than three (3) days:
      1.   Failure to respond to a dispatch request for a law enforcement tow
more than two (2) times in any calendar month.
      2.   Driving a tow truck to the scene of an accident without having been
requested to the scene by dispatch.
      3.   The solicitation of tow truck business by any licensee or employee
or agent of licensee at the scene of a law enforcement tow.
      4.   The failure to report an accident to dispatch for which a law
enforcement tow is required.
      5.   The solicitation or accepting of any remuneration or consideration
of any type by any licensee, employee or agent of a licensee, from any garage,
or repair shop or facility, for the purpose of influencing such licensee's
decision as to where a disabled or wrecked vehicle should be taken for repair.
      6.   Allowing the lapse or cancellation of the tow business insurance
required by this chapter.
      7.   Violation of any Federal, State or local law while conducting any
law enforcement tow.
      8.   Use of verbal abuse or physical force toward any citizen or officer
while conducting any law enforcement tow.
      9.   Failure to comply with section
5-8-9  of this chapter.
   D.   Notice Of Intent: Within five (5) days of the impound officer's
recommendation, if the Sheriff or his designee finds good cause that a
violation of subsection C of this section has occurred, the Sheriff shall issue
a notice of intent to suspend or revoke a law enforcement towing license. Said
notice shall provide a general description of the alleged violation(s) and the
date(s) of the alleged violations. Depending on the nature and extent of the
violation(s), the Sheriff, in his sole discretion, may permit licensee to
resume law enforcement towing pending any hearing on the matter.
   E.   Right To Hearing: A licensee shall have the right to a hearing prior to
the revocation or suspension of more than three (3) days of its law enforcement
towing license, in accordance with the procedures set forth in subsection F of
this section. If the licensee does not request a hearing, or does not follow
the procedures for requesting a hearing, said decision to suspend or revoke the
license shall be final, and shall be effective fifteen (15) days from the date
of the notice of intent. Any suspension shall be for a length of time as
determined by the Sheriff, and any revocation shall be for the remainder of the
current licensing year.
   F.   Hearing Procedures: A licensee may request a hearing before the Sheriff
or his designee prior to the suspension for more than three (3) days or
revocation of a law enforcement towing license, in accordance with the
procedures set forth in this section.
      1.   A licensee desiring such a hearing shall, within fifteen (15) days
of the date of the notice of intent to suspend or revoke a law enforcement
towing license, file a written request for hearing with the Payette County
Sheriff, together with a statement setting forth the factual basis and reasons
for licensee's appeal of the decision. A copy of the request for hearing shall
also be delivered to the impound officer.
      2.   The Sheriff or his designee shall conduct an informal public hearing
within thirty (30) days after a request for hearing has been filed. The
licensee and the Sheriff may be represented by an attorney. The licensee will
be afforded the opportunity to present evidence and testimony. The licensee
shall have no right to cross examine or confront witnesses, except in the
discretion of the Sheriff, nor shall the Idaho Rules of Evidence apply to such
hearings. In the Sheriff's discretion, the record of any such hearing may be
held open for a period of time, not to exceed seven (7) days, for the receipt
of additional evidence.
      3.   The Sheriff or his designee shall issue a written decision within
ten (10) days after the hearing. A copy of the decision shall be mailed or made
available to all interested parties. A record of said hearing and decision
shall remain in the custody of the Sheriff.
   G.   Removal from rotation: Once a law enforcement tow license has been
revoked, that company shall be removed from the rotation list. After a tow
company has been removed from the rotation list it is ineligible to participate
in the rotation list and must reapply during the next application period. (Ord.
2018-3, 3-26-2018; amd. Ord. 2023-07, 5-22-2023)
5-8-12: TOW TRUCK SPECIFICATIONS AND CAPABILITIES:
   A.   Compliance: Each emergency tow company shall comply with all safety
provisions, rules and regulations required to be observed by motor carriers,
and, in addition thereto, shall comply with the requirements of this chapter.
See the Payette County Sheriff's policy regarding tow truck specifications.
   B.   Equipment: Each tow truck shall be equipped with only those winches and
booms that have been produced and constructed by a manufacturer of such
equipment that regularly produces winches and tow equipment of guaranteed
quality and be used with the size tow truck for the class for which the
equipment is designed. All related equipment shall be commensurate with the
total rating of booms or other towing devices. (Ord. 2018-3, 3-26-2018)
5-8-13: FEES FOR LAW ENFORCEMENT TOWING:
Fees for services provided by licensed emergency tow companies pursuant to this
chapter shall be set by resolution of the Board of Payette County
Commissioners. (Ord. 2018-3, 3-26-2018)
5-8-14: REQUIREMENTS AND OPERATING PROCEDURES FOR EMERGENCY TOW COMPANIES:
Tow companies licensed to perform law enforcement tows must:
   A.   Maintain twenty-four (24) hour towing service, available seven (7) days
per week, with the dispatch of such service to be from base stations or an
answering service.
   B.   Not refuse to provide a law enforcement tow more than two (2) times in
any calendar month.
   C.   Arrive at the accident within a reasonable time after having been
notified to do so by dispatch. Such response time shall not exceed thirty (30)
minutes.
   D.   Maintain a tow truck and tow truck driver, at all times, within Payette
County.
   E.   Maintain its own separate locked, lighted and secured impound lot
bordered by a chain link, steel, or concrete fence not less than six feet (6')
in height; provided further that said lot shall be insured for fire, theft, and
vandalism of the vehicles stored therein and further, shall be open for
business not less than from nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. to five o'clock (5:00)
P.M. during business days. An agent of the emergency tow company must be on the
premises to conduct the business of the tow company during the above stated
days and hours.
   F.   The Payette County Sheriff's Office shall conduct an inventory of all
items contained in or on an impounded vehicle to be towed, on a form provided
by the Payette County Sheriff, the completion of said inventory form to be
witnessed and initialed by a tow company driver on the scene. All items
inventoried, which are not taken to Sheriff's property, shall remain in the
custody and control of the licensee until released to the owner. If any item(s)
is of an estimated value of one hundred dollars ($100.00) or more, and cannot
be secured in the vehicle, the property shall be taken to Sheriff's property
and a property invoice left in the vehicle or given to the vehicle owner, if
the owner is available, at the time the vehicle is impounded.
   G.   When authorized by the law enforcement agency, deliver, in every
instance, the wrecked or disabled vehicle to either a location of the owner's
choice or the tow company's impound lot. An itemized statement of charges shall
be provided to the vehicle owner upon request.
   H.   Report to the impound officer immediately all changes in tow trucks and
equipment used in the licensee's law enforcement towing service and make all
additional vehicles and equipment available for inspection by the impound
officer. A tow truck which has not been inspected by the impound officer is not
allowed to participate in the tow truck rotation list.
   I.   Before leaving the site of an accident, completely remove all resulting
wreckage or debris, including all broken glass.
   J.   Maintain two-way communications on a twenty-four (24) hour basis with
the company's tow trucks.
   K.   Meet the following insurance requirements:
      1.   At their sole expense, tow companies shall procure and maintain in
full force and effect, insurance written by an insurance company or companies
with Best's rating(s) of A VIII or better. All insurance companies must be
authorized to do business in the State of Idaho. By requiring insurance herein,
Payette County does not represent that coverage and/or limits are necessarily
adequate to protect the tow company and such coverage and/or limits shall not
be deemed as a limitation on the tow company's liability under the indemnities
granted to Payette County through this license.
      2.   Certificates of insurance evidencing the coverage required herein
shall be provided to Payette County prior to performing any towing services for
Payette County. All certificates must be signed by an authorized representative
of the tow company's insurance carrier and must state that the issuing company,
its agents, or representatives will provide Payette County thirty (30) days'
written notice prior to any policies being canceled. Renewal certificates must
be provided to Payette County within thirty (30) days after the effective date
of the renewal.
      3.   Certificates shall be mailed to:
         Payette County Sheriff's Office
         1130 3rd Avenue North, Room 101
         Payette, ID 83661
      4.   Certificates must evidence the following minimum coverage:
         a.   Workers' compensation insurance meeting the statutory
requirements of the State of Idaho.
         b.   Employers' liability insurance providing limits of liability in
the following amounts:
 
Bodily injury by accident $100,000.00 each accident
Bodily injury by disease  $500,000.00 policy limit
Bodily injury by disease  $100,000.00 each employee
 
      c.   Garage liability insurance providing limits of liability in the
following amounts:
 
Auto only, each accident            $1,000,000.00
Other than auto only, each accident $1,000,000.00
Other than auto only, aggregate     $3,000,000.00
 
   The garage liability policy shall be written on a standard ISO policy form,
or an equivalent form, providing coverage for liability arising from garage
operations including premises, operations, completed operations, personal
injury, advertising injury, and liability assumed under an insured contract
(including tort liability of another assumed in a contract). Auto coverage must
show symbols 27, 28, and 29 or a separate business automobile liability policy
also must be purchased.
   Alternatively, tow companies may produce a certificate of insurance
evidencing commercial general liability insurance providing limits of liability
in the following amounts:
 
General aggregate                         $2,000,000.00
Product/completed operations aggregate    $2,000,000.00
Personal and advertising injury liability $1,000,000.00
Per occurrence                            $1,000,000.00
Fire legal liability                      $50,000.00
 
   The commercial general liability ("CGL") insurance policy shall be written
on an "occurrence" form and shall cover liability arising from premises,
operations, independent contractors, products, completed operations, personal
injury, advertising injury, and liability assumed under an insured contract
(including tort liability of another assumed in a contract).
         d.   Business automobile liability insurance (required only if symbols
27, 28, and 29 are not shown for garage liability) providing bodily injury and
property damage liability coverage for not less than one million dollars
($1,000,000.00) each accident limit. Business automobile liability insurance
shall be written on a standard ISO policy form, or an equivalent form,
providing coverage for liability arising out of owned, hired, or non-owned
vehicles in connection with this agreement.
         e.   Garage keeper's liability insurance providing legal liability
coverage, including comprehensive and collision, of not less than one hundred
thousand dollars ($100,000.00) per location for customers' autos or auto
equipment while the licensee is attending, servicing, repairing, parking or
storing the customer's auto or auto equipment.
         f.   On hook/cargo insurance providing coverage for customers' autos
while being towed or transported by the tow company with limits in the
following amounts:
 
Light or medium duty truck $50,000.00
Heavy duty truck           $100,000.00
Extra heavy duty truck     $250,000.00
 
      5.   Payette County and its elected officials, agents, employees,
successors and assigns shall be named as additional insured under all policies
except workers' compensation and employers' liability.
   L.   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as obligating the emergency
tow company to transport a disabled or wrecked vehicle when weather or road
conditions make it impractical, impossible or dangerous to the operator. (Ord.
2018-3, 3-26-2018; amd. Ord. 2023-07, 5-22-2023)
5-8-15: USE AS EMERGENCY VEHICLE PROHIBITED:
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to permit operation of a tow truck
as an authorized emergency vehicle. (Ord. 2018-3, 3-26-2018)
5-8-16: PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person violating the provisions of sections
5-8-3  and/or
5-8-4  of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction thereof shall be punished as provided by Idaho Code, section 18-113
as it may from time to time be amended and/or re-titled.
   B.   Any violation of sections
5-8-1 ,
5-8-2 ,
5-8-6  -
5-8-9 ,
5-8-11 , and/or
5-8-14  shall be a misdemeanor punishable by not more than six (6) months in
the Payette County Jail or a fine of not more than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) or both. (Ord. 2018-3, 3-26-2018; amd. Ord. 2023-07,5-22-2023)
5-8-17: SEVERABILITY:
The provisions of this chapter are hereby declared severable. In the event any
section is found to be invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, such will
not affect the validity of the remaining sections contained herein. (Ord. 2018-
3, 3-26-2018)
5-8-18: WHEN EFFECTIVE:
This chapter shall become effective upon publication in one issue of a
newspaper of general circulation in Payette County. (Ord. 2018-3, 3-26-2018)
PA570   6t.txt
TITLE 6
COUNTY ROADS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
TRAFFIC RULES
SECTION:
6-1-1: Adoption Of Idaho Motor Vehicle Laws
6-1-2: Speed Limit
6-1-1: ADOPTION OF IDAHO MOTOR VEHICLE LAWS:
   A.   Intent: It is hereby declared to be the intent of the governing body of
the county to aid and assist by whatever means possible, for the utmost
consistency in traffic regulation among and between agencies of the state
having such jurisdiction. Toward that end, adoption of the Idaho motor vehicle
laws by the counties is a necessary means of assuring maximum uniformity within
the state.
   B.   Adoption: There is hereby adopted for the purpose of establishing rules
and regulations for the use of all streets and public thoroughfares of the
county that certain code, identified as the Idaho motor vehicle laws, more
particularly title 49, Idaho Code, published by the department of law
enforcement, and as the same may hereafter be revised by the Idaho legislature,
or amended by the governing body, and the same is hereby adopted and
incorporated as though fully set forth at length herein.
   C.   Copies On File: Three (3) copies of the Idaho motor vehicle laws,
together with any revisions or amendments, duly certified by the county clerk,
shall be kept on file in her office for use and examination of and by the
public. (Ord. 10, 3-22-1971, eff. 3-29-1971; amd. 1996 Code)
6-1-2: SPEED LIMIT:
The speed of any motor vehicle in excess of fifty five (55) miles per hour on
highways outside urban districts, except state highways, shall be prima facie
evidence that the speed is not reasonable or prudent and that it is unlawful.
(Ord. 2005-5, 12-12-2005)
CHAPTER 2
ROADWAY CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS
SECTION:
6-2-1: Intent
6-2-2: Adoption Of Standards
6-2-3: Copies On File
6-2-1: INTENT:
It is hereby declared to be the intent of the board of county commissioners and
of the governing body of highway district no. 1, to establish uniform standards
for the construction of roadways within the county. Toward that end, adoption
of a uniform set of standards by the board of county commissioners and highway
district no. 1 is deemed necessary. (Ord. 37, 5-2-1983, eff. 5-11-1983)
6-2-2: ADOPTION OF STANDARDS:
There is hereby adopted for the purpose of establishing uniform construction
standards and regulations within the county and highway district no. 1 within
Payette County, those certain standards identified as the "roadway standards
and development procedures for Payette County road and bridge and highway
district no. 1". Such standards are hereby adopted and incorporated as a part
hereof as fully as though set forth at length. (Ord. 37, 5-2-1983, eff. 5-11-
1983; amd. Ord. 2000-4, 2-7-2000; Ord. 2008-02, 2-11-2008)
6-2-3: COPIES ON FILE:
Three (3) copies of the highway standards and development procedures for
Payette County road department and highway district no. 1, duly certified by
the county clerk, shall be kept on file in the county clerk's office for use
and examination of and by the public. (Ord. 37, 5-2-1983, eff. 5-11-1983; amd.
Ord. 2000-4, 2-7-2000)
CHAPTER 3
HIGHWAY RIGHTS OF WAY; ENCROACHMENTS
SECTION:
6-3-1: Policy
6-3-2: Definition
6-3-3: Minimum Width
6-3-4: Right-Of-Way Use
6-3-5: Restricted Activities
6-3-6: Adequacy Of Roads Serving Proposed Developments
6-3-7: Nuisance Conditions Prohibited
6-3-8: Damage To Highway Prohibited
6-3-9: Penalty
6-3-1: POLICY:
The policy of the governing body of the County and Payette County Highway
District #1 is set forth as follows:
   A.   To establish a highway right-of-way policy which will further public
safety, provide for orderly growth and protect the public investment in the
public roads and bridges of the County.
   B.   To provide freely passable public roads for all emergency and service
vehicles.
   C.   To prohibit the creation of unsafe conditions on or beside the public
roads of the County by new construction on or along said roads and to mitigate
any unsafe conditions presently existing on or along said roads. (Ord. 58, 5-
23-1988, eff. 5-26-1988)
6-3-2: DEFINITION:
A "public road" is one that has been laid out and recorded as road or highway
by order of a board of commissioners, or a road used as a highway for a
continuous period of five (5) years provided it shall have been worked and kept
up at the expense of the public, or located and recorded by order of a board of
commissioners. (Ord. 58, 5-23-1988, eff. 5-26-1988)
6-3-3: MINIMUM WIDTH:
   A.   Unrecorded Rights Of Way: All unrecorded road rights of way shall have
a minimum width of fifty feet (50').
   B.   Recorded Rights Of Way: Recorded rights of way may vary in width. The
road or highway shall consist of the entire width within the right of way, not
merely the traveled portion thereof.
   C.   Standards For Acceptance: No future road shall be accepted by the
County or by Payette County Highway District #1 (hereinafter referred to as
"District") as a public road unless it meets the standards established by
Chapter 2 of this Title. (Ord. 58, 5-23-1988, eff. 5-26-1988)
6-3-4: RIGHT-OF-WAY USE:
Any use of a road right of way other than a travelway use constitutes an
obstruction or encroachment and to the extent that such obstructions or
encroachments are incompatible with the safe usage of a public road right of
way the same shall be prohibited by the County and the District.
   A.   Obstructions: Obstructions or partial obstructions within a right of
way which are prohibited shall include, but are not necessarily limited to, the
following:
      1.   Livestock loading or feeding.
      2.   Crop harvesting, planting or other farm activities.
      3.   Parking for social functions, auctions, recreational activities or
gatherings or any other reason for longer than eight (8) hours during any
twenty four (24) hour time period.
   B.   Encroachments: Encroachments within a right of way which are prohibited
shall include, but are not necessarily limited to, the following:
      1.   Fences, hedges, shrubbery, and trees.
      2.   Crop plantings.
      3.   Irrigation head or waste articles, sprinklers, control structures or
other irrigation appurtenances.
      4.   Decorative structures and commercial or other private signs as
prohibited within the right of way by title 7, chapter 3 of this code.
      5.   Disposal of irrigation water in borrow pits. (Ord. 58, 5-23-1988,
eff. 5-26-1988; amd. 1996 Code)
      6.   Endangerment through landslide or potential landslide creation by
creating excessively steep cut or fill banks on adjacent property. "Roadway
standards and development procedures for Payette County road and bridge and
highway district no. 1" adopted in chapter 2 of this title, allows for adequate
size right of way for cut and fill sections plus ten feet (10') while
prohibiting damages to the roadway and providing for repair. (Ord. 58, 5-23-
1988, eff. 5-26-1988; amd. 1996 Code; Ord. 2000-4, 2-7-2000; Ord. 2008-02, 2-
11-2008)
      7.   Mailbox supports more rigid than freestanding wood posts of ordinary
size, six inches by six inches (6" x 6").
      8.   Irrigation pipelines parallel with roads within the right of way.
      9.   Piles of wood, fruit boxes or any other objects or materials that
create a safety hazard.
   C.   Removal:
      1.   Request For Removal: In the event such obstructions prevent the safe
or timely passageway of the public, the road superintendent having jurisdiction
shall request the abutting property owner to remove or correct the obstruction
within thirty (30) days.
      2.   Failure To Comply: If the abutting property owner does not comply,
the county or district may petition the court for an order directing the
property owner to remove or correct the obstruction.
      3.   Removal By County Or District; Costs: After thirty (30) days the
county or district may make the necessary removal, repairs and/or corrections
and assess the cost incurred to the responsible party.
      4.   Court Costs: Any court costs incurred shall be paid by the
responsible party.
      5.   Repairs Or Corrections: Any repairs or corrections shall be in
accordance with the construction standards adopted in section 6-2-2 of this
title. (Ord. 58, 5-23-1988, eff. 5-26-1988; amd. 1996 Code)
6-3-5: RESTRICTED ACTIVITIES:
   A.   Power To Restrict: To further the policies set forth above, the county
and the district may restrict installation and construction activities within
public rights of way.
   B.   Permit Required: Any such activity shall not be commenced without
application for and receipt of a permit from the road superintendent having
jurisdiction.
   C.   Standards: Any such activity shall be completed in accordance with the
standards adopted in chapter 2 of this title, or in the absence of any existing
county or district standard, in accordance with sound engineering principles.
   D.   Restricted Activities: Restricted activities shall include, but shall
not necessarily be limited to, installation or construction of the following:
      1.   Utility lines.
      2.   Potable water mains and services.
      3.   Sanitary sewer mains and services.
      4.   Storm sewer and culverts.
      5.   Electrical power lines, whether overhead or underground.
      6.   Telephone lines, whether overhead or underground.
      7.   Natural gas mains, laterals, services and other appurtenances.
      8.   Cable television lines.
      9.   Irrigation pipelines and siphons crossing roads.
      10.   Storm water or other drain pipes.
      11.   Driveway approaches (no more than 100 feet from an intersection)
must be constructed and drained to meet county standards. (Ord. 58, 5-23-1988,
eff. 5-26-1988)
6-3-6: ADEQUACY OF ROADS SERVING PROPOSED DEVELOPMENTS:
The safety of present neighboring residents and adequacy of roads leading to
the primary highway system are necessary and material considerations in
assessing the acceptability of any proposed residential, commercial, or
industrial development under zoning review and other approval procedures
provided by statutes and Chapter 2 of this Title and Title 9 of this Code,
thereby making it the duty of the person proposing development to show that no
unsafe condition or overload of existing facilities will be created by his/her
proposed development. In cases where either the County or the District finds
that unsafe or overload conditions will be created by a proposed development,
it is the policy of the County and the District to prevent the occurrence of
such conditions, either by denying license for the development or by
negotiating to obtain upgrading of the County road system in the vicinity of
the development. (Ord. 58, 5-23-1988, eff. 5-26-1988)
6-3-7: NUISANCE CONDITIONS PROHIBITED:
Endangering nuisances and damaging or unsafe conditions which originate from
adjacent properties shall be prohibited. These nuisances and conditions shall
include, but are not necessarily limited to, the following:
   A.   Drainage or irrigation water overflowing onto the roadway. Excess
sediment, and animal wastes should not be allowed to build up and block
drainage pipes. If the blockage constitutes a hazard, the removal of the hazard
will be at the expense of whosoever created the problem. When drain ditches and
irrigation ditches run parallel with rights of way, dirt and cleaning materials
from ditch maintenance shall not be put on the road right of way. Blockage of
drainage pipes in the right of way by irrigation pipelines, or other pipes such
as stock watering pipes, hoses, electrical wires or other foreign objects is
prohibited.
   B.   Foreign objects shall not be attached to bridges.
   C.   Visibility impairment from dust, water from sprinkler, steam and smoke.
   D.   Nuisances such as mud causing slippery conditions, dumping of garbage.
   E.   Defacing of road signs or placement of other signs (yard sales or
auctions) upon road signs. (Ord. 58, 5-23-1988, eff. 5-26-1988)
6-3-8: DAMAGE TO HIGHWAY PROHIBITED:
Damaging of the highway is prohibited. This includes farm machinery not mounted
on rubber tires, such as harrows and discs or any equipment with cleated
tracks, and backhoe outriggers that are not padded. Any other object that will
damage roadways is not to be dragged or driven or used on any paved surface.
(Ord. 58, 5-23-1988, eff. 5-26-1988)
6-3-9: PENALTY:
Any person convicted of a violation of any provision of this Chapter shall be
subject to penalty as provided in Section 1-4-1 of this Code. Either or both
such fine and imprisonment may be imposed; and in addition thereto, any person
so convicted shall pay such costs as the Court may assess, together with
restitution for any damages caused by said violation. (Ord. 58, 5-23-1988, eff.
5-26-1988; 1996 Code)
CHAPTER 4
COUNTY ROAD USE
SECTION:
6-4-1: River Road Use Restrictions
6-4-2: Use By Aircraft Prohibited
6-4-3: Parking Restrictions; Penalty
6-4-1: RIVER ROAD USE RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to restrict the use of River
Road by semitractor trailers for the following reasons:
      1.   River Road is a narrow winding road used primarily by persons who
live on River Road, farmers and sportsmen.
      2.   River Road was not built to withstand heavy use or traffic of loaded
and unloaded semitractor trailers.
      3.   Semitractor trailers cause severe damage to the shoulders of River
Road.
      4.   Semitractor trailers are long vehicles which make the use of River
Road dangerous to other travelers.
      5.   Alternative routes over roads better suited to handle semitractor
trailers exist.
      6.   Those alternative routes will not impede or delay the travel of
semitractor trailer traffic in the county.
      7.   This section will not restrict or limit the use of semitractor
trailers for those persons living on, farming or conducting business on River
Road.
   B.   Definitions: As used in this section, the following words and terms
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
   DESTINATION: The point of disembarkation for a semitractor trailer.
   RIVER ROAD: A Payette County road located north of the city of Payette,
running along the Snake River.
   SEMITRACTOR TRAILER: Any motorized vehicle classified in the bridge
maintenance and inspection manual of the Idaho department of transportation as
a type 3-S-2, which shall specifically also include all three (3) axle tractors
and two (2) axle trailers.
   STARTING POINT: The point where a semitractor trailer begins its travel on
any city, county or state road.
   C.   Closed To Through Traffic: Any semitractor trailer whose starting point
does not begin or whose destination does not end on River Road shall be
prohibited from operating and/or driving on River Road.
   D.   Posting: Payette Country road and bridge department is hereby
authorized to take all measures necessary to place signs along River Road
posting the restrictions created by this section.
   E.   Penalty: The penalty for a violation of this section shall be as
provided in section 1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 77, 8-17-1992, eff. 8-20-1992;
amd. 1996 Code)
6-4-2: USE BY AIRCRAFT PROHIBITED:
   A.   Definition: "Aircraft" is defined as any contrivance now known, or
hereafter invented, used or designed for navigation of or flight in the air.
   B.   Use For Landing; Exception: It is unlawful for the owner, lessee, or
operator of any aircraft to land an aircraft on a public road or highway within
the county, with the exception of a forced landing.
   C.   Use As Runway: It is unlawful for the owner, lessee, or operator of any
aircraft to use any public road or highway within the county as a runway.
   D.   Damages: Any damages caused by the use of public roads and/or highways,
as prohibited herein, whether to persons or property, shall be borne by the
owner, lessee and/or operator in accordance with the rules of law applicable to
torts on land in this state.
   E.   Penalty: Any violation of this section shall be a misdemeanor
punishable in accordance with the general misdemeanor statutes of the state. In
addition, any person who suffers damage by virtue of a violation of this
section may sue for damages and if successful shall be awarded all attorney
fees and costs. (Ord. 66, 7-9-1990)
6-4-3: PARKING RESTRICTIONS; PENALTY:
It is unlawful for any person to park a truck tractor, as defined by Idaho Code
section 49-121(10)(e), a pole trailer, as defined by Idaho Code section 49-121
(6)(e), or semitrailer, as defined by Idaho Code section 49-121(6)(f), on the
street or street right of way in the area known as "Vistair Subdivision".
Temporary parking shall be allowed for the purpose of loading or unloading, but
such temporary parking shall not exceed one hour. A violation of this section
shall constitute an infraction and shall be processed by the sheriff or the
sheriff's deputies in accordance with the Idaho infraction rules and the
current Idaho infraction penalty schedule, and as amended. Such infractions are
punishable by fixed penalty, which includes court costs for each offense in
accordance with the Idaho infraction rules and the current Idaho infraction
penalty schedule, and as amended. (Ord. 2001-4, 7-2-2001)
CHAPTER 5
IMPROVEMENT DISTRICTS
ARTICLE A. LOCAL IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT 01-01
SECTION:
6-5A-1: Purpose
6-5A-2: Legal Description
6-5A-3: Location Of Road Improvement
6-5A-4: General Description Of Improvements
6-5A-5: Cost Of Construction And Assessments
6-5A-6: Latecomer's Fee
6-5A-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this article is to create local improvement district 01-01
(hereinafter sometimes referred to as "LID 01-01") in an area known as Sabin
Road, Sandhollow, Payette County, Idaho. The intention of the local improvement
district is to build an asphalt road over what is currently referred to as
Sabin Road, for the safety and convenience of the residents who live along said
Sabin Road. (Ord. 2001-3, 3-19-2001)
6-5A-2: LEGAL DESCRIPTION:
The property to be included in LID 01-01 shall be as follows:
PARCEL #1
THIS PARCEL IS A PORTION OF THE EAST 1/2 OF SECTION 35, T6N, R4W BOISE MERIDIAN
AND IS MORE PARTICULARLY DESCRIBED AS FOLLOWS:
BEGINNING AT THE NE CORNER OF SECTION 35 T6N, R4W, BOISE MERIDIAN;
THENCE WEST ALONG THE NORTHERLY BOUNDARY OF SAID SECTION TO THE NW CORNER OF
THE NE 1/4 OF SAID SECTION 35
THENCE SOUTH ALONG THE WESTERLYBOUNDARY OF NE 1/4 OF SECTION 35 TO A POINT
191.89 FEET N. 00°03' W OF THE SW CORNER OF THE SAID NE 1/4;
THENCE S. 89°56'19" E. 1109.10 FEET;
THENCE S 57°16'50" E. 355.66 FEET;
THENCE S 89°56'13" E. 571.44 FEET;
THENCE S. 00°05'31" E. 478.59 FEET;
THENCE S. 13°22'27" E. 441.18 FEET;
THENCE S. 00°30'53" E. 180.77 FEET;
THENCE S. 89°59'43" E. 59.69 FEET;
THENCE S. 0°00'00" W. 231.35 FEET;
THENCE N. 89°59'43" W. 50.00 FEET;
THENCE S. 00°00'00" w. 277.12 FEET;
THENCE N. 89°43'28" W. 53.74 FEET;
THENCE S. 00°00'00" W. 1043.07 FEET TO A POINT ON THE SOUTHERLY BOUNDARY OF THE
SE 1/4 OF SAID SECTION 35,
THENCE N. 89°57'52" E. ALONG THE SOUTHERLY BOUNDARY OF SAID SE 1/4, A DISTANCE
OF 607.33 FEET TO THE SE CORNER OF SAID SECTION 35;
THENCE NORTHERLY ALONG THE EAST BOUNDARY OF THE EAST 1/2 OF SECTION 35 TO THE
TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING;
PARCEL #2
THE WEST 1/2 OF THE SOUTHWEST 1/4 SECTION 36 T6N, R4W, BOISE MERIDIAN;
PARCEL #3
THE NORTHWEST 1/4 OF SECTION 36 T6N, R4W, BOISE MERIDIAN.
PARCEL #4
THIS PARCEL IS A PORTION OF THE EAST 1/2 OF SECTION 36, T6N, R4W BOISE MERIDIAN
AND IS MORE PARTICULARLY DESCRIBED AS FOLLOWS:
BEGINNING AT THE NORTH QUARTER CORNER OF SECTION 35 T6N, R4W, BOISE MERIDIAN;
THENCE EAST ALONG THE NORTHERLY BOUNDARY OF SAID SECTION TO THE WESTERLY
BOUNDARY OF THE INTERSTATE PROJECT NO. I-80N-1 (6) 14 HIGHWAY SURVEY 334.5
FEET, MORE OR LESS, WEST OF THE NE CORNER OF NW 1/4 NE 1/4 SECTION 36 THENCE S.
16°11'22" E. 2271.15 FEET ALONG THE WESTERLY BOUNDARY OF SAID HIGHWAY PROJECT;
THENCE S. 02°16'00" E. 103.08 FEET ALONG THE WESTERLY BOUNDARY OF SAID HIGHWAY
PROJECT;
THENCE S. 16°11'22" E. 375.46 FEET ALONG THE WESTERLY BOUNDARY OF SAID HIGHWAY
PROJECT TO A POINT ALONG THE SOUTH LINE OF SE1/4 NE 1/4 907.84 FEET N.
89°59'22" W FROM THE EAST QUARTER CORNER OF SAID SECTION 36;
THENCE S. 89°57'23" W. 349.16 FEET TO THE SE 1/16 OF SECTION 36;
THENCE S. 00°05'51" W.151.70 FEET;
THENCE S. 53°51'59" W. 3.85 FEET;
THENCE S. 52°39'12" W. 87.88 FEET;
THENCE S. 50°49'48" W. 58.48 FEET;
THENCE A CURVE WITH LENGTH 34.16 FEET, RADIUS 161.00 FEET, DELTA 12°09'19",
CHORD DIRECTION S. 44°45'09" W., AND CHORD LENGTH 34.09 FEET;
THENCE S. 38°40'29" W. 11.35 FEET;
THENCE S. 36°22'37" W. 27.74 FEET;
THENCE S. 34°44'33" W. 113.38 FEET;
THENCE S. 39°44'44" W. 34.34 FEET;
THENCE S. 44°25' 01" W. 21.63 FEET;
THENCE S. 53°38'17" W. 12.98 FEET;
THENCE A CURVE WITH LENGTH 13.03 FEET, RADIUS 9.00 FEET, DELTA 82°58'18".,
CHORD DIRECTION N. 84°52'34" W., AND CHORD LENGTH 11.92 FEET;
THENCE N. 43°23'25" W. 29.95 FEET;
THENCE A CURVE WITH LENGTH 23.51 FEET, RADIUS 216.50 FEET, DELTA 06°13'18",
CHORD DIRECTION S. 42°13'57" W., AND CHORD LENGTH 23.50 FEET;
THENCE S. 45°20'36" W. 449.12 FEET;
THENCE S. 43°57'53" W. 285.82 FEET;
THENCE A CURVE WITH LENGTH 71.12 FEET, RADIUS 90.50 FEET, DELTA 45°01'31",
CHORD DIRECTION S. 66°28'38" W., AND CHORD LENGTH 69.30 FEET;
THENCE S. 88°59'24" W. 43.05 FEET;
THENCE N. 85°28'10" W. 68.05 FEET;
THENCE S. 88°48'24" W. 42.21 FEET;
THENCE A CURVE WITH LENGTH 42.42 FEET, RADIUS 64.00 FEET, DELTA 37°58'31",
CHORD DIRECTION S. 69°49'09" W., AND CHORD LENGTH 41.65 FEET;
THENCE S. 50°49'53" W. 13.61 FEET;
THENCE S. 49°30'13" W. 13.60 FEET;
THENCE S. 45°15'01" W. 65.02 FEET;
THENCE S. 53°27'15" W. 40.33 FEET;
THENCE A CURVE WITH LENGTH 58.37 FEET, RADIUS 46.00 FEET, DELTA 72°41'52",
CHORD DIRECTIONS S. 89°48'11" W., AND CHORD LENGTH 54.53 FEET;
THENCE N. 53°50'53" W. 16.27 FEET; THENCE N. 46°11'18" W. 68.59 FEET;
THENCE N. 48°30'49" W. 8.02 FEET;
THENCE N. 00°08'36" E. 1020.60 FEET,
THENCE N. 00°06'03" E. 1323.44 FEET;
THENCE N. 00°07'44" E. 1322.51 FEET, THE N. 1/4 SECTION 36, THE POINT OF
BEGINNING;
(Ord. 2001-3, 3-19-2001)
6-5A-3: LOCATION OF ROAD IMPROVEMENT:
The road shall be built at the following location:
STARTING AT THE SOUTHWEST CORNER OF SECTION 36, T6N, R4W, BOISE MERIDIAN,
TRAVELING NORTH 4290 FEET ALONG THE BOUNDARY OF SECTION 35 AND 36, THEN SOUTH
330 FEET, THEN TRAVELING EAST N. 89°57'32" E. 1320 FEET IN SECTION 36 TO THE
END OF THE IMPROVEMENT.
(Ord. 2001-3, 3-19-2001)
6-5A-4: GENERAL DESCRIPTION OF IMPROVEMENTS:
The length of the road improvement shall be approximately five thousand two
hundred eighty feet (5,280'). The finished surface shall be twenty four feet
(24') wide. Ten inches (10") of pit run shall be used as a base, three inches
(3") of 3/4 minus for the leveling surface, and three inches (3") of asphalt
pavement. A barrow ditch shall be constructed on both sides of the road. (Ord.
2001-3, 3-19-2001)
6-5A-5: COST OF CONSTRUCTION AND ASSESSMENTS:
   A.   Formula: The probable cost for construction is two hundred ninety seven
thousand five hundred dollars ($297,500.00). The total cost and expenses of the
improvements are to be made and upon lots and lands benefited by such
improvements so that each of the parcels of land in the district be assessed
according to a combination of the square foot and front foot methods in
proportion to the benefits derived by each parcel. Specifically, the formula
used shall be as follows:
      ((.20 x total cost) x available residences/total residences) + ((.20
total cost) x square footage/total square footage) + ((.10 x total cost) x
zone/(total number of properties in zone) + ((.50 x total cost)/total users) =
assessment;
      with the following definitions:
         Available Residence: Some properties located in LID are eligible for
building permits for an additional residence. If the property is not eligible,
the available split quotient equals zero.
         Square Footage: The individual square footage of each property in LID.
         Total Cost: The total cost of the improvement.
         Total Residence: The total number of properties that have an available
residence.
         Total Square Footage: The total square footage of all properties in
LID.
         Zone: The entire road has been separated into two (2) zones. Those
properties receiving direct access from the road are in zone 1 and those not
receiving direct access from the road are in zone 2. (Ord. 2001-3, 3-19-2001)
   B.   Confirmation Of Assessment Roll: The assessment roll, attached to
ordinance 2002-6 as exhibit A, is confirmed. Each lot or parcel included within
local improvement district 01-01 is benefited by the improvements and the
benefit is equal to the amount assessed. Any person who has not paid the
assessment in full within thirty (30) days from August 26, 2002, shall be
conclusively presumed to have chosen to pay in installments. The period of
repayment shall be for ten (10) years and the interest rate shall be calculated
at five percent (5%) per annum. The first payment shall be due and payable on
October 1, 2003. Each payment thereafter shall be due and payable October 1
every year thereafter. Monthly payments may be made to the treasurer. Any
payment not made within twenty (20) days of the due date shall be deemed
delinquent and the treasurer shall add a penalty of two percent (2%) thereto.
(Ord. 2002-6, 8-28-2002)
6-5A-6: LATECOMER'S FEE:
   A.   Fee: Any person or entity who builds upon or develops real property, in
any manner, within local improvement district 01-01 (hereinafter "LID"), who
receives a benefit from the Tower Road and East Tower Road, formerly known as
Sabin Road, improvement and did not participate in financing the original
construction, shall be required to pay two thousand dollars ($2,000.00) per
building permit or improvement, hereinafter known as a "latecomer's fee". The
latecomer's fee shall be made in addition to any payment(s) made for a building
permit(s), transfer(s) of development right, and/or any other fee(s) required
by planning and zoning or the county commissioners. Payment of the latecomer's
fee shall be made to the Payette County treasurer prior to the issuance of a
building permit and/or any new construction and/or development.
      1.   Property owners who have paid their share(s) in full and have not
split the property more than one time shall receive a pro rata portion of any
latecomer's fee. In the event a parcel is split or divided one time, the
latecomer's fee shall be distributed to the recorded owner or owners.
      2.   Property owners who have not paid their portion of the cost in full
at the time a latecomer's fee is charged shall receive a pro rata deduction
from their outstanding principal, provided however, that if a parcel is in
arrears or default, the latecomer's fee for that parcel shall be allocated the
past due principal and interest and late fees.
   B.   Exemptions: The following shall not be considered latecomers for the
purpose of this section:
      1.   A building or improvement erected upon a parcel which had an
existing eligibility for a building permit(s) as of August 1, 2002.
      2.   A building or improvement erected upon a parcel which was not split
or divided after August 1, 2002, and which did not have an existing eligibility
to a building permit as of August 1, 2002, but obtained a permit through a
transfer of development rights.
      3.   A building or improvement erected upon a parcel which had an
existing eligibility for two (2) building permits as of August 1, 2002, and was
split or divided not more than one time after August 1, 2002.
      4.   Any person who was an original owner of property as of August 1,
2002.
All other improvements shall be deemed as latecomers and shall be assessed the
latecomer's fee.
   C.   Definitions:
   EXISTING ELIGIBILITY: The building right(s) which was included in and which
received an additional assessment in LID 01-01.
   PRO RATA: A percentage of the total cost the original parcel contributed to
LID 01-01.
   D.   Parcel Split: For a second or subsequent split, short plat or
subdivision, the entire assessment shall be paid in full prior to final
approval. The latecomer's fee must be paid in full prior to the development of
each parcel.
   E.   Distribution Of Fee: Distribution of latecomer's fee shall be made
annually, as determined by the Payette County treasurer.
   F.   Severability: If any portion of this section is found to be
unenforceable or unconstitutional for any reason, the remaining portion of this
section shall remain in full force and effect.
   G.   Duration: This section shall be in effect until July 29, 2012. (Ord.
2002-5, 8-5-2002)
CHAPTER 6
PAYETTE COUNTY GREENWAY
SECTION:
6-6-1: Defined
6-6-2: Prohibited Acts Relating To Greenway Property
6-6-3: Recreational Activities
6-6-4: Behavior
6-6-5: Merchandising, Advertising And Signs
6-6-6: Closed Areas
6-6-7: Enforcement
6-6-8: Penalties
6-6-1: DEFINED:
The "Payette County greenway" is property which is owned, operated or
maintained by the county of Payette and is located within the county of
Payette, Idaho, for public use as a footpath which runs along the Snake River
and Payette River in Payette County, Idaho. This definition includes any
federal or state owned properties which are included in the greenway. (Ord.
2003-7, 7-14-2003)
6-6-2: PROHIBITED ACTS RELATING TO GREENWAY PROPERTY:
No person shall:
   A.   Buildings Or Other Property:
      1.   Disfiguration And Removal: Wilfully mark, deface, disfigure, injure,
tamper with, or displace or remove, any building, bridges, tables, benches,
railings, paving or paving material, water lines or other public utilities or
parts or appurtenances whatsoever, either real or personal, or have in his
possession any of the foregoing things or objects, or any part thereof.
   B.   Trees, Shrubbery And Lawns:
      1.   Injury And Removal: Damage, cut, carve, transplant or remove any
tree or plant or injure the bark, or pick the flowers or seeds, of any tree or
plant. Nor shall any person attach any rope, wire or other contrivance to any
tree or plant. A person shall not dig in or otherwise disturb grass areas, or
in any other way injure or impair the natural beauty or usefulness of any area.
   C.   Wild Animals, Birds, Livestock, Etc.:
      1.   Hunting: Hunt, molest, harm, frighten, kill, trap, chase, tease,
annoy, shoot or throw missiles at any animal, reptile or bird nor shall he
remove or have in his possession the young of any wild animal, or the eggs or
nest, or young of any reptile or bird.
      2.   Feeding: Give or offer, or attempt to give to any animal or bird any
tobacco, alcohol or other known noxious substances.
      3.   Livestock: No person shall allow any livestock to become a stray or
estray. "Stray or estray" means any livestock whose owner is unknown or cannot
be located, or any livestock whose owner is known but who permits livestock to
roam at large upon the greenway. (Ord. 2003-7, 7-14-2003)
6-6-3: RECREATIONAL ACTIVITIES:
No person in the greenway shall:
   A.   Hunting And Firearms: Use firearms of any descriptions, or air rifles,
spring guns, bow and arrows, slings or any other forms of weapons potentially
inimical to wildlife and dangerous to human safety, or any instrument that can
be loaded with and fire blank cartridges, or any kind of trapping device; or
discharge, or have in his possession, any fireworks defined by section
5-3-1 of this code; or shoot into greenway areas from beyond park boundaries;
provided that it shall be lawful for police officers while on duty to use and
carry firearms.
   B.   Camping: Set up tents, shacks, or any other temporary shelter for the
purpose of camping, nor shall any person bring onto the greenway any movable
structure or special vehicle to be used, or that could be used, for such
purpose such as house trailer, camp trailer, camp wagon, or the like.
   C.   Games: Take part in or abet the playing of any games involving thrown
or otherwise propelled dangerous objects such as stones, arrows or javelins.
   D.   Horseback Riding: Ride a horse.
   E.   Motorized Vehicles: Operate a motorized vehicle, including, but not
limited to, cars, trucks, vans, snowmobiles, motorcycles and golf carts.
Exception is hereby made for emergency or other duly authorized vehicles. (Ord.
2003-7, 7-14-2003)
6-6-4: BEHAVIOR:
No person in the greenway shall:
   A.   Possess or consume any alcoholic beverage.
   B.   Permit or allow a dog or other domestic animal to enter or remain in
the greenway except on a leash and/or carried while leashed by such person
owning or having the care, custody and control of such dog or domestic animal.
The owner or person having possession of any dog or other domestic animal on
the greenway shall remove any feces left by such animal.
   C.   Endanger the safety or health of any person by any conduct or act,
including, but not necessarily limited to, urinating or defecating in, on or
upon the greenway, except when using an enclosed bathroom facility authorized
by the county.
   D.   Prevent any person from using the greenway, or any of its facilities,
or interfere with such use in compliance with this chapter and the rules and
regulations applicable to such use.
   E.   Solicit or accost other persons for the purpose of begging or
soliciting alms. (Ord. 2003-7, 7-14-2003)
   F.   Operate or aid in the operation of private radios, stereophonic or
sound amplification devices at a greater operating level than seventy five (75)
decibels measured at a distance of twenty feet (20') from such radios or
devices. (Ord. 2003-10, 10-14-2003)
   G.   Enter, or stay upon, the greenway during times when the greenway is
closed. The greenway shall be closed one hour after sunset and shall not be
open to the public until sunrise.
   H.   Litter, as defined by sections
4-6-1 through and including
4-6-3 of this code.
   I.   Engage in any unlawful conduct or criminal activity or in any way
commit a violation or breach of the peace, as defined by Idaho Code and/or this
code. (Ord. 2003-7, 7-14-2003)
6-6-5: MERCHANDISING, ADVERTISING AND SIGNS:
No person shall:
   A.   Vending And Peddling: Expose or offer for sale any article or thing,
nor shall he station or place any stand, cart or vehicle for the
transportation, sale or display of any such article or thing. Exception is here
made as to any regularly licensed concessionaire acting by and under the
authority of the Payette County board of commissioners.
   B.   Advertising: Distribute, leave or throw any advertising material, such
as dodgers, handbills, circular or like matter, or give away or otherwise
distribute for advertising purposes any goods or wares.
   C.   Signs: Paste, glue, tack or otherwise post any signs, plaques,
advertisement or inscription whatever, except plaques, tablets or signs, of a
size, design and location approved by the Payette County board of
commissioners, recognizing or acknowledging donations or contributions to the
greenway. (Ord. 2003-7, 7-14-2003)
6-6-6: CLOSED AREAS:
Any section or part of the greenway may be declared closed to the public by the
Payette County board of commissioners at any time and for any interval of time,
either temporarily or at regularly and stated intervals (daily or otherwise)
and either entirely or merely to certain uses. (Ord. 2003-7, 7-14-2003)
6-6-7: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Officials: Payette County police officers and duly authorized police
officers from another jurisdiction, shall enforce the provisions of this
chapter.
   B.   Ejectment: A police officer shall have the authority to eject from the
greenway any person acting in violation of this chapter. Any person ejected
from the greenway shall leave promptly and peaceably and shall not return to
the greenway for any reason on the same calendar day of his ejectment.
   C.   Seizure Of Property: A police officer shall have the authority to seize
and confiscate any property, thing or device in the greenway, or used in
violation of this chapter. (Ord. 2003-7, 7-14-2003)
6-6-8: PENALTIES:
A person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this chapter
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be
fined in an amount not exceeding three hundred dollars ($300.00) or be
imprisoned in the city jail for a period not exceeding six (6) months, or be
both so fined and imprisoned. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as to
limit county employees or other authorized persons from performing their
official or county authorized duties. (Ord. 2003-7, 7-14-2003)
TITLE 7
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODES
SECTION:
7-1-1: Adoption Of Codes; Penalty
7-1-2: Substandard Roads, Building Permits Restricted
7-1-3: Zoning Certificate Required For Utilities
7-1-4: Rebar Requirements
7-1-1: ADOPTION OF CODES; PENALTY:
   A.   Codes Adopted:
      1.   Building Code: The 2018 version of the International Building Code,
prepared by the International Code Council, Inc., as adopted by the State of
Idaho or the Idaho Building Code Board, together with any amendments or
revisions to the International Building Code made by the Idaho Building Code
Board through the negotiated rulemaking process;
      2.   Residential Code: The 2018 version of the International Residential
Code, prepared by the International Code Council, Inc., as adopted by the State
of Idaho or the Idaho Building Code Board, together with any amendments or
revisions to the International Residential Code made by the Idaho Building Code
Board through the negotiated rulemaking process; excepting therefrom part VII
and VIII as those sections pertain to electrical and plumbing matters.
      3.   Energy Conservation Code: The 2018 version of the International
Energy Conservation Code, together with any amendments or revisions to the
International Energy Conservation Code made by the Idaho Building Code Board
through the negotiated rulemaking process;
      4.   Abatement Of Dangerous Buildings: The current version of the
International Building Code for the Abatement of Dangerous Buildings, published
by the International Conference of Building Officials;
      5.   Fuel And Gas Code: The 2018 version of the International Fuel and
Gas Code, together with appendices thereto;
      6.   Manufactured Home Installation Standard: The current version of the
State of Idaho Division of Building Safety Manufactured Home Installation
Standard, together with appendices thereto;
      7.   Recreational Vehicle Parks And Campgrounds: The current version of
the American National Standard for Recreational Vehicle Parks and Campgrounds;
      8.   Buildings And Facilities Accessible To The Handicapped: The 2009
version of the American Standard Specifications for Making Buildings and
Facilities Accessible to, and Usable by, the Physically Handicapped, published
by the American National Standards Institute;
      9.   Fire Code: The 2018 version of the International Fire Code,
published by the Western Fire Chief’s Association and the International
Conference of Building Officials and National Fire Protection Association Code,
published by the National Fire Protection Association, together with all
amendments, additions, changes, modifications and appendices or successor codes
thereto;
      10.   Public Works Construction: The current version of the Idaho
Standards for Public Works Construction, together with any amendments, changes,
modifications, appendices or successor codes thereto;
      11.   Mechanical Code: The 2018 version of the International Mechanical
Code, published by the International Conference of Building Officials and the
International Association of Plumbing and Mechanical Officials.
The adopted versions of the foregoing International Building Codes and Idaho
standards shall be deemed superseded by successive versions of such codes as
they are adopted by the Idaho Building Code Board effective on the date any
such codes are made effective by the Idaho Building Code Board and as
authorized by Idaho Code.
The above codes are hereby adopted by Payette County to provide for the
regulations set forth herein and to provide for the issuance of permits and the
collection of fees therefor. Three (3) copies of said adopted codes shall be
kept on file in the Office of the County Clerk and are hereby made a part
hereof by reference in the same manner as though fully set forth in this
chapter, notwithstanding any existing conflicting section contained in this
Code, which by the adoption hereof is hereby repealed. (Ord. 2018-4, 3-26-2018)
   B.   Permit Fees: Fees to enforce the above set out sections shall be
established by resolution of the Board of County Commissioners. Existing fee
resolutions are adopted until such time as new resolutions may be adopted. The
Board shall establish a permit fee schedule which schedule shall reflect the
fees which are to be charged by the official responsible for charging those
fees. The fee schedule shall be kept on file in the Office of the County Clerk
and in the office of the building official or building inspector and shall be
made available to the public upon request. The building official shall or a
designee shall charge permit fees in accordance with the schedule created by a
resolution of the Board.
      1.   For statutory provision or adoption of Construction Codes by
reference, see Idaho Code section 31-715.
      2.   For statutory provision on the State Building Codes and the
requirement that local governments comply with them, see Idaho Code section 39-
4116.
   C.   Building Permit Required: Any person who shall build or commence
construction of any building or structure without first obtaining a building
permit shall be subject to and shall pay a civil penalty in an amount equal to
twice the cost of the permit fee. This fee shall be paid before a permit is
issued.
   D.   Penalty:
      1.   A violation of this section shall be a misdemeanor punishable in
accordance with the general misdemeanor Statutes of the State of Idaho.
      2.   In addition, any building or other structure which is erected or
commenced in violation of this chapter, or in violation of the codes adopted in
subsection A of this section, in addition to subjecting the owner or builder to
misdemeanor penalties, shall be subject to nuisance or abatement procedures,
which may be brought by any County official, any member of the Planning and
Zoning Commission, the Planning and Zoning Administrator, building official,
building inspector or any other person.
      3.   In the event that any abatement procedure is successfully brought,
the person building said structure or the owner of the property upon which the
structure was wrongfully erected or commenced shall pay all court costs and
attorney fees for the prosecution of that action.
      4.   A violation hereof shall be a basis to revoke an existing permit and
shall be a basis for a civil abatement action. (Ord. 2014-01, 5-12-2014; amd.
Ord. 2020-03, 12-28-2020)
7-1-2: SUBSTANDARD ROADS, BUILDING PERMITS RESTRICTED:
   A.   Limitations Imposed:
      1.   Number Of Dwellings Or Structures: Any area which is served by a
single, substandard road, which road terminates in a cul-de-sac or in a dead
end, shall have no more than four (4) single-family or multiple-family
dwellings or commercial structures.
      2.   Private Driveway: A private driveway shall not serve more than two
(2) single-family or two (2) multiple-family dwellings.
      3.   Upgrade To Current Standards: After four (4) single-family or
multiple-family dwellings or commercial structures exist along any substandard
roadway as described in this subsection A, there shall be no additional
building permits available to the area served by the road unless and until the
roadway serving the area is brought up to then existing current County right-
of-way and design standards and the roadway is accepted by the Board of County
Commissioners.
      4.   Exceptions: This section does not apply to preexisting platted,
dedicated subdivisions which have been accepted by the Board of County
Commissioners.
   B.   Definition: A "substandard road" shall be defined as a roadway which
does not meet current right-of-way and design standards in existence at the
time an application for a building permit is made and which serves more than
one property owner and which has not been accepted for maintenance by the
County or Highway District 1. (Ord. 98, 6-19-1995)
7-1-3: ZONING CERTIFICATE REQUIRED FOR UTILITIES:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this section, the following words and terms
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
   SERVICE: Providing, attaching or hooking up to any building, mobile home or
other structure any line or pipe, which line or pipe is intended to provide any
of the following services: telephone, gas, electricity, water or sewage
disposal.
   UTILITY: Any public or private corporation or company which supplies the
public or a group of individuals with the following commodity, service or both:
telephone, gas, electricity, water, or sewage disposal.
   ZONING CERTIFICATE: A certificate issued subject to the regulations as
described in title 8 of this code. (Ord. 23, 7-15-1974, eff. 7-18-1974)
!DEFEND!
   B.   Providing Service Without Certificate Prohibited: It shall be unlawful
for any utility, general contractor, or private property owner to install or
provide any service to any proposed building, mobile home or other structure
outside the limits of any incorporated city in the county until such utility,
general contractor, or private property owner has been furnished with a copy of
the zoning certificate which has been issued for such building, mobile home or
other proposed structure. (Ord. 23-A, eff. 11-24-1975)
   C.   Issuance Of Copies: When a zoning certificate is issued pursuant to
title 8 of this code, the issuer shall furnish to the successful applicant
copies in an amount sufficient for said successful applicant to furnish all
utilities with a copy.
   D.   Procedure On Violations: The procedure on violations of this section
shall be that procedure set out in title 8 of this code; however, said remedies
shall not exclude any other remedies herein or otherwise provided.
   E.   Penalty: Each violation of this section shall be a misdemeanor and
shall be punishable as provided in section 1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 23, 7-15-
1974, eff. 7-18-1974; amd. 1996 Code)
7-1-4: REBAR REQUIREMENTS:
On any construction, where nonengineered conventional concrete footings or
foundations are poured, in addition to any other requirement imposed by the
Payette County code or that part of the most recently adopted version of the
IBC, the following requirements shall apply: There shall be two (2) pieces of
#4 rebar horizontally embedded the entire distance of the footings. There shall
be two (2) pieces of #4 rebar horizontally embedded the entire distance of the
foundation. Each piece of rebar lying horizontally shall overlap twelve inches
(12") and shall be tied to the adjoining piece of rebar at the ends. One of the
two (2) pieces of the horizontal rebar in the foundation shall be placed
approximately six inches (6") from the top of the pour and the other piece of
horizontal rebar shall be placed approximately three inches (3") from the
bottom of the pour. There shall be one piece of #4 rebar embedded vertically on
six foot (6') centers the entire length of the foundation. The vertical rebar
in the foundation shall be tied to the horizontal rebar in the foundation. The
requirement of placement of rebar shall apply in all footings and foundations
which are poured along the perimeter of any structure or which are poured to
support interior walls or exterior projections. (Ord. 2000-6, 5-8-2000)
CHAPTER 2
HOUSING, MANUFACTURED HOUSING, MODULAR HOMES AND MOBILE HOMES
SECTION:
7-2-1: Approval Sticker
7-2-2: Code Compliance
7-2-3: Certificate Of Occupancy
7-2-1: APPROVAL STICKER:
All new manufactured housing, modular homes and mobile homes placed for
occupancy within the County, whether in an established mobile home park or on
any individual lot, shall have any and all approval stickers as required by the
State and shall have a date of manufacture after June 15, 1976. (Ord. 93, 1-9-
1995)
7-2-2: CODE COMPLIANCE:
All previously owned, used, significantly altered, moved or rebuilt homes,
modular homes and mobile homes placed within the County shall meet all Uniform
Building Code requirements, all State electrical codes and all State plumbing
codes. (Ord. 93, 1-9-1995)
7-2-3: CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY:
No structures shall be occupied without approvals outlined in Section
7-2-1 and without an occupancy certificate being issued by the Planning and
Zoning Administrator/Building Inspector. (Ord. 93, 1-9-1995)
CHAPTER 3
SIGN CODE
SECTION:
7-3-1: Title
7-3-2: Purpose
7-3-3: Authority
7-3-4: Applicability
7-3-5: Definitions And Abbreviations
7-3-6: Governmental Signs Excluded
7-3-7: Design And Construction Standards
7-3-8: Permit Required; Fees
7-3-9: Violation And Penalties
7-3-10: Nonaccessory Or Off Premises Signs
7-3-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and cited as the SIGN CODE. (Ord. 30, 9-26-1977,
eff. 9-29-1977)
7-3-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide minimum standards to safeguard life,
health, property and public welfare by regulation and controlling the design,
quality of materials, construction, location, electrification, and maintenance
of all signs and sign structures not located within a building. No sign shall
be erected in such a manner as to confuse or obstruct the view or
interpretation of any official traffic sign or device. The regulations of this
chapter are not intended to permit any violation of the provisions of any other
lawful ordinance. (Ord. 30, 9-26-1977, eff. 9-29-1977)
7-3-3: AUTHORITY:
These regulations are authorized by Idaho Code and article 12, section 2 of the
Idaho constitution. (Ord. 30, 9-26-1977, eff. 9-29-1977)
7-3-4: APPLICABILITY:
The regulations contained in this chapter apply to all signs and all use
districts described in title 8 of this code. (Ord. 30, 9-26-1977, eff. 9-29-
1977)
7-3-5: DEFINITIONS AND ABBREVIATIONS:
   A.   Purpose: For the purpose of this chapter, certain abbreviations, terms,
phrases, words and their derivations shall be construed as specified in this
chapter. Words used in the singular include the plural, and the plural the
singular. Words used in the masculine gender include the feminine, and the
feminine the masculine.
   B.   Definitions: As used in this chapter, the following words and terms
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
   ANIMATED SIGN: A sign with action or motion, flashing color changes
requiring electrical energy, electronic or manufactured sources of supply, but
not including wind actuated elements such as flags, banners, or specialty
items. This definition does not include public service signs such as time and
temperature units.
   APPROVED PLASTIC MATERIALS: Those which have a flame spread rating of two
hundred twenty five (225) or less when tested in accordance with UBC standard
no. 42-1, in the way intended for use; and a smoke density rating no greater
than four hundred fifty (450) when tested in accordance with UBC standard no.
42-1, in the way intended for use; or a smoke density rating not greater than
seventy five (75) when tested in the thickness intended for use by the chamber
method of test under UBC standard no. 52-2.
The products of combustion shall be no more toxic than those of untreated wood
when burning under similar conditions.
   ARCHITECTURAL PROJECTION: Any projection which is not intended for occupancy
and which extends beyond the face of an exterior wall of a building, but shall
not include signs.
   BACKGROUND AREA OF SIGN: The entire background area of a sign upon which
copy could be placed. In computing area of sign background, only that face or
faces which can be seen from any one direction at one time shall be counted.
   BUILDING FACADE: That portion of any exterior elevation of a building
extending from grade to the top of the parapet wall or eaves and the entire
width of the building elevation.
   BUILDING FACADE FACING: A resurfacing of an existing facade with approved
material illuminated or nonilluminated.
   BUILDING OFFICIAL: The officer or other person charged with the
administration and enforcement of this Chapter or his duly authorized deputy.
   CHANGEABLE COPY PANEL: A panel which is characterized by changeable copy,
regardless of method of attachment.
   COMBINATION SIGN: Any sign incorporating any combination of the features of
pole, projecting, and roof signs.
   COPY AREA OF SIGN: The actual area of the sign copy applied to any
background. Compute copy area by straight lines drawn closest to copy
extremities encompassing individual letters or words.
   CURB LINE: The line at the face of the curb nearest to the street or
roadway. In the absence of a curb, the curb line shall be established by the
County Engineer. See Legal Setback Line.
   DIRECTIONAL SIGNS: On-premises incidental signs designed to guide or direct
pedestrians or vehicular traffic.
   DISPLAY SURFACE: The area made available by the sign structure for the
purpose of displaying the advertising message.
   ELECTRIC SIGN: Any sign containing electrical wiring, but not including
signs illuminated by an exterior light source.
   FIN SIGN: A sign which is supported wholly by a one-story building of an
open-air business or by poles placed in the ground, or partly by such a pole or
poles and partly by a building or structure.
   FREESTANDING SIGN: A sign which is supported by one or more columns,
uprights or braces in or upon the ground.
   GROUND SIGN: A billboard or similar type of sign which is supported by one
or more uprights, poles, or braces in or upon the ground other than a
"combination sign", "fin sign" or "pole sign", as defined by this Section.
   ILLUMINATED SIGN: A sign in which a source of light is used in order to make
the message readable. The definition shall include internally and externally
lighted signs.
   LEGAL SETBACK LINE 1 : A line established by ordinance beyond which no
building may be built. A legal setback line may be a property line.
   MARQUEE: Marquee is a permanent roofed structure attached to and supported
by the building and projecting over public property.
   MARQUEE SIGN: Any sign attached to or constructed in a marquee.
   MULTIPLE COPY SIGN: A sign which advertises other than the name of the
business and the principal product or service. Secondary copy not to exceed
fifty percent (50%) of display area.
   NONCOMBUSTIBLE: As applied to building construction material means a
material which, in the form in which it is used, is either one of the
following:
      1.   Material of which no part will ignite and burn when subjected to
fire. Any material conforming to UBC Standard No. 42-1 shall be considered
noncombustible within the meaning of this definition.
      2.   Material having a structural base of noncombustible material as
defined in subsection 1 of this definition, with a surfacing material not over
one-eighth inch (1/8") thick which has a flame-spread rating of fifty (50) or
less.
Noncombustible does not apply to surface finish materials. Material required to
be noncombustible for reduced clearances to flues, heating appliances, or other
materials shall refer to material conforming to subsection A of this
definition. No material shall be classed as noncombustible which is subject to
increase in combustibility or flame-spread rating beyond the limits herein
established, through the effects of age, moisture or other atmospheric
condition. Flame-spread rating as used herein refers to rating obtained
according to tests conducted as specified in UBC Standard No. 42-1.
   NONSTRUCTURAL TRIM: The molding, battens, caps, nailing strips, latticing,
cutouts or letters and walkways which are attached to the sign structure.
   OFF-PREMISES DIRECTIONAL SIGN: A sign mounted on property other than that
occupied by the business. This sign is regulated by the property frontage or
building on which it is supported.
   ON-PREMISES SIGN: A sign which carries only advertisements strictly
incidental to a lawful use of the premises on which it is located, including
signs or sign devices indicating the business transacted, services rendered,
goods sold or produced on the premises, name of the business, name of the
person, firm or corporation occupying the premises.
   PAINTED BULLETIN: Maximum size six hundred (600) square feet. A metal panel
with permanent painted copy. May be directional or advertising copy.
Freestanding signs to have unbraced supports and be landscaped when possible.
   POLE SIGN: A sign wholly supported by a sign structure in the ground.
   PORTABLE DISPLAY SURFACE: A display surface temporarily affixed to a
standardized advertising structure which is regularly moved from structure to
structure at periodic intervals.
   POSTER PANEL: An advertising sign which is placed at different intervals.
Freestanding signs to have unbraced supports and be landscaped when possible.
   PROJECTING DOUBLE-FACED BUILDING SIGN: A double-faced sign which projects
more than twelve inches (12") over public property, and which uses a building
wall as its main support.
   PROJECTING SIGN: A sign other than a wall sign, which projects from and is
supported by a wall of a building or structure.
   PROJECTION: The distance by which a sign extends over public property or
beyond the building lines.
   REVOLVING SIGN: A sign which revolves three hundred sixty degrees (360°) but
does not exceed eight (8) revolutions per minute.
   ROOF SIGN: A sign erected upon or above a roof or parapet wall of a building
and which is wholly or partially supported by said building. Supports must be
an integral part of the design. No exposed wires or struts.
   SIGN: Any medium including its structure and component parts, which is used
or intended to attract attention to the subject matter for advertising purposes
other than paint on the surface of a building.
   SIGN, CONSTRUCTION: A sign to identify a construction project. The sign is
to be removed after construction is completed.
   SIGN STRUCTURE: Any structure which supports or is capable of supporting any
"sign" as defined in this Chapter. A sign structure may be a single pole and
may or may not be an integral part of the building.
   STRUCTURE: A structure which is built or constructed, an edifice or building
of any kind, or any piece of work artificially built up or composed of parts
joined together in some definite manner.
   TEMPORARY SIGN: Any sign, banner, pennant, valance, or advertising display
constructed of cloth, canvas, light fabric, cardboard, wallboard, or other
light materials with or without frames, intended to be displayed for a limited
period of time only.
   TIME AND TEMPERATURE SIGN: A sign involving a panel which displays the time
and temperature with flashing lamps or exposed neon.
   UBC STANDARDS: The 1994 or more current edition of the Uniform Building Code
Standards, published by the International Conference of Building Officials.
   UNDER MARQUEE SIGN: A lighted or unlighted display attached to the underside
of a marquee protruding over public or private sidewalks or right of way.
   UNIFORM BUILDING CODE: The 1994 or more current edition of the Uniform
Building Code, volume I, published by the International Conference of Building
Officials.
   WALL SIGN: Any sign attached to or erected against the wall of a building or
structure, with the exposed face of the sign in a plane parallel to the plane
of said wall. (Ord. 30, 9-26-1977, eff. 9-29-1977; 1996 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 8 of this Code.
7-3-6: GOVERNMENTAL SIGNS EXCLUDED:
For the purpose of this Chapter, sign does not include signs erected and
maintained pursuant to and in discharge of any governmental function or
required by any law, ordinance or governmental regulation. (Ord. 30, 9-26-1977,
eff. 9-29-1977)
7-3-7: DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS:
   A.   General Provisions: Signs and sign structures shall be designed and
constructed to transfer lateral forces to the foundations.
   B.   Construction:
      1.   No animated signs shall be erected or maintained in any residential
land use district.
      2.   No animated signs shall be erected or maintained closer than seventy
five feet (75') from any residential land use district on which there exists
structures used for residential purposes.
      3.   Marquee signs may be placed on, attached to, or constructed in a
marquee. For the purpose of determining height, projection and clearance, see
tables as specified in the Uniform Building Code.
      4.   Copy area of a building facade facing shall not exceed thirty five
percent (35%) of the background facing to which it is applied. Minimum height
of a building to be twenty feet (20').
      5.   All wiring, fittings and material used in construction, connection
and operation of electrically illuminated signs shall be in accordance with the
provisions of the local electric code in effect, if any.
      6.   No freestanding signs shall exceed thirty feet (30') in height;
where landscape setback exists, supports must be outside the setback. Height
ratio to setback is one to one (1:1); maximum height is forty five feet (45')
at fifteen foot (15') setback from right-of-way line. Additional height is only
by conditional use permit and will be at the height to setback ratio of one to
one (1:1). No portion of the sign or supports may project beyond the right-of-
way line or the height to setback ratio line.
      7.   Roof signs may not project beyond the building. Maximum height at
right-of-way line, thirty feet (30'). Maximum height at fifteen foot (15')
setback is forty five feet (45').
In no case shall the sign be higher than a one to one (1:1) ratio to building
height. Roof sign must have a four foot (4') access clearance between the roof
and the bottom of the sign.
      8.   Detached freestanding signs shall have a maximum height at right-of-
way line of twenty feet (20'); where landscape setback exists, supports must be
outside the setback. Height ratio to setback is one to one (1:1). Maximum
height is thirty five feet (35') at fifteen foot (15') setback from right-of-
way line. Additional heights may be granted by conditional use permits.
No portion of the sign or supports may project beyond right-of-way line or the
height to setback line.
      9.   No sign may revolve more than eight (8) revolutions per minute.
      10.   Portable signs, folding signs and similar movable signs shall not
be permitted unless such signs are first approved by the proper authority. The
same shall apply to flags, banners and streamers or special feature items.
Exception: In case of special-feature window signs, in no case shall more than
twenty percent (20%) of a window of a commercial business be used for display
of temporary window signs.
      11.   Freeway signs or signs intended to be viewed from a freeway and
which identify freeway oriented business, (i.e., service stations, restaurants,
hotels) shall have the height computed from a base point equal to the level of
the closest main traveled freeway roadbed. Ratio and maximum height shall be
determined by zone.
      12.   "Animated signs" as defined will be allowed only as follows:
         a.   Commercial and industrial zones.
         b.   Must be at least seventy five feet (75') from any residential
zone.
         c.   May not be erected in any location which would obstruct the
vision of or be confused with a traffic signal or stop sign.
      13.   In computing background area in square feet, standard mathematical
formulas for known or common shapes will be used. On signs with more than one
face, only that face or faces visible from any one direction at one time will
be counted.
      14.   No sign classification shall be installed, erected, or attached in
any form, shape, or manner to a fire escape or any door or window giving access
to any fire escape.
      15.   All signs hung and erected shall be plainly marked with the names
of the person responsible for maintaining the sign.
      16.   Any sign which may be or has become unsafe or is in danger of
falling, the owner thereof or the person maintaining the same, shall upon
receipt of written notice from the Planning and Zoning Administrator/Building
Inspector, proceed at once to put such sign in a safe and secure condition or
remove the sign.
      17.   No sign shall be placed in any public right of way except publicly-
owned signs, such as traffic-control signs and directional signs. Signs
directing and guiding traffic and parking on private property, but bearing no
advertising matter, shall be permitted on any property.
      18.   Signs along interstate and primary highways shall conform to the
Idaho State Highway Department regulations. (Ord. 30, 9-26-1977, eff. 9-29-
1977)
7-3-8: PERMIT REQUIRED; FEES:
   A.   Permit Required: No sign shall hereafter be erected, re-erected,
constructed, altered or maintained except as provided by this Chapter and a
permit for the same has been issued by the County. An electrical sign shall
require an additional electric permit.
   B.   Application:
      1.   Form: Application for a sign permit shall be made in writing upon
forms furnished by the County.
      2.   Required Information: Such application shall contain the location by
street and number of the proposed sign structure as well as the name and
address of the owner and the sign contractor and erector.
      3.   Additional Information: The county may require the filing of plans
or other pertinent information where, in their opinion, such information is
necessary to ensure compliance with this chapter.
   C.   Exemptions: The following signs shall not require a sign permit. This
exemption, however, shall not be construed as relieving the owner of the sign
from the responsibility of its erection and maintenance and its compliance with
the provisions of this chapter or any other law or ordinance regulating the
same.
      1.   The changing of the advertising copy on a painted or printed sign
only. Except for theater marquees and similar signs specifically designed for
the use of replaceable copy, electric signs shall not be included in this
exception.
      2.   Painting, repainting or cleaning of an advertising structure or the
changing of the advertising copy or message thereon shall not be considered an
erection or alteration which requires a sign permit unless a structural change
is made.
      3.   Signs less than six feet (6') aboveground.
   D.   Fees:
      1.   A sign permit fee and a plan checking fee shall be paid in
accordance with the schedule established by the board of county commissioners.
      2.   The fee for a sign permit shall be set by the board of county
commissioners. (Ord. 30, 9-26-1977, eff. 9-29-1977; amd. 1996 Code)
7-3-9: VIOLATION AND PENALTIES:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, construct, enlarge,
alter, repair, move, improve, remove, convert, demolish, equip, use or maintain
any sign or structure in violation of any of the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor, and each such person shall be deemed guilty of a
separate offense for each and every day or portion thereof during which any
violation of any of the provisions of this chapter is committed, continued or
permitted, and upon conviction of any such violation such person shall be
subject to penalty as provided in section 1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 30, 9-26-
1977, eff. 9-29-1977; amd. 1996 Code)
7-3-10: NONACCESSORY OR OFF PREMISES SIGNS:
   A.   Definitions: "Nonaccessory or off premises signs" are signs which are
not related to the property upon which they are located, or to the activities
being conducted thereon. Nonaccessory off premises signs include large general
advertising signs known as billboards and signs advertising a nearby but off
site business.
   B.   Prohibited: No new nonaccessory, off premises, general advertising
signs of the billboard category are allowed. Existing billboards may be allowed
to relocate if the new site is approved based upon the findings and criteria
set forth in this section. Existing nonaccessory off premises signs of the
billboard category may be replaced structure for structure.
   C.   Equivalents: An existing, single faced sign, may be proposed at a new
location as a double faced sign on a single sign structure. An existing double
faced billboard sign cannot be relocated as two (2) single faced signs.
Applications for billboard sign relocation must reflect the size of the sign
that is being replaced or relocated. V-shaped, double face billboard signs
shall be considered a single sign structure as long as the angle between the
sign faces does not exceed thirty five degrees (35°).
   D.   No New Permits Issued: There shall be no permits issued for any new off
premises signs or billboards for any property within the county of Payette.
Existing off premises signs or billboards shall be allowed to continue subject
to the following set out limitations. Those signs or billboards may be moved
within the county limits.
   E.   Distance And Spacing Requirements:
      1.   No off premises sign may be moved to within one thousand feet
(1,000') in any direction of another off premises sign.
      2.   In addition to finding that a proposed off premises sign complies
with all general requirements and spacing regulations as described in this
chapter, the commission must make all of the following findings in permitting
such a sign:
         a.   The location and placement of the sign will not endanger
motorists or pedestrians and does not cause undue distraction to traffic on the
adjacent street or impede views at street or railroad intersections.
         b.   The sign will not cover or blanket any prominent view of a
structure or facade of historical or architectural significance.
         c.   The sign will not obstruct view or uses of adjacent building to
side yards, front yards or to open space.
         d.   The sign will not distract, intrude upon or negatively impact the
visual quality of a public open space such as a public recreation facility,
square, plaza, courtyard and the like.
         e.   The sign is compatible with building heights of the existing
neighborhood and does not impose a foreign or inharmonious element to an
existing skyline.
         f.   The sign's lighting will not cause hazardous or unsafe driving
conditions for motorists and will not glare, reflect or spill onto adjacent
business or residential areas.
   F.   Directional Off Premises Signs:
      1.   A "directional off premises sign" is one that identifies a premises
not located on the same property as the sign and gives directional information
to the reader to the off site location.
         a.   Such a sign may be freestanding or flush wall mounted. It may or
may not be illuminated.
         b.   A directional off premises sign shall not be constructed until
the builder has first obtained a conditional use permit for the sign.
   G.   Obtaining Permit Mandatory: No nonaccessory, off premises, general
advertising signs of the billboard category may be moved without first
obtaining a conditional use permit from the planning and zoning commission. No
sign which is permitted by this section shall be constructed without first
obtaining a building permit from the county building official.
   H.   Penalty: Any violation of this section shall be a misdemeanor
punishable by up to a one thousand dollar ($1,000.00) fine and six (6) months
in the Payette County jail, or both. In addition to, or in lieu of, any
criminal charges, the county shall be allowed to bring an action for abatement.
In any such action the county shall be allowed to recover all fees and costs.
(Ord. 2006-6, 5-22-2006)
CHAPTER 4
POLE BUILDINGS
SECTION:
7-4-1: Definition
7-4-2: Minimum Standards
7-4-3: Penalty
7-4-1: DEFINITION:
A "pole building" or "pole-type building" is a building wherein poles are
embedded in the earth to resist lateral load, movement, stress, bearing or
sliding. (Ord. 63, 11-21-1988)
7-4-2: MINIMUM STANDARDS:
The following standards are minimum standards and replace any standards
heretofore established by the Uniform Building Code or any previously adopted
ordinance:
   A.   All poles placed into the ground or upon the ground for the purpose of
resisting loads as described in Section
7-4-1 or which act as a bearing wall, shall be placed upon a concrete footing.
   B.   Minimum footings shall be six inches (6") thick and eighteen inches
(18") in diameter.
   C.   The footing shall be constructed of concrete and shall have a minimum
compression strength of two thousand five hundred (2,500) psi.
   D.   The poles shall be embedded into the ground a minimum of four feet
(4').
   E.   Any building with poles extending ten feet (10') or more out of the
ground shall have knee bracing, cross bracing or some equivalent bracing which
is approved and certified by a licensed engineer to be equivalent to knee
bracing.
   F.   Truss span shall not exceed thirty feet (30'). Where a truss span is
over thirty feet (30'), the design shall be approved by an engineer.
   G.   All trusses built on site shall be approved by an engineer and all
prefab trusses shall be of a style, quality and strength preapproved by an
engineer.
   H.   For poles extending up to fourteen feet (14') above the ground, minimum
pole diameter shall be six inches by six inches (6" x 6"). For any pole which
extends over fourteen feet (14') above the ground, the minimum diameter shall
be eight inches by eight inches (8" x 8").
   I.   All poles used in a pole building shall be preserved by soaking in
creosote for a minimum net retention of ten (10) pounds per cubic foot. Any
treatment with penta preservative shall provide a minimum net retention of one-
half (1/2) pound per cubic foot. Pressure treatment is also acceptable as long
as the minimum standards are met.
   J.   In soils with a load bearing capacity of less than one thousand five
hundred (1,500) pounds per square foot, a larger footing shall be required.
Where poles are being embedded in soils which have a load bearing capacity of
less than one thousand five hundred (1,500) pounds per square foot, the
equation for computing the footing shall be a minimum of one cubic foot of
footing for each one thousand (1,000) pounds of actual or anticipated load.
Table 18-I-A of the 1994 Uniform Building Code, volume 2, page 57, shall
determine the footing requirements above the minimum established herein. No
footing shall be smaller than that required in subsection B above.
   K.   Poles shall not exceed twelve feet (12') on center.
   L.   All bearing walls in all buildings shall be supported by footings and
foundations of sufficient size and strength to support all anticipated loads.
All footings shall extend below the finished grade a minimum of twenty four
inches (24"). (Ord. 63, 11-21-1988; 1996 Code)
7-4-3: PENALTY:
   A.   Violation: Any violation of this Chapter shall be a misdemeanor
punishable as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code.
   B.   Costs: In addition, any person shall be allowed to sue for the
abatement of any structure built in violation of this Chapter, and if
successful shall be awarded all court costs and attorney fees. (Ord. 63, 11-21-
1988; 1996 Code)
PA570   7-5.TXT CHAPTER 5
RURAL MAPS AND ADDRESSES
SECTION:
7-5-1: Adoption
7-5-2: Street And Road Names
7-5-3: Assigning And Locating Addresses
7-5-4: Official County Addresses
7-5-5: Renumbering
7-5-6: Issuance Of Addresses
7-5-7: Mailboxes
7-5-8: Sale Of Copies
7-5-9: Annual Updates
7-5-1: ADOPTION:
   A.   Maps Adopted: The Payette County rural maps and addresses (hereinafter
be referred to as "maps"), as presented to the board of county commissioners,
in either text or digital format, are hereby accepted and adopted as the
official county diagrammatic layout of streets, roads, cities, and subdivisions
within the county, the purpose of which is the assigning and locating of
addresses within the county.
   B.   Copies On File: A true and correct copy of said maps in either digital
or text format shall be on file with the county clerk. (Ord. 2008-03, 3-17-
2008)
7-5-2: STREET AND ROAD NAMES:
The names of streets and roads as set forth on said maps are adopted as the
official county street and road names. (Ord. 2008-03, 3-17-2008)
7-5-3: ASSIGNING AND LOCATING ADDRESSES:
The said maps and addresses set forth thereon are adopted for use as the
official means of assigning and locating addresses in the county. (Ord. 2008-
03, 3-17-2008)
7-5-4: OFFICIAL COUNTY ADDRESSES:
The addresses set forth on said maps are adopted as set forth thereon and shall
henceforth be used as official county addresses. (Ord. 2008-03, 3-17-2008)
7-5-5: RENUMBERING:
All existing structures for which an address is set forth on said maps shall be
renumbered with the address as set forth on the appropriate map, said numerals
to be at least three and one-half inches (31/2") in height and to be visible
from the center of the road or street facing said structure. (Ord. 2008-03, 3-
17-2008)
7-5-6: ISSUANCE OF ADDRESSES:
It shall be the responsibility of the building inspector to issue proper
addresses to each new county residential structure for which a building permit
is issued by his or her office subsequent to the effective date hereof. Each
new residential structure shall be numbered in the manner set forth in section
7-5-5 of this chapter. (Ord. 2008-03, 3-17-2008)
7-5-7: MAILBOXES:
All individuals affected hereby shall number their mailboxes in accordance with
U.S. postal regulations. (Ord. 2008-03, 3-17-2008)
7-5-8: SALE OF COPIES:
Copies of the maps either in digital or text form shall be available to sell to
the public at a cost set from time to time by resolution by the board of
commissioners. (Ord. 2008-03, 3-17-2008)
7-5-9: ANNUAL UPDATES:
The annual updates of said maps either in digital or text form shall be
available to the public at a cost to be established from time to time by
resolution of the board of commissioners. (Ord. 2008-03, 3-17-2008)
CHAPTER 6
BRIDGES
SECTION:
7-6-1: Design Requirements
7-6-2: Private Bridges
7-6-3: Existing Bridges
7-6-4: Adoption Of Exhibit A
7-6-1: DESIGN REQUIREMENTS:
Any bridge which is constructed on an existing county road, or any bridge which
is constructed as part of a new county road, or any bridge which is dedicated
for use as a part of the Payette County public road system which is to be
accepted by Payette County for maintenance purposes, shall be designed in
accordance with the American association of state highway and transportation
officials (AASHTO) specifications with a design load of HS20. Clear width shall
be twenty four feet (24') between curbs and between guardrails. (Ord. 2001-2,
3-5-2001)
7-6-2: PRIVATE BRIDGES:
New bridges for private access shall be designed in accordance with American
association of state highway and transportation officials (AASHTO)
specifications with a design load of HS15. There shall be a clear width of
twelve feet (12') between curbs and between guardrails. (Ord. 2001-2, 3-5-2001)
7-6-3: EXISTING BRIDGES:
Existing bridges for which the load carrying capacity has not yet been
determined shall meet the state of Idaho, department of transportation load
rating system which has heretofore been adopted by the state of Idaho, which is
hereby adopted by Payette County and which is set out as follows:
 
Type 3 truck   3 axles 27 tons (54,000) maximum axle load of 18,900 pounds
Type 3S2 truck 5 axles 39.5 tons (79,000) maximum axle load of 17,500 pounds
Type 3-3 truck 6 axles 39.5 tons (79,000) maximum axle load of 14,900 pounds
 
(Ord. 2001-2, 3-5-2001)
7-6-4: ADOPTION OF EXHIBIT A:
Exhibit A, which is attached to ordinance 2001-2 and on file in the office of
the county clerk, is incorporated hereat as if set out in full verbatim and is
adopted as a part of the Payette County bridge standards. (Ord. 2001-2, 3-5-
2001)
CHAPTER 7
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
SECTION:
7-7-1: Combining Of Permits
7-7-2: Exempt Buildings
7-7-3: Meaning Of Terms Or Words
7-7-4: Building Permit Provisions; Uniform Building Code
7-7-5: Off Street Parking
7-7-6: Standards
7-7-7: Violation
7-7-1: COMBINING OF PERMITS:
Prior to issuing any permit, the board of county commissioners, planning and
zoning commission, planning and zoning administrator, or building official will
require an applicant to have all permits required by other affected
departments, authorities or regulatory agencies. (Ord. 2009-05, 7-6-2009)
7-7-2: EXEMPT BUILDINGS:
   A.   Farm Buildings:
      1.   Definitions:
   AGRICULTURAL BUILDING: A farm structure, which is constructed on a parcel
larger than five (5) acres, designed and constructed to house farm implements,
hay, grain, poultry, livestock or other horticultural products and includes
sheds, barns, corrals or fences. This structure shall not be a place of human
habitation, a place of employment where agricultural products are processed,
treated or packaged, or for storage of nonfarm related implements nor shall it
be a place used by the public.
   EXEMPT BUILDING: An agricultural building which is not required to conform
to those building codes enumerated in section 39-4116 Idaho Code, or any
successor section of the Idaho Code. Neither dairy barns nor milking parlors
are exempt buildings.
      2.   Exemption: Any person who constructs a farm building which qualifies
as an "agricultural building" as defined above and which is constructed on a
parcel larger than five (5) acres, shall be exempt from the requirements of
those codes as set forth in section 39-4116 Idaho Code.
      3.   Siting Permit: No exempt building shall be constructed without first
obtaining a siting permit from the building official. To ensure that the
building complies with all setback, utility easement, lot coverage or other
requirements of this code a person constructing an exempt building shall submit
a plot plan to the building official prior to commencement of construction. No
exempt building shall be converted to a nonexempt use without first following
the procedure set out below.
      4.   Plot Plan: The plot plan shall show all easements, rights of way,
highways, roads, property lines, building locations. The building official
shall then conduct an inspection to ensure that the building will comply with
all zoning ordinances and will not encroach upon any easements.
      5.   Use Of Exempt Building: When any person desires to use an exempt
building for a nonexempt purpose, the owner of the building shall first notify
the building official and apply for a building permit in the same manner as if
the building had not been built. That person shall purchase a building permit.
That person shall make the building available to the building official who
shall conduct such inspections as are necessary to ensure that the building
conforms to current building codes in effect at the time of the application for
a building permit. The applicant may be required to expose sections of the
structure for inspection.
      6.   Fees: Fees for siting permits shall be set by resolution of the
board of county commissioners. (Ord. 2009-05, 7-6-2009)
7-7-3: MEANING OF TERMS OR WORDS:
BASEMENT: That portion of a dwelling unit all or partly underground and having
at least one-half (1/2) of its height below the average level of the adjoining
ground.
CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY: A document issued by the building official that
confirms that a structure has complied with all inspections and requirements
and permits allowable use of said structure. (Ord. 2009-05, 7-6-2009)
7-7-4: BUILDING PERMIT PROVISIONS; UNIFORM BUILDING CODE:
Sections 301 through 307 of the uniform building code as amended are
incorporated herein as if set out in full, verbatim. Any future amendments of
these sections of the uniform building code either expanding, amending,
succeeding or replacing sections 301 through 307 shall automatically be deemed
included herein unless specifically excluded. (Ord. 2009-05, 7-6-2009)
7-7-5: OFF STREET PARKING:
   A.   Approval Of Facilities: All parking facilities shall be approved by a
person designated by the board of county commissioners or a licensed engineer,
as to their adequacy and conformation to this code.
   B.   Permanent Facilities Required: No building or structure shall be
erected, substantially altered or its use changed unless permanently maintained
off street parking and loading spaces have been provided.
   C.   Existing Buildings Excepted: The provisions of this chapter, except
where there is a change of use, shall not apply to any existing building or
structure.
   D.   Change In Floor Area: Whenever a building or structure constructed
after the effective date hereof is changed or enlarged in floor area, number of
employees, number of dwelling units, seating capacity or otherwise, to create a
need for an increase in the number of existing parking spaces, additional
parking spaces shall be provided on the basis of the enlargement or change.
(Ord. 2009-05, 7-6-2009)
7-7-6: STANDARDS:
   A.   Dwellings And Apartment Houses: All dwellings and apartment houses
shall provide parking space off the road or street and outside the public right
of way, together with the means of ingress and egress thereto, for not less
than two (2) motor vehicles per dwelling unit or apartment.
   B.   All Other Buildings, Structures And Facilities: All other buildings,
structures and facilities shall provide parking spaces and loading zones off
the road or street and outside the public right of way, together with the means
of ingress and egress, the number of said required spaces and loading zones to
be determined in accordance with the current uniform building code as adopted
by the board of county commissioners.
   C.   Specifications: Each off street parking space shall not be less than
ten feet (10') wide and not less than twenty feet (20') long, shall be
accessible from a street or road, shall be properly drained and surfaced with
gravel, asphalt, concrete or equivalent material and shall be located within
convenient walking distance of the principal buildings for which the parking or
loading space is required. (Ord. 2009-05, 7-6-2009)
7-7-7: VIOLATION:
Any violation of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor punishable by not more
than one year in the Payette County jail or a fine of not more than one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or both. (Ord. 2009-05, 7-6-2009)
TITLE 8
ZONING
CHAPTER 1
CITATION, INTERPRETATION, JURISDICTION AND AMENDMENT
SECTION:
8-1-1: Title And Purposes
8-1-2: Authority
8-1-3: Jurisdiction And Development Standards
8-1-4: Minimum Requirements
8-1-5: Combining Of Permits
8-1-6: Preservation Of Private Property Rights
8-1-7: Application Required
8-1-8: Amendment
8-1-9: Action By Planning And Zoning Commission, Board Of County Commissioners
8-1-10: Ambiguity
8-1-11: Recording Of Memorandum
8-1-12: Severability Clause
8-1-1: TITLE AND PURPOSES:
   A.   Title: This title may be cited as the ZONING ORDINANCE OF PAYETTE
COUNTY, IDAHO.
   B.   Purposes:
      1.   To encourage and facilitate the orderly growth and development of
the county.
      2.   To protect property rights and preserve property values within the
restrictions imposed by this title.
      3.   To ensure that adequate public facilities and services are provided
to the people at reasonable cost.
      4.   To ensure that the economy of the state and localities is protected
and enhanced.
      5.   To ensure that the important environmental features of the state and
localities are protected and enhanced.
      6.   To encourage the protection of prime agricultural, and mining lands
for production of food, fiber and minerals.
      7.   To encourage urban and urban type development within incorporated
cities.
      8.   To avoid undue concentration of population and overcrowding of land.
      9.   To ensure that the development of land is commensurate with the
physical characteristics of the land.
      10.   To protect life and property in areas subject to natural hazards
and disasters.
      11.   To protect fish, wildlife and recreation resources.
      12.   To avoid undue water, noise and air pollution. (Ord. 57, 4-18-1988)
8-1-2: AUTHORITY:
This zoning title is adopted pursuant to authority granted by Idaho Code, title
67, chapter 65, and article 12, section 2 of the Idaho constitution, as amended
or subsequently modified. (Ord. 57, 4-18-1988)
8-1-3: JURISDICTION AND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
   A.   This title applies to the zoning and uses of land within the
unincorporated area of Payette County. (Ord. 2009-03, 6-15-2009)
   B.   Any development shall be done in accordance with standards in existence
at the time the development takes place. (Ord. 57, 4-18-1988)
8-1-4: MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS:
In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this title are
minimum requirements, adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety
and the general welfare. Whenever the requirements of this title may be
exercised concurrently with the requirements of any other lawfully adopted
rules, regulations, ordinances or resolutions, the ordinance, rule, regulation
or resolution imposing the most restrictive standard shall govern. (Ord. 57, 4-
18-1988)
8-1-5: COMBINING OF PERMITS:
Prior to issuing any permit, the board of county commissioners, planning and
zoning commission, planning and zoning administrator, or building official will
require an applicant to have all permits required by other affected
departments, authorities or regulatory agencies. (Ord. 2009-03, 6-15-2009)
8-1-6: PRESERVATION OF PRIVATE PROPERTY RIGHTS:
   A.   Interpretation; Application: This title shall be interpreted to protect
citizens from undue encroachment of noncompatible uses. This title shall be
deemed to apply similarly and equally to each person and property in similar
circumstances, and shall not be enforced to discriminate between one individual
or other individuals or other groups as compared to all others.
   B.   Private Restrictions: This title is not intended to impair or interfere
with private restrictions on the use of land, improvements and structures.
(Ord. 57, 4-18-1988)
8-1-7: APPLICATION REQUIRED:
   A.   Submission: No matter will be considered or acted upon until an
application approved by the planning and zoning administrator is properly
submitted. In the event an applicant or the planning and zoning commission,
board of county commissioners or administrator finds or desires that additional
information is needed or that additional studies are required, any time
limitations imposed upon the commission, board or administrator are suspended
until the studies are completed. No structures, except those structures being
erected by public entities, shall be exempt from payment of the fees as
established by the commission, board or administrator.
   B.   Plot Plan: The plot plan shall show all easements, rights of way,
highways, roads, property lines, and building locations. The planning and
zoning administrator shall then verify that the buildings will comply with all
zoning ordinances. The planning and zoning administrator must also sign off on
any residential plot plans.
   C.   Fees: Fees for applications shall be set by resolution of the board of
county commissioners. (Ord. 2009-03, 6-15-2009)
8-1-8: AMENDMENT:
This title may be amended by following the notice and hearing provisions set
forth in Idaho Code section 67-6509. (Ord. 57, 4-18-1988)
8-1-9: ACTION BY PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION, BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS:
   A.   Motion: On all matters requiring that they be brought before the board
of county commissioners or planning and zoning commission by motion, a negative
motion may be introduced to put any matter before the commission for discussion
and vote.
   B.   Idaho Code Requirements: In all matters where written notice or a
hearing is required, the planning and zoning commission or board of county
commissioners will comply with the writing and recording requirements of Idaho
Code sections 67-6535 and 67-6536.
   C.   Failure To Act: On any matter or application presented wherein any time
limit is set in which the board of county commissioners, planning and zoning
commission or planning and zoning administrator is required to take any action,
should the board, commission or administrator fail to act within the required
time period, on the last day allowed for action, any request for action is
denied. Any board or commission acting pursuant to this section will have
fifteen (15) days after denial to comply with Idaho Code section 67-6519. (Ord.
2009-03, 6-15-2009)
8-1-10: AMBIGUITY:
In the event of any ambiguity in the words contained in this title, it shall be
interpreted and construed in favor of protecting agricultural lands. (Ord. 57,
4-18-1988)
8-1-11: RECORDING OF MEMORANDUM:
To assist the planning and zoning administrator in recordkeeping, all
unrecorded land sales contracts shall have a memorandum filed notifying the
public of the buyer's interest in the property. (Ord. 2009-03, 6-15-2009)
8-1-12: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
Should any clause, phrase, section, chapter, provision or provisions of this
title be declared by the courts to be unconstitutional or invalid, such
decision shall not affect the validity of the title as a whole or any part
thereof other than the part so declared to be unconstitutional or invalid.
(Ord. 57, 4-18-1988)
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
8-2-1: Interpretation Of Terms Or Words
8-2-2: Meaning Of Terms Or Words
8-2-1: INTERPRETATION OF TERMS OR WORDS:
For the purpose of this title, certain terms or words used herein shall be
interpreted as follows:
   A.   The word "person" includes a firm, association, organization,
partnership, trust, company, political subdivision or corporation, as well as
an individual.
   B.   The present tense includes the future tense, the singular number
includes the plural and the plural number includes the singular; the female
gender includes the neuter and male, the male gender includes the female and
neuter and the neuter includes the male and female.
   C.   The word "shall" is a mandatory requirement, the word "may" is
permissive usage and the word "should" is a preferred usage.
   D.   The words "used" or "occupied" include the words "intended, designed or
arranged to be used or occupied".
   E.   A word or term which is not specifically defined by this chapter has
its common ordinary meaning as indicated by the context in which it is used.
(Ord. 57, 4-18-1988)
8-2-2: MEANING OF TERMS OR WORDS:
As used in this title, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
ACCESSORY USE OR STRUCTURE: A use or structure on the same tract, parcel or
lot, with and of a nature customarily incidental and subordinate to, the
principal use or structure.
ADMINISTRATOR: A person who is appointed by the board of county commissioners
to administer this title.
AGRICULTURAL LANDS: Those lands which possess physical and chemical
characteristics making them suitable for producing food, feed fiber and oilseed
crops. Uses can include cropland, pastureland, rangeland, but not urban built
up land or submerged land.
AGRICULTURAL USE: Includes the preparation and storage of the products raised
on agricultural land for human or animal use and their disposal by marketing or
other means.
AGRICULTURE: Utilization of land and buildings for the purpose of raising,
harvesting and selling crops or the feeding, breeding, management and sale of,
or the production of, livestock, poultry, furbearing animals or honeybees, or
for dairying and the sale of dairy products or any other agricultural or
horticultural use or animal husbandry or any combination thereof, including all
uses customarily accessory and incidental thereto.
AIRPORT: Any runway, land area or other facility designed or used either
publicly or privately by any person for the landing and taking off of aircraft,
including all necessary taxiways, aircraft storage and tie down areas, hangars
and other necessary buildings.
AREA, BUILDABLE: The space within the setback lines remaining on a lot, parcel
or tract after the minimum open space requirements of this title have been
complied with.
AREA, MINIMUM LOT: The minimum area which is allowed within the property lines
of the lot, excluding adjoining public or private streets or rights of way.
AREA, PRIVATE PARKING: An open graded area, other than a street or public way,
designed, arranged and made available for the storage or parking of private
passenger vehicles of occupants of the building or buildings for which the
parking area is developed.
AREA, PUBLIC PARKING: An open area, other than a street or alley, used for the
temporary parking of automobiles and available for public use, whether free,
for compensation or as an accommodation for clients or customers.
AUTOMOBILE, MOTOR VEHICLE OR EQUIPMENT REPAIR: The repair, rebuilding or
reconditioning of motor vehicles or equipment repair or parts thereof,
including collision service painting and steam cleaning of vehicles.
AUTOMOTIVE, MOBILE HOME, TRAVEL TRAILER AND FARM IMPLEMENT SALES: The sale or
rental of new and used motor homes, motor vehicles, travel trailers or farm
implements, but not including repair work except incidental warranty repair of
same, to be displayed and sold on the premises.
AUTOMOTIVE WRECKING YARD: Any use of a premises, excluding fully enclosed
buildings, whereon more than two (2) motor vehicles not in operating condition
are standing sixty (60) days or more and on which such used motor vehicles or
parts thereof, are dismantled or stored.
BOARD: The board of county commissioners of Payette County.
BOARDING HOUSE, ROOMING HOUSE, DORMITORY: A dwelling or part thereof, other
than a hotel, motel or restaurant, where meals and/or lodging are provided for
compensation for three (3) or more persons not in the same family, where no
cooking or dining facilities are provided in the individual rooms.
BOND, PERFORMANCE OR SURETY: A financial guarantee by a third party on behalf
of a developer with the county in the amount of the estimated construction cost
guaranteeing the completion of physical improvements according to plans and
specifications within the time prescribed by the agreement or guaranteeing
accomplishment of agreed upon or permitted course of conduct or use.
BUILDING: Any structure designed or intended for the support, enclosure,
shelter or protection of persons, animals, chattels or property of any kind.
BUILDING, ACCESSORY: A subordinate building detached from, but located on the
same lot as the principal building, the use of which is incidental and
accessory to that of the main building or use, and not including those
buildings defined herein as "farm" and "garden buildings".
BUILDING, ASSEMBLY: A building or portion thereof designated and used for the
gathering together of fifty (50) or more persons for such purposes as
deliberation, workshop, entertainment, amusement or awaiting transportation.
BUILDING, CLUB OR LODGE: A building or portion thereof or premises owned or
operated by an organized association of persons for social, literary,
political, educational or recreational purposes primarily for the exclusive use
of members and their guests; but not including an organization, group or
association, the principal activity of which is to render a service usually and
ordinarily carried on as a business.
BUILDING, EXISTING: A building erected prior to the effective date hereof or
one for which a legal building permit has been issued, prior to the effective
date hereof.
BUILDING, FARM-RANCH: Those buildings and structures used to shelter or enclose
livestock, poultry, feed, farm crops, field equipment, dairy operations or
similar uses.
BUILDING, GARDEN: A subordinate building detached from, but located on the same
lot as a principal building, which is used for the storage of implements or
equipment incidental and necessary to engage in domestic gardening or lawn
care.
BUILDING HEIGHT: The vertical distance measured from the average elevation of
the proposed finished grade at the front of the building to the highest point
of the roof for flat roofs, to the deck line of mansard roofs and the top of
building walls for gable, hip and gambrel roofs.
BUILDING LINE: A line which is parallel with a street right of way line, shore
of a lake, edge of a stream, or riverbank, established on a parcel of land or
on a lot for the purpose of prohibiting construction of a building.
BUILDING PERMIT: Administrative authority which allows a person the right to
construct a structure on a parcel of land which has a right to be built upon.
BUILDING, PRINCIPAL: A building other than an accessory building and for which
the use thereof is authorized by this title for the zone in which it is
located.
CAFO SITING PERMIT: Permit required before a CAFO can be created, continued,
developed, operated or transferred.
CEMETERY: Land used or intended to be used for the burial of the human dead and
dedicated for cemetery purposes, including crematories, mausoleums and
mortuaries if operated in connection with and within the boundaries of such
cemetery for which perpetual care and maintenance is provided.
CLINIC: A building used for the care, diagnosis and treatment of sick, ailing,
infirm or injured persons and those who are in need of medical and surgical
attention; but which building does not provide board, room or regular hospital
care and services.
COMMERCIAL ENTERTAINMENT FACILITIES: Any profit making activity which is
generally related to the entertainment field, such as motion picture theaters,
carnivals, nightclubs, cocktail lounges and similar entertainment activities.
COMMERCIAL MEATPACKING FACILITIES: Includes: a) meat canning, b) curing, c)
smoking, d) salting, e) packing, and f) freezing or other similar
establishments in which meat products are so processed for sale and where the
inspection of meat, meat byproducts and meat food products are maintained.
COMMERCIAL SLAUGHTERHOUSE AND MEATPACKING FACILITIES: Includes the: a)
slaughtering, b) meat canning, c) curing, d) smoking, e) salting, f) packing,
g) rendering, h) freezing, or other similar establishments in which meat
products are so processed for sale to the public and where the inspection of
meat, meat byproducts and meat food products are maintained.
COMMISSION: The planning and zoning commission appointed by the board of county
commissioners.
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: A plan, or any portion thereof, adopted pursuant to Idaho
Code, title 67, chapter 65, by the board of county commissioners including such
things as the general location and extent of present and proposed physical
facilities including housing, industrial and commercial uses, major
transportation, parks, schools and other community facilities.
CONDITIONAL USE: A nonprincipal use permitted within a district, requiring a
permit and approval of the planning and zoning commission.
CONFINED ANIMAL FEEDING OPERATION (CAFO): A contiguous area, lot, facility or
parcel of land or the use of a contiguous area, lot, facility or parcel of
land, upon which there are confined or stabled, livestock, swine, poultry or
other animals defined as follows:
   A.   Any combination of animals, which totals two hundred (200) or more and
which are confined at a density of more than five (5) animals per acre, for
more than two hundred forty (240) days during a three hundred sixty five (365)
day period;
   B.   Any combination of animals, which totals seven hundred (700) or more
and which are confined at a density of more than five (5) animals per acre, for
more than ninety (90) days during a three hundred sixty five (365) day period;
   C.   Any combination of animals, which totals one thousand (1,000) or more
and which are confined at a density of more than five (5) animals per acre.
COUNCIL: The city council of Payette, Fruitland, or New Plymouth.
COVENANTS: A written promise or pledge, which, when recorded, attaches to
affected realty and which cannot be separated from the land without the consent
of all affected landowners.
DAYCARE FACILITY: A place, home or facility providing care for more than five
(5) children for a fee.
DENSITY: The number of dwelling units per original tract.
DEVELOPER: Any person who executes the application and initiates proceedings
for the subdivision of land in accordance with the provisions of the Payette
County subdivision ordinance 1 . The developer need not be the owner of the
property.
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT: A binding document that will assure compliance with the
zoning and subdivision ordinances and with any required findings, conclusions
and order allowing a rezone and with the oral representations and agreements of
the rezone applicant.
DIVIDE OR DIVISION: Any partition of a parcel of real property whether by deed,
mortgage, deed of trust, sales agreement, will, trust, court order or decree,
or otherwise.
DWELLING: House, home or family abode.
DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY: A dwelling consisting of three (3) or more dwelling
units including townhouses and condominiums with varying arrangements of
entrances and party walls. Multi-family housing may include public and private
housing.
DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY: A dwelling consisting of a single dwelling unit only,
separated from other dwelling units by open space.
DWELLING, SUBTERRANEAN: A dwelling, house or home all or partly underground,
but having at least one-half (1/2) of its height below the average level of the
adjoining ground.
DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY (DUPLEX): A dwelling consisting of two (2) dwelling units
which may be either attached side by side or one above the other.
DWELLING UNIT: Space within a dwelling comprising living, dining, sleeping room
or rooms, storage closets, as well as space and equipment for cooking, bathing
and toilet facilities, all used by only one family and its household employees.
DWELLING UNIT, ACCESSORY: A second single-family dwelling on a shared lot, also
known as an Accessory Dwelling Unit (ADU).
EASEMENT: A right, privilege, service or convenience, possessed by one person,
either through agreement or through condemnation, to use for a specified
purpose a designated portion of a property owner's land.
FAMILY: Two (2) or more persons related by consanguinity or affinity to the
first degree.
FARM LABOR HOUSE: Housing occupied by a farm or ranch employee who earns a
minimum of seventy five percent (75%) of his gross income from the farm upon
which he resides.
FEEDLOT: A commercial feedlot is a tightly grouped livestock restraining
facility or corrals designed to hold livestock, or a rotating flow of
livestock, for extended periods of time and where livestock are wholly
dependent upon an outside source of feed. (See also definition of Confined
Animal Feeding Operation (CAFO).)
FLOODPLAIN: The relatively flat area or lowland adjoining the channel of a
river, stream, lake or other body of water which has been or may be covered by
water of a flood of 100-year frequency. The floodplain includes the channel,
floodway and floodway fringe, as established by the engineering practices as
specified by the army corps of engineers, as follows:
   Channel: A natural or artificial watercourse of perceptible extent, with a
definite bed and banks to confine and conduct continuously or periodically
flowing water;
   Flood: The temporary inundation of land adjacent to and inundated by
overflow from a river, stream, lake or other body of water;
   Flood Of 100-Year Frequency: A flood magnitude which has a one percent (1%)
chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year;
   Floodway: The channel of a watercourse and those portions of the floodplain
adjoining the channel which are reasonably required to carry and discharge the
floodwater of any watercourse; and
   Floodway Fringe: That part of the floodplain which is beyond the floodway.
Such areas will include those portions of the floodplain which will be
inundated by a flood of 100-year frequency.
GARAGE, SERVICE STATION: Buildings and premises where diesel, gasoline, oil,
grease, batteries, tires or motor vehicle accessories may be supplied and
dispensed at retail. Minor services may be performed.
HEALTH AUTHORITY: Southwest health district or Idaho department of health and
welfare, or its successor.
HOME OCCUPATION: A full or part time occupation which is conducted entirely
within a dwelling unit and which does not change the character of the dwelling
unit.
HOTEL OR MOTEL AND APARTMENT HOTEL: A building in which lodging or boarding and
lodging are provided and offered to the public for compensation. The term
includes a "boarding house, rooming house or dormitory" which is herein
separately defined.
INSTITUTION: Building and/or land designed to aid individuals in need of
mental, therapeutic, rehabilitative counseling or other correctional services.
IRRIGATION POND: A body of standing water, either naturally occurring or
manmade, designed to hold a sufficient quantity of water to allow a person to
pump therefrom for the purposes of irrigating adjoining farmland. The
dimensions of a manmade irrigation pond shall not exceed ten feet (10') in
depth and one- third (1/3) acre in area. A manmade irrigation pond shall be
completed in thirty (30) days or less and the materials removed therefrom shall
not be used for sale or other commercial purposes. Any manmade pond or
excavation which exceeds the limitations set out above shall be treated as a
gravel pit.
JUNKYARD: Any land, property, structure, or combination thereof used for the
collecting, storage, dismantling or sale of discarded material.
KENNEL: Any lot or premises on which four (4) or more domesticated animals more
than four (4) months of age are housed, groomed, bred, boarded, trained, sold
or which offers provisions for minor medical treatment 2 .
LOADING SPACE, OFF STREET: Space designated for pick ups and deliveries.
LOT: A parcel of land of sufficient size to meet minimum zoning requirements
for use, coverage and area, and to provide such yards and other open spaces as
are herein required.
LOT COVERAGE: The ratio of enclosed ground floor area of all buildings on a lot
to the horizontally projected area of the lot, expressed as a percentage.
LOT FRONTAGE: The front of a lot shall be construed to be the portion nearest
the street. For the purpose of determining yard requirements on corner lots and
through lots, all sides of a lot adjacent to streets shall be considered
frontage.
LOT, MINIMUM AREA OF: Lot area excluding any portion of the right of way of any
public or private street.
LOT OF RECORD: A lot which is part of a subdivision recorded in the office of
the county recorder; or a lot or parcel described by metes and bounds, the
description of which has been so recorded.
LOT TYPES: Types of lots are as follows:
   Corner Lot: A lot located at the intersection of two (2) or more streets;
   Interior Lot: A lot with only one frontage on a street;
   Reversed Frontage Lot: A lot on which frontage is at right angles to the
general pattern in the area. A reversed frontage lot may also be a corner lot;
   Through Lot: A lot other than a corner lot with frontage on more than one
street. Through lots abutting two (2) streets may be referred to as double
frontage lots.
MANUFACTURING, EXTRACTIVE: Any on site mining, quarrying, excavating,
processing, storing, separating, cleaning, crushing or marketing of any mineral
natural resource.
MANUFACTURING, HEAVY: Manufacturing, processing, assembling, storing, testing
and similar industrial uses which are generally major operations and extensive
in character requiring large sites. Normally, they generate some nuisances such
as smoke, noise, vibration, dust, and air and water pollution, which pollution
may extend beyond the district boundary.
MANUFACTURING, LIGHT: Manufacturing or other industrial uses which are usually
controlled operations, relatively clean, quiet and free from objectionable
noise or pollution.
MEMBERSHIP CLUB: An association of persons, whether incorporated or
unincorporated, for some common purpose, but not including groups organized
primarily to tender a service carried on as a business.
MOBILE HOME: A detached single-family dwelling unit with all of the following
characteristics:
   A.   Designed for long term occupancy and containing sleeping
accommodations, a flush toilet, a tub or shower bath and kitchen facilities
with plumbing and electrical connections provided for attachment to outside
systems;
   B.   Designed to be transported after fabrication on its own wheels, or a
flatbed or other trailers or detached wheels;
   C.   Arriving at the site where it is to be occupied as a dwelling, usually
including major appliances and furniture, and ready for occupancy except for
minor and incidental unpacking and assembly operations, such as location on
foundation supports, connection to utilities and the like;
   D.   Mounted on a chassis running the length of the unit with the outer
walls cantilevered from the chassis or supported by the chassis rather than by
a foundation running along the perimeter of the unit.
MOBILE HOME PARK: Any site or tract of land upon which two (2) or more mobile
homes are parked on a permanent or semipermanent basis, either free of charge
or for revenue purposes; including any roadway, building, structure, vehicle or
enclosure used or intended for use as a part of the facilities of such park.
NONCONFORMING USE: A building, structure or use of land existing at the time of
enactment hereof, and which does not conform to the regulations of the district
in which it is situated.
NURSERY, PLANT AND MATERIALS: Land, building, structure or combination thereof
for the storage, cultivation, container growing or transplanting of live trees,
shrubs or plants for shipping or sale on the premises including products used
for gardening or landscaping.
NURSING HOME: A home or facility for care and treatment of more than five (5)
handicapped or elderly persons.
OPEN SPACE: Undeveloped land used primarily for grazing, farming, or other
agricultural related pursuits or land that is a critical wildlife habitat or
needs to be protected to enhance and maintain the rural character of the county
3 .
ORIGINAL PARCEL: A parcel or tract as recorded on any plat or on file in the
office of the county recorder, excluding an assessor's tract or a subdivision
surveyed to aid a taxing district, or any unplatted contiguous parcel of land
held in one ownership or recorded as the property of one person, as of March
21, 1979. This shall not apply to bona fide purchases of contiguous parcels
purchased on different occasions with separate financing for the purpose of
increasing the size of a parcel or tract, which parcels have not been combined
into a single legal description. An original parcel transferred to one or more
heirs pursuant to a decree of distribution shall retain its status as an
original tract and shall not gain any additional building rights.
ORIGINAL TRACT: See definition of Original Parcel.
PACKING PLANT FOR FARM CROPS, COMMERCIAL: Packing plants for farm crops will be
considered commercial for the term of this title when more than fifty percent
(50%) of the farm crops graded or packed are not produced by the owner.
PARCEL: A contiguous quantity of land owned by, or recorded as the property of,
the same person. Parcels purchased on different occasions with separate
financing for the purpose of increasing the size of a parcel or tract, which
parcels have not been combined into a single legal description, are individual
parcels.
PARTITION: The voluntary or compulsory division of real property between co-
owners, resulting in individual ownership of the interest of each.
PERMIT: A document issued by the planning and zoning administrator authorizing
the use of land and structures, and the characteristics of the uses.
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT: An area of land in which a variety of uses developed
under single ownership or control are accommodated in a preplanned environment
with more flexible standards, such as lot size and setbacks, than those
restrictions that would normally apply under these regulations.
PROFESSIONAL SERVICES: The use of offices and related spaces for such
professional services as are provided by medical practitioners, lawyers,
architects, engineers and similar professions.
PUBLIC SERVICE FACILITY: The erection, construction, alteration, operation or
maintenance of building, power plants or substations, water treatment plants or
pumping stations, sewage disposal or pumping plants, and other similar public
service structures by a public utility, by a railroad, whether publicly or
privately owned, or by a municipal or other governmental agency, including the
furnishing of electrical, gas, rail transport, communication, public water and
sewage services.
PUBLIC USE: Public parks, schools, administrative and cultural buildings and
structures.
QUASI-PUBLIC USE: Churches, Sunday schools, parochial schools, colleges,
hospitals and other facilities of an educational, religious, charitable,
philanthropic or nonprofit nature.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV) PARK: Any site or tract of land whereupon two (2) or
more mobile homes or travel trailers are placed, located and maintained for
dwelling purposes on a temporary basis.
ROAD RIGHT OF WAY: A strip of land taken or dedicated for public use as a
public way. In addition to the roadway it normally incorporates the curbs, lawn
strips, sidewalks, lighting and drainage facilities, and may include special
features (required by the topography or treatment) such as grade separation,
landscaped areas, viaducts and bridges.
ROADSIDE STAND: A temporary structure designed or used for the display or sale
of products.
SCREENING: A greenbelt around any given zone to aid in restricting and
suppressing the transfer of dust, noise or other offensive or harmful materials
from one zone to another.
SETBACK LINE: A line established by this zoning title, generally parallel with
and measured from the lot line, defining the limits of a yard in which no
building or structure may be located aboveground except as may be provided in
this title.
SIGN: Any device designed to inform or attract the attention of persons not on
the premises on which the sign is located.
STATE: State of Idaho.
STREET: Any right of way which provides vehicular and pedestrian access to
adjacent properties, the dedication of which has been officially accepted. The
term "street" also includes the terms highway, thoroughfare, parkway, road,
avenue, boulevard, lane, place and other such terms. A privately owned street
may be included.
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires location
on the ground or attachment to something having a fixed location on the ground.
Among other things, structures include, but are not limited to, buildings,
mobile homes, walls, fences and billboards.
SUBDIVISION: Any land which is divided or proposed to be divided into five (5)
or more lots, whether contiguous or not, for the purpose of sale, lease,
transfer or development as part of a common plan and where subdivided land is
offered for sale, lease, transfer or development by a single developer, or a
group of developers acting in concert, and such land is contiguous or is known,
designated or advertised as a common unit or by a common name. Such land shall
be presumed, without regard to the number of lots covered by each individual
offering, as being offered for sale, lease, transfer or development as part of
a common plan. However, this shall not apply to any of the following:
   A.   An adjustment of lot lines as shown on a recorded plat which does not
reduce the area, frontage, width, depth or building setback lines of each
building site below the minimum zoning requirements and does not change the
original number of lots in any block of the recorded plat;
   B.   The unwilling sale of land as a result of "legal condemnation" as
defined and allowed in the Idaho state code;
   C.   Widening of existing streets to conform to the comprehensive plan;
   D.   The acquisition of a street right of way by a public agency in
conformance with the comprehensive plan;
   E.   The exchange of land for the purpose of straightening property
boundaries which does not result in the change of the present land usage;
   F.   A sale or exchange of lands used exclusively and solely for
agricultural purposes.
SUBSTANTIAL DEVELOPMENT: Physical improvement of the actual property which
increases the market value thereof in excess of fifteen percent (15%) of the
current fair market value of the parcel determined as of the effective date
hereof or on new applications, determined at the date that the application is
filed.
SUPPLY YARD: A commercial establishment storing and offering for sale building
supplies, steel supplies, coal, heavy equipment, feed and grain and similar
goods.
TECHNICAL REVIEW COMMITTEE: Established committee that reviews preliminary
plats or the conceptual plans from the viewpoint of their technical disciplines
represented on the committee.
TRACT: A piece of land of any size. See definition of Parcel.
TRACT, ASSESSOR'S: A tract drawn, platted, surveyed, recorded or created for
the use of a taxing authority. Same as assessor's plat or parcel.
TRANSPORTATION PLAN: That document adopted as part of comprehensive plan which
deals with transportation goals of Payette County (see definition of
Comprehensive Plan).
USE: The specific purpose for which land or a building is designated, arranged,
intended or for which it is occupied or maintained.
USE PERMIT: A document issued by the planning and zoning administrator, with
the approval or authority of the board of county commissioners or planning and
zoning commission, authorizing the use of land and structures, and the
characteristics of the uses.
USED CAR LOT: A retail sales area for the sale of motor vehicles.
VARIANCE: A modification of the requirements of this title as to lot size, lot
coverage, width, depth, front yard, side yard, rear yard, setback, parking
space, height of buildings or other title provision affecting the size or shape
of a structure or the size of a lot.
VICINITY MAP: A drawing which sets forth by dimensions or other means, the
relationship of the proposed development to other nearby developments or
landmarks and community facilities and services within the general area in
order to better locate and orient the area in question.
YARD: A required open space, other than a court, unoccupied and unobstructed by
any structure or portion of a structure from three feet (3') above the general
ground level of the graded lot upward.
   Yard, Front: A yard extending between side lot lines across the front of a
lot and from the front lot line to the front of the principal building.
   Yard, Interior Side: A yard extending from the principal building to the
side lot line on both sides of the principal building between the lines
establishing the front and rear yards.
   Yard, Rear: A yard extending between side lot lines across the rear of a lot
and from the rear lot line to the rear of principal building.
   Yard, Street Side: A yard extending from the principal building to the
secondary street that adjoins the lot between the lines establishing the front
and rear yards. (Ord. 2012-05, 5-21-2012; amd. Ord. 2016-2, 8-29-2016; Ord.
2021-05, 9-13-2021)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 9 of this code.
2 1. See section 8-10-8, "Unique Land Uses", of this title.
3 1. See also section
  8-5-10 of this title.
CHAPTER 3
ADMINISTRATION
SECTION:
8-3-1: Officials Established
8-3-2: Administrator
8-3-3: Planning And Zoning Commission
8-3-4: Duties Of Planning And Zoning Commission
8-3-5: Conflict Of Interest
8-3-6: Board Of County Commissioners May Act As Planning And Zoning Commission
8-3-1: OFFICIALS ESTABLISHED:
For the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this title, the administrator
and planning and zoning commission are hereby created. (Ord. 57, 4-18-1988)
8-3-2: ADMINISTRATOR:
   A.   Appointment: The board of county commissioners shall appoint a planning
and zoning administrator to administer this title. The administrator may be
provided with the assistance of such other persons as the board of county
commissioners may direct.
   B.   Duties: For the purpose of this title, the planning and zoning
administrator shall have the following duties:
      1.   Advise interested persons of the zoning title provisions;
      2.   Notify the news media regarding matters of public interest;
      3.   Aid applicants in the preparation of required applications; (Ord.
57, 4-18-1988)
      4.   Issue notifications, stop work orders and such similar
administrative duties, subject to the veto powers of the board of county
commissioners; (Ord. 57, 4-18-1988; amd. Ord. 2009-03, 6-15-2009)
      5.   Investigate all violations of this title and notify in writing the
person responsible for such violation(s), ordering the action necessary to
correct such violation;
      6.   Follow all lawful directives of the planning and zoning commission
or board of county commissioners in filing suits on behalf of the county to
ensure compliance with the provisions of this title;
      7.   Inform the board of county commissioners of all actions taken on a
weekly basis and the planning and zoning commission on a monthly basis. (Ord.
57, 4-18-1988)
8-3-3: PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION:
   A.   Membership:
      1.   Appointment: A planning and zoning commission consisting of seven
(7) to twelve (12) voting members, all appointed by the chairman of the board
of county commissioners and confirmed by majority vote of the board of county
commissioners is hereby created. All presently existing commission members are
confirmed in their positions for the remainder of their existing terms.
      2.   Residency Requirement: An appointed member of the planning and
zoning commission must have resided in the county for two (2) years prior to
their appointment, and must remain a resident of the county during their
service on the commission. Not more than one-third (1/3) of the members of any
commission appointed by the chairman of the board of county commissioners may
reside within an incorporated city in the county.
      3.   Term Of Office: The term of office for members shall be appointed on
a six (6) year term by the board of county commissioners. No person shall serve
more than two (2) full consecutive terms without specific concurrence by two-
thirds (2/3) of the governing body adopted by motion and recorded in the
minutes.
      4.   Vacancies: Vacancies occurring through death, resignation, or three
(3) consecutive unexcused absences shall be filled in the same manner as the
original appointment.
      5.   Removal From Office: Members may be removed for cause by a majority
vote of the board of county commissioners.
      6.   Political Affiliation: Members shall be selected without respect to
political affiliation.
      7.   Compensation: Members may receive such mileage and per diem
compensation as provided by the board of county commissioners.
   B.   Organization:
      1.   Officers: The planning and zoning commission shall elect a chairman
and create and fill any other office that it may deem necessary.
      2.   Quorum: A majority of the appointed members of the planning and
zoning commission can conduct business at any regularly scheduled or specially
called meeting.
      3.   Subcommittees: The planning and zoning commission may establish
subcommittees, advisory committees, hearing examiners or neighborhood groups to
advise and assist in carrying out its responsibilities.
      4.   Ex Officio Advisors: The planning and zoning commission may appoint
nonvoting ex officio advisors as may be deemed necessary.
   C.   Rules, Records And Meetings:
      1.   Written Rules: Written organization papers or bylaws consistent with
this title and other laws of the state for the transaction of business of the
planning and zoning commission shall be adopted.
      2.   Records: A record of meetings, hearings, resolutions, studies,
findings, permits and actions taken shall be maintained. All records shall be
open to the public.
      3.   Meetings: All meetings shall be open to the public. At least one
regular meeting shall be held each month for not less than nine (9) months in a
year.
      4.   Quorum: A majority of the appointed members of the planning and
zoning commission shall constitute a quorum.
   D.   Expenditures And Staff: With approval of the board of county
commissioners, the planning and zoning commission may receive and expend funds,
goods and services from the federal government or agencies and
instrumentalities of state or local governments or from civic and private
sources and may contract with these entities and provide information and
reports as necessary to secure aid. Expenditures by the commission shall be
within the amounts appropriated by the board. Within such limits, the
commission is authorized to hire employees and technical advisors, including,
but not limited to, planners, engineers, architects and legal assistants. (Ord.
2009-03, 6-15-2009)
8-3-4: DUTIES OF PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION:
For the purpose of this title, the planning and zoning commission will have the
authority to:
   A.   Initiate proposed amendments to this title and conduct a review of the
complete zoning ordinance as required by Idaho Code;
   B.   Review all proposed amendments to this title and make recommendations
to the board;
   C.   Review all planned unit developments and make recommendations to the
board of county commissioners;
   D.   Where appropriate, to grant conditional use permits and variances as
specified in chapter 9 of this title under the conditions as hereinafter
specified with such additional safeguards as will uphold the intent of this
title;
   E.   Hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is an error in any
order, requirement, decision, interpretation or determination made by the
planning and zoning administrator;
   F.   Appeal from adverse decisions of the planning and zoning administrator.
(Ord. 57, 4-18-1988)
8-3-5: CONFLICT OF INTEREST:
The board of county commissioners creating the planning and zoning commission
shall provide that the area and interests within its jurisdiction are broadly
represented on the commission. A member or employee of the board or commission
shall not participate in any proceeding or action when the member or employee
or his employer, business partner, business associate or any person related to
him by affinity or consanguinity within the second degree has an economic
interest in the procedure or action. Any actual or potential interest in any
proceeding shall be disclosed at or before any meeting at which the action is
being heard or considered. A knowing violation of this section shall be a
misdemeanor and punishable as provided herein. (Ord. 57, 4-18-1988)
8-3-6: BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS MAY ACT AS PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION:
In any month in which the planning and zoning commission does not meet or
cannot transact business because a quorum does not appear at the regularly
scheduled meeting, the board of county commissioners sitting en banc may act as
the planning and zoning commission and transact any business which was
scheduled to be acted upon by the planning and zoning commission. (Ord. 57, 4-
18-1988)
CHAPTER 4
SANCTIONS
SECTION:
8-4-1: Purpose
8-4-2: Enforcement Of Private Covenants
8-4-3: Penalty; Enforcement
8-4-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide criminal as well as civil sanctions
against persons who violate this zoning title. The remedies herein contained
shall not be deemed exclusive remedies and the choosing of a criminal or civil
remedy does not amount to an election of remedies. (Ord. 57, 4-18-1988)
8-4-2: ENFORCEMENT OF PRIVATE COVENANTS:
Neither the county nor any employee or representative of the county shall be
required to enforce any private subdivision covenants or restrictions, unless
those specific restrictions were imposed as a condition of county approval for
zone change, conditional use, subdivision approval, etc., in which case county
enforcement shall be discretionary with the board of county commissioners.
(Ord. 57, 4-18-1988)
8-4-3: PENALTY; ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Violation; Penalty: Any violation of this title shall be a misdemeanor
punishable by not more than one year in the Payette County jail or a fine of
not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or both. (Ord. 2009-03, 6-15-
2009)
   B.   Continuing Violation: Each day a violation is allowed to continue shall
constitute a new and separate offense.
   C.   Abatement: Any act in violation of this title may be subject to a civil
abatement action, and nothing contained herein shall prevent the board of
county commissioners, the planning and zoning commission, any public official
or any private citizen from taking any lawful action to restrain, prevent or
abate any act, proposed act or action which is in violation of or which would
violate any provision of this title. Should any person successfully sue for the
restraining, prevention or abatement of any act or proposed act which would
violate this title, that person shall be awarded all costs and fees incurred in
pursuing that action. (Ord. 57, 4-18-1988; amd. 1996 Code)
CHAPTER 5
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
8-5-1: Conditions
8-5-2: Plat Requirements
8-5-3: Landscaping And Screening Requirements
8-5-4: Certification
8-5-5: Organizations
8-5-6: Permits For Land Use In Areas Of City Impact (Rep. by Ord. 2004-5, 7-6-
2004)
8-5-7: Reserved
8-5-8: Reversion Of Rezoned Lands
8-5-9: Application Criteria Determined
8-5-10: Transfer Of Development Rights; Nonqualifying Parcels
8-5-11: Rezoning Conditions
8-5-12: Construction In Irrigation District Prohibited
8-5-13: Conceptual Plan
8-5-14: Technical Review Committee
8-5-15: Use Agreement
8-5-1: CONDITIONS:
In addition to the restrictions imposed upon the various zones, the following
shall apply:
   A.   Easements: If any development, building or structure will be over any
recorded easement, a letter of approval from the easement holder shall be
submitted with the plans specifying that said development, building or
structure does not infringe upon said easement.
   B.   Residential Areas: No new facility or proposed use shall be permitted
near residential areas unless it is clearly demonstrated that:
      1.   The proposed use will not result in smoke, dirt, glare, smog, air or
water pollution, excessive noise or offensive odors beyond the limits of the
facility. Any nonresidential use that is proposed within one hundred feet
(100') of an existing or planned platted and approved residential development
shall be reviewed and approved by the planning and zoning commission.
      2.   The user shall comply with the screening and setback requirements
that may be required.
   C.   Integrity Of Agricultural Property: Restrictions relating to sale of
property zoned agricultural are as follows:
      1.   Any property, tracts or lots, sold or contracted for sale in a zoned
agricultural district from date of enactment hereof shall bind said buyer and
subsequent buyers to refrain from any action, privately or in compact with
others, from introducing any rules, regulations or legal action regarding dust,
spray, method of application, smoke, noise, odor, insects, flies, livestock
density or placement or in opposition to any other practice common to the
established practice of farming, ranching or other related agricultural
business and other established business.
   D.   Zone A: In zone A, the operation of any such accessory uses shall be
secondary to that of normal agricultural activities:
      1.   The agricultural uses shall not include the feeding or sheltering of
animals or poultry in penned enclosures within one hundred feet (100') of any
district zoned residential (R); and
      2.   Incidental retailing on the premises of goods and products raised on
the premises shall also be considered as being within the definition of
agriculture.
   E.   Height Limit: No building shall be erected, reconstructed or
structurally altered to exceed in height the limit herein designated for the
zone in which such building is located.
   F.   Permitted Uses:
      1.   No building or structure shall be erected and no existing building
or structure shall be moved, altered, added to or enlarged, nor shall any land,
building or premises be used, designated or intended to be used for any purpose
or in any manner other than is included among the uses herein listed as
permitted in the zone in which such building, land or premises is located,
except as otherwise provided in this title. No work shall commence on any
structure or building for which a permit is required until that permit has
first been duly and properly obtained. (Ord. 57, 4-18-1988)
      2.   Placement of a mobile home, manufactured home or any unit which may
be used as a permanent dwelling, or placement of a prefabricated structure
which would require a building permit if built on site, shall require a
building permit, an inspection and payment of fees in the same manner as any
structure which is built on site. (Ord. 57-D, 3-12-1990)
   G.   Open Space: No open space which surrounds any building shall be
encroached upon or reduced in any manner except in conformity with this title.
   H.   Lawn Or Yard Exclusive: No lawn, yard or other open space provided
about any building for the purpose of complying with provisions of this title
shall be considered as providing a lawn, yard, or other open space for any
other building or buildings.
   I.   Lights Restricted: No flashing lights of high intensity or advertising
sign lights of high intensity shall be within one hundred feet (100') of the
right of way boundary on the side of the road on which the sign or lights are
located.
   J.   Assessor's Tract: A recorded assessor's tract, created for aiding in
taxing parcels of land, will not be deemed a recorded subdivision for purposes
of issuing permits. (Ord. 57, 4-18-1988)
   K.   Certificate Of Occupancy:
      1.   Required: No building or other structure, excepting accessory
buildings, shall be occupied until a final inspection is completed and a
certificate of occupancy is issued by the county planning and zoning
administrator/building inspector. An occupancy permit or use permit shall be
the same as a certificate of occupancy.
      2.   Violation, Penalty: Any violation of this subsection shall be a
misdemeanor punishable in accordance with the laws of the state. Any building
or other structure which is used or occupied in violation of this subsection
shall be subject to nuisance or abatement procedures 1 , which may be brought
by any county official, any member of the county planning and zoning
commission, the planning and zoning administrator/building inspector or any
other person. In the event that any abatement procedure is successfully
brought, the person occupying said building or structure or the landowner
owning the land upon which the structure was wrongfully used or occupied, shall
be subject to all court costs and attorney fees for the prosecution of that
action. (Ord. 57-J, 3-21-1994)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 4, chapter 1 of this code.
8-5-2: PLAT REQUIREMENTS:
No person shall divide any tract of land unless he shall have provided a plat
as required by Idaho Code title 50, chapter 13.
   A.   One Lot Plats: In cases where the filing of a plat for one lot will
cause hardship, the planning and zoning commission may require a conceptual
plan.
   B.   Exceptions: A plat shall not be required for a bona fide division or
partition of agricultural land for agricultural purposes, not involving any new
public streets or roads, for the allocation of land in the settlement of an
estate, a court decree for the distribution of property, or a petition for a
zone change.
   C.   Required Signatures: All persons presenting plats to the county
recorder for recording shall have first received the approval of the county
planning and zoning commission and the board of county commissioners. Approval
shall be shown by the affixing of the signature of the county surveyor, the
chairman of the board and the chairman of the commission to said plat. No
person shall accept or record a plat until such signatures have been affixed
thereto. (Ord. 2009-03, 6-15-2009)
8-5-3: LANDSCAPING AND SCREENING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Purpose:
      1.   The purpose of this section is to:
         a.   Enhance the aesthetic appearance of development sites at access
points and/or perimeter areas and
         b.   Ensure appropriate screening/buffering between development sites
and adjacent properties.
   B.   Application:
      1.   Standards: The standards of this section shall:
         a.   Apply to all projects requiring a conceptual plan, a plat review,
a conditional use permit, a one lot commercial or industrial development, a
rezone, a variance, or any other permit which is being sought through which an
applicant will be allowed to construct a structure upon real property;
         b.   Be required for commercial and industrial developments, any small
business developments which may require only a conditional use permit and
residential developments;
         c.   Be used as a safeguard for adjacent properties because of
location or nature of the proposed development project.
      2.   Exemption: This section shall not apply to plat reviews during
construction of single-family residences or any other permitted structures in
agricultural or residential zones.
      3.   Requirements: Requirements of the plan may be waived or modified by
the commission for developments allowed by the conditional use process.
   C.   Process:
      1.   When any person shall apply for a project requiring a conceptual
plan, a plat review, conditional use permit, a one lot commercial or industrial
development, a rezone, a variance, or any other permit which is being sought
through which an applicant will be allowed to construct a structure upon real
property, the applicant must provide a draft landscape/screening plan at the
time of filing of an application.
      2.   A landscape/screening plan must be drawn to scale and shall include
a maintenance plan.
      3.   A final landscape/screening plan shall be required as a component of
construction drawings.
      4.   If the proposed development project shall be completed in phases,
the phases shall be noted on the landscape/screening plan.
      5.   Noncompliance with the standards of this section shall constitute a
violation of this title and shall allow the commission or board to reverse or
withdraw any zone changes or other permitted uses which require the submission
of a landscape/screening plan.
   D.   Landscaping/Screening Standards:
      1.   Landscaping Elements: For the purpose of this section, landscaping
elements are all exterior enhancements of a project including, but not limited
to, live plants, fences, walls, rocks, sound walls, buffers, grade work such as
berms, swales and water retention features.
      2.   Areas: Areas where landscaping and screening should be implemented
include, but are not limited to, the following: entrances to subdivisions or
development, screening along public roadways or adjacent to less compatible
uses, common lots, unloading areas, and parking areas.
      3.   Minimum Requirements: Minimum landscaping shall be as follows: Lots
with square footage totaling forty thousand (40,000) square feet and under;
minimum of two thousand (2,000) square feet. Lots over forty thousand (40,000)
square feet and under one hundred thousand (100,000) square feet; five percent
(5%) of the lot size. Lots totaling over one hundred thousand (100,000) square
feet; minimum of five thousand (5,000) square feet. Minimum requirements may be
reduced upon agreement of the county.
      4.   Buffers: Screening or fencing shall be required as a buffer between
development property and adjacent properties.
      5.   Line Of Sight:
         a.   All screening, landscaping and structures shall comply with line
of sight concerns set out herein.
         b.   Ingress-egress approaches shall be unobstructed to provide
sufficient sight clearance for drivers to safely access public roadway or leave
development properties.
         c.   Within the sight zone triangle, no wall, fence, sign or earthwork
shall be built and no hedge, shrub or other plant shall be permitted to grow
higher than thirty inches (30") above grade. One tree trunk may be permitted to
grow within a driveway sight triangle; provided, that all branches are pruned
to seven feet (7') above the ground.
         d.   An unobstructed sight zone triangle must be maintained between a
point fifteen feet (15') behind the curb area at the edge of the driveway
alignment in each direction for egress safety.
         e.   Landscaping elements shall not violate the clear vision triangle
requirement as set out in section 49-221 of the Idaho Code.
      6.   Installation And Maintenance:
         a.   Installation of required landscaping/screening shall be the
responsibility of the developer and the property owner.
         b.   All live plant landscaped areas shall be provided with a
permanent and automated underground irrigation system of such design and
capacity to satisfactorily serve the landscaped areas.
         c.   Maintenance and replacement of required landscaping/screening
shall be the responsibility of the property owner.
         d.   If a homeowners' association or business owners' association has
been established contact information shall be submitted to the planning and
zoning office.
   E.   Definitions:
      1.   Landscape/screening plan shall include a drawing mechanically
drafted to scale indicating existing and proposed trees and vegetation;
existing and proposed fences, rocks, earthen berms, walls, screens, sculptures,
fountains, ponds, street furniture, lights and courts or paved areas all shown
in respect to property lines and maintenance plan.
      2.   Maintenance plan shall address the long term preservation of the
landscaping plan and should include, but not be limited to, needed irrigation,
weed abatement, trash abatement, pruning, and fertilizing.
      3.   Common areas such as, but not limited to, ball fields, water
retention ponds and/or swales are to be included in the landscape and
maintenance plans but will not be considered as part of the minimum landscape
requirements of this section.
      4.   Prohibited materials and landscaping:
         a.   Artificial plants.
         b.   Carpeting designed as vegetative substitute.
         c.   Noxious weeds or any invasive species.
         d.   Fruit bearing trees historically used as a commercial fruit,
excluding such trees as flowering pears, hawthorns, crabapples and mountain
ash.
         e.   Anything other than ordinary fencing, screens, sculptures and/or
furniture shall require approval of the commission.
   F.   Violation: Any violation of this section shall be a misdemeanor
punishable by not more than six (6) months in the Payette County Jail or a fine
of not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or both. (Ord. 2010-05, 7-12-
2010)
8-5-4: CERTIFICATION:
An applicant for any permit shall be required to sign an application containing
the following certification:
   I hereby certify under penalty of perjury that I have read and examined this
application, know the contents hereof and that the information provided herein
is true and correct.
(Ord. 57, 4-18-1988)
8-5-5: ORGANIZATIONS:
Organizations which are nonprofit tax exempt organizations, wholly supported by
federal, state, county or municipal tax monies, shall be required to follow all
procedures set forth herein regarding making applications and submitting to
building inspections; however, such organizations shall be exempt from paying
application or inspection fees. (Ord. 2009-03, 6-15-2009)
8-5-6: PERMITS FOR LAND USE IN AREAS OF CITY IMPACT:
(Rep. by Ord. 2004-5, 7-6-2004)
8-5-7: RESERVED:
(Ord. 2009-03, 6-15-2009)
8-5-8: REVERSION OF REZONED LANDS:
   A.   Should any lot, parcel or tract be rezoned for any purpose and if
actual and substantial development has not been commenced upon that parcel
within five (5) years from the date of rezone, then that parcel of property
shall revert back to the original zoning, without notice, and any permits
obtained pursuant to that rezone shall be forfeited and rendered null and void
and be without any force or effect.
   B.   "Substantial development" shall be defined as physical improvement of
the actual property which increases the market value thereof in excess of
fifteen percent (15%) of the current fair market value of the parcel determined
as of the effective date hereof or on new applications, determined at the date
that the application is filed.
   C.   For any residential subdivision plotted, planned, filed, recorded,
platted or approved prior to January 15, 1950, where there have been no
substantial improvements upon the property itself directed toward the
subdividing thereof, as of the effective date hereof, those subdivisions, after
notice provided in Idaho Code section 50-1317, shall be deemed forfeited and
the property upon which the subdivisions are proposed shall be deemed zoned as
agricultural lands and subject to all conditions or restrictions imposed in
zone A.
   D.   Residential subdivisions plotted, planned, filed, platted, recorded or
approved after January 15, 1950, but before the effective date hereof, where
there have been no substantial improvements directed toward the subdividing
thereof, as of the effective date hereof, in the event that substantial
development has not commenced within five (5) years from the effective date
hereof, said zones shall, after notice provided in Idaho Code section 50-1317,
revert back to agricultural zones and any approvals obtained for development
shall be deemed revoked.
   E.   When convenient, the planning and zoning administrator shall ascertain
which proposed subdivisions are subject to forfeiture or revocation and will
petition and send notice as required by Idaho Code section 50-1317, of said
forfeiture to the last known address of the property owners of record as such
owners then appear on the records of the county assessor.
   F.   In the event there is no opposition, the board of county commissioners
may vacate the same in accordance with Idaho Code section 50-1318, or proceed
according to Idaho Code section 50-1319 et seq.
   G.   At any time before an automatic reversion occurs, a person may appear
before the planning and zoning commission and request an extension of the
zoning for an additional period of five (5) years. If good cause is shown, the
extension shall be granted for an additional period of five (5) years. The same
terms and conditions which were imposed upon the property when it was
originally rezoned shall apply to any extended period. (Ord. 2009-03, 6-15-
2009)
8-5-9: APPLICATION CRITERIA DETERMINED:
   A.   Criteria: In all matters where an application is required the board of
county commissioners will establish a criteria which will be used to determine
if an application will be granted or denied.
   B.   Withdrawal Of Application: An applicant may withdraw an application
without prejudice at any time before any vote is taken. (Ord. 57, 4-18-1988)
8-5-10: TRANSFER OF DEVELOPMENT RIGHTS; NONQUALIFYING PARCELS:
For the purpose of this title, the following shall apply:
   A.   Definitions:
 
            A parcel of land which does not qualify for a residential building right, which is
            not designated as meeting the criteria set out in the definition of Sending Property
            of this section, and which does not create more than four (4) residences on an
            original parcel may qualify as a receiving property subject to the following
            conditions:
RECEIVING      a.   Is designated as residential on the comprehensive plan but is not located
PROPERTY:   within a city area of impact and is at least one (1) acre in size.
               b.   Is designated as residential on the comprehensive plan, located within a
            city area of impact, is at least one (1) acre in size, and is in compliance with
            Section C of this section. Or
               c.   Is designated agricultural preservation on the comprehensive plan, is
            contiguous and under the same ownership as the sending parcel.
            A parcel of land which qualifies for a residential building right may qualify as a
            sending property subject to the following conditions:
SENDING        a.   Is located in an area designated as agricultural preservation on the
PROPERTY:   comprehensive plan.
               b.   Is zoned agricultural, designated residential on the comprehensive plan, is
            contiguous and under the same ownership as the receiving parcel.
TRANSFER OF The process by which development rights are transferred from one lot, parcel or
DEVELOPMENT tract of land in any sending area to another lot, parcel or tract of land in a
RIGHTS:     receiving area. A transferred development right may also be referred to herein as a
            TDR.
 
   B.   Application: In the event a person desires to move a development right
for a residential building permit from one parcel of land which qualifies for a
single-family residential building right to another parcel of land which does
not qualify for a single-family residential building right, that person shall
file an application for that purpose with the zoning administrator. The
application shall include, but not be limited to, the following information:
      1.   A conceptual plan.
      2.   Information and vicinity map concerning the location and physical
characteristics of the receiving property.
      3.   Information relating to the irrigation of the sending and receiving
properties which describes the availability of water, the nature of the
irrigation delivery and application systems and any changes which will result
from or be required by the transfer of a development right.
      4.   If the receiving property lies within an irrigation district and
will receive water from such district, the applicant must demonstrate in
writing that the applicant has met with and obtained a recommendation from the
district affected by the application. Applicant shall provide a plan, easement,
and agreement to deliver water to all parcels created.
      5.   Receiving property shall provide a dedicated easement for utilities
and future road expansion.
      6.   Proof of ownership of both the sending and the receiving property.
      7.   The planning and zoning administrator shall have the authority to
require additional specific information relevant to the consideration of any
application.
      8.   An application fee as prescribed by resolution of the Board.
   C.   City Review: If the receiving property lies in a city impact area, the
administrator shall forward the application to the appropriate city for review
and comment before the application may be considered for approval or denial.
The city shall submit their comment letter no more than forty-five (45) days
following receipt of the application from the county. If the city responds with
an unfavorable recommendation, a public hearing shall be scheduled, with the
applicant being responsible for all public hearing fees. If the city fails to
respond, the administrator shall proceed with processing the application for
approval or denial.
      1.   City Impact Area: The city shall include in their recommendation
letter:
         a.   The building site is or is not compatible with the city’s
expansion plans.
         b.   The building site does or does not interfere with any projected
rights of way.
      2.   The applicant shall enter into a written agreement with the county
to provide dedicated easements for future expansion of city water, sewer,
sidewalk, and street systems, consistent with any county code provisions
applicable to the city impact area in which the applicant’s receiving property
is located. The county shall provide the affected city with a copy of the draft
agreement for review and comment.
   D.   Notice to neighboring landowners and public notice shall be provided as
required by law. If no objection is received to the proposed transfer, the
planning and zoning administrator shall determine if the request for a transfer
of development right complies with the requirements set forth in this section
and either approve or deny the application based thereon. If the administrator
receives objection(s) that the sending and/or receiving parcel(s) do not
qualify or the application does not meet the criteria set out in paragraph B of
this code, a public hearing shall be held before the planning and zoning
commission.
   E.   Disqualification From Further Permits:
      1.   Upon the transfer of a development right, the sending parcel shall
be disqualified in perpetuity from receiving any further TDR building rights.
      2.   Sending parcels that are designated agricultural on the
comprehensive plan shall be disqualified from residential rezone for a period
of 50 years.
      3.   Sending properties that are designated agricultural on the
comprehensive plan shall be disqualified from commercial or industrial rezone
except for agricultural purposes. Such properties may be rezoned with a
development agreement as described in Idaho Code section 67-6511A and section
8-5-11 of this title, with the following additional restrictions and
conditions:
         a.   The development agreement will only be approved on condition that
the development is directly beneficial to local agricultural operations.
         b.   The burden shall be on the applicant to show that the proposed
development is consistent with the goal of preserving agricultural ground, and
the loss of agricultural ground is justified.
         c.   The application for a development agreement may be approved or
denied based on the same standards identified in section
8-9-3 of this title.
         d.   The development agreement shall be required even when the use
does not require a rezone but would otherwise be barred as the result from a
transfer of a development right.
         e.   If the proposed use requires a rezone of the property and the
approved use ceases at any point, the comprehensive plan designation and the
zoning shall automatically revert to agricultural with no notice or public
hearing.
   F.   Sale of Development Right: No person may be required to sell a
development right.
   G.   Time Limit: The development right shall stay with the receiving
property and shall not be further transferred.
   H.   Within ninety (90) days of approval of a transfer of development right,
applicant shall have the receiving property surveyed by a licensed land
surveyor. The ninety (90) days may be extended by the planning and zoning
administrator for good cause. Said survey shall clearly label existing boundary
lines, new property boundary lines, right of ways, and easements, and shall
follow generally accepted practices in the survey industry. Applicant shall
provide and record deeds with complete legal descriptions, as defined in Idaho
Code sections 63-209 and 63-210, describing the two segregated properties. Upon
approval and acceptance of the recorded deeds, the zoning administrator shall
prepare a document entitled “Transfer of a Development Right Agreement”. The
agreement shall include the names and addresses of the seller and buyer, the
legal description of the sending and receiving properties, and any conditions
imposed thereon. The agreement shall be signed by all owners of the sending and
receiving property and the chairman of the board of county commissioners, and
the signatures shall be notarized in a manner that the agreement can be
recorded. The buyer shall record the Transfer of a Development Right Agreement
at the office of the Payette County Clerk and shall deliver a copy of the
recorded document to the zoning administrator. The agreement must be recorded
within thirty (30) days of completion of the survey or the approval will be
withdrawn and the application process will have to start over with no refund of
fees.
   I.   Water Rights: A transfer of a development right does not transfer any
water rights. Any water rights remain with the sending parcel. If irrigation
water is available with the receiving parcel and a segregation from the parent
lot is warranted, a water delivery plan shall be required. The irrigation
system shall not add additional weirs or diversions from the main ditch.
   J.   Signatures: No transfer of a development right will occur without the
voluntary acceptance of the landowner of the development right and any land use
restrictions conditional to such acceptance and the signature of all lien
holders and other parties who have an interest in the sending parcel. In the
event a development right is transferred without the permission or signature of
a lien holder or a party in interest, the purported transfer shall be void ab
initio. To ensure that the board has the information required by this section,
at the time an application for a transfer is submitted, the applicant shall
provide the zoning administrator with a title report from a title insurance
company, which report shall show all lien holders and all parties who have an
interest in the property from which the development right is being transferred.
   K.   Recommendation and Reasoned Statement: After determination is made by
the administrator, or the planning and zoning commission if a public hearing is
required, the administrator shall forward a recommendation to the board. The
board may hold its own public hearing or may rely upon the recommendation and
the record presented by the administrator. The board shall then grant or deny
the request. In determining if the request is or is not consistent with the
criteria of this section, the board shall make a reasoned statement as required
by Idaho Code sections 67-6519 and 67-6535.
   L.   Precedents: The issuance of a permit under these circumstances shall
not be precedent setting.
   M.   Compliance With Applicable Subdivision Requirements: Permits issued
pursuant to this section shall not exempt any parcel, lot, tract or property
from complying with any applicable subdivision requirements.
   N.   Justification For Transfer: The transfer of a development right shall
be discretionary with the board. The burden shall be upon an applicant to show
that conditions exist which would justify a transfer.
   O.   Appeal: Any person aggrieved by the granting or denial of a request for
a TDR may appeal by following the procedures set out in the code.
   P.   Penalty: Any violation of this section shall be a misdemeanor
punishable by not more than six (6) months in the Payette County Jail or a fine
of not more than $1,000.00 or both. (Ord. 2016-2, 8-29-2016; amd. Ord. 2021-06,
9-13-2021; Ord. 2023-04, 4-10-2023)
8-5-11: REZONING CONDITIONS:
   A.   As a condition of rezoning, at any time during any stage of the
development process, a development agreement may be required by the board of
county commissioners, recommended by the commission or it may be requested by
the developer. A "development agreement" is a written agreement or a written
commitment, between the county and the developer, which affects the use or
development of the parcel of property which is the subject of a rezone or
development request. A written commitment shall also be known as a development
agreement.
   B.   The purpose of a development agreement is to provide a means for
development in areas where, in the opinion of the board of county
commissioners, a rezone by itself may not ensure that the requirements set
forth in the zoning ordinance or the subdivision ordinance will be complied
with after a rezone has been approved; but, that a development agreement will
assure compliance with the zoning and subdivision ordinances and with any
required findings, conclusions and order allowing a rezone and with the oral
representations and agreements of the rezone applicant.
   C.   In the event a development agreement is proposed by the developer or
the administrator at the time an application is submitted or in the event a
development agreement is deemed appropriate by the commission during or after a
public hearing, the reasons for proposing the use of a development agreement
shall be forwarded to the board of county commissioners with the commission's
findings and recommendation.
   D.   In the event the board of county commissioners makes a finding that a
development agreement would be in the best interest of the county, but where no
development agreement was recommended by the commission and presented to the
board of county commissioners, the board of county commissioners shall request
that the county prepare a development agreement that contains such terms as are
in the best interest of the county and the developer. Said development
agreement may be made a condition of approval.
   E.   A request for a development agreement may be part of the application
for a rezone. A request for a development agreement shall contain the
following:
      1.   An affidavit by the property owner, if the owner is not the same as
the applicant, agreeing that the property subject to the rezone may be subject
to a binding development agreement.
      2.   The specific use or uses of the property affected by the development
agreement.
      3.   The concept plan, which shall include, but not be limited to:
         a.   Three (3) site plans and one eight and one-half inch by eleven
inch (81/2" x 11") reduction showing:
            (1)   Existing structure(s) which will remain, labeled as to
existing and proposed uses.
            (2)   Building footprint(s), height, number of stories, proposed
uses (office, retail, restaurant, etc.), and square footage of proposed
structures. If residential, overall density and number of dwelling units per
building.
            (3)   North arrow.
            (4)   Scale.
            (5)   Property boundaries.
            (6)   Names of applicant, owners if different than applicant,
preparer and project.
            (7)   Size of project.
            (8)   Existing vegetation.
            (9)   Existing and proposed grades for hillside developments.
            (10)   Parking areas with total number of parking spaces.
            (11)   Locations and widths of right of way, easements, canals,
ditches and property lines.
            (12)   Drainage features.
            (13)   Conceptual landscape plan.
            (14)   Interior streets and access streets.
      4.   The time period for which the agreement is to be valid.
      5.   A statement that failure to comply with all of the commitments in
the approved development agreement shall be deemed a consent to rezone the
property to the preexisting zone.
      6.   If the development agreement is being requested by the rezone
applicant, as opposed to having been required by the board of county
commissioners or by the commission, a statement must be included wherein the
applicant agrees that all time limits set forth by the code are waived.
      7.   Any proposed phasing schedule.
   F.   Whenever a development agreement is requested or proposed, the
administrator shall work with the applicant to prepare the agreement. In
addition to the information required in subsections E3a(1) through E3a(14) of
this section, any additional issues may be addressed. Those issues may include,
but are not limited to, density, bulk, site design, mitigation of impact on
surrounding neighborhoods, appearance, provision of utilities, public services
or public facilities, and any use restrictions. A public hearing may be
required.
   G.   Development agreements shall be recorded in the office of the county
recorder and shall take effect upon the adoption of the amendment to the zoning
ordinance.
   H.   Development agreements shall be binding upon the owner or developer as
set out in Idaho Code.
   I.   A development agreement may be terminated and the zoning designation
upon which the use is based reversed, upon the failure of the owner or
developer or any successor or assignee thereof to fulfill any of the
requirements of the development agreement within a reasonable time, within the
time set in the agreement or upon the failure of the owner or developer or
their successors or assigns, to act in the manner agreed upon. What is a
reasonable time shall be determined by the board of county commissioners.
   J.   Each subsequent owner, any successor or assignee, or any person who
shall thereafter acquire an interest in the property, shall take that interest
subject to the terms and conditions which are set out in the development
agreement and they shall conform to and abide by the terms and conditions of
that agreement.
   K.   By permitting or requiring a development agreement the board of county
commissioners does not obligate itself to adopt any proposed zoning ordinance.
   L.   A written development agreement shall be deemed written consent to
rezone the affected property and the commitment of the owner or developer or
any successor or assignee to comply with the conditions imposed by the
development agreement.
   M.   Development agreements may be enforced by any person through any means
permitted by law. That relief shall include, but not necessarily be limited to,
specific performance, injunctive relief, or through the criminal process for
violation of any provision of the zoning ordinance.
   N.   A "developer" is any person who proposes to rezone property to
commercial, industrial, residential or for any business purpose. A developer
shall be considered the applicant in any development agreement. In the event
that a developer consists of more than one person or entity, all persons who
will be engaged in the development shall be bound by the agreement.
   O.   In addition to a development agreement as set forth above, the board of
county commissioners may enter into agreements which require certain terms and
conditions to be complied with as a condition of subdivision approval. One of
the terms of any agreement may be that in the event a developer does not comply
with the agreement, subdivision approval may be withdrawn.
   P.   A development agreement may be amended with the consent of all parties.
(Ord. 2009-03, 6-15-2009)
8-5-12: CONSTRUCTION IN IRRIGATION DISTRICT PROHIBITED:
Pursuant to section 42-1209 of the Idaho Code, no construction of any
improvement or use of any kind shall be permitted when either the use or the
improvement, or the access to the improvement or use shall be upon, over or
along, or shall impinge upon an irrigation district, a Carey act operating
company, a nonprofit irrigation entity, a lateral ditch association, or
drainage district right of way or easement, unless there is first obtained
written consent from the affected entity. (Ord. 2006-7, 5-22-2006)
8-5-13: CONCEPTUAL PLAN:
   A.   When any person shall apply for a conditional use permit, a transfer of
a development right (TDR), a one lot subdivision, a rezone, a variance, or any
other permit which is being sought through which an applicant will be allowed
to construct a structure upon real property, the zoning administrator may
require the applicant to provide a conceptual plan of a project at the time of
filing of an application. A conceptual plan is intended primarily for
development on a single lot. If a proposed development contains more than a
single lot, a preliminary plat may be required. A conceptual plan may or may
not be presented to the technical review committee.
   B.   A conceptual plan may be accepted by the administrator if an
application is seeking development of a single lot.
   C.   All conceptual plans shall contain a notarized signature, shall address
such matters as may be addressed at hearings, shall provide for a signature
line for the applicant and a Payette County official, shall contain a legal
description of the property, and shall be of a quality that can be recorded.
   D.   Definition: A drawing less detailed than a preliminary plat,
mechanically drafted to scale, showing a footprint of existing and proposed
structures, access to public roadways, parking areas, easements, utilities,
retention basins, setbacks and other features that may be applicable to the
property. (Ord. 2008-10, 8-25-2008)
8-5-14: TECHNICAL REVIEW COMMITTEE:
   A.   Composition: There is hereby created a technical review committee. The
committee shall consist of representatives from the county engineer, the
planning and zoning staff, the applicant, the applicant's engineer, the
affected road department, a city in whose impact area the property may be
located, an affected irrigation company, fire district, utility companies,
school district, any affected state or federal agency and any other person
requested by the committee, the commission, or the board.
   B.   Certification: Upon receipt of a preliminary plat or any other
application with which a conceptual plan is required, together with receipt of
all other required data as provided for in this code and fee required by
resolution, the planning and zoning administrator shall certify the application
as complete and shall affix the date of application acceptance thereon. The
administrator shall, thereafter, place the preliminary plat or the conceptual
plan on the agenda for consideration at the next regular meeting of the
technical review committee which is held no less than ten (10) days after said
date of certification nor more than forty five (45) days thereafter if the
committee has a regularly scheduled meeting. In the event the committee has no
regularly scheduled meeting, the administrator shall call a meeting of the
committee.
   C.   Review And Recommendation By The Technical Review Committee:
      1.   The technical review committee shall review the preliminary plat or
the conceptual plan from the viewpoint of the technical disciplines represented
on the committee.
      2.   After completing its review, the committee shall make a
recommendation to the applicant on each application and on each special request
that is made by the applicant. The committee's recommendation shall point out
any deficiencies in the plan, and indicate how deficiencies or shortcomings
might be corrected.
      3.   The committee shall be administered by the planning and zoning
administrator.
      4.   Within ten (10) days of receipt of the recommendations, the county
engineer shall compile a report regarding those issues and present that report
to the applicant and the planning and zoning administrator. Upon receipt of the
report, the applicant shall modify his proposed plat or plan to conform to the
recommendation of the report or shall submit explanation for his decision to
not modify. Upon receipt of the modified plat or plan, or the statement of
explanation to not modify, the county engineer may revise his report and submit
to the planning and zoning administrator a recommendation to consider the
application. The administrator shall then schedule a public hearing before the
commission to consider the application.
   D.   Referral To Other Agencies: The administrator shall refer the
preliminary plat or the plan together with the application to as many agencies
as deemed necessary. Such agencies may include the following:
      1.   Other governing bodies having joint jurisdiction.
      2.   The appropriate utility companies, irrigation companies or districts
and drainage districts.
      3.   The superintendent of the school district.
      4.   Other agencies having an interest in the proposed subdivision as
suggested on the application form. Agencies will be given fifteen (15) days to
return their recommendations. If no recommendation is received the lack of
response shall be deemed as a neutral position by the agency.
   E.   Statement Of Concerns: The county engineer shall prepare a statement of
concerns.
   F.   Planning And Zoning Administrator Recommendation: Upon expiration of
the time allowance for department and agency review, the planning and zoning
administrator with the recommendation of the technical review committee shall
prepare a recommendation to the planning and zoning commission.
   G.   Placed On Regular Meeting Agenda Of Commission: The preliminary plat or
conceptual plan shall be placed on the agenda of the next regular commission
meeting.
   H.   Hearing By Commission: At the next meeting of the commission following
the committee's recommendation, the commission shall hold a public hearing
regarding the matter of the preliminary plat or conceptual plan and the report
from the county engineer, along with all other required data as provided for in
this code. (Ord. 2008-11, 10-6-2008)
8-5-15: USE AGREEMENT:
   A.   When any person shall apply for any use permit, including, but not
limited to, a zone change, a conditional use permit, a variance, a transfer of
a development right (TDR), a subdivision, or any other action which requires a
decision by the board of county commissioners or by the planning and zoning
commission, as a condition of county action, the applicant may be required to
sign a use agreement to ensure that any conditions imposed by the county or
agreed to by the applicant shall be fulfilled.
   B.   In the event a use agreement is proffered to an applicant, an applicant
shall have ninety (90) days to sign the agreement and return it to the planning
and zoning administrator or to the county clerk. In the event an agreement is
not signed by the applicant within ninety (90) days of it being made available
to the applicant, any permit issued or any action taken by the county shall be
deemed null and void and any action taken to secure or grant the permit or
action shall be deemed withdrawn and without any force or effect.
   C.   Use agreements may include such matters as may be addressed at public
meetings, public hearings or which may be agreed upon between the county and
the applicant. Use agreements shall provide a signature line for the applicant
and a Payette County official, shall contain a legal description of the
affected property and shall be of a quality that it can be recorded. (Ord.
2009-07, 10-2-2009)
CHAPTER 6
PROCEDURE FOR SECURING PERMITS
SECTION:
8-6-1: Purpose
8-6-2: Procedure (Rep. by Ord. 2004-5, 7-6-2004)
8-6-3: General Requirements
8-6-4: Preapplication Procedure For Subdivision Approval
8-6-5: Preliminary Plat
8-6-6: Final Plat Procedure
8-6-7: Permit Synopsis
8-6-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide guidance to persons who apply for
permits. (Ord. 57, 4-18-1988)
8-6-2: PROCEDURE:
(Rep. by Ord. 2004-5, 7-6-2004)
8-6-3: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Requirements To Place Matter On Agenda: Qualified applications must be
submitted twenty one (21) days prior to the hearing date to be placed on the
next regular monthly agenda, providing the number of applications allows. If
the agenda is full it will be deferred to the following month.
   B.   Hearing Before Planning And Zoning Commission: In matters where only
commission approval is needed, the applicant shall attend the commission
meeting, answer such questions as may be propounded by the commission and
explain the reasons for the application. Failure to appear shall be grounds for
denial. In lieu thereof, the commission may table or pass the matter and no
time limits set forth herein shall be applicable.
      1.   In matters requiring only planning and zoning commission approval,
the planning and zoning staff shall send confirmation of the approval including
any conditions of the approval or denial of the request in written form. In the
event of denial, the applicant may file an appeal in accordance with chapter 18
of this title.
      2.   No decision shall be required at the time of initial consideration,
but whenever the application is considered the applicant shall have prior
notice and shall be entitled to appear.
   C.   Public Hearing; Planning And Zoning Administrator Responsibilities And
Fees: In matters where a public hearing is required, the applicant shall submit
an application to the administrator, who will take the necessary steps to
publish and schedule the public hearing. Fees sufficient to cover the
anticipated costs of publication and hearing shall be provided at the time of
initial application to the administrator.
   D.   Appearance Required: At any public hearing the applicant shall appear
and present information which is relevant to the application being considered.
Failure to appear at any stage of any proceedings shall be grounds for denial.
   E.   Conformity Of Notice, Publication And Hearing: All notices,
publications and hearings shall be in conformity with the various chapters
under which the applicant is seeking relief. Notice shall be posted upon the
property as required by Idaho Code.
   F.   Recommendations Of Planning And Zoning Commission To Board Of County
Commissioners: In matters upon which the commission only makes recommendations
to the board, after the required hearings the commission's recommendation shall
be forwarded to the board for its consideration. In matters requiring notice,
publication and hearings, the planning and zoning administrator shall make the
necessary arrangements for publication and hearing. (Ord. 2009-03, 6-15-2009)
8-6-4: PREAPPLICATION PROCEDURE FOR SUBDIVISION APPROVAL:
An applicant shall follow the following procedure when applying for a permit to
subdivide:
   A.   Developer or his engineers discuss project with planning and zoning
administrator.
   B.   Planning and zoning administrator informs applicant of zoning
restrictions, plat requirements, rezone requirements, steps to take if in a
city impact area, comprehensive plan, etc.
   C.   If necessary, applicant applies for rezone, amendment to plan, etc.
(Ord. 2009-03, 6-15-2009)
8-6-5: PRELIMINARY PLAT:
   A.   Developer submits a completed preliminary plat, with six (6) copies and
subdivision application, to planning and zoning commission.
   B.   Planning and zoning administrator sends copies of plat to appropriate
fire, irrigation, drainage, health district agencies, assessor's office and
affected utilities.
   C.   Planning and zoning administrator confirms conformity of plat with
subdivision design standards and agency responses, if any.
   D.   Within forty five (45) days from receipt of preliminary plat, planning
and zoning administrator or county engineer checks technical specifications of
plat and meets with developer and his engineer.
   E.   Public notice is given.
   F.   At the required public hearing, the planning and zoning commission
accepts public input. If material changes are made in the proposed plan, the
notice and hearing procedures are repeated. If no material changes are made,
the commission makes a recommendation to the board within thirty (30) days.
   G.   The board's decision may be appealed to district court. (Ord. 2009-03,
6-15-2009)
8-6-6: FINAL PLAT PROCEDURE:
   A.   Developer submits three (3) copies of final plat. At this point all
technical requirements of the Idaho Code concerning plats must be complied
with.
   B.   Final plat is studied by the planning and zoning administrator or
county engineer to assure compliance.
   C.   Final plat is sent back through the approval process if a substantial
variance from the approved preliminary plat has been made.
   D.   Final plat may be forwarded by the planning and zoning administrator to
appropriate agencies for review and comment.
   E.   If approved, the applicant submits the final plat to the county
engineer, SWDH, the road department, the assessor, the treasurer, and the
planning and zoning chairman for their signatures. When all signatures are
acquired and all requirements are met or all surety and performance bonds
posted, the plat may be presented to the board for the final signature. After
the board has signed, the final plat may be submitted for recording.
   F.   The subdivision is ready for construction. (Ord. 2009-03, 6-15-2009)
8-6-7: PERMIT SYNOPSIS:
 
 
                                             Publication          Notice To
Type Of      Responsible Publication Hearing Of Notice   Time For Appeal After
Application  Body                            Before      Action   Decision
                                             Hearing
Building     Building                                        
permit       official
Conditional  Commission     X        X 15 days     60 days  15 days
use                                          minimum
Rezone (zone Board                           15 days              Per Idaho
change)      (ordinance     X        X minimum     15 days  state statute
             required)
Subdivision  Board          X        X See preapplication procedure
approval
Temporary    Board       X           X       15 days     60 days  Per Idaho
hardship                                     minimum              state statute
Variance     Commission     X        X 15 days     30 days  15 days
 
(Ord. 2012-05, 5-21-2012)
CHAPTER 7
ZONES; MAP
SECTION:
8-7-1: Adoption Of Zoning Map
8-7-2: Interpretation Of Zone Boundaries
8-7-3: Reserved
8-7-4: Permitted Zones
8-7-1: ADOPTION OF ZONING MAP:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to adopt a zoning map, which is
in conformity with the plan map and which will provide notice to Payette County
residents of various zones in unincorporated areas.
   B.   Adoption: A map entitled "the zoning map for Payette County, Idaho", a
copy of which shall be kept on file with the planning and zoning administrator
is hereby adopted.
      1.   Payette County is zoned in accordance with said map, which map shall
be sufficient to show the location of various zones throughout Payette County.
      2.   Said map shall be made available to the public during normal working
hours of the planning and zoning administrator and upon request shall be copied
for a reasonable fee.
   C.   Rezoning: Whenever a tract of land is rezoned, the map should be
updated, but failure to do so shall not render the map nor this title invalid.
Maps which are updated shall be deemed adopted with the ordinance approving
rezoning, and which updated map shall not require a separate ordinance of
adoption.
   D.   Relief Action: Any person who has actual or constructive knowledge that
a particular parcel, lot, tract or area is zoned in a particular manner, shall
not be allowed to rely upon the fact that maps are not updated when applying
for relief action under this title. (Ord. 2009-03, 6-15-2009)
8-7-2: INTERPRETATION OF ZONE BOUNDARIES:
   A.   Where zone boundaries are indicated as approximately following the
centerline of street lines, highway right of way lines, streams, lakes or other
bodies of water, the centerline shall be construed to be such boundary;
   B.   Where zone boundaries are so indicated that they approximately follow
the lot lines, such lot lines shall be construed to be said boundaries;
   C.   Where zone boundaries are so indicated that they are approximately
parallel to the centerlines or right of way lines of highways, such zone
boundaries shall be construed as being parallel thereto and at such distance
therefrom as indicated on the official zoning map. If no distance is given,
such dimensions shall be determined by the use of the scale shown on the
official zoning map; and
   D.   Where the boundary of a zone follows a railroad line, such boundary
shall be deemed to be located in the middle of the main tracks of said railroad
line. (Ord. 57, 4-18-1988)
8-7-3: RESERVED:
(Ord. 2009-03, 6-15-2009)
8-7-4: PERMITTED ZONES:
The following zones are allowed in Payette County:
A   Agricultural zone
B   Recreational zone
R   Residential zone
C-1 Commercial 1 zone
C-2 Commercial 2 zone
I-1 Light industrial zone
I-2 Heavy industrial zone
FP  Floodplain overlay zone
 
(Ord. 2009-03, 6-15-2009)
CHAPTER 8
PERMITTED USES
SECTION:
8-8-1: Purpose
8-8-2: Zone A (Agricultural)
8-8-3: Zone B (Recreational)
8-8-4: Zone R (Residential)
8-8-5: Zone C-1 (Commercial 1)
8-8-6: Zone C-2 (Commercial 2)
8-8-7: Reserved
8-8-8: Zone I-1 (Light Industrial
8-8-9: Zone I-2 (Heavy Industrial)
8-8-10: Conditional Uses
8-8-11: Public Utility Structures
8-8-1: PURPOSE:
For the purpose of this title, the various uses of buildings and premises shall
be classified as follows, provided however, that a use herein set forth as
permitted in any zone classification shall be deemed to be excluded from any
other zone unless such use is specifically permitted in that zone, or is found
to be a conditional use. (Ord. 57, 4-18-1988)
8-8-2: ZONE A (AGRICULTURAL):
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of the A zone is to preserve and protect the
decreasing supply of agricultural land. This zone also is established to
control the infiltration of urban development into agricultural areas which
will adversely affect agricultural operations.
   B.   Uses: The following uses are permitted in A zones:
      1.   Permitted Uses: One single-family dwelling which may be located on a
tract no smaller than forty thousand (40,000) square feet and which is subject
to all standards adopted by this code, garden buildings and accessory
structures. Cultivation, harvesting, storage and sale of crops, vegetables,
fruits, plants, flowers and nursery stock produced on the premises. Plant and
material nursery. Animal production subject to CAFO ordinance. One accessory
dwelling unit which is located on a tract no smaller than two (2) acres,
subject to all standards adopted by this code for a single-family dwelling
unit, and shall be subject to the following requirements, conditions,
restrictions, and limitations:
         a.   The lot must already have a permitted single-family dwelling;
         b.   Accessory dwelling unit must not exceed one thousand five hundred
(1,500) square feet;
         c.   Accessory dwelling shall not be occupied without a valid
occupancy or use permit;
         d.   The nearest corner or wall of the accessory dwelling unit must be
built within two hundred (200) feet of the primary residence;
         e.   Shall use the same ingress and egress as the primary residence
and shall share an address with the primary residence but be differentiated by
A and B designations;
         f.   Property line setbacks shall be in accordance with section
8-10-3 of this title; and
         g.   Accessory dwelling units must remain on the same parcel as the
primary residence, and the parcel shall not be reduced to less than two acres.
      2.   Permitted With Conditional Use Permit: Radio and television
transmitting stations, private airstrip, home occupations, preschool nurseries,
gravel pits, on site extractive manufacturing and quarries, riding stables,
kennels, and cell towers.
      3.   Permitted Through Conditional Use and Requiring An Engineered Plat:
Cemeteries, fairgrounds, commercial packing plants for farm crops, veterinary
or animal hospital. (Ord. 2009-03, 6-15-2009; amd. Ord. 2021-04, 9-13-2021)
8-8-3: ZONE B (RECREATIONAL):
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of the B zone is to encourage the development of
areas dedicated to leisure and recreational purposes.
   B.   Uses: The following uses and no others are permitted in all B zones:
      1.   Hunting preserves, firing ranges, picnic areas, public parks,
playgrounds, wildlife refuges, and other public recreational areas owned and
operated by governmental or nonprofit organizations.
      2.   Other uses related to or incidental to the primary uses set forth in
this section. (Ord. 2009-03, 6-15-2009)
8-8-4: ZONE R (RESIDENTIAL):
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of the R zone is to permit the establishment of
low density, single-family dwellings, on lots of not less than three (3) acres
per dwelling unit. Community water and sewer facilities may be required as set
out in section
9-7-1 of this code.
   B.   Uses: The following uses are permitted in all R zones:
      1.   Row crops, grazing, orchards and gardens; farm, ranch and garden
buildings and accessory structures.
   C.   Uses Permitted With Engineered Plat: The following uses are permitted
in all R zones accompanied by an engineered plat:
      1.   Churches and church schools.
      2.   Public parks, playgrounds and other public recreation areas owned
and operated by governmental or nonprofit organizations; public utility mains
and substations but not including public offices or repair or storage
facilities.
      3.   Single-family dwellings and two-family dwellings, including modular
homes, subterranean dwellings, and any other residential structure permissible
by building code; residential subdivisions, subject to all zoning and
subdivision requirements; multi-family dwellings.
      4.   Also permitted with an engineered plat by conditional use permit:
College and private schools, dormitories, sorority and fraternity houses,
public schools, assembly clubs, lodge buildings, membership clubs, preschool
age nurseries, hospitals, rest homes, convalescent homes and nursing homes,
clinics, cemeteries.
      5.   Other uses related to or incidental to the primary uses set forth in
this section, including, but not limited to, storage garages, incinerators,
identification signs, home occupations and private swimming pools.
      6.   Other compatible uses permitted by conditional use permit and public
hearing process. (Ord. 2009-03, 6-15-2009)
8-8-5: ZONE C-1 (COMMERCIAL 1):
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of the C-1 zone is to permit the establishment of
those businesses which historically have a low volume of people and with
limited traffic. Local businesses permitted in C-1 zones shall include tracts
devoted to small clusters of low volume retail and personal service shops, but
do not include tracts devoted to manufacturing, wholesaling or industrial
purposes.
   B.   Uses: The following uses are permitted in all C-1 zones accompanied by
an engineered plat:
      1.   Bakery shops; cabinet shops; cemetery; equipment rental, equipment
sales; furniture refinishing; commercial laundry plant; medical, dental or
optometric laboratory; mortuary; nursery; commercial printer; sign shop; radio
and appliance repair shop; residential storage units; medical offices, dental
offices, optometric offices; drugstores; gift shops.
      2.   Other compatible uses permitted by conditional use permit and public
hearing process. (Ord. 2009-03, 6-15-2009)
8-8-6: ZONE C-2 (COMMERCIAL 2):
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of the C-2 zone is to permit the establishment of
those convenience businesses which historically have a high volume of people or
walk-in traffic. Local businesses permitted in C-2 zones shall include tracts
devoted to small clusters of high volume retail and personal service shops, but
do not include tracts devoted to manufacturing, wholesaling or industrial
purposes.
   B.   Uses: The following uses are permitted in all C-2 zones accompanied by
an engineered plat:
      1.   Medical clinics, medical institutions, professional offices; motels,
hotels, apartment buildings, recreational parks; automobile sales lots; banks,
savings and loan institutions; service stations, garages, automobile, or motor
vehicle repair, tire shops; personal service shops, barbershops, beauty shops;
restricted retail businesses not of an industrial or manufacturing nature;
amusement or recreation centers, auditoriums, membership clubs, assembly clubs;
parts buildings, building supply outlets; establishments offering food and
beverages; studios, dance studios, theaters, places of entertainment, bowling
alleys; car washes; churches; retail outlets; laundromats; nursing homes,
daycare facilities; equipment rentals; food stores.
      2.   Other compatible uses permitted by conditional use permit and public
hearing process. (Ord. 2009-03, 6-15-2009)
8-8-7: RESERVED:
(Ord. 2009-03, 6-15-2009)
8-8-8: ZONE I-1 (LIGHT INDUSTRIAL):
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of the I-1 zone is to encourage the development of
manufacturing and wholesale business establishments which are clean and quiet
with minimal hazardous or objectionable elements such as noise, odor, dust,
smoke or glare and are operated primarily within enclosed structures. This zone
is further designated to act as a transitional use between heavy commercial
uses and other more intense industrial uses.
   B.   Uses: The following uses are permitted in all I-1 zones accompanied by
an engineered plat:
      1.   Research activities; supply yards, building yards; sugar beet dumps;
manufacturing facilities for cosmetics, pharmaceuticals, toiletries;
manufacturing facilities for food products, sauerkraut, vinegar, and yeast,
excluding fish or meat products; manufacturing of electrical equipment
including electric signs; manufacturing of optical goods and precision
instruments; above and below ground storage of bulk products; storage and sale
of grain, livestock feed or fuel, provided dust is effectively controlled;
wholesale houses, storage and warehouses; bag, carpet and rug cleaning,
providing necessary equipment is installed and operated for the effective
prevention of dust; blacksmith, welding or other metalworking shops, excluding
any machine making noise to such a degree to cause a nuisance outside the
physical plant; casting lightweight nonferrous metals, or electric foundries
not causing noxious fumes or odors; ice manufacturing and cold storage plants,
creamery and bottling plants; commercial packing sheds for farm crops; bottling
works; lumberyards and cement and concrete sales establishments; dairy
processing and distribution plants; commercial meatpacking plants; machine
shops, plumbing shops, tin and sheet metal shops; storage warehouse, storage
facilities for oil, gasoline or petroleum products. (Ord. 2009-03, 6-15-2009)
8-8-9: ZONE I-2 (HEAVY INDUSTRIAL):
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of the I-2 zone is to encourage the development of
major manufacturing, processing, warehousing and major research and testing
operations. Zone I-2 shall not create a hazard or nuisance which either
immediately or in the future will adversely affect the health, safety or
general welfare of the community.
   B.   Uses: The following uses are permitted in all I-2 zones accompanied by
an engineered plat:
      1.   Permitted Uses: Factory or industrial operation not permitted in
other zones; automobile wrecking yard, junkyard, sanitary landfill; light and
heavy extractive manufacturing, manufacturing of rubber products, foundries,
commercial slaughterhouse and meatpacking facilities; rendering of fats and
oils;
      2.   Other Uses: Any other lawful use not prohibited by this or any other
county ordinance.
   C.   Prohibited Uses: The following uses shall not be permitted in class I-
2 zones:
      1.   Churches and schools.
      2.   Kindergartens and daycare facilities.
      3.   Cemeteries.
      4.   Hospitals, sanitariums and nursing homes.
      5.   Dwelling of any kind for living purposes except a residence used in
connection with the operation, for a caretaker. (Ord. 2009-03, 6-15-2009)
8-8-10: CONDITIONAL USES:
Since it is impossible to foresee and enumerate all future or potential and
valid conditional uses, other conditional uses may be approved by the planning
and zoning commission, provided the proposed use conforms strictly to the
requirements of chapter 9 of this title. (Ord. 57, 4-18-1988)
8-8-11: PUBLIC UTILITY STRUCTURES:
Structures which are built by a public utility for the sole purpose of housing
and maintaining fully operational communications transmission equipment used
exclusively in the furtherance of the business of the public utility, shall be
a permitted use in any zone. Such structures shall not be used at any time for
human habitation, and when they are no longer used by the public utility, they
shall be abandoned and removed. The purchase of land for the placement of such
a structure shall not constitute a division of land for purposes of the one
time division of property. Said structure shall be fully enclosed, not to
exceed one story in height as defined by the uniform building code, shall not
exceed three hundred (300) square feet in size and shall have no water or sewer
connections. No storage of vehicles, equipment or supplies shall be allowed.
The lot shall be kept weed free. Zero setback of the actual structure is
permissible as long as there is no interference with sight distances which
would compromise or impair vehicular traffic safety. (Ord. 57-K, 8-8-1994)
CHAPTER 9
CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS
SECTION:
8-9-1: General
8-9-2: Application; Fee
8-9-3: Applicable Standards For Issuance Of A Conditional Use Permit
8-9-4: Supplementary Conditions And Safeguards
8-9-5: Public Sites And Open Spaces
8-9-6: Procedure For Hearing; Notice
8-9-7: Action By Planning And Zoning Commission
8-9-8: Building Rights For Additional Dwellings
8-9-1: GENERAL:
   A.   Individual Consideration: It is recognized that an increasing number of
new kinds of uses are appearing daily, and that many of these and some other
more conventional uses possess characteristics of such unique and special
nature relative to location, design, size, method of operation, circulation and
public facilities that each specific use must be considered individually.
   B.   Public Hearing Required: The planning and zoning commission shall hold
a public hearing on each conditional use permit application. The commission may
approve, conditionally approve or deny a conditional use permit under the
conditions as herein specified and considering such additional safeguards as
will uphold the intent of this title and when it is not in conflict with the
comprehensive plan. (Ord. 57, 4-18-1988)
8-9-2: APPLICATION; FEE:
   A.   Contents: An application for conditional use permit shall be filed with
the planning and zoning administrator/building inspector by at least one owner
or lessee of property for which such conditional use is proposed. At a minimum,
the application shall contain the following information:
      1.   Name, address and phone number of applicant;
      2.   Legal description of property;
      3.   Description of existing use;
      4.   Zone classification;
      5.   Description of proposed conditional use;
      6.   A plan of the proposed site for the conditional use showing the
location of all buildings, parking and loading area, traffic access and traffic
circulation, open spaces, landscaping, refuse and service areas, utilities,
signs, yards and other such information as the planning and zoning commission
may require to determine if the proposed conditional use meets the intent and
requirements of this title;
      7.   A narrative statement evaluating the effects on adjoining property
of such elements as noise, glare, odor, fumes, and vibration; a discussion of
the general compatibility with adjacent and other properties in the zone; and
the relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan;
      8.   Names and addresses of adjoining property owners within three
hundred feet (300'), and people living on the land being considered.
   B.   Fee: A filing fee shall accompany the application (see schedule of fees
adopted herein by reference and on file in the office of the county clerk).
(Ord. 57, 4-18-1988)
8-9-3: APPLICABLE STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE OF A CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT:
   A.   The planning and zoning commission shall review the particular facts
and circumstances of each proposed conditional use in terms of the following
standards and shall find adequate evidence showing that such use at the
proposed location:
      1.   Will, in fact, constitute a conditional use;
      2.   Will be harmonious with and in accordance with the general
objectives or with any specific objective of the comprehensive plan and this
zoning title;
      3.   Will be designed, constructed, operated and maintained to be
harmonious and appropriate in appearance with the existing or intended
character of the general vicinity and that such use will not change the
essential character of the same area;
      4.   Will not be hazardous or disturbing to existing or future
neighboring uses;
      5.   Will be served adequately by essential public facilities and
services such as highways, streets, police and fire protection, drainage
structures, refuse disposal, water and sewer and schools; or that the persons
or agencies responsible for the establishment of the proposed use shall be able
to provide adequately any such services;
      6.   Will not create excessive additional requirements at public cost for
public facilities and services and will not be detrimental to the economic
welfare of the community;
      7.   Will not involve uses, activities, processes, materials, equipment
and conditions of operation that will be detrimental, to any persons, property
or the general welfare by reason of excessive production of traffic, noise,
smoke, fumes, glare or odors;
      8.   Will have vehicular approaches to the property which shall be so
designed as not to create an interference with traffic on surrounding public
thoroughfares;
      9.   Will not result in the destruction, loss or damage of a natural,
scenic or historic feature of major importance; and
      10.   Will not generate noise greater than sixty (60) dBA between the
hours of seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. at the
property line of the applicant.
   B.   A conditional use is deemed personal in nature and cannot be
transferred with title to the property. (Ord. 2015-02, 9-28-2015)
8-9-4: SUPPLEMENTARY CONDITIONS AND SAFEGUARDS:
   A.   Supplemental Conditions: In granting any conditional use, the planning
and zoning commission may prescribe appropriate conditions, use agreements,
bonds and safeguards which are in conformity with this title. Violations of
such conditions, bonds or safeguards, when made a part of the terms under which
the conditional use is granted, shall be deemed a violation of this title.
   B.   Nonuse After Issuance; Automatic Termination: In the event that the use
which is permitted pursuant to a conditional use permit as granted by the
Payette County planning and zoning commission is not commenced within one year
from the date of issuance, the conditional use permit shall terminate
automatically, without notice of any kind, and shall become null and void and
without any force or effect one year from the date of issuance. In addition, in
the event that the use which is permitted pursuant to the conditional use
permit is abandoned for a period of one year, the conditional use permit shall
be rendered null and void and without any force or effect, without any notice.
In order to reestablish the use or a similar use the grantee must again make
application to the planning and zoning commission. Nonuse for a period of one
year shall be deemed conclusive evidence of abandonment. (Ord. 2009-03, 6-15-
2009)
8-9-5: PUBLIC SITES AND OPEN SPACES:
Public sites and open spaces shall conform to the following:
   A.   Public Uses: Where it is determined that a proposed park, playground,
school or other public use is located in whole or in part within a proposed
development, the planning and zoning administrator shall notify the appropriate
public agency concerning the land proposed to be acquired. Within thirty (30)
days of the date of notice, the public agency may request the governing body to
suspend consideration on the permit for sixty (60) days from the date of the
request, however, if an agreement is not reached within sixty (60) days, the
commission shall resume consideration of the conditional use application;
   B.   Natural Features: Existing natural features which add value to
residential development and enhance the attractiveness of the community (such
as trees, watercourses, historic spots and similar irreplaceable assets) shall
be preserved in the design of the development; and
   C.   Special Developments: In the case of planned unit developments and
large scale developments, the planning and zoning commission may require
sufficient park or open space facilities of acceptable size, location and site
characteristics that may be suitable for the proposed development. (Ord. 2009-
03, 6-15-2009)
8-9-6: PROCEDURE FOR HEARING; NOTICE:
   A.   Public Hearing: Prior to granting a conditional use permit, at least
one public hearing in which interested persons shall have an opportunity to be
heard shall be held.
   B.   Notice Of Hearing:
      1.   Publication Of Notice: At least fifteen (15) days prior to the
hearing, notice of the time and place and a summary of the proposal shall be
published in the official newspaper or paper of general circulation within the
jurisdiction for use as a public service announcement.
      2.   Written Notice By Mail: Written notice sent by regular United States
mail shall be provided to adjoining property owners as indicated on the records
of the county assessor's office, owners and residents with the land being
considered, one thousand feet (1000') beyond the external boundaries of the
land being considered, the manager or person in charge of the local airport if
the request could create an aviation hazard as defined in section 21-501 Idaho
Code; and any additional area that may be substantially impacted by the
proposed conditional use as determined by the planning and zoning commission.
Notice may be sent to any affected irrigation district or water delivery
entity. (Ord. 57-H, 12-14-1992; amd. Ord. 2015-02, 9-28-2015; Ord. 2021-07, 9-
13-2021)
8-9-7: ACTION BY PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION:
   A.   Approval/Denial Of Permit: Within sixty (60) days after the public
hearing, the planning and zoning commission will either approve, conditionally
approve or disapprove the application as presented. If the application is
approved or approved with modifications, the commission shall direct the
planning and zoning administrator to issue a conditional use permit listing the
specific conditions specified by the commission for approval.
   B.   Additional Conditions And Requirements: Upon granting of a conditional
use permit, conditions may be attached to a conditional use permit, including,
but not limited to, the following:
      1.   Minimizing adverse impact on other development;
      2.   Controlling the sequence and timing of development;
      3.   Controlling the duration of development;
      4.   Assuring that development is maintained properly;
      5.   Designating the exact location and nature of development;
      6.   Requiring the provision for on site or off site public facilities or
services;
      7.   Requiring more restrictive standards than those generally required
in this title; and
      8.   Minimizing impact on irrigation or water delivery systems.
   C.   Additional Information; Transferability: Prior to granting a
conditional use permit, the planning and zoning commission may require
additional information concerning social, economic, fiscal and environmental
effects of the proposed conditional use. A conditional use permit shall not be
considered as establishing a binding precedent to grant other conditional use
permits. A conditional use permit is not transferable from one parcel of land
to another. Upon granting or denying an application, the commission shall
specify:
      1.   The ordinance and standards used in evaluating the application;
      2.   The reasons for approval or denial; and
      3.   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain a
permit.
   D.   Written Notice Of Planning And Zoning Commission Decision: Within
thirty (30) days after a decision by the commission has been rendered, the
planning and zoning administrator shall provide the applicant with written
notice of the action on the request.
   E.   Appeal: The applicant or any affected person who appeared in person or
in writing before the planning and zoning commission may appeal the decision of
the commission in accordance with chapter 18 of this title. (Ord. 2009-03, 6-
15-2009)
8-9-8: BUILDING RIGHTS FOR ADDITIONAL DWELLINGS:
   A.   The expiration dates for additional building permits obtained through
the conditional use process which were in existence at the time of the repeal
of the previous section 8-9-8 of this chapter were extended until the end of
July 2001.
   B.   Existing building rights for additional dwellings which were obtained
pursuant to the conditional use process of the previous section 8-9-8 of this
chapter prior to its repeal 1  are hereby extended for a period of ten (10)
years (July 2011). (Ord. 2009-03, 6-15-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. Repealed by ordinance 1998-6.
CHAPTER 10
PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
SECTION:
8-10-1: Division Of Property In Zone A
8-10-2: Division Of Original Tract Or Parcel Of Land In Zone A
8-10-3: Minimum Lot Or Tract Sizes, Yard Area, And Setbacks
8-10-4: Maximum Height Of Buildings Or Structures
8-10-5: Supplemental Yard And Height Regulations
8-10-6: Supplemental General Provisions
8-10-7: Commercial And Industrial Uses
8-10-8: Unique Land Uses
8-10-9: Synopsis
8-10-1: DIVISION OF PROPERTY IN ZONE A:
For the purpose of this title, the following shall apply:
   A.   Before any lot, parcel or tract can be divided an application shall be
filed with the Planning and Zoning Administrator. The administrator will have
fifteen (15) days to review the application. The review shall be conducted to
make sure the split or lot line adjustment is allowed and will not create a
non-conforming parcel in all zones per this title.
   B.   Said splits or lot line adjustments shall be for one (1) of six (6)
reasons:
      1.   Administrative right;
      2.   Agricultural purposes as defined;
      3.   Transfer of development right;
      4.   Commercial development;
      5.   Industrial development; and
      6.   Lot line adjustment in a platted subdivision.
   C.   Prior to final approval of said split or lot line adjustment the
applicant shall provide record of the following; a record will be established
by each appointed or elected official signing off on the approved application:
      1.   Taxes paid to the County Treasurer;
      2.   Record of survey and legal description as per Idaho Code sections
63-209 and 63-210, to the County Assessor;
      3.   Any additional fees required for a technical review performed by the
County Engineer; and
      4.   Upon approval, deeds with complete legal descriptions must be
recorded with a completed application.
   D.   Violations: Any violation of this section shall be a misdemeanor
punishable by not more than six (6) months in the Payette County Jail or a fine
of not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or both. (Ord. 2009-03, 6-15-
2009; amd. Ord. 2024-02, 1-16-2024)
8-10-2: DIVISION OF ORIGINAL TRACT OR PARCEL OF LAND IN ZONE A:
   A.   An original tract or parcel of land may be administratively divided
into two (2) buildable tracts or parcels, provided that the resulting division
shall not result in either tract or parcel having less than forty thousand
(40,000) square feet in area. Each resulting tract may contain a residential
dwelling right or after application and public hearing may qualify for a TDR.
   B.   A lot, parcel or tract which has at any time been divided from a tract
containing a residence, shall not be used to enlarge or qualify another
previously divided tract for residential construction.
   C.   A previously divided tract, parcel or lot shall not be divided except
that a previously divided lot, parcel or tract may again be divided for
agricultural purposes provided the resulting division does not result in a
diminution to the farmable acreage or a decrease in field sizes and a
residential dwelling is not constructed on any resulting parcel.
   D.   An original tract which is subsequently divided by a county, state or
federal highway becomes two (2) original tracts. (Ord. 2009-03, 6-15-2009)
8-10-3: MINIMUM LOT OR TRACT SIZES, YARD AREA, AND SETBACKS:
For the purpose of this title, the following shall apply:
   A.   Zone A:
      1.   Lot Size: In zone A, a tract, parcel or lot or an original tract,
parcel or lot shall not be divided into tracts or parcels of less area than the
original tract except in accordance with section 8-10-2 of this chapter. No
residential dwelling shall be constructed upon or be located upon any lots
containing less than forty thousand (40,000) square feet excluding public and
private street rights of way.
      2.   Yard And Building Setbacks: In zone A, required setbacks shall be
fifteen (15) feet on all sides except where property adjoins a private or
public road or road right-of-way, where the required setback shall be thirty
(30) feet from the property line or road right-of-way, whichever is greater.
   B.   Zone R:
      1.   Lot Size: In zone R, no single-family dwelling shall be erected nor
mobile home parked or placed or building altered to accommodate one family as a
residence on a lot having less than forty thousand (40,000) square feet
excluding public and private street rights of way and a width of at least one
hundred fifty feet (150').
      2.   Yard And Building Setbacks: In zone R, each building or structure
shall be required to have side yards or side setbacks of not less than ten feet
(10') and rear and front yards or rear and front setbacks of not less than
thirty feet (30'), as measured from property lines or right of way lines when
available. Uninhabited accessory structures may be placed ten feet (10') from
the rear property line.
      3.   Allowable Decreases: Lots may be decreased in size as follows: a)
lots may be reduced to twenty thousand (20,000) square feet if central sewer is
provided; b) lots may be reduced to ten thousand (10,000) square feet if both
central sewer and central water are provided.
   C.   Zone C-1 And C-2:
      1.   Lot Size: In zone C, minimum lot size shall be forty thousand
(40,000) square feet excluding public and private street rights of way.
      2.   Yard And Building Setbacks: No side yards, side setbacks, rear
setbacks or rear yards are required except where a lot adjoins a residential R
zone, in which case a side yard and side setback of not less than ten feet
(10') is required, and a rear yard or rear setback of fifty feet (50') is
required as measured from property lines or right of way lines when available.
No buildings or structures or any portion thereof shall be erected within fifty
feet (50') of the right of way line of an existing road or highway. Such lines
shall be established by a survey of record.
   D.   Zones I-1 And I-2:
      1.   Lot Size: In zones I-1 and I-2 there shall be no minimum lot size
except that all land put to I-1 and I-2 uses shall be of sufficient size to
meet all setback and minimum yard requirements.
      2.   Yard And Building Setbacks: No side yards, side setbacks, rear
setbacks or rear yards are required except where a lot adjoins a residential R
zone, in which case a side yard and side setback of not less than ten feet
(10') is required, and a rear yard or rear setback of fifty feet (50') is
required as measured from property lines or right of way lines when available.
No buildings or structures or any portion thereof shall be erected within fifty
feet (50') of the right of way line of an existing road or highway. Such lines
shall be established by a survey of record.
   E.   Recorded Description: A recorded description of a lot of record will
not substitute or qualify as a subdivision plat.
   F.   Rear Yard Determination: For purposes of determining the minimum rear
yard, the rear yard may be measured to the centerline of an alley, if any,
abutting the rear property line.
   G.   Road Rights Of Way: For purposes of determining lot size, area,
setbacks, coverage, etc., where measurements required by this title necessarily
include, commence from or consider road rights of way, and where there are no
deeded, platted or dedicated road rights of way, the road right of way is
presumed to be sixty feet (60') in width.
   H.   Payette River And Snake River: No building or structure or any portion
thereof shall be erected within seventy five feet (75'), as measured
horizontally, of the high water mark of the Payette River and Snake River.
   I.   Property Abutting Public Lands: No part of any structure built upon
property abutting, contiguous, bordering, nearby or adjacent to public land
shall be constructed closer than two hundred feet (200') to the property line
of the public land.
   The two hundred foot (200') setback requirement may be decreased to thirty
feet (30') provided that a person proposing to build on property adjacent to
public lands provides the building official with a plan which shows that any
structure built less than two hundred feet (200') from those public lands will
be built with all exterior surfaces out of noncombustible materials, have a
metal or other noncombustible roof, have a water source plumbed to the building
and have a firebreak maintained between the building and the public lands.
Noncombustible materials shall include, but not be limited to, block, brick,
concrete, stucco or steel, or any other noncombustible material as defined by
the American Society For Testing And Materials, ASTM E136. A firebreak shall be
a ten foot (10') strip of land which shall be maintained in such a manner that
its surface is natural soil and vegetation free and has no combustible
materials parked, stored or maintained thereon. The setback may be reduced to
thirty feet (30') provided that a landowner plants and maintains a
noncombustible, green vegetation, strip between any structures and the public
land. "Public land" shall be defined as agricultural, recreational or
unimproved land owned by the state of Idaho or the United States Of America. In
the event any structure is built in violation of this subsection, or if built
in conformity with this subsection but not maintained as required by this
subsection, in addition to any other penalties available to the state of Idaho
or Payette County, said structure shall be subject to the abatement portions of
this code. (Ord. 2012-05, 5-21-2012; amd. Ord. 2020-01, 2-17-2020)
8-10-4: MAXIMUM HEIGHT OF BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES:
The following are the maximum permissible heights of buildings and structures
in the below listed zones; provided, however, that towers and similar
structures may be excepted from the list by a conditional use permit, which may
be obtained from the planning and zoning commission at its discretion:
Zone A:                                                          
 Single level residential dwellings                            50 feet
 Multilevel residential dwellings                              65 feet
 Outbuildings                                                  55 feet
 Silos, granaries, feed manufacturing or mixing facilities and 125 feet
  appurtenances thereto
Zone B                                                          50 feet
Zone C-1                                                        125 feet
Zone C-2                                                        125 feet
Zone I-1                                                        150 feet
Zone I-2                                                        300 feet
Zone R:                                                          
 Single level residential dwellings                            50 feet
 Multilevel residential dwellings                              65 feet
 Outbuildings                                                  55 feet
 
All zoning sections except title 10, chapter 1, "Payette Airport", of this code
are subject to this section. Any ordinances that are in conflict with this are
hereby repealed. (Ord. 2015-02, 9-28-2015)
8-10-5: SUPPLEMENTAL YARD AND HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
In addition to all yard regulations specified in this title, the following
provisions shall be adhered to:
   A.   Visibility At Intersections: On a corner lot in any zone, nothing shall
be erected, placed, or allowed to grow in any such manner as to materially
impede vision between a height of two and one-half (21/2) and ten feet (10')
above the centerline grades of the intersecting streets in the area bounded by
the right of way lines of such corner lots and a line joining points along said
street right of way lines twenty five feet (25') from the point of
intersection.
   B.   Yard Requirements For Multi-Family Dwellings: Multi-family dwellings
shall be considered as one building for the purpose of determining front, side
and rear yard requirements. The entire group as a unit shall require one front,
one rear, and two (2) side yards as specified for dwellings in the appropriate
zone.
   C.   Side And Rear Yard Requirements For Nonresidential Uses Abutting
Residential Zones: Nonresidential buildings or uses shall not be located nor
constructed closer than fifty feet (50') to any lot line of a residential zone,
except that the minimum yard requirements may be reduced to fifty percent (50%)
of the requirement if acceptable landscaping or screening approved by the
planning and zoning commission is provided.
   D.   Architectural Projections: Open structures such as porches, canopies,
balconies, platforms, carports, covered patios and similar architectural
projections shall be considered parts of the building to which attached and
shall not project into the required minimum front, side and rear yard;
provided, that ornaments and furniture shall be permitted in any yard, subject
to height limitations and requirements limiting obstruction of visibility.
   E.   Exceptions To Height Regulations: The height limitations contained in
this title do not apply to spires, belfries, cupolas, antennas, water tanks,
ventilators, chimneys or other appurtenances usually required to be placed
above the roof level and not intended for human occupancy except where the
height of such structures will constitute a hazard to the safe landing and
takeoff of aircraft at an established airport. (Ord. 2012-05, 5-21-2012)
8-10-6: SUPPLEMENTAL GENERAL PROVISIONS:
In addition to all other regulations as specified in this title, the following
provisions shall be adhered to:
   A.   Conversion Of Dwellings To More Units: A residence shall not be
converted to accommodate an increased number of dwelling units unless:
      1.   The yard dimensions still meet the yard dimensions required by the
zoning regulations for new structures in that zone;
      2.   The lot area per family equals the lot area requirements for new
structures in that zone; and
      3.   The conversion is in compliance with all other relevant codes and
ordinances.
   B.   Temporary Buildings: Temporary buildings, construction trailers,
equipment and materials used in conjunction with construction work are only
allowed during the period construction work is in progress, but such temporary
facilities shall be removed upon completion of the construction work and the
removal shall be guaranteed by a ten thousand dollar ($10,000.00) bond. Storage
of such facilities or equipment beyond the completion date of the project shall
require a use permit authorized by the planning and zoning administrator or
building inspector.
   C.   Parking And Storage Of Certain Vehicles: Automotive vehicles or
trailers of any kind or type without current license plates shall not be parked
or stored on any residentially or agriculturally zoned property other than in a
completely enclosed building or carport. However, one boat and one travel
trailer may be stored in a side or rear yard.
   D.   Required Trash Areas: All trash and/or garbage collection areas for
commercial, industrial and multi-family uses shall be enclosed on at least
three (3) sides by a solid wall or fence of at least four feet (4') in height
or within an enclosed building or structure. Adequate vehicular access shall be
provided to and from such area or areas for collection of trash and/or garbage.
   E.   Development Close To An Airport: The location, building height and
lighting of residential and commercial development shall be restricted within
airport approach areas as required by the state department of transportation,
division of aeronautics and public transportation and federal aviation
administration 1 .
   F.   Use Of Residential Units For Storage Prohibited: It shall be unlawful
for any person to use any building, manufactured home, mobile home or other
structure built, designed, or which structure has received an occupancy permit
as a residence, as a storage facility.
   G.   Mobile Homes: Mobile homes, placed outside of mobile home parks or
courts, shall be placed on permanent foundations and shall become permanent
structures. (Ord. 2012-05, 5-21-2012)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 10 of this code.
8-10-7: COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL USES:
No land or building in any zone shall be used or occupied in any manner
creating dangerous, injurious, noxious or otherwise objectionable conditions
which could adversely affect the surrounding areas or adjoining premises,
except that any use permitted by this title may be undertaken and maintained if
acceptable measures and safeguards to reduce dangerous and objectionable
conditions to acceptable limits as established by the following performance
requirements:
   A.   Fire Hazards: Any activity involving the use or storage of flammable or
explosive materials shall be protected by adequate firefighting and fire
prevention equipment and by such safety devices as are normally used in the
handling of any such material. Such hazards shall be kept removed from adjacent
activities to a distance which is compatible with the potential danger involved
as specified in the fire code and the national safety foundation publications;
   B.   Radioactivity Or Electrical Disturbance: No activity shall emit harmful
radioactivity at any point, or electrical disturbance adversely affecting the
operation of any equipment at any point, other than at the source of such
disturbance;
   C.   Noise: Objectionable noise which is due to volume, frequency or beat
shall be muffled or otherwise controlled. Air raid sirens and related apparatus
used solely for public purposes are exempt from this requirement;
   D.   Vibration: No vibration shall be permitted which is discernible without
instruments on any adjoining lot or property;
   E.   Air Pollution: Air pollution shall be subject to the requirements and
regulations established by the health authority;
   F.   Glare: No direct or reflected glare shall be permitted which is visible
from any property outside a manufacturing zone or from any street;
   G.   Erosion: No erosion, by man, wind or water, shall be permitted which
will carry objectionable substances onto neighboring properties;
   H.   Water Pollution: Water pollution control shall be subject to the
requirements and regulations established by the health authority and the United
States government;
   I.   Enforcement Provisions: The planning and zoning administrator or
building inspector, prior to the issuance of a permit, may require the
submission of statements and plans indicating the manner in which dangerous and
objectionable elements involved in processing and in equipment operations are
to be eliminated or reduced to acceptable limits and tolerances; and
   J.   Measurement Procedures: Methods and procedures for the determination of
the existence of any dangerous and objectionable elements shall conform to
applicable standard measurement procedures published by the American Standards
Institute, New York, the Manufacturing Chemists Association, Inc., Washington
D.C., the United States bureau of mines and the health authority, or their
successors. (Ord. 2012-05, 5-21-2012)
8-10-8: UNIQUE LAND USES:
Certain unique land uses pose special problems that may have detrimental
influences on surrounding land uses. This is not to imply the creation of a
zone entitled "unique lands". The following performance standards for such
unique land uses shall be adhered to in addition to all other provisions of
this title when properly zoned:
   A.   Accessory Buildings: An accessory building:
      1.   Will not be located in any required front yard area; and
      2.   Will not be located closer than ten feet (10') from any side or rear
property line.
   B.   Animal Care: Animal clinic, animal hospital, veterinary office and
kennel:
      1.   Any lot or premises on which four (4) or more domesticated animals
more than four (4) months of age are housed, groomed, bred, boarded, trained,
sold or which offers provisions for minor medical treatment is considered a
kennel and shall obtain a conditional use permit.
      2.   Will be located at least three hundred feet (300') from any
residence including motels and hotels, except for an owner's residence. The
planning and zoning commission may modify these requirements if the animals are
completely housed in soundproof structures that completely screen them from
view of the abutting residential property; and
      3.   Will comply with all state and local regulations relative to such an
operation, and maintain adequate housekeeping practices designed to prevent the
creation of a nuisance and to reduce to a minimum the factors of noise and
odor.
   C.   Animal Related Businesses And Appurtenant Structure: Holding pens,
feedlots, silage pits and silos:
      1.   Will be located not less than six hundred feet (600') from any
residence, except for an owner's residence. Such facilities shall have a
minimum setback of thirty feet (30') from any property line;
      2.   Will be designed and located with full consideration to their
proximity to adjacent uses, their effect upon surrounding properties, and to
the reduction of such nuisance factors as odor; and
      3.   Will be adequately maintained with housekeeping practices to prevent
the creation of a nuisance, and shall also be subject to the health authority
requirements as to the elimination of waste materials and the maintenance of
water quality control.
      4.   See also chapter 19, "Confined Animal Feeding Operations", of this
title.
   D.   Bulk Storage: Bulk storage of flammable liquids and gases, aboveground
and for resale:
      1.   Will be located at least three hundred feet (300') from a
residential zone, a residence, motel, hotel, except for an owner's residence;
      2.   Will be erected subject to the approval of the principal fire
authority; and
      3.   Will have suitable loading and unloading spaces and off street
parking facilities.
   E.   Hazardous Materials: Chemicals, pesticide and fertilizer storage and
manufacturing:
      1.   Will have adequate fire protection, storage area, handling and
disposal approved by the principal fire and health authorities.
   F.   Contractors: Contractors' yard and supply yard:
      1.   Will be located a minimum distance of three hundred feet (300') from
any residence except for an owner's residence;
      2.   Will have a screening fence around areas utilized for storage of
equipment; and
      3.   Will be limited to storage, maintenance and processing incidental to
contracting work.
   G.   Restaurant: Drive-in restaurant:
      1.   Will be enclosed on the property line with landscaping and fencing,
except for ingress/egress, to prevent trash from moving onto other properties;
      2.   Will have a six foot (6') high sight obscuring fence along the
property lines that adjoin a residence;
      3.   Will provide for adequate trash receptacles; and
      4.   Will avoid the direction of night lighting toward any residence.
   H.   Earthmoving: Filling, grading, lagooning, dredging, or other
earthmoving activity:
      1.   Will use diversions, silting basins, terraces and other methods to
trap sediment;
      2.   Will provide lagooning in such a manner as to avoid creation of fish
trap conditions;
      3.   Will not restrict a floodway, channel or natural drainageway;
      4.   Will construct stabilized sides and bottom of cuts, fills, channels
and artificial watercourses to prevent erosion or soil failure;
      5.   Will not have below grade excavation except for drainage within
fifty feet (50') of any lot line or public right of way;
      6.   Will restore to the natural condition and contour as closely as
possible and will restore topsoil to a depth of not less than four inches (4"),
within a reasonable period of time after completion of the project; and
      7.   Will maintain dust control.
   I.   Pits: Gravel pits, rock quarries, sand and clay pits and other natural
resources of commercial value:
      1.   The extent and method of rehabilitation shall be determined in
advance of issuing a zoning certificate or permit with due consideration given
to what is suitable and compatible with the surrounding area;
      2.   Upon depletion of the area, depletion of the extractable substances
or discontinuance of the use, all temporary buildings and structures, except
property line fences and structures for the loading, measuring or weighing of
salable material in storage, shall be entirely removed from the property;
      3.   Safety fencing shall be erected around all pits that create a safety
hazard and the site shall be restored by stabilizing and terracing the sides of
any remaining pits. Terracing shall be sufficient to allow the replacement of
overburden and prevent the erosion of newly introduced soil. Rehabilitation of
the soil shall comply with all requirements of all other governmental entities
having jurisdiction thereover; and
      4.   The board of county commissioners may require the posting of a
surety bond or irrevocable letter of credit to guarantee the restoration of the
site to the condition required in the original permit.
   J.   Home Occupations:
      1.   No more than one person other than members of the family residing on
the premises shall be engaged in such occupation;
      2.   The use of the dwelling unit for the home occupation shall be
clearly incidental and subordinate to its use for residential purposes by its
occupants, and not more than twenty five percent (25%) of the floor area of the
dwelling unit shall be used in the conduct of the home occupation;
      3.   There shall be no change in the outside appearance of the building
or premises, or other visible evidence of the conduct of such home occupation
other than one sign, not exceeding four (4) square feet in area, nonilluminated
and mounted flat against the wall of the principal building;
      4.   No significant traffic shall be generated by such home occupation
and any need for parking generated by the conduct of such home occupation shall
meet the off street parking requirements as specified in this title and shall
not be located in the required front yard; and
      5.   No equipment or process shall be used in such home occupation which
creates noise, vibration, glare, fumes, odors or electrical interference
detectable to the normal senses off the lot, if the occupation is conducted in
a single-family residence. In the case of electrical interference, no equipment
or process shall be used which creates visual or audible interference in any
radio or television receivers off the premises, or causes fluctuations in any
line voltage off the premises.
   K.   Mobile Home Facilities: Mobile home parks and courts:
      1.   Will be designed, constructed, operated and maintained so as to be
harmonious and appropriate in appearance with the existing or intended
character of the general vicinity and that such use will not change the
essential character of the same area;
      2.   Will not be hazardous or detrimental to existing or future
neighboring uses;
      3.   Will be served adequately by essential public facilities and
services such as highways, streets, police and fire protection, drainage,
refuse disposal and schools, or that the persons or agencies responsible for
the establishment of the proposed park shall be able to provide adequately any
such services;
      4.   Will be consistent with the intent and purpose of this title and the
comprehensive plan;
      5.   Will have vehicular approaches to the property which shall be so
designed as not to create an interference with the traffic on surrounding
public streets or roads;
      6.   Will not result in the destruction, loss or damage of natural,
scenic or historic features of major importance;
      7.   Will meet the minimum health standards as set forth by the health
authority; and
      8.   Will have a minimum total area for the mobile home park of five (5)
acres.
      9.   Mobile homes shall be placed on a semipermanent or permanent
foundations.
   L.   Outdoor Storage: Outdoor storage of commercial and industrial
materials:
      1.   Will be screened from view from any existing adjoining residence or
residentially zoned area, whether or not such property is separated by an
alleyway or street; and
      2.   Will not be located in any front yard setback area.
   M.   Equestrian Uses: Riding stables and schools:
      1.   Will locate all stables or loafing sheds not nearer than one hundred
feet (100') from any residence, except for an owner's residence. All facilities
shall be set back a distance of thirty feet (30') from any property line;
      2.   Will be designed and located with full consideration being given to
its proximity to adjacent uses and its effect upon adjacent and surrounding
properties, as to the storage of horse trailers, and the factors of noise and
odor; and
      3.   Will require that the owner or operator of such use shall have a
continuous obligation to maintain adequate housekeeping practices to prevent
the creation of a nuisance.
   N.   Ranges: Rifle and pistol range:
      1.   Will be designed with a backstop;
      2.   Will be designed to avoid a line of fire that is directed towards
any residence or business within one mile;
      3.   Will incorporate landscaping that is compatible with the surrounding
landscaping; and
      4.   Will provide supervision and security measures during periods of
use.
   O.   Landfill: Sanitary landfill will conform to time limits for daily
operation as defined by the board of county commissioners and must comply with
the requirements of solid waste management as set forth in title 4, chapter 2
of this code.
   P.   Salvaging: Junk and salvage yards:
      1.   No junkyard, auto salvage yard, salvage yard, wrecking yard,
recycling center, or boneyard shall be permitted in an I-1 or I-2 zone without
first securing a proper license as required by title 3, chapter 2 of this code,
as amended.
      2.   Prior to receiving a salvage yard license, an applicant shall
demonstrate that any location where he is proposing to transact the business of
a junkyard, wrecking yard, salvage yard, auto salvage yard, recycling center or
boneyard, will satisfy the following requirements:
         a.   Will be completely enclosed by at least a solid eight foot (8')
high sight obscuring fence constructed of cyclone fencing with nylon privacy
webbing, or a material approved by the board of county commissioners or the
planning and zoning commission;
         b.   Will not result in the storage of automobiles, junk, recyclable
or salvage material being visible from any public highway or adjoining
property;
         c.   Will require that the entrance to the storage area be recessed
and located at a point not directly visible from any public highway or
adjoining property;
         d.   Will incorporate landscaping outside of the fence that is
compatible with surrounding landscaping (lawn strip and trees);
         e.   Will require that the owner or operator of such use shall have a
continuous obligation to maintain adequate repair of the fence and landscaping;
         f.   Will require a plan or drawing of the facility be approved by the
planning and zoning commission prior to any construction;
         g.   Will comply with all EPA regulations regarding the storage and
disposal of toxic wastes including, but not limited to, oil, gasoline or other
petroleum products;
         h.   Will not pose a danger of groundwater contamination in the
opinion of the Idaho department of health and welfare, or division of
environmental quality;
         i.   Will provide access into the interior of the yard;
         j.   Will drain all fluids including, but not limited to, gasoline,
battery acid, transmission fluid, rear end fluid, brake fluid, crank case oil,
and properly dispose of the same prior to placing an automobile on the site;
         k.   Will remove all tires from all vehicles before permanent
placement on the site;
         l.   Will have driveways between and around all junk or accumulation
of junk, automobiles or piles of automobiles which shall be at least fifteen
feet (15') wide and maintained free from an accumulation of rubbish, equipment
or other articles or materials. Driveways shall be spaced with a maximum grid
system unit of fifty feet by one hundred fifty feet (50' x 150') as prescribed.
The driveways shall be sufficient to provide fire crews with access to all
areas of the wrecking yard;
         m.   Will have no vegetation upon the site which is sufficient to
ignite or sufficient to sustain a fire; and
         n.   Will remove all heavy metals, such as lead, and properly dispose
of them before placing any vehicle on the site.
      3.   Automobile wrecking yards, salvage yards, junkyards, boneyards or
recycling centers will be allowed only in I-1 and I-2 zones.
   Q.   Illegal Uses: No building permit shall be issued pursuant to this
title, unless the work or project is in compliance with this title, any
applicable subdivision ordinance, the comprehensive plan or site development
ordinances as required by either the city, county or the state. No request for
a permit shall be considered so long as an illegal use or a use in violation of
this title which is not considered a nonconforming use is in existence. No use
which is otherwise made illegal by any other state, federal, county, city or
municipal ordinance shall be made permissible because of the language contained
herein. (Ord. 2012-05, 5-21-2012)
8-10-9: SYNOPSIS:
 
OFFICIAL HEIGHT AND AREA REGULATIONS
Minimum Yard Requirements
     Maximum            Interior Street Maximum
Zone Height1 Front Rear Side     Side   Lot      Minimum    Lot Area    (In Sq. Ft.)
                                        Coverage
Minimum Yard Requirements
       Maximum            Interior Street Maximum
Zone   Height1 Front Rear Side     Side   Lot      Minimum    Lot Area    (In Sq. Ft.)
                                          Coverage
       See
       section See
   A8-10-   note  30   10 ft.   See    10%4     2 du per original tract (40,000 sq.
       4 of    5     ft.           note 5          ft. min. per du)3
       this
       chapter
   B50 ft.  n/a   n/a  n/a      n/a    n/a      n/a
   C125 ft. 50    02   02       50     n/a      40,000
               ft.5                ft.5
   C125 ft. 50    02   02       50     n/a      40,000
               ft.5                ft.5
   I150 ft. 50    08   08       50     n/a         n/a
               ft.5                ft.5
   I300 ft. 50    08   08       50     n/a         n/a
               ft.5                ft.5
       See
       section
   R8-10-   30    30   10 ft.   30     15%      40,0006
       4 of    ft.5  ft.7          ft.5
       this
       chapter
 
Notes:
    1.    For exceptions see section
8-10-4 of this chapter.
    2.    See subsection
8-10-3C2 of this chapter.
    3.    Dwelling units.
    4.    10 percent if on 40,000 square feet lot and a proportionally smaller
percentage as square footage increase (e.g., 80,000 square feet, 5 percent).
    5.    See section
8-10-3 of this chapter.
    6.    See subsection
8-10-3B of this chapter.
    7.    See subsection
8-10-3B2 of this chapter.
    8.    See subsection
8-10-3D of this chapter.
(Ord. 2012-05, 5-21-2012; amd. Ord. 2015-02, 9-28-2015)
CHAPTER 11
ZONE RECLASSIFICATION OR CHANGES
SECTION:
8-11-1: Purpose
8-11-2: Zone Changes
8-11-3: Application For Rezone; Fee
8-11-4: Application; Required Information
8-11-5: Reserved
8-11-6: Notice Of Hearing
8-11-7: Applicable Standards
8-11-8: Action By Planning And Zoning Commission And Board Of County
Commissioners
8-11-9: Ordinance Required
8-11-10: Resubmittal
8-11-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to set forth the procedure for securing a zone
change. (Ord. 57, 4-18-1988)
8-11-2: ZONE CHANGES:
Any change, modification, or reclassification of zones may be initiated by the
board of county commissioners, the planning and zoning commission, or by
application of one or more property owners, purchasers or holders of valid
options to purchase property. When the application for change, modification or
reclassification is initiated by a property owner, purchaser or holders of
valid options to purchase property, the procedure set forth herein shall be
followed, except that the commission may, subject to the provisions for notice
and publication of hearing, enlarge, expand and amplify a petition for change
in reclassification of a zone or a planned use classification. (Ord. 57, 4-18-
1988)
8-11-3: APPLICATION FOR REZONE; FEE:
Every person seeking a reclassification of any land regulated by this chapter
shall file with the planning and zoning administrator an application, upon a
form prescribed by the planning and zoning commission, accompanied by a filing
fee as specified by the schedule of fees on file in the office of the county
clerk. All applications for rezone shall conform to the requirements of Idaho
Code section 67-6511, as it may be amended, modified, altered or changed. (Ord.
2009-03, 6-15-2009)
8-11-4: APPLICATION; REQUIRED INFORMATION:
   A.   Test Well Drilling:
      1.   Before the planning and zoning commission may consider an
application for a rezone preliminary to consideration of a subdivision of any
kind which will consist of eight (8) or more lots, the applicant shall first
drill a test well upon the property. The well shall be constructed in
accordance with those regulations applicable to test wells as promulgated by
the state of Idaho, department of water resources. The performance of the well
and the accuracy of the test results shall be certified by a licensed geologist
or by a licensed professional engineer. Prior to submission to the commission,
the results shall be disclosed to the administrator and shall show that there
is water available at the rate of at least five (5) gallons per minute per lot
or ten (10) gallons per acre per minute, whichever is greater. If the test
results show that the required water is available, the administrator shall set
the request for public hearing before the commission. If the results show that
the requirements for water are not met, then the application shall be rejected.
Provided, however, upon request of the applicant, the matter may be set before
the commission to consider modifying the water requirement. If the commission
finds that some proposed design in the subdivision would make meeting the water
requirements unnecessary, the commission may allow the application to proceed
to public hearing. The test well report should show findings on the flow,
sustainable levels, and arsenic and nitrates levels. A deviation from the
requirements may be requested.
      2.   The available water shall be potable and shall meet, or with
reasonable treatment, be able to meet all drinking water standards as required
by the state of Idaho, department of health and welfare, division of
environmental quality and by the United States of America, environmental
protection agency. In the event that the contaminant levels are at an unhealthy
level the request could be denied.
      3.   In the event a proposed subdivision is to be developed with
landscaping that requires no irrigation, the board may decrease the amount of
available water required for subdivision approval.
   B.   Adjacent Property; List Of Landowners: The planning and zoning
commission shall prescribe the form, scope, and content of such application,
and the data required to be furnished in connection therewith. Each such
application shall include a map showing the lots and parcels of land within
three hundred feet (300') of the exterior boundaries thereof, together with the
list of the names and addresses of the last known owners of each lot or parcel,
insofar as they are of record with the county assessor.
   C.   Inclusion Of Drainage And Fire Plans: Application shall include a
drainage plan and a fire suppression plan complete with recommendation from
appropriate local or state fire department.
   D.   Information, Plans And Maps: Every application shall contain or be
accompanied by all information, plans, and maps to scale and other data
necessary to assure full presentation of pertinent facts for the records and to
assist in making a determination in harmony with the objectives of this title.
No application shall be accepted by the planning and zoning administrator
unless it is complete and in compliance with all such requirements and contains
that information set forth in section 8-9-2 of this title, together with a
designation of the proposed zone classification. (Ord. 2009-03, 6-15-2009)
8-11-5: RESERVED:
(Ord. 2009-03, 6-15-2009)
8-11-6: NOTICE OF HEARING:
   A.   Publication Of Notice: Notice of time, place and purpose of each public
hearing held by the planning and zoning commission shall be given by
publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the county at least
fifteen (15) days prior to such hearing.
   B.   Written Notice By Mail: When the public hearing is before the planning
and zoning commission on a proposed change, modification or reclassification
and the enlargement, expansion and amplification thereof, notice shall be given
by the applicant to the planning and zoning administrator who shall deliver
said notice by regular U.S. mail to each property owner whose name and address
appears on the list accompanying such application.
   C.   Notice To Over Two Hundred Property Owners: When notice is required to
two hundred (200) or more property owners or residents, alternate forms of
procedures which would provide adequate notice may be provided in lieu of
mailed notice.
   D.   Modification Proposed By Planning And Zoning Commission: In the event
the commission originates, enlarges, extends and amplifies the application for
the change, modification or reclassification of property, zone or land use
classification, the administrator shall be required to ascertain the names and
addresses of the last known owners as the same appears on the records of the
land area sought to be enlarged, extended or amplified. The notice shall give
the date, time and place of hearing, the name of the applicant, and relief
sought, and identification of the property, and such other facts as may be
prescribed by the commission.
   E.   Continuance Of Hearing: In any public hearing, the presiding officer
may order the hearing to be continued by publicly announcing the time and place
of continuance, and no further notice thereof shall be required. (Ord. 2009-03,
6-15-2009)
8-11-7: APPLICABLE STANDARDS:
   A.   Factors Considered: The planning and zoning commission and board of
county commissioners shall review the particular facts and circumstances of
each proposed zone change and take the following factors into consideration:
      1.   The compatibility of the proposed zone with surrounding uses and
zones;
      2.   Availability of power, water, sewer, fire protection, police
protection and school facilities;
      3.   Access to highways;
      4.   Burdens imposed upon taxing entities for services which will have to
be provided;
      5.   Location in relation to floodplain and airport approaches;
      6.   Easements, encumbrances, adverse interests;
      7.   The opinions of surrounding landowners entitled to notice;
      8.   Availability of drainage structures and refuse disposal;
      9.   Opinions of other local or state agencies required to provide
services or issue permits;
      10.   Zone change will not set a precedence for future uses incompatible
with existing uses;
      11.   Compatibility or conflict with the comprehensive plan;
      12.   Any other factors relevant to the suitability of rezoning the
property.
   B.   Written, Drafted Or Illustrated Proposals: Before permitting a
reclassification of zones, the planning and zoning commission may require a
written proposal whereas streets, sewers, public utilities, curbs, gutters and
anticipated future development is presented illustrating the above set forth
factors. (Ord. 2009-03, 6-15-2009)
8-11-8: ACTION BY PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION AND BOARD OF COUNTY
COMMISSIONERS:
   A.   Report Of Planning And Zoning Commission: At every hearing before the
commission, the commission shall hear all persons interested in the subject
matter. Not later than sixty (60) working days after the conclusion of the
hearing, the commission shall file a report stating the action taken by the
commission at such hearing or its recommendation to the board of county
commissioners.
   B.   Action By Board Of County Commissioners: The board of county
commissioners shall either approve, disapprove or modify the recommendations of
the planning and zoning commission. The board shall hold a public hearing, in
accordance with section
8-11-6 of this chapter. (Ord. 57, 4-18-1988)
8-11-9: ORDINANCE REQUIRED:
In the event the board of county commissioners shall have approved or modified
the recommendation of the planning and zoning commission, the board shall cause
to be prepared the appropriate ordinance of amendment. (Ord. 57, 4-18-1988)
8-11-10: RESUBMITTAL:
No application for the change or reclassification of any property, zone or land
use classification which has been denied by the board of county commissioners
shall be resubmitted in either the same or substantially the same form, with
reference to substantially the same premises or the same purpose, within one
year from the date of final action thereon. Any party adversely affected by any
action of the planning and zoning commission or board of county commissioners
may appeal pursuant to the appellant procedures herein contained. (Ord. 57, 4-
18-1988)
CHAPTER 12
VARIANCES
SECTION:
8-12-1: General
8-12-2: Application And Standards
8-12-3: Supplementary Conditions And Safeguards
8-12-4: Public Hearing
8-12-5: Action By Planning And Zoning Commission
8-12-1: GENERAL:
   A.   Definition: A variance is a modification of the bulk and placement
requirements of the ordinance as to lot size, lot coverage, width, depth, front
yard, side yard, rear yard, setbacks, parking space, height of buildings, or
other ordinance provision affecting the size or shape of a structure or the
placement of the structure upon lots, or the size of lots.
   B.   Standard: A variance shall not be considered a right or special
privilege, but may be granted to an applicant only upon a showing of undue
hardship because of characteristics of the site and that the variance is not in
conflict with the public interest.
   C.   Authorization: The planning and zoning commission may authorize in
specific cases such variance from the terms of this title as will not be
contrary to the public interest where, owing to special conditions, a literal
enforcement of the provisions of this title would result in unnecessary
hardship because of characteristics of the site.
   D.   Limitations: No nonconforming use of neighboring lands, structures or
buildings in the same zone and not permitted or nonconforming use of lands,
structures or buildings in other zones shall be considered grounds for issuance
of a variance. Variances shall not be granted on the grounds of convenience or
profit, but only where strict application of the provisions of this title would
result in unnecessary hardship because of characteristics of the site. (Ord.
2015-02, 9-28-2015)
8-12-2: APPLICATION AND STANDARDS:
A variance from the terms of this title shall not be granted by the planning
and zoning commission unless and until a written application for a variance is
submitted to the planning and zoning administrator and the commission, which
application contains the following information:
   A.   Name, address and phone number of applicant(s);
   B.   Legal description of property;
   C.   Description of nature of variance requested; and
   D.   Names and addresses of property owners within three hundred feet (300')
beyond the external boundaries of the land being considered;
   E.   A filing fee shall accompany the application (see schedule of fees on
file in the office of the county clerk); (Ord. 2009-03, 6-15-2009)
   F.   A narrative statement demonstrating that the requested variance
conforms to the following standards:
      1.   That special conditions and circumstances exist which are peculiar
to the land because of characteristics of the site;
      2.   That a literal interpretation of the provisions of this title would
cause an undue hardship due to the characteristics of the site;
      3.   That special conditions and circumstances do not result from the
actions of the applicant; and
      4.   A variance attaches to the realty and is transferable with the title
to the property. (Ord. 2015-02, 9-28-2015)
A variance shall not be granted unless the planning and zoning commission makes
specific findings of fact based directly on the particular evidence presented
to it which support the conclusion that the above mentioned standards and
conditions have been met by the applicant. (Ord. 2009-03, 6-15-2009)
8-12-3: SUPPLEMENTARY CONDITIONS AND SAFEGUARDS:
Under no circumstances shall the planning and zoning commission grant a
variance to allow a use not permissible under the terms of this title in the
zone involved, or any use expressly or by implication prohibited by the terms
of this title in said zone. In granting any variance, the commission may
prescribe appropriate conditions and safeguards and, when made a part of the
terms under which the variance is granted, any deviation shall be deemed a
violation of this title. (Ord. 57, 4-18-1988)
8-12-4: PUBLIC HEARING:
Upon receipt of the application for a variance, the planning and zoning
administrator shall place the request on the agenda for the next available
public hearing, publish notice in a newspaper of general circulation within the
county, and give written notice to all parties as required in section 8-9-6 of
this title. (Ord. 2009-03, 6-15-2009)
8-12-5: ACTION BY PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION:
   A.   Approval Or Denial Of Application:
      1.   Within thirty (30) days after the public hearing or at the next
regular meeting of the planning and zoning commission, whichever occurs last,
the commission shall either approve, conditionally approve or disapprove the
request for a variance.
      2.   Upon granting or denying an application, the planning and zoning
commission shall specify:
         a.   The ordinance and standards used in evaluating the application;
         b.   The reasons for approval or denial; and
         c.   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain a
permit.
   B.   Notice Of Decision: Within thirty (30) days after a decision has been
rendered, the planning and zoning administrator shall provide the applicant
with written notice of the action on the request.
   C.   Appeal To Board Of County Commissioners: The applicant or any affected
person who appeared in person or in writing before the planning and zoning
commission may appeal the decision of the commission to the board, in
accordance with chapter 18 of this title.
   D.   Record: Upon expiration of the statutory appeal period, the planning
and zoning administrator shall prepare a record of the approved variance. The
administrator shall have the document recorded and provide a copy of the
recorded document to the applicant. (Ord. 2015-02, 9-28-2015)
CHAPTER 13
NONCONFORMING USES
SECTION:
8-13-1: Intent
8-13-2: Incompatibility
8-13-3: Undue Hardship
8-13-4: Nonconforming Lots
8-13-5: Restrictions On Nonconforming Uses Of Structures
8-13-6: Repairs, Maintenance And Damage
8-13-7: Conditional Use
8-13-1: INTENT:
It is the intent of this Title to permit nonconforming uses to continue until
they are removed, but not to encourage their survival. It is further the intent
of this Title that nonconforming uses shall not be enlarged upon, expanded or
extended nor be used as grounds for adding other structures or uses prohibited
elsewhere in the same zone. (Ord. 57, 4-18-1988)
8-13-2: INCOMPATIBILITY:
Nonconforming uses are declared by this Title to be incompatible with permitted
uses in the zone in which such use is located. A nonconforming use shall not be
extended or enlarged after passage of the Ordinance codified in this Title by
attachment on a building or premises of additional signs intended to be seen
from off the premises, or by the addition of other uses of a nature which would
be generally prohibited in the zone in which such use is located. (Ord. 57, 4-
18-1988)
8-13-3: UNDUE HARDSHIP:
To avoid undue hardship, nothing in this Title shall be deemed to require a
change in the plans, construction or designated use of any building on which
actual construction was lawfully begun prior to the effective date of adoption
or amendment of the Ordinance codified in this Title and upon which actual
building construction has been carried on diligently; provided that it is
completed and so used within one year after the effective date of the Ordinance
codified in this Title. (Ord. 57, 4-18-1988)
8-13-4: NONCONFORMING LOTS:
If two (2) or more lots or a combination of lots and portions of lots with
continuous frontage in single ownership are of record at the time of passage or
amendment of the Ordinance codified in this Title and if all or part of the
lots with no buildings do not meet the requirements established for lot width
and area, the lands involved shall be considered to be an undivided parcel for
the purposes of this Title and no portion of said parcel shall be used or sold
in a manner which diminishes compliance with lot width and are requirements
established by this Title, nor shall any division of any parcel be made which
creates a lot with a width or area below the requirements stated in this Title.
(Ord. 57, 4-18-1988)
8-13-5: RESTRICTIONS ON NONCONFORMING USES OF STRUCTURES:
If a lawful use involving individual structures, or of a structure and land in
combination, exists at the effective date of adoption or amendment of the
Ordinance codified in this Title that would not be allowed in the zone under
the terms of this Title, the lawful use may be continued so long as it remains
otherwise lawful, subject to the following provisions:
   A.   Structural Change: No existing structure devoted to a use not permitted
by this Title in the zone in which it is located shall be enlarged, extended,
constructed, reconstructed, moved or structurally altered except in changing
the use of the structure to a use permitted in the zone in which it is located;
   B.   Extension: No nonconforming use shall be extended to occupy any
additional land area;
   C.   Change To More Appropriate Nonconforming Use: If no structural
alterations are made, any nonconforming use of a structure or structure and
land may, upon the issuance of a conditional use permit by the Planning and
Zoning Commission, be changed to another nonconforming use provided that the
Commission shall find that the proposed use is equally appropriate or more
appropriate to the zone than the existing nonconforming use. In permitting such
change the Commission may require appropriate conditions and safeguards in
accordance with other provisions of this Title;
   D.   Superseded By Permitted Use: Any structure, or structure and land in
combination, in or on which a nonconforming use is superseded by a permitted
use shall thereafter conform to the regulations for the zone, and the
nonconforming use may not thereafter be resumed;
   E.   Abandonment Of Use: When a nonconforming use of a structure or
structure and land in combination is discontinued or abandoned for more than
one year (except when government action impedes access to the premises), the
structure, or structures and land in combination, shall not thereafter be used
except in conformity with the regulations of the zone in which it is located;
and
   F.   Removal Or Destruction Of Structure: Where nonconforming use status
applies to a structure and land in combination, removal or destruction of the
structure shall eliminate the nonconforming status of the land;
   G.   Nonconforming Use Created After Effective Date: A nonconforming use
which came into existence after the passage of this Title shall not be deemed a
nonconforming use, but an illegal use and shall be abated; (Ord. 57, 4-18-1988)
   H.   Rebuilding After Destruction: Any structure which has been located upon
a lot that does not meet general lot size requirements or other standards and
which is substantially destroyed, shall not be rebuilt thereon. "Substantial
destruction" for purposes of this subsection shall mean destruction equal to
forty five percent (45%) of the structure.
Any person rebuilding any structure in violation of this Section shall be
subject to all criminal and civil penalties of this Title and the structure
shall be subject to abatement proceedings provided for in this Title. (Ord. 57-
F, 1-14-1991)
8-13-6: REPAIRS, MAINTENANCE AND DAMAGE:
   A.   Ordinary Repairs And Maintenance: Ordinary repairs and maintenance
shall be permitted, however, a building or structure devoted to a nonconforming
use at the time the Ordinance codified in this Title becomes effective may not
be altered or enlarged so as to extend the nonconforming use nor may the use be
enlarged in any other way except by a conditional use permit.
   B.   Damage By Uncontrollable Act: A nonconforming building which has been
damaged by an uncontrollable act to the extent of sixty percent (60%) of its
reproduction value as determined by the Board of County Commissioners at the
time of the damage shall not be restored except in conformity with the
regulations of the zone in which it is located. When damage is less than sixty
percent (60%) of its reproduction value, a nonconforming building may be
repaired or reconstructed and used as before the time of damage, provided such
repairs or reconstruction is completed within one year of the date of such
damage. (Ord. 57, 4-18-1988)
8-13-7: CONDITIONAL USE:
Any use which is permitted as a conditional use in a zone under the terms of
this Title shall not be deemed a nonconforming use in such zone, but shall,
without further action, be considered a conforming use. (Ord. 57, 4-18-1988)
CHAPTER 14
RESERVED
(Ord. 2009-03, 6-15-2009)
CHAPTER 15
EMERGENCY VEHICLE ACCESS AND TURNAROUNDS
SECTION:
8-15-1: Intent And Authority
8-15-2: Definitions
8-15-3: Issuance Of Permits
8-15-4: Access Requirements
8-15-5: General Guide; Complete Policy
8-15-6: Reserved
8-15-1: INTENT AND AUTHORITY:
   A.   Intent: This chapter is intended to ensure access for emergency
vehicles is sufficient to allow the fire department, ambulance and other
emergency services to provide a reasonable degree of protection from hazards to
life and property in rural areas of the county.
   B.   Scope: This policy shall apply to all residential property in the
unincorporated portions of the county.
   C.   Violation: A violation of this chapter is a violation of this title.
All such violations are each punishable as misdemeanors. Building permits and
certificates of occupancy will not be issued until violations are corrected.
(Ord. 57-M, 9-9-1996)
8-15-2: DEFINITIONS:
Within the context of this chapter, the following terms are defined as:
ACCESS ROAD: Road or driveway used to access building or buildings that need
service by emergency vehicles.
BUILDING: Any structure greater than four hundred (400) square feet in area,
having a roof and at least two (2) enclosing walls. (Ref. Payette County
building department.)
DWELLING UNIT: Any building containing over four hundred (400) square feet,
which is used or intended for people to live in. (Ref. UFC 9.1061.)
EXPOSURE HAZARD: Any building containing over four hundred (400) square feet
which is closer than fifty feet (50') to another building. (Ref. NFPA 1231 1/
4.)
FIRE DEPARTMENT: That department or district within the boundaries of which an
affected dwelling or structure lies. If there is no such department or
district, the local police agency and/or the state fire marshal's office are
responsible. (Ref. UFC 9.108.)
FLOOR AREA: Usable area inside the building including basements, upper stories,
sleeping lofts and attached garage. (Ref. UFC 9.108.) (Ord. 57-M, 9-9-1996)
8-15-3: ISSUANCE OF PERMITS:
   A.   Plans: Prior to issuance of a building permit, the applicant shall
submit plans to the building inspector showing how access and turnaround will
be provided. These plans shall be drawn to scale and shall include building
size and distance to exposures.
   B.   Approval Required: No building permit for a residential dwelling in
unincorporated areas within the county shall be issued without approval of the
above plans by the planning and zoning administrator and the building
inspector.
   C.   Inspection; Approval: No certificate of occupancy shall be issued until
the building inspector has inspected and approved the completed road sections
and turnarounds. (Ord. 2009-03, 6-15-2009)
8-15-4: ACCESS REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Apparatus Access Roads: Apparatus access roads shall be provided to
within one hundred fifty feet (150') of every building hereafter built on or
moved onto property in the jurisdiction.
   B.   Construction And Engineering Standards: Access roads shall be
constructed to standard engineering specifications for an "all weather
surface", subsection
8-15-6A of this chapter.
   C.   Width Of Roads:
      1.   Four Or Less Dwellings, Agriculture Outbuildings: Roads serving one
to four (4) dwellings, or serving only agricultural outbuildings shall have a
drivable surface at least twelve feet (12') wide. No obstruction, including,
but not limited to, obstacles such as power poles, fences, fence posts, phone
boxes, ditches or irrigation boxes shall reduce the minimum width. The full
width of roadway must be kept clear at all times.
      2.   More Than Four Dwellings: Roads serving more than four (4) dwellings
shall become public roads and be constructed in accordance with county road
standards.
   D.   Curves: Curves shall have an inside radius of at least thirty feet
(30') and an outside radius of at least fifty feet (50').
   E.   Turnarounds: Dead end access roads in excess of one hundred fifty feet
(150') from the centerline of a public road shall have turnarounds as approved
by the building inspector and road department.
   F.   Turnout: Dead end access roads in excess of five hundred feet (500')
shall have a turnout so that vehicles can pass each other without getting off
of a graveled surface. If the length is less than five hundred feet (500') and
the entire length of the access road is not visible from the public road, a
turnout is required. These turnouts shall be placed midway between public road
and end of private lane or every five hundred feet (500') if more than one is
required with unobstructed view between turnouts. A turnout shall be graveled
surface at least twenty feet (20') in width and fifty six feet (56') in length
as shown in subsection
8-15-6A of this chapter. (Ord. 2009-03, 6-15-2009)
8-15-5: GENERAL GUIDE; COMPLETE POLICY:
This is a general guide to assist in understanding what types of road may be
required and how these requirements may be satisfied. Copies of the complete
policy are available from the planning and zoning administrator.
   A.   Private Road:
      1.   For one to four (4) dwellings, drivable surface must be a minimum of
twelve feet (12') wide.
      2.   For more than four (4) dwellings, county road standards must be met.
   B.   Surface: As defined by roadway standards and development procedures for
Payette County and highway district 1.
   C.   Turnaround: As defined by roadway standards and development procedures
for Payette County and highway district 1. (Ord. 2009-03, 6-15-2009)
8-15-6: RESERVED:
(Ord. 2009-03, 6-15-2009)
CHAPTER 16
FLOODPLAIN OVERLAY ZONE (FP)
SECTION:
8-16-1: Purpose
8-16-2: Permitted Uses
8-16-3: Conditional Use
8-16-4: Storage Of Materials And Equipment
8-16-5: Other Considerations
8-16-6: Nonliability Clause
8-16-7: Restrictions
8-16-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the Floodplain Overlay Zone is to guide development in the
floodway fringe areas of any watercourse that floods, and to minimize public
and private losses due to flooding in specific areas. Uses permitted and
conditional uses that are authorized in this zone are generally associated with
open space, recreational and agricultural land uses and shall not hinder the
movement of floodwaters. The FP Zone is superimposed over other zones. (Ord.
2017-3, 6-28-2017)
8-16-2: PERMITTED USES:
All uses that are permitted in the Agricultural and Recreational Zones are
permitted with the exception that the property owner obtain a floodplain
development permit as required in title 12 of this Code. Uses permitted in the
commercial, industrial, and residential zones with which the FP Zone is
combined must be approved by the Planning and Zoning Commission under the
conditional use permit procedure and deemed appropriate to be located within
the floodway fringe. (Ord. 2017-3, 6-28-2017)
8-16-3: CONDITIONAL USE:
When authorized under the procedure provided for conditional uses in this
title, the following uses will be permitted in a Floodplain Overlay Zone:
   A.   Structures used in carrying out permitted activities will go through
the floodplain development permitting process as outlined in title 12 of this
Code.
   B.   Other structures used in carrying out permitted activities provided
such structures will not be subject to substantial flood damage and will not
increase flood related damages on other lands. These may include structures
which can be readily removed from flood hazard areas during periods of high
water.
   C.   Conditions that may be required by the Planning and Zoning Commission
in approving the use of structures in a Floodplain Overlay Zone shall include:
      1.   Limitations on periods of use and operation;
      2.   Imposition of deed restrictions;
      3.   Locations and arrangement of structures within the floodway fringe
areas to avoid an increase in flood heights during the recurrence of the 100-
year flood discharge;
      4.   Requirement for construction of channel modifications, dikes, levees
and other protective measures;
      5.   Placement of survey bench markers; and
      6.   Floodproofing measures designed to be consistent with the flood
protection elevation for a particular area:
         a.   Anchorage to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement;
         b.   Installation of watertight doors, bulkheads and shutters;
         c.   Reinforcement of walls to resist water pressures;
         d.   Use of paints, membranes or mortars to reduce seepage of water
through walls;
         e.   Addition of mass or weight to structures to resist flotation;
         f.   Installation of pumps to lower water levels in structures;
         g.   Construction of onsite water supply and waste treatment systems
to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system and
discharges from the system into floodwaters;
         h.   Pumping facilities for subsurface external foundation wall and
basement flood pressures;
         i.   Construction to resist rupture or collapse caused by water
pressure or floating debris;
         j.   Cutoff valves on sewage lines or the elimination of gravity flow
basement drains; and
         k.   Onsite waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding. (Ord.
2017-3, 6-28-2017)
8-16-4: STORAGE OF MATERIALS AND EQUIPMENT:
Materials that are buoyant, flammable, obnoxious, toxic or otherwise injurious
to persons or property if transported by floodwaters are prohibited. Storage of
materials and equipment not having these characteristics is permissible only if
the materials and equipment have low damage potential and are anchored or are
readily removable from the area within the time available after forecasting and
warning. (Ord. 2017-3, 6-28-2017)
8-16-5: OTHER CONSIDERATIONS:
   A.   Cumulative Effects: The evaluation of the effect on a proposed use in
the floodway and floodway fringe areas causing increases in flood heights is
based not just on the effect of the single use acting alone but upon the
reasonable assumption that other landowners within the floodplain may need to
be allowed to develop to an equivalent extent within the floodway and,
therefore, the cumulative effects of all such encroachments must be considered
by the Planning and Zoning Commission in making any decision.
   B.   Construction Materials: Construction materials which resist damage
caused by flooding shall be used in that portion of a structure subjected to
flooding. (Ord. 2017-3, 6-28-2017)
8-16-6: NONLIABILITY CLAUSE:
The granting of approval of any structure or use shall not constitute a
representation, guarantee or warranty of any kind or nature of the County
Governing Body or the Planning and Zoning Commission or by any officer or
employee thereof, of the practicality or safety of any structure or use
proposed and shall create no liability upon or cause of action against such
public body, officer or employee for any damage that may result pursuant
thereto. (Ord. 2017-3, 6-28-2017)
8-16-7: RESTRICTIONS:
Restrictions regarding height, rear yards, side yards, front yard setback,
minimum lot area, signs, vision clearance and parking space shall be the same
as set forth in each specific zone located within the Floodplain Overlay Zone
area. (Ord. 2017-3, 6-28-2017)
PA570   8-17.txt
CHAPTER 17
TEMPORARY RESIDENCE REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
8-17-1: Conditional Use Permit Required
8-17-2: Allowed Temporary Dwelling Uses
8-17-3: Additional Requirements; Approval Of Application
8-17-4: Conditions And Restrictions
8-17-5: Application Fee And Bond Agreement
8-17-6: Time Provided For Action
8-17-7: Permit Issuance Nonprecedent
8-17-8: Transferability
8-17-9: Failure To Act
8-17-1: CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   A property owner may apply for a conditional use permit for placement
of a temporary dwelling for any of the uses in section
8-17-2. Under none of these circumstances shall the temporary dwelling be
placed on a permanent foundation. At time of approval a bond and temporary
housing agreement shall be required (
8-17-7).
   B.   Public Hearing Required: The planning and zoning commission shall hold
a public hearing on each conditional use permit application. The commission may
approve, conditionally approve, or deny a conditional use permit under the
conditions as herein specified.
   C.    Application and Fee Required:
      1.   Contents: An application for a conditional use permit shall be filed
with the planning and zoning administrator by at least one owner of property
for which such conditional use for a temporary dwelling is proposed. At a
minimum, the application shall contain the following information:
         a.   Name, address and phone number of applicant;
         b.   Legal description of property;
         c.   Description of existing use;
         d.   Zone classification;
         e.   Purpose of proposed temporary dwelling;
         f.   A plan of the proposed site for the temporary dwelling showing
the location of all existing buildings, location of the temporary dwelling,
parking area, access, landscaping, refuse area, utilities, yards and other such
information as the planning and zoning commission may require to determine if
the proposed temporary dwelling meets the intent and requirements of this
title; and
         g.   A narrative statement evaluating the effects on adjoining
property; a discussion of the general compatibility with adjacent and other
properties in the zone; and the need for the temporary dwelling.
      2.   Fee: A filing fee shall accompany the application (see schedule of
fees adopted herein by reference and on file in the office of the county
clerk).
   D.    Conditional Use Permits for temporary dwellings shall be renewed
annually as set forth in this Title. Annual renewal shall require a renewed
bond and payment of a twenty-five-dollar ($25.00) processing fee. Failure to
renew the permit shall result in automatic termination, without notice or
demand of any kind. (Ord. 2024-03, 6-10-2024)
8-17-2: ALLOWED TEMPORARY DWELLING USES:
   A.   Farm Labor Housing:
      1.   For agricultural workers engaged in performing a substantial amount
of the operation of the property owner's agricultural activities within the
prime agriculture zone. Proof of payroll activity and/or legal compensation of
seventy-five percent (75%) or more of the agricultural workers' main source of
income shall be provided with the application and shall be approved by the
commission.
         a.   The Farm Labor housing permit shall be good for a period of one
(1) year. Annual renewal of a Farm Labor housing permit shall require proof of
a current payroll activity as stated above not less than sixty (60) days prior
to the application expiring, in addition to the requirements of section
8-17-2(D).
         b.   Failure to renew a Farm Labor housing permit shall require the
removal of the structure or building or dwelling used by the temporary resident
within thirty (30) days of expiration.
      2.   Change In Ownership:
         a.   Should the Farm/Dairy change owners, the new owners shall apply
for a new conditional use permit as set forth in this chapter.
      3.   Recreational vehicles are not permitted.
      4.   If a farm labor unit is used by someone not engaged in farm labor,
all farm labor permits issued to the owner shall be terminated.
      5.   Permits under different organizations but controlled by the same
personnel may be terminated upon failure to comply with permit.
   B.   Temporary Transitional Residence:
      1.   A recreational vehicle/manufactured home either existing or placed
may be used as temporary housing during the construction of a new permanent
residence on the same parcel. A time limit shall be set for the construction of
a permanent residence of one hundred eighty (180) days, unless clearly stated
by the planning and zoning commission. If the building construction is not
complete within this time period and the building permit is extended, an
extension for the temporary dwelling may be requested for an additional one
hundred eighty (180) days. Further extensions may be granted by the commission
under extenuating circumstances only. Manufactured homes used as temporary
dwellings shall be removed from the property within thirty (30) days of final
inspection of the new permanent residence and prior to the issuance of a
certificate of occupancy.
   C.   Temporary Hardship For Substantiated Healthcare Needs:
      1.   Shall be allowed with the following conditions:
         a.   Proof of the healthcare need as evidenced through written and
signed authorization from a medical professional is required.
         b.   Temporary hardship statement signed by the applicant that the
applicant recognizes this is a temporary permit only; that the temporary permit
lasts for only one (1) year and is automatically terminated at the end of the
one (1) year unless the application is renewed.
         c.   The applicant has an ownership interest in property that would
not otherwise qualify for an ADU (
8-8-3) additional dwelling.
         d.   The temporary hardship permit shall be good for a period of one
(1) year. At the end of the one (1) year, the temporary permit shall
automatically, without notice or demand of any kind, terminate. A temporary
hardship permit may be renewed upon presentation to the planning and zoning
administrator of a current certificate of dependency not more than sixty (60)
days prior to the application for extension, a renewed bond agreement, and a
twenty-five-dollar ($25.00) application renewal fee;
         e.   Failure to renew, the structure, or building or dwelling used by
the temporary resident, shall be removed within thirty (30) days from the
property;
         f.   Should the person providing services choose to discontinue his or
her service to the person claiming hardship, including where the service
provider is the temporary resident, no other individual shall be allowed to
move into the temporary residence until the succeeding individual also files an
application for a temporary permit;
         g.   The temporary residence shall be placed within two hundred fifty
feet (250') of the permanent residence; and
         h.    Accessory structures to serve the temporary hardship structure
shall not be built.
   D.   Construction trailer intended for residential or security purposes on a
construction site:
      1.   Construction trailers, equipment and materials used in conjunction
with construction work only may be permitted in any zone during the period
construction work is in progress. Such temporary facilities shall be removed
within sixty (30) days of completion of the construction work (i.e. Final
Inspection). (Ord. 2024-03, 6-10-2024)
8-17-3: ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS; APPROVAL OF APPLICATION:
   A.   The board of county commissioners or planning and zoning commission may
grant an application for a temporary permit after all requirements have been
met and upon proof of each of the following:
      1.   All Temporary Permits where excreta will be present shall require a
septic permit from the health authority certifying that applicant's proposed
sewage disposal are adequate, conform to all state regulations and do not
constitute a health hazard to any person.
      2.   All approved temporary permits uses shall be required to have a
building conditional use permit prior to moving on or in the temporary
permitted use. The permit shall at no time make the temporary structure
permanent but a building permit shall be required to make sure all setbacks and
requirements of this chapter or chapter reference are met. This includes all
restrictions set by the approving body. This shall not apply to existing
residences deemed temporary as set out in section
8-17-2(B).
      3.   The applicant has complied with all requirements set forth in this
chapter. (Ord. 2007-7, 7-2-2007; amd. Ord. 2024-03, 6-10-2024)
8-17-4: CONDITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Temporary permits will be granted under the following conditions and
restrictions:
      1.   A temporary permit shall be issued only;
         a.   To a person who is willing and able to provide the services
needed by the person claiming temporary hardship;
         b.   Agricultural farm workers temporary housing shall at no time be a
rental to someone not working on the farm as described in the foregoing
section.
         c.   Pertaining to construction of a new permanent residence,
temporary residence, shall not be occupied at the same time as the main home.
RV shall at no time have skirting. A temporary manufactured home shall be
permitted also with a conditional use permit and appropriate building permit.
      2.   The trailer home, trailer house, mobile home, manufactured home, or
motor home which shall be used by the applicant shall be of a temporary nature;
in some cases, an existing home may be deemed a temporary residence. The
trailer home, trailer house, mobile home, manufactured home, or motor home
shall not be placed upon a permanent foundation.
      3.   Ingress/Egress: The temporary dwelling shall use existing methods of
ingress/egress, as long as it has been permitted as residential or farm labor
housing. If more than one is approved, they shall use the same ingress/egress
as permitted.
      4.   The dwelling shall be used solely and exclusively for one of the
above-listed temporary permitted uses.
      5.   The temporary structure and its sewage facilities shall not endanger
the health or well-being of any persons.
      6.   The temporary dwelling shall be removed within thirty (30) days
after the temporary need no longer exists or the temporary permit expires.
      7.   The administrator may make inspections of the premises at reasonable
times and under reasonable conditions, to ensure that the temporary permit is
being used in accordance with the original application and shall maintain a
record of each permit granted within the county. The administrator may require
a site visit for compliance by a county representative before a bond may be
released.
      8.   The board of county commissioners and/or the planning and zoning
commission may decline to issue the temporary permit for any reason and may
demand that the applicant submit to an onsite inspection by the planning and
zoning administrator prior to the granting of any temporary permit or any
extension.
      9.   Persons or entities aggrieved by a decision of the board of county
commissioners may under appropriate circumstances appeal the same pursuant to
Idaho Code 31-1506 and 67-5273.
      10.   The planning and zoning administrator shall send notice of the
application for temporary permits except construction railers to all adjoining
landowners informing them that an application for a temporary permit has been
applied for, the date and time they will be considered by either the board of
county commissioners and/or the planning and zoning commission and that they
have a right to appear and object to the issuance of the temporary permit.
      11.   Any other conditions as may be agreed upon between the applicant
and the planning and zoning commission, the administrator and/or the board of
county commissioners.
   B.   The temporary permit shall inure only to the personal benefit of the
individual and shall not be alienable or in anywise transferable and shall
terminate immediately, without notice or demand of any kind by any party. In
the event either the farm/dairy or the person claiming hardship or the person
providing services ceases to occupy or own the property. (Ord. 2007-7, 7-2-
2007; amd. Ord. 2024-03, 6-10-2024)
8-17-5: APPLICATION FEE AND BOND AGREEMENT:
Each applicant for a temporary permit shall pay an application fee as set by
the board of county commissioners, shall be required to post a performance bond
or bonds in the amount of twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000.00) upon
approval but prior to the temporary dwelling being occupied, and shall grant a
lien against their real property in favor of Payette County securing the
performance of their obligations under the permit. Each applicant shall also be
required to execute the bond and lien agreement provided by the county. (Ord.
2007-7, 7-2-2007; amd. Ord. 2024-03, 6-10-2024)
8-17-6: TIME PROVIDED FOR ACTION:
The administrator shall place the application on the agenda for a public
hearing as set forth in this section. Said public hearing shall be held no
sooner than fifteen (15) days after the matter has been published in the local
paper and no later than sixty (60) days after the filing of the application, to
the extent such scheduling is practicable. After a decision is reached by the
commission, the administrator will inform the applicant of its decision either
orally or in writing within sixty (60) days of its final action. (Ord. 2012-05,
5-21-2012; amd. Ord. 2024-03, 6-10-2024)
8-17-7: PERMIT ISSUANCE NONPRECEDENT:
The granting of a temporary permit shall not set a precedent for the granting
of other permits, and no subsequent applicant shall be allowed to rely upon any
prior issuance of any temporary permit as grounds for issuance. (Ord. 2007-7,
7-2-2007; amd. Ord. 2024-03, 6-10-2024)
8-17-8: TRANSFERABILITY:
A temporary permit, and whatever estate is created by a temporary permit, shall
not be transferable by either and any transfer, or attempt to transfer, shall
be a violation of this chapter and shall be subject to all criminal and
abatement proceedings as provided herein. (Ord. 2007-7, 7-2-2007; amd. Ord.
2024-03, 6-10-2024)
8-17-9: FAILURE TO ACT:
The failure of the planning and zoning administrator to promptly and fully
enforce this chapter against any individual who may be in violation of the same
shall not grant or confer any additional rights upon any individual who may
benefit therefrom. (Ord. 2007-7, 7-2-2007; amd. Ord. 2024-03, 6-10-2024)
CHAPTER 18
APPEALS
SECTION:
8-18-1: Purpose
8-18-2: Appeals From Decisions Of The Administrator
8-18-3: Appeals From Decisions Of The Commission
8-18-4: General Provisions
8-18-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to standardize the appeal procedure for any
party from any adverse ruling of either the board of county commissioners,
planning and zoning commission, planning and zoning administrator or building
official. All time limits set out herein shall be deemed controlling unless a
specific time limit is set out in another section. Any party aggrieved by the
final action of the administrator, commission or board, may appeal in
accordance with the appellate procedures herein set forth. Time limits shall be
deemed jurisdictional. (Ord. 2009-03, 6-15-2009)
8-18-2: APPEALS FROM DECISIONS OF THE ADMINISTRATOR:
   A.   Appeal Period: Any person may appeal a final decision of the
administrator or of the building official. An appeal from a decision of the
administrator or from a decision of the building official shall be to the
planning and zoning commission. Such an appeal must be filed in writing with
the administrator or the commission within fifteen (15) days after the decision
is rendered. The planning and zoning commission is hereby appointed to act as
the board of appeals to hear appeals from decisions of the administrator or
from decisions of the building official.
   B.   Written Notice: Notice of appeal may be informal, but shall be in
writing and shall set out reasons why the appealing party is aggrieved and
shall state why the appellant believes the planning and zoning administrator or
building official committed error.
   C.   Hearing By Planning And Zoning Commission: The planning and zoning
commission may hear the appeal either by receiving and reviewing the record
accumulated by the planning and zoning administrator or building official or by
holding a hearing. Should the commission choose to schedule a hearing, such a
hearing shall be held at the first regular commission meeting which falls after
the filing of the notice of appeal, provided that at least five (5) days have
elapsed between notice of filing and meeting. If the regular meeting is less
than five (5) days after filing, said hearing may be scheduled at the next
regularly scheduled meeting. Should the commission choose to decide an appeal
strictly on the record presented by the administrator, the commission may do so
at any time, but no later than the first regular meeting which occurs fifteen
(15) days after the filing of the notice of appeal.
   D.   Planning And Zoning Commission Decision: Within sixty (60) days after
the hearing or record review, the planning and zoning commission shall render a
decision together with a summary of findings, setting forth reasons why a
particular decision was made.
   E.   Failure Of Planning And Zoning Commission To Act: Should the planning
and zoning commission fail to take action within the allotted time, the appeal
shall be deemed denied and the aggrieved party may pursue further appeal. (Ord.
2009-03, 6-15-2009)
8-18-3: APPEALS FROM DECISIONS OF THE COMMISSION:
   A.   Appeal Period; Written Notice: Any person may appeal any final decision
of the commission to the board by filing a notice of appeal with the
administrator or with the board within fifteen (15) days of the commission's
adverse action. Notice may be informal, but must be written and conform to the
requirements of subsection
8-18-2B of this chapter. (Ord. 57-P, 3-31-1997)
   B.   Hearing By Board Of County Commissioners: The board of county
commissioners may hear the appeal as set out in subsection
8-18-2C of this chapter, and may do so at any regularly or specially scheduled
meeting. Such meeting must be held within thirty (30) days of the filing of the
notice of appeal.
   C.   Hearing De Novo: Should the board of county commissioners schedule a
hearing de novo, it shall give the appellant at least three (3) days' written
or oral notice. An appearance at any hearing automatically waives notice
requirements unless the appellant can demonstrate some prejudice resulting from
insufficient notice. The board of county commissioners may affirm, reverse,
affirm in part, reverse in part, or add or delete any conditions permitted by
this title.
   D.   Adjournment: Any meeting may be adjourned from time to time at the
request of either party for good cause shown. A subsequent meeting where a
final decision is rendered must be held within sixty (60) days of the adjourned
meeting, unless agreed otherwise by the parties.
   E.   Appeal To District Court: Any person aggrieved by any action of the
board of county commissioners may appeal to the district court for
administrative relief. No court action shall be taken until all administrative
remedies are exhausted.
   F.   Failure Of Board Of County Commissioners To Act: Should the board of
county commissioners fail to act within the time limits set out herein, the
appeal shall be deemed automatically denied and the appellant free to pursue
his remedies in court. (Ord. 57, 4-18-1988)
8-18-4: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Representation By Counsel: Any party may be represented at any stage by
counsel.
   B.   Quorum; Appropriate Motions: The board of county commissioners or
planning and zoning commission shall act by a simple majority of a quorum. A
negative motion or motion to deny shall be an appropriate motion as is an
affirmative motion.
   C.   Stay Of Proceedings: An appeal before the board of county commissioners
or the planning and zoning commission stays all work or all proceedings in
furtherance of the action unless the planning and zoning administrator or
building official certifies to the planning and zoning commission after the
notice of appeal is filed with him that by reason of facts stated in the
application, a stay would, in his opinion cause imminent peril to life or
property.
   D.   Action Of Appellate Body: Any appellate body before the district court,
may sustain, reverse or reverse in part or sustain in part any decision from a
lower level and impose such conditions as are permitted by this zoning title.
Before hearing an appeal or before deciding an appeal, the appellate body may
require additional hearings or may require the body appealed from to hold
additional hearings to create a record or augment any record previously made.
   E.   Fee On Appeal: When any person files an appeal, the administrator shall
charge an appeal fee. That fee shall be set by resolution of the board of
county commissioners and may be changed from time to time at the board of
county commissioners' discretion. At a minimum, the charge shall be sufficient
to cover any publication costs or any other actual cost incurred by the county
in the appellate process. (Ord. 2012-05, 5-21-2012)
CHAPTER 19
CONFINED ANIMAL FEEDING OPERATIONS
SECTION:
8-19-1: Purpose
8-19-2: Definitions
8-19-3: Existing Operations
8-19-4: Areas Allowing Operations
8-19-5: Reserved
8-19-6: Reserved
8-19-7: Areas Prohibiting New Operations
8-19-8: Outdoor Lighting
8-19-9: Siting Permits
8-19-10: Administrative Approval
8-19-11: Application Process, Notice Of Hearing And Public Hearing Procedure
8-19-12: Criteria For Approval
8-19-13: Appeals
8-19-14: Transfer Of A Siting Permit
8-19-15: Variance For A New Facility
8-19-16: Building Permits And Certificates Of Occupancy
8-19-17: Nutrient Management Plans
8-19-18: Expansion Of CAFOs Which Are Greater Than Two Thousand Animals
8-19-19: Enforcement
8-19-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide regulations and standards for the
creation of confined animal feeding operations (CAFOs) in Payette County. The
regulations contained herein are designed to protect and promote the public
health, safety and community welfare of the county and to encourage and promote
managed development of new and existing confined animal feeding operations.
(Ord. 2006-11, 7-3-2006)
8-19-2: DEFINITIONS:
ADMINISTRATOR: The official appointed by the board of county commissioners to
administer the Payette County zoning ordinance.
AFFECTED PERSON: As used herein, an affected person shall mean one having an
interest in real property within a one mile radius of the CAFO, which may be
adversely affected by the issuance or denial of a permit.
APPLICANT: Any person or other legal entity seeking any approval or permits
pursuant to this chapter.
BOARD: The board of county commissioners.
BUILDING INSPECTOR: The official appointed by the board of county commissioners
to administer Payette County building codes.
CAFO SITING PERMIT: Permit required before a CAFO can be created, continued,
developed, operated or transferred.
CONFINED ANIMAL FEEDING OPERATION (CAFO): A contiguous area, lot, facility or
parcel of land or the use of a contiguous area, lot, facility or parcel of
land, upon which there are confined or stabled, livestock, swine, poultry or
other animals defined as follows:
   A.   Any combination of animals, which total two hundred (200) or more and
which are confined at a density of more than five (5) animals per acre, for
more than two hundred forty (240) days during a three hundred sixty five (365)
day period;
   B.   Any combination of animals, which total seven hundred (700) or more and
which are confined at a density of more than five (5) animals per acre, for
more than ninety (90) days during a three hundred sixty five (365) day period;
   C.   Any combination of animals, which total one thousand (1,000) or more
and which are confined at a density of more than five (5) animals per acre.
Areas or parcels of land are deemed contiguous even when separated by county
roads if used for operations or are deemed contiguous if they are not adjacent,
but are owned by the animal feeding operation and a pipeline exists or another
means of conveying liquid wastewater to separated contiguous or noncontiguous
lands. All acreage within the contiguous animal feeding operation is subject to
the setback limitations as defined in this chapter.
EXPANSION PERMIT: A permit obtained by a registered CAFO to expand the number
of animals located at the CAFO site.
HEARING EXAMINER: A person authorized by the board of county commissioners to
conduct public hearings.
LAGOON: A body of liquid waste.
LAND APPLICATION AREA: Parcels of land owned or controlled by the animal
feeding operation used for land application of waste (liquid or solid) as
authorized under an Idaho state department of agriculture approved nutrient
management plan.
LIQUID WASTE: A liquid substance containing any of the following separately or
in any combination: wastewater, waste or other waste products.
PERMITTEE (OR REGISTRANT): One who holds a siting permit or who succeeds to a
permitted CAFO.
RESIDENCE: Includes dwelling, church, school, or other building used for human
occupancy and includes subdivisions and planned unit developments.
STORM RUNOFF CONTAINMENT: The storage facility that intercepts and holds
precipitation runoff from a corral or other confined animal enclosures. Sizing
shall be based on the correct sizing the Idaho state department of agriculture
has approved for this facility.
WASTE: A byproduct normally associated with a confined animal feeding
operation, which may include manure, sludge, sediment, mud, silt, dung, urine
or feces, waste products, wastewater and feed residues.
WASTE TREATMENT SYSTEM: The process, area, or mechanism employed for the
retention, storage and treatment of liquid or solid wastes.
WASTEWATER: Water that has been used for washing, flushing, or in a
manufacturing process, which may also contain waste products.
ZONING OFFICIAL: The zoning administrator or his authorized representative.
(Ord. 2006-11, 7-3-2006)
8-19-3: EXISTING OPERATIONS:
   A.   General:
      1.   This chapter does not relieve any nonregistered confined animal
feeding operation from any obligation or penalty for noncompliance with this
chapter.
      2.   An animal feeding operation, which has previously received a
conditional use permit from the county, need not reapply under this chapter.
The animal feeding operation, which has previously received a conditional use
permit, will have the right to register the CAFO under a siting permit. The
CAFO will have until October 1, 2006, to register with the administrator and
pay a three hundred dollar ($300.00) application fee, if the proposed CAFO is
for less than one thousand (1,000) animals and a six hundred dollar ($600.00)
application fee if the proposed CAFO is for one thousand (1,000) animals or
more. If the CAFO is under the jurisdiction of the Idaho state department of
agriculture, it shall have a letter of compliance certifying the conformity to
the state and federal regulations applicable to this type of CAFO (including
compliance with their nutrient management plan) from the Idaho state department
of agriculture. CAFOs not registering during the allotted time will be listed
as a nonconforming CAFO but will have the right to operate under the previous
conditions of the conditional use permit issued to it.
      3.   Any CAFO existing as of the effective date of this chapter, which
has not previously received a conditional use permit from the county, shall
have until October 1, 2006, to register with the administrator and pay a three
hundred dollar ($300.00) application fee, if the proposed CAFO is for less than
one thousand (1,000) animals and a six hundred dollar ($600.00) application fee
if the proposed CAFO is for one thousand (1,000) animals or more. The owner
must provide proof that the operation has been active for at least two (2) of
the last five (5) years and is in compliance with the requirement of any
appropriate state or federal agencies. Also the CAFO will need to provide the
number of animals located at the site, if there has been no record to the
county of the number of animals located at the site previously on file. Any
existing animal feeding operation as of the effective date of this chapter
which has not registered after the time set forth herein has expired and which
has not previously received a conditional use permit will not be recognized as
a CAFO and will have no right which could be to transfer the operation to
subsequent owners.
All existing CAFOs in Payette County as of the effective date hereof may be
granted a CAFO siting permit under the conditions set forth above if requested
as long as they are in compliance with state and federal regulations for that
type of CAFO.
   B.   Expansion Of Existing CAFOs: A nonregistered CAFO shall not make
improvements or increase in size or capacity prior to going through the CAFO
application process. If a CAFO has not registered within the allotted time it
shall not be altered or expanded without going through the application and
approval procedure for a new CAFO.
Existing CAFOs that have chosen to register and have obtained a CAFO siting
permit shall be allowed to expand to the number of animals which can be
controlled under the nutrient management plan submitted to the county at the
time the CAFO registered with the county or received a siting permit, on the
condition that any existing CAFO remain compliant with state and federal
regulations. If a CAFO is going to increase more than thirty percent (30%) in
any five (5) year period, the CAFO must apply for an expansion permit.
Included in the application for an expansion permit:
      1.   The name, address, legal description of affected property and
telephone number of the applicant.
      2.   Legal address and description of the existing CAFO.
      3.   Total acreage owned by the CAFO and zoning district.
      4.   Written notification from the governing agencies certifying
compliance to state and federal regulations.
      5.   The existing number of animals at the CAFO and types of animals.
      6.   Proposed number of animals (able to be reached within 10 years).
      7.   Site plan showing the following information which occurs within a
one mile radius (minimum size of 18 inches by 24 inches and minimum scale of 1
inch equals 100 feet):
         Any proposed improvements, including, but not limited to, wells,
corrals, roads, etc.
         Approximate time frame to complete construction or stages construction
will be completed.
         Building locations (existing and proposed).
         Existing monitoring or injection wells.
         Irrigation canals and laterals.
         Irrigation wells.
         Location of residences not owned by the CAFO.
         Outdoor lighting plan.
         Public water supply wells.
         Rivers, streams, springs, reservoirs and wetlands.
         Setbacks of proposed improvements.
         Traffic access.
      8.   The applicant shall submit with the application a fee in the amount
set by resolution of the board of county commissioners.
      9.   The zoning administrator shall approve or disapprove of the
application within thirty (30) days of receiving the complete application.
Written notification from the county shall be mailed to the applicant at that
time.
      10.   All decisions made by the zoning administrator may be appealed to
the planning and zoning commission within twenty (20) working days of notice of
the zoning administrator's decision.
Landscaping, architectural and/or screening improvements may be made conditions
of the approval.
Any modifications made after the zoning administrator's decision will require
the applicant to resubmit the application with the necessary changes made.
All existing registered CAFOs applying for an expansion permit shall adhere to
the setbacks stated in this chapter for new CAFOs for any new improvements
made. However, variances may be made by the administrator if the existing
facility cannot realistically accommodate these setbacks. The administrator may
seek the advice of any regulating state or federal agency as to their opinion
on the matter and if compliance would still be possible with the proposed
variance. Any application including a variance or variances will include an
additional one hundred dollar ($100.00) fee. (Ord. 2009-03, 6-15-2009)
8-19-4: AREAS ALLOWING OPERATIONS:
Animal feeding operations are permitted in an A agriculture or I-2 industrial
zone only by a CAFO siting permit. CAFOs are not permitted in any other zone.
(Ord. 2006-11, 7-3-2006; amd. Ord. 2009-03, 6-15-2009)
8-19-5: RESERVED:
(Ord. 2006-11, 7-3-2006)
8-19-6: RESERVED:
(Ord. 2006-11, 7-3-2006)
8-19-7: AREAS PROHIBITING NEW OPERATIONS:
No new CAFOs shall be permitted in the following zones or areas:
   Any commercial zone (C-1, C-2).
   City impact areas (excepting existing CAFOs applying for expansion permits).
   Historic sites, as defined by state and/or federal regulation.
   100-year flood zone (as defined by the flood insurance rate map).
   Recreation zone (B).
   Residential zones (R).
   Wetlands, as defined by state and/or federal regulation. (Ord. 2009-03, 6-
15-2009)
8-19-8: OUTDOOR LIGHTING:
All outdoor lighting fixtures installed shall be placed in such a way that all
light emitted by the fixture, either directly from the lamp or a diffusing
element or indirectly by reflection or refraction from any part of the
luminaire, shall be projected below the horizontal. All outdoor lighting
systems shall be installed in such a way that the light will not be directed
beyond the property boundaries. (Ord. 2006-11, 7-3-2006)
8-19-9: SITING PERMITS:
This means of application is for new CAFOs or CAFOs not in existence or
registered prior to October 1, 2006.
   A.   New Construction: A CAFO siting permit and required building permits
are required prior to commencing any construction of a new CAFO facility, its
waste treatment system, or any improvement made to the site to aid in the
construction of the new facility (excepting land leveling).
   B.   Information Required: An application for a permit shall contain the
information required in subsection
8-19-3B of this chapter excluding subsections
8-19-3B4, B5, B9 and B10 of this chapter since they are only applicable to
existing facilities.
   C.   Additional Requirements: Plus the following:
      1.   A preliminary nutrient management plan,
      2.   The site plan prepared by a civil engineer or licensed surveyor,
      3.   A valid water right or a copy of an application to appropriate water
or an application to change the point of diversion, place, or nature of use of
an existing water right that has been filed with the Idaho department of water
resources, which, if approved, will provide an adequate supply for the
operation,
      4.   A fee in the amount set by resolution of the Payette board of county
commissioners.
Upon receiving the application requirements set forth the application will then
be sent to the site advisory committee for their review and report.
   D.   Members Of The Site Advisory Committee:
      1.   A representative from the Idaho state department of agriculture.
      2.   A representative from the Idaho department of water resources.
      3.   A representative from the Idaho department of environmental quality.
      4.   Administrator or zoning official from Payette County.
Within approximately thirty (30) working days from receiving the application
the site advisory committee will complete their report at which time the
application may then proceed to the next applicable stage.
The site advisory committee will be requested to review any application for a
CAFO which would house more than one thousand (1,000) animals.
   E.   Vacancy Of Use: The permittee or registrant of a CAFO siting permit
shall notify the county within thirty (30) days of ceasing operations at the
animal feeding operation. Failure to do so will render the animal feeding
operation in violation and subject to the revocation of their CAFO siting
permit. If the animal feeding operation is vacant for one year, the county may
request that the owner declare its intentions with respect to the continued
nonuse of the CAFO. If the permittee elects to continue nonuse the permittee
shall be required to follow the process outlined in Idaho Code section 67-6538.
An animal feeding operation will lose its permit if the operation is vacant for
five (5) years. (Ord. 2006-11, 7-3-2006)
8-19-10: ADMINISTRATIVE APPROVAL:
New CAFO applications which would operate five hundred (500) animals or less
may obtain a CAFO siting permit by administrative approval.
   A.   Application Review: The zoning official shall review the application
for completeness. Upon determining that the application is complete, the zoning
official shall either approve, approve with conditions or deny the application.
The zoning official will inform the applicant with the decision within fifteen
(15) days in writing. The decision of the zoning official may be appealed to
the planning and zoning commission within twenty (20) working days of the
official's decision.
   B.   Exception: The zoning official may set a public hearing on any
application submitted if in their best judgment it is in the public's interest.
(Ord. 2006-11, 7-3-2006)
8-19-11: APPLICATION PROCESS, NOTICE OF HEARING AND PUBLIC HEARING PROCEDURE:
All new CAFOs as defined by this chapter and CAFOs wishing to expand more than
thirty percent (30%) in any five (5) year period shall apply for and receive a
siting or expansion permit prior to commencing construction or operation. CAFOs
operating in excess of five hundred (500) animals shall require a public
hearing.
   A.   Application Review: The zoning official shall review the application
for completeness. After receiving notice that the application is complete, it
shall be sent to the site advisory committee for its report.
   B.   Hearing: Upon completion of the site advisory committee's report the
zoning official shall set the matter for public hearing before the planning and
zoning commission.
   C.   Hearing Notice: Notice of time, place and purpose of the public hearing
shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the county at least
fifteen (15) days prior to such hearing. The applicant shall provide the
administrator with such fee as may be set by the board and shall provide the
zoning administrator with the names and addresses or all landowners within one
mile of the affected site. The zoning administrator shall then send a notice of
the public hearing by first class mail to property owner(s) within one mile of
the proposed location. Proof of service shall be made a part of the public
record.
   D.   Notice: Notice of public hearings for new comprehensive plan changes or
rezone applications or transfer of development rights within one mile of a CAFO
location, shall be sent to the CAFO owner/operator by first class mail. Proof
of service shall be made a part of the public record.
   E.   Public Hearing Procedure:
      1.   The hearing shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions of
this title or other appropriate county ordinances. The hearing shall be
recorded.
      2.   The applicant will be limited to forty (40) minutes' presentation
time.
      3.   Members of the public will be given the opportunity to be heard.
Those who wish to comment must state their name and address and be given five
(5) minutes to testify.
      4.   The applicant will be limited to ten (10) minutes for rebuttal.
      5.   In the event any person refuses to comply with the described time
limits set herein, the person conducting the hearing shall have the following
options: a) have the violator ejected from the meeting, b) close oral testimony
and have the remainder of the testimony presented in written form within the
next ten (10) days, c) if all witnesses have testified, close the hearing.
      6.   At the completion of the hearing, the zoning commission shall
produce findings of fact and conclusions of law, or a reasoned statement as
described by Idaho Code section 67-6535 and a final order granting or denying
the permit.
      7.   Such report shall be filed at the planning and zoning department. It
will be available to the applicant and the public within sixty (60) working
days after the close of the hearing. (Ord. 2006-11, 7-3-2006)
8-19-12: CRITERIA FOR APPROVAL:
Prior to the planning and zoning commission's approval of a siting permit for a
new CAFO or a CAFO expansion as set forth above, the applicant shall meet the
following requirements:
   A.   General Requirements:
      1.   The applicant's plan must be in compliance with and not be in
violation of any federal, state or local law or ordinance.
      2.   The applicant must not have begun construction of new improvements
for a CAFO at the proposed location other than land leveling. If it is
determined that the construction has commenced, penalties shall be imposed in
accordance with the provisions of section 8-19-19 of this chapter.
      3.   Applicant's plan must meet the setback and lighting requirements of
this chapter. Variances may be granted if denying a variance would impose undue
hardship on the applicant.
      4.   Landscaping, screening and architectural improvements that are
conditions of approval shall be accurately described.
   B.   CAFO Minimum Setbacks:
      1.   The closest edge of lagoons or waste treatment systems shall be
located at least five hundred feet (500') away from any residence not belonging
to the permittee of the CAFO.
      2.   Corrals and the closest inside edge of the retaining wall of any
lagoon storm runoff containment or waste treatment shall be at least five
hundred feet (500') inside the property lines.
      3.   The closest inside edge of the retaining wall of any storm runoff
containment or corral shall be located at least one hundred feet (100') from a
domestic well.
      4.   The closest inside edge of the retaining wall of any lagoon, storm
runoff containment or corral shall be located at least one thousand feet
(1,000') from a public water supply.
      5.   The closest edge of corrals and feed storage areas shall set back a
minimum of fifty feet (50') from public road rights of way.
      6.   The closest edge of corrals and feed storage areas shall be located
at least five hundred feet (500') away from any residence not belonging to the
permittee of the animal feeding operation.
      7.   The closest edge of silage, haylage, potatoes or any other feed
product resulting from the ensilage process which is stored in the open air
shall be located at least three hundred feet (300') from any existing residence
not belonging to the permittee of the CAFO.
      8.   All new residences shall adhere to the setbacks set forth as
required by this chapter.
      9.   All new CAFOs shall be located at least one mile from:
         a.   Recreation zones.
         b.   Existing platted subdivisions with improvements constructed as of
the effective date hereof.
      10.   No new CAFO shall be located within one thousand three hundred
twenty feet (1,320'), measured from the closest edge of any structure, lagoon,
storm runoff containment, corral, feed storage, waste treatment system, parking
area, to the high water line of the Payette River, the Snake River, Little
Willow or Big Willow Creeks.
      11.   An additional setback for new CAFOs over two thousand five hundred
(2,500) animals for any lagoon or waste treatment system shall be located at
least one thousand three hundred twenty feet (1,320') from any residence not
owned by the permittee.
This setback may be reduced if the CAFO's waste system utilizes technology such
as, but not limited to, anaerobic digesters, methane digesters, covered lagoons
or comparable odor controlling technology. (Ord. 2006-11, 7-3-2006)
8-19-13: APPEALS:
   A.   Appeals of a decision of the zoning administrator or official shall be
directed to the planning and zoning commission.
   B.   Appeals of a decision of the planning and zoning commission shall be
directed to the board of county commissioners.
   C.   The decision of the board of county commissioners shall constitute an
exhaustion of administrative remedies and may be appealed to district court
within twenty eight (28) days.
   D.   Appeals must be filed within fourteen (14) working days after the
decision, with the board of county commissioners.
   E.   The board of county commissioners will evaluate appeals for standing.
Only affected persons may file an appeal. (Ord. 2006-11, 7-3-2006)
8-19-14: TRANSFER OF A SITING PERMIT:
Siting permits may be transferred to a new permittee provided that:
   A.   The new permittee shall file a transfer statement form with the zoning
administrator within thirty (30) days from the date of purchase, lease or
transfer. The transfer statement form shall include the date of transfer, names
and mailing addresses of both the transferor and transferee.
   B.   The previous permittee shall provide a signed statement, stating that
the CAFO is in compliance with all terms of the original permit and all local,
state and federal rules and regulations. (Ord. 2006-11, 7-3-2006)
8-19-15: VARIANCE FOR A NEW FACILITY:
An applicant may request a variance from the terms of this chapter in
accordance with this code. Upon written notification of an agreement between
both affected parties as to their approval, variances of these setbacks may be
granted. (Ord. 2006-11, 7-3-2006)
8-19-16: BUILDING PERMITS AND CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY:
Where applicable a building permit shall be required before construction shall
commence on any new or expanding facility. A certificate of occupancy is
required before the occupancy or use of expanded or new facilities by any
animal.
   A.   Building Permit:
      1.   Prior to commencing construction of a new facility or commencing
improvements to an expanding facility, the permittee shall obtain all building
permits required by Payette County as applicable to the facility.
      2.   The building inspector shall have the right to perform regular
inspections as determined by the building inspector.
      3.   The building inspector shall have the right to enter the property to
conduct such inspections for compliance with the provisions of Payette County
ordinances.
      4.   The building inspector shall have the authority to issue and post on
the premises of the property a "stop work" order if an inspection reveals a
violation of the terms of the siting or building permit(s). All work must cease
after posting of the order. Work shall not be permitted to resume until the
violation(s) has been corrected. Any violation of a stop work order is a
misdemeanor punishable in accordance with this code and/or Idaho law.
   B.   Change Orders:
      1.   If the permittee desires to make changes to the proposed facilities
authorized under the permit, the permittee shall present a written change order
request to the planning and zoning department. The request shall clearly
specify any of the proposed changes being requested; including an explanation
and justification for such changes along with such other documentation as will
be necessary for a decision. If the proposed change involves the relocation of
major improvements such as, but not limited to, the waste treatment system,
free stall barns and corrals, the permittee shall adhere to the setbacks found
herein. If a variance is needed for the change order the permittee will have to
go through the variance procedure set out in section
8-19-15 of this chapter.
      2.   The zoning administrator shall then make a decision and provide
written notification to the permittee of the decision.
      3.   Any appeals of the decision shall go through the available means for
appeal as stated in section
8-19-13 of this chapter.
   C.   Certificate Of Occupancy:
      1.   Prior to the occupancy and/or use of the expanded or new facilities
by any animal the permittee shall obtain a certificate of occupancy.
      2.   The permittee shall provide written notification from all applicable
state and federal agencies showing compliance with all rules and regulations
before a certificate of occupancy shall be granted.
      3.   Upon completion and final inspection of the facilities authorized by
the permit(s) and upon compliance with the provisions set forth by the permit
the building inspector shall issue a certificate of occupancy to the permittee.
The certificate shall certify that all facilities have been inspected and
conform to the terms of the permit(s), are in compliance with the provisions of
Payette County ordinances and the permittee is fully authorized to occupy and
operate the animal feeding operation.
      4.   Stages of occupancy can be made provisions of the original permit.
   D.   Construction: Construction of the CAFO must be commenced within two (2)
years of the issuance of the permit and must be completed in five (5) years of
the issuance of the permit or it shall expire. (Note: Unless other time frames
were addressed in the original application and approved.) (Ord. 2006-11, 7-3-
2006)
8-19-17: NUTRIENT MANAGEMENT PLANS:
All CAFOs which are required to have a nutrient management plan shall follow
and be in compliance with a nutrient management plan approved by the
appropriate government agency. (Ord. 2006-11, 7-3-2006)
8-19-18: EXPANSION OF CAFOs WHICH ARE GREATER THAN TWO THOUSAND ANIMALS:
An expansion of any CAFO which operates or proposes to operate more than two
thousand (2,000) animals, may be permitted only after notice and a public
hearing. (Ord. 2006-11, 7-3-2006)
8-19-19: ENFORCEMENT:
The zoning administrator, or an authorized agent, shall have the authority to
enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   A.   General Procedure:
      1.   Whenever the zoning administrator shall determine that a violation
of this chapter has occurred or is about to occur, the zoning administrator may
take any action allowed by this chapter in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter or any applicable section of this code.
      2.   Complaints made by individuals in relation to the provisions of this
chapter shall be in writing and contain the nature of the complaint(s), the
name and address of the CAFO, time(s) and date(s) of the occurrence, the name,
address and phone number of the complainant. The complainant must reside within
a one mile radius of the CAFO site.
      3.   Upon receiving a complaint the zoning administrator will determine
if a violation exists. If a violation exists the zoning administrator will
notify the complainant and permittee in writing within twenty (20) working days
and will commence enforcement action.
      4.   The permittee/operator shall be notified by either hand delivery or
first class mail. Three (3) days after the date of mailing or the date of hand
delivery the notice shall become effective.
      5.   Upon receiving a complaint the zoning administrator will determine
if a violation exists. If a violation does not exist the zoning administrator
will notify the complainant within twenty (20) working days of no violation
existing. (Ord. 2006-11, 7-3-2006)
      6.   If a violation does exist, the permittee/operator shall respond in
writing to the zoning administrator within ten (10) working days. (Ord. 2006-
11, 7-3-2006; amd. Ord. 2009-03, 6-15-2009)
         a.   If the violation can be corrected in twenty (20) working days or
less the response will contain a description of the corrective action(s) and
estimated time necessary to complete it.
         b.   If the violation is such that it will require additional time to
correct the permittee will submit in writing within ten (10) working days of
the above described notice a proposed compliance schedule for review and
approval by the zoning administrator. The compliance schedule will explain in
detail what actions will be taken to correct the violation and a time schedule
for completion. (Ord. 2006-11, 7-3-2006)
      7.   The zoning administrator will review the proposed compliance
schedule and determine if the time requested is reasonable. The permittee shall
be required to schedule and attend a meeting with the zoning administrator
within twenty (20) working days of submittal of the proposed compliance
schedule.
      8.   In the event that a compliance schedule is not agreed upon the
zoning administrator will then send the proposal to the board of county
commissioners for its review. The board will review the proposal and
recommendations of the zoning administrator and render a decision within twenty
(20) working days. (Ord. 2006-11, 7-3-2006; amd. Ord. 2009-03, 6-15-2009)
      9.   Upon the acceptance of the compliance schedule the zoning
administrator will contact the complainant and provide a copy of the schedule.
      10.   Failure by the permittee to meet the requirements of this section
or abide by the proposed compliance schedule shall result in enforcement
action.
   B.   Enforcement Action: In the event it becomes necessary for action to be
taken on a violation, the criminal penalty shall be consistent with any
violation of this title. (Ord. 2006-11, 7-3-2006)
CHAPTER 20
OIL AND GAS DRILLING
SECTION:
8-20-1: Purpose
8-20-2: Definitions
8-20-3: Zoning Classification
8-20-4: Permit Requirements
8-20-5: Oil And Gas Well Permit Application
8-20-6: Issuance Of Permit
8-20-7: Site Design And Installation
8-20-8: Water Quality Testing
8-20-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide, through zoning provisions, for the
reasonable development of land for oil and gas drilling while providing
adequate health, safety and general welfare protections of the residents of
Payette County. Oil and gas exploration, drilling and extraction operations
involve activities that are economically important and will impact Payette
County. Accordingly, it is necessary and appropriate to adopt reasonable
requirements for oil and gas resource development so that these resources can
be obtained in a manner that is economically remunerative, and that minimizes
the potential impact on the residents of Payette County.
Local governments are preempted from regulating the same features of oil and
gas well operations or accomplishing the same purposes regulated by the state
under Idaho statute 47-317. Local zoning can regulate surface land use as
authorized under the local land use planning act 1 . (Ord. 2013-02, 8-5-2013)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 67-65.
8-20-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, all terms used that are defined in the IDAPA
regulations and are not defined in this chapter are defined as provided in the
IDAPA regulations as of the effective date of this chapter. The following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning:
ADMINISTRATIVE: A regulatory review and/or action performed by an employee or
contractor of Payette County and not deemed a legislative or quasi-judicial
action.
APPLICANT: Any person, owner, operator, partnership, company, corporation and
its subcontractors and agents who has an interest in real estate for the
purpose of exploring or drilling for, producing, or transporting oil or gas.
DEPARTMENT: The Idaho department of lands.
DEVELOPMENT: Any work which actively promotes bringing in production.
FIELD: The general area underlaid by one or more pools.
GAS: Any petroleum hydrocarbon existing in the gaseous phase.
GEOPHYSICAL OR SEISMIC OPERATIONS: Any geophysical method performed on the
surface of the land utilizing certain instruments operating under the laws of
physics respecting vibration or sound to determine conditions below the surface
of the earth which may contain oil or gas and inclusive of, but not limited to,
the preliminary line survey, the acquisition of necessary permit, the selection
and marking of shot hole locations, necessary clearing of vegetation, shot hole
drilling, implantation of charge, placement of geophones, detonation and
backfill of shot holes, and vibroseis.
OIL AND CRUDE OIL: Petroleum oil and other hydrocarbons, regardless of gravity,
that are produced at the well in liquid form by ordinary production methods and
are not the result of gas condensation before or after it leaves the reservoir.
OIL AND GAS: Oil or gas or both.
OIL AND GAS WELL: A hole drilled into the earth for the purpose of exploring
for or extracting oil, gas or other hydrocarbon substances.
OIL AND GAS WELL SITE: A defined area of surface operations surrounding a
proposed or existing oil and gas well or wells where an operator has disturbed
or plans to disturb the land surface in order to locate an oil and gas well,
and accessory structures and equipment necessary for drilling, completion,
recompletion, work over, development and production activities.
OWNER: The person who has the right to drill into and produce from a pool and
to appropriate the oil or gas that he produces therefrom, either for himself or
for himself and others.
PERSON: Any natural person, corporation, association, partnership, receiver,
trustee, executor, administrator, guardian, fiduciary or other representatives
of any kind, and includes any government or any political subdivision of any
agency thereof. The masculine gender, in referring to a person, includes the
feminine and the neuter genders.
POOL: An underground reservoir containing a common accumulation of oil or gas
or both; each zone of a structure that is completely separated from any other
zone in the same structure is a pool.
PRODUCER: The owner of a well or wells capable of producing oil or gas or both.
RESERVOIR: A subsurface volume of porous and permeable rock in which oil or gas
has accumulated.
ROAD REPAIR AGREEMENT: A written agreement between the owner/operator and the
local highway jurisdiction obligating the operator to repair damage, excluding
ordinary wear and tear, if any, to public streets, including, but not limited
to, bridges, caused by the operator or its employees, agents, contractors,
subcontractors or representatives in the performance of drilling or production
of any wells authorized by the city or county.
ROADWAY: Any street, avenue, boulevard, road land, parkway, place, viaduct,
easement for access, or other way which is an existing state, county, or
municipal roadway; or a street or way shown in a plat heretofore approved
pursuant to law or approved by official action; or a street or way in a plat
duly filed and recorded within the right of way boundaries whether improved or
unimproved and may be comprised of pavement, shoulder, curbs, gutters,
sidewalks, parking areas, and lawns.
   A.   Arterial Route: A general term including expressways, major and minor
arterial streets; and interstate, state or county highways having regional
continuity.
   B.   Collector Street: A street that provides for traffic movement within
neighborhoods of the county and between major streets and local streets and for
direct access to abutting property.
   C.   Local Street: A street that provides direct access to residential,
commercial, industrial, or other abutting land for local traffic movements and
connects to collector and/or arterial streets.
      1.    Marginal Access Street: A minor street parallel and adjacent to an
arterial route and intercepts local streets and controls access to an arterial
route.
      2.    Cul-De-Sac Street: A short local street having one end permanently
terminated in a vehicular turnaround.
      3.    Loop Street: A minor street with both terminal points on the same
street of origin.
      4.    Alley: A public serviceway used to provide secondary vehicular
access to properties otherwise abutting upon a street.
WELL: An oil and gas well or an injection well, including, but not limited to,
directional drilling wells (for example, any well hole drilled into the
ground). (Ord. 2013-02, 8-5-2013)
8-20-3: ZONING CLASSIFICATION:
Subject to the provisions of this chapter, an oil or gas well site shall be
considered a permitted use within any zoning district(s), subject to the
standards listed herein. (Ord. 2013-02, 8-5-2013)
8-20-4: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   No oil or gas well site, or an addition to an existing oil or gas well
site, shall be constructed or located within Payette County unless an oil or
gas well permit subject to the provisions under this chapter has been issued by
the county to the applicant approving the construction or preparation of the
site for oil or gas development.
   B.   Each application shall be submitted with the fee established pursuant
to resolution of the county as adopted. Such fee shall be reasonably related to
the cost of administering this chapter.
   C.   Any modification to an existing and/or permitted oil or gas well site
that materially alters the size, location, number of wells or accessory
equipment or structures, shall require a modification of the permit under this
chapter. Like-kind replacements shall not require a permit modification.
   D.   Wells that were permitted and constructed prior to the adoption of this
chapter shall not be required to meet the requirements of this chapter. Any
modification to an existing or permitted oil or gas well site that occurs after
the effective date hereof and materially alters the size, type, location,
number of wells and other accessory equipment or structures, shall require
compliance with this chapter.
   E.   Upon receiving notice from the department that an application has been
submitted, the county will publish a summary of the proposal in the official
newspaper or paper of general circulation within the jurisdiction that an
application for a new oil and gas well has been filed with the county planning
and zoning department. The notice is for informational purposes only and will
not solicit any public comments on the application.
   F.   An oil or gas well permit shall not be required for exploration for oil
or gas. Exploration of oil and gas means geologic or geophysical activities,
including, but not limited to surveying and seismic exploration, related to the
search for oil, gas, or other subsurface hydrocarbons.
   G.   If an applicant does not conduct said business for a period of two (2)
years, the oil and gas well permit shall be null and void. Permits issued under
this chapter shall not be transferable to any other applicant, except by a
majority vote of the board of county commissioners, and the filing of an
application by the applicant to whom such license is, or may be, transferred or
assigned. (Ord. 2013-02, 8-5-2013)
8-20-5: OIL AND GAS WELL PERMIT APPLICATION:
The applicant shall provide to the county at the time of permit application:
   A.   A narrative describing an overview of the project including the number
of acres to be disturbed for development, the number of wells to be drilled
including department permit number(s) for all wells, if available, at the time
of submittal and provided when issued later, and the location, number and
description of equipment and structures to the extent known.
   B.   The address of the oil or gas well site and a legal description of the
parcel as determined by the county and information needed to gain access to the
well site in the event of an emergency.
   C.   The contact information of the individual or individuals responsible
for the operations and activities at the oil or gas well site shall be provided
to the county and all applicable emergency responders as determined by the
county. Such information shall include a phone number where such individual or
individuals can be contacted twenty-four (24) hours per day, three hundred
sixty-five (365) days a year. The responsible individual or individuals shall
have immediate access to a current list of all chemicals and hazardous
materials on site. Annually, or upon any change of relevant circumstances, the
applicant shall update such information and provide it to the county and all
applicable emergency responders as determined by the county.
   D.   A scaled site plan of the oil or gas well site showing the drilling
pad, planned access roads, the approximate location of derricks, drilling rigs,
equipment and structures, and all permanent improvements to the site and any
postconstruction surface disturbance in relation to natural resources. Included
in this map shall be an area within the development site for temporary housing
and vehicles to locate while gaining access to the oil or gas well site.
   E.   A narrative and map describing the planned access routes to the well
sites on public roads including the transportation and delivery of equipment,
machinery, water, chemicals, and other materials used in the siting, drilling,
construction, maintenance, and operation of the oil or gas well site.
   F.   The applicant will provide the operation's spill prevention, control,
and countermeasures (SPCC) plan to the county and all emergency responders at
least twenty-one (21) days prior to drilling of an oil or gas well and notify
the county of any changes to the plan thereafter.
   G.   The applicant will provide notice of upcoming drilling activities to
all emergency response agencies with jurisdiction in the area within fourteen
(14) days of drilling.
   H.   An appropriate site orientation for all applicable emergency responders
as determined by the county. The cost and expense of the orientation shall be
the sole responsibility of the applicant. If multiple wells/well sites are in
the same area (covered by the same emergency response agencies), evidence from
the appropriate emergency response agencies that a site orientation was offered
in the last twelve (12) months shall be accepted.
   I.   A narrative describing the environmental impacts of the proposed
project on the site and surrounding land and measures proposed to protect or
mitigate such impacts on public health, public safety, public order or which
prevent harm to public infrastructure or degradation of the value, use, and
enjoyment of private property shall be provided to the county.
   J.   Indemnification: Each county oil and gas well permit issued by the
county shall include the following:
      Operator does hereby expressly release and discharge all claims, demands,
actions, judgments, and executions which it ever had, now has or may have, or
claim to have, against the County and/or its department, its agents, officers,
servants, successors, assigns, sponsors, volunteers, or employees, created by,
or arising out of personal injuries, known or unknown, and injuries to
property, real or personal, or in any way incidental to or in connection with
the actions or inactions of the Operator or its agents, or caused by or arising
out of, that sequence of events which occur from the Operator's or its agents'
actions or inactions. The Operator shall fully defend, protect, indemnify, and
hold harmless the County and/or its departments, agents, officers, servants,
successors, assigns, sponsors, or volunteers, or employees from and against
each and every claim, demand, or cause of action and any and all liability,
damages, obligations, judgments, losses, fines, penalties, costs, fees and
expenses incurred in the defense of the County and/or its departments, its
agents, officers, servants, successors, assigns, sponsors, volunteers, or
employees, including, without limitations, personal injuries and death in
connection therewith which may be made or asserted by Operator, its agents,
assigns, or any third parties on account of, arising out of, or in any way
incidental to or in connection with the performance of the work performed by
the Operator under any permit, and the Operator agrees to indemnify and hold
harmless the County and/or its departments, its agents, officers, servants,
successors, assigns, sponsors, volunteers, or employees from any liabilities or
damages suffered as a result of claims, demands, costs, or judgments against
the County and/or its departments, its agents, officers, servants, successors,
assigns, sponsors, volunteers, or employees, created by, or arising out of
their acts or omissions occurring on the oil or gas well site or in the course
and scope of inspecting, permitting, or monitoring the oil or gas well site.
   K.   The applicant shall submit with application a certificate of the
following insurance requirements:
      1.   Commercial General Liability Coverage: Liability coverage must
include premises, operations, blowout or explosion, products, completed
operations, sudden and accidental pollution (with discovery and reporting
periods of not less than fifteen (15) days and thirty (30) days respectively),
blanket contractual liability, underground resources damage, broad form
property damage, independent contractors protective liability and personal
injury. This coverage shall be a minimum of one million dollars ($1,000,000.00)
per occurrence. Operator shall provide a certificate of insurance meeting these
requirements and naming Payette County as additional insured.
      2.   Excess Or Umbrella Liability Coverage: Insurance limits at a minimum
of ten million dollars ($10,000,000.00). Coverage is to be at least as broad as
and follows form of the primary liability coverage required for commercial
general liability, auto liability and employer's liability. Coverage must
include an endorsement for sudden or accidental pollution.
         a.   Environmental Pollution Liability Coverage:
            (1)   Operator shall purchase and maintain in force for the
duration of the oil and gas well permit, insurance for environmental pollution
liability applicable to bodily injury, property damage, including loss of use
of damaged property or of property that has not been physically injured or
destroyed; cleanup costs; and defense, including costs and expenses incurred in
the investigation, defense or settlement of claims; all in connection with any
loss arising from the insured site. Coverage shall be maintained in an amount
of at least five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) per loss.
            (2)   Coverage shall apply to sudden and accidental pollution
conditions resulting from the escape or release of smoke, vapors, fumes, acids,
alkalis, toxic chemicals, liquids or gases, waste material or other irritants,
contaminants or pollutants.
            (3)   The operator shall maintain continuous coverage or purchase
extended period coverage insurance for one (1) year following expiration or
suspension of the oil and gas well permit. The extended coverage period
insurance must provide that any retroactive date applicable to coverage under
the policy preceded the effective date of the issuance of the permit by the
county.
         b.   Control Of Well Coverage: The policy should cover the cost of
controlling a well that is out of control, re-drilling or restoration expenses,
seepage and pollution damage as first party recovery for the operator and
related expenses, including, but not limited to, loss of equipment, experts and
evacuation of residents. Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) per occurrence. A
five hundred thousand dollar ($500,000.00) sub-limit endorsement may be added
for damage to property for which the operator has care, custody, and control.
   The policy shall be written by a company authorized to do business in the
state of Idaho. The certificate of insurance shall name Payette County as
additional insured. The certificate shall require at least thirty (30) days'
notice to the county prior to termination of coverage for any reason.
(Ord. 2013-02, 8-5-2013; amd. Ord. 2024-04, 12-23-2024)
8-20-6: ISSUANCE OF PERMIT:
   A.   Within five (5) business days after receipt of a permit application,
the county will determine whether the application is complete and advise the
applicant accordingly.
   B.   If the application is complete and fulfills the requirements of this
chapter, the county planning and zoning administrator shall issue a permit
within twenty one (21) days following the date the complete application was
submitted.
   C.   If the application is incomplete or does not fulfill the requirements
of this chapter, the county will notify the applicant of the missing and/or
inadequate material and, upon receiving said material, shall issue the permit
within twenty one (21) days following the date the complete application was
submitted.
   D.   As a condition of permit approval, applicant shall provide all permits
and plans from the department and all other appropriate regulatory agencies
within twenty one (21) days of receipt of such permits and plans.
   E.   If temporary housing for well site workers is proposed on the well
site, a plan showing the number and location of the units shall be provided to
the county. Temporary housing plans shall be in compliance with all applicable
county regulations. (Ord. 2013-02, 8-5-2013)
8-20-7: SITE DESIGN AND INSTALLATION:
   A.   Access:
      1.   Vehicular access to a natural gas well, oil well or drilling site
solely via a local street is prohibited unless it can be proven that the only
viable vehicular access to the well site is via the local route. The use of
collector streets is required unless no viable alternative exists.
      2.   Payette County roadway standards and development procedures
pertaining to minimum traffic sight distances for all access points shall be
adhered to.
      3.   Access directly to state roads from a well site may require an Idaho
transportation department (ITD) approach permit. Prior to initiating any work
at a drill site, the county shall be provided a copy of any required approach
permit.
      4.   Access directly to county local streets shall require a Payette
County road development, replacement or repair agreement prior to initiating
any work at a well site. Operator shall comply with any generally applicable
bonding and permitting requirements for county roads that are to be used by
vehicles for site construction, drilling activities and site operations.
   B.   Height:
      1.   There shall be an exception to the height restrictions contained in
this section for the temporary placement of drilling rigs, drying tanks, pad
drilling and other accessory uses necessary for the actual drilling or
redrilling of an oil or gas well. The duration of such exemption shall not
exceed the actual time period of drilling or redrilling of an oil or gas well
or pad drilling.
      2.   If applicable, application will meet standards as defined in title
10, "Airport Hazard Zoning", of this code.
   C.   Setbacks/Location:
      1.   Setback distances shall be a minimum of three hundred feet (300')
from any existing occupied structure, domestic water well, canal, ditch or the
natural high-water mark of surface waters or within fifty feet (50') of a
highway, and a minimum of two hundred feet (200') from the property line,
unless stated otherwise in a written agreement signed by all affected parties,
including adjacent landowners affected by the reduction of the setback.
      2.   Recognizing that the specific location of equipment and facilities
is an integral part of the oil and gas development, and as part of the planning
process, operator shall strive to consider the location of its temporary and
permanent operations, where prudent and possible, so as to minimize
interference with Payette County residents' enjoyment of their property and
future county development activities as authorized by the Payette County
   applicable ordinances.
      3.   Exception from the standards established in this subsection may be
granted by the county upon good cause by the operator that it is not feasible
to meet the setback requirements from surface tract property lines and that
adequate safeguards have or will be provided to justify the exception.
   D.   Screening And Fencing:
      1.   Security fencing may be required when hazardous materials are stored
on site for a period in excess of fourteen (14) days.
      2.   The county may use its discretion to determine whether fencing
requirements shall be enforced for wellheads, storage tanks, and other
mechanical and production equipment and structures on the oil or gas well site.
      3.   Security fencing shall be at least six feet (6') in height, equipped
with lockable gates at every access point and have an opening not less than
twelve feet (20') wide. Additional lockable gates used to access oil and gas
well sites by foot may be allowed, as necessary.
   E.   Warning Signs: Warning signs shall be placed on the oil or gas well
site, providing notice of the potential dangers and the contact information in
case of an emergency.
   F.   Preservation Of Natural Surroundings: During construction of oil or gas
well sites, the natural surroundings should be considered and attempts made to
preserve existing trees and other native vegetation. Existing trees and
respective root systems should not be disturbed whenever possible.
Reforestation/revegetation of the well site will be provided by the owner/
operator as required by rules governing oil and gas conservation.
   G.   Lighting: Lighting at the oil or gas well site either temporary or
permanent shall be directed downward and inward toward the activity, to the
extent practicable, so as to minimize the glare on public roads and adjacent
properties.
   H.   Noise: The county recognizes that oil and gas development is
accompanied by inherent noise. The operator shall consider, to the extent
possible, mitigation of noise resulting from the oil and gas well development.
If occupied structures are closer than five hundred feet (500'), noise
mitigation shall be provided using buffers such as hay bales or similar sound-
reducing barriers.
   I.   Dust Control: Operator shall control fugitive dust arising from
operations. Operator shall dustproof work area by sprinkling with water where
necessary.
   J.   Weed/Debris Control: The site shall be kept in a clean condition, free
from weeds, debris and rubbish of every character. The well site should remain
vegetation free.
(Ord. 2013-02, 8-5-2013; amd. Ord. 2024-04, 12-23-2024)
8-20-8: WATER QUALITY TESTING:
   As a condition of permit approval, applicant must provide to county, prior
to any drilling activity, documentation of baseline water testing on a minimum
of two (2) domestic wells, down gradient, or up gradient if two (2) down
gradient wells do not exist, for the protection of public health and safety.
The two (2) wells shall be located within a fixed radius of one-fourth (1/4)
mile of the well site or as close to the well as possible. If only one domestic
well is found within a fixed radius of one-fourth (1/4) mile of the well site,
it shall be the only domestic well required for test. Applicant shall send
written notification to the county and all landowners, including municipalities
and government agencies within one-fourth (1/4) mile of the drill site advising
of the intent to drill and providing the results of the baseline water testing.
Tests shall be completed for all items listed below:
   A.   Field parameters:
      1.   Water temperature.
      2.   pH.
      3.   Specific conductivity.
   B.   Specific conductivity and total dissolved solids.
   C.   Major ions:
      1.   Chloride.
      2.   Fluoride.
      3.   Sulfate.
      4.   Nitrate.
      5.   Silica.
      6.   Alkalinity.
      7.   Calcium.
      8.   Sodium.
      9.   Potassium.
      10.   Magnesium.
   D.   Trace elements:
      1.   Aluminum.
      2.   Arsenic.
      3.   Barium.
      4.   Boron.
      5.   Iron.
      6.   Manganese.
      7.   Selenium.
      8.   Uranium.
   E.   Radiochemical:
      1.   Gross alpha/gross beta radioactivity, in addition to uranium listed
above.
   F.   Organics:
      1.   BTEX (benzene, toluene, ethylbenzene, and xylene).
      2.   Methane; carbon isotopic composition for samples with sufficient
methane.
   Baseline water testing shall be completed every twenty-four (24) months
while the well is in production. Copies of baseline water quality test results
shall be provided by the applicant free of charge to owners of the wells tested
and to the county within thirty (30) days of receipt of the testing results.
(Ord. 2013-02, 8-5-2013; amd. Ord. 2024-04, 12-23-2024)
CHAPTER 21
AGRICULTURE PROTECTION AREAS
SECTION:
8-21-1: Purpose
8-21-2: Adoption
8-21-3: Definitions
8-21-4: Creation And Designation Of APA; Creation Of APA Commission
8-21-5: Review Process
8-21-6: Expansion Or Modification Of An APA
8-21-7: Termination Of An APA
8-21-8: Enrollment Duration And Review
8-21-9: Fees
8-21-10: Enforcement, Prohibitions, And Penalties
8-21-1: PURPOSE:
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for a voluntary process through
which agricultural producers of Payette County may make application to commit
lands actively devoted to agriculture for future agricultural use. An
Agriculture Protection Area (APA) designation aims to protect productive
farmland and rangeland; promote farm viability; support the local agricultural
economy; and provide for long-term planning stability. This chapter sets out
the process for creation of Agriculture Protection Areas.
(Ord. 2024-05, 12-23-2024)
8-21-2: ADOPTION:
   The Payette County Title 8 Zoning Ordinance is hereby amended to add the
following new Chapter 21 AGRICULTURE PROTECTION AREAS.
(Ord. 2024-05, 12-23-2024)
8-21-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this Chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
AGRICULTURE PRODUCTION: Activities or conditions conducted on land actively
devoted to agriculture as defined in section 63-604, Idaho Code.
AGRICULTURE PROTECTION AREA (APA): Specific parcels of land in a designated
geographic area voluntarily created under the authority of this chapter for the
purpose of protecting and preserving agricultural land.
AGRICULTURE PROTECTION AREA COMMISSION: The advisory board to the governing
body created pursuant to section 67-9705, Idaho Code.
APPLICANT: Anyone who owns five (5) contiguous acres or more of land that has
been in active agricultural for the previous three (3) consecutive years,
consistent with the provisions of section 63-604, Idaho Code, and who
voluntarily applies for that land to be part of an agriculture protection area.
AREA OF CITY IMPACT (AOI): Area designated by county ordinance where city
growth and development are expected to occur.
HARDSHIP: A situation or circumstance over which a landowner in an agriculture
protection area has no control and can then petition for removal for reasons
that include but are not limited to an adverse result in litigation against the
farm or landowner, death of a close family member that would lead to
unanticipated financial hardships, significant tax liabilities, bankruptcy due
to another person's fraud, or any other illegal activity.
PROPOSAL: Written documents submitted to a governing body or agricultural
protection area commission from a landowner regarding his property.
(Ord. 2024-05, 12-23-2024)
8-21-4: CREATION AND DESIGNATION OF APA; CREATION OF APA COMMISSION:
   An Agriculture Protection Area Commission of three (3) members shall be
appointed by the Board of County Commissioners within ninety (90) days of
passage of this ordinance and applications may be received at that point.
   An Agriculture Protection Area shall be designated as an "APA." An APA
designation is a voluntary land use designation available to landowners who
wish to protect their agricultural land from future nonagricultural
development. To qualify for an APA designation, the land must be:
   A.   At least five (5) contiguous acres;
   B.   Actively devoted to an agricultural purpose for the previous three (3)
consecutive years;
   C.   Assessed as agriculture land; and
   D.   Located within a zone that allows for agricultural use.
   Landowners wishing to establish an APA must submit an application to the
planning and zoning administrator. At a minimum, the application shall include
the following:
   A.   Name, phone number, email, and mailing address of the landowner;
   B.   Proof of land ownership;
   C.   A legal description of the parcels, structures, and facilities proposed
to be included in the APA;
   D.   A map showing the boundaries of the proposed APA;
   E.   A statement outlining the current contiguous acreages of land, land
use, agricultural productivity, and other relevant characteristics of the land
to be included in the APA;
   F.   The number of years the land has been in agricultural production, the
types of agricultural commodities produced, and the applicant's plan to
continue using the land for agricultural purposes;
   G.   The stated reasons for seeking an APA designation;
   H.   Soil surveys, water rights, and any other relevant environmental
assessments.
(Ord. 2024-05, 12-23-2024)
8-21-5: REVIEW PROCESS:
   Upon receipt of a completed application, the APA commission shall review the
proposal and make a recommendation to the board of county commissioners within
sixty (60) days of receiving the application. The application shall be
evaluated on the following criteria:
   A.   The total contiguous acreage of the land is at least five (5) acres in
size and is actively devoted to agricultural production;
   B.   Existing zoning;
   C.   Proximity to or inclusion in an existing area of city impact;
   D.   Possible conflict with existing city annexation or development plans or
agreements;
   E.   Proximity to existing public rights of way;
   F.   Proximity to planned transportation corridors or future public rights
of way;
   G.   Proximity to planned airport expansion or development;
   H.   Proximity to planned development with existing entitlements; and
   I.   Other local impacts relevant to the proposed APA.
   Notwithstanding the criteria and review process outlined in this code, the
board of county commissioners may place additional conditions on lands
designated as an APA, including, but not limited to, setbacks from existing
public rights of way, setbacks from existing public structures, and a review of
the land's APA designation after twenty (20) years.
   Once the APA commission makes its recommendation to the board of county
commissioners, the board of county commissioners shall hold a public hearing
and issue its decision within sixty (60) days. Failure to make a decision shall
render the APA commission's recommendation final. The board of county
commissioner's decision shall include findings and facts supporting its
decision.
   Upon making its decision, the board of county commissioners shall:
   A.   Record the designation of an APA, a legal description of the area, and
any findings and facts with the county recorder within ten (10) days;
   B.   Amend county land use planning maps to reflect the boundaries of the
APA; and
   C.   Notify relevant public officials and agencies of the designation.
Should define who is relevant.
(Ord. 2024-05, 12-23-2024)
8-21-6: EXPANSION OR MODIFICATION OF AN APA:
   An expansion, modification, or removal of an existing APA shall follow the
same application, review, and hearing procedures outlined in this code. Any
expansion of an APA shall be contiguous to the APA.
(Ord. 2024-05, 12-23-2024)
8-21-7: TERMINATION OF AN APA:
   A landowner wishing to terminate an APA before its twenty (20) year term
must request in writing a meeting with the board of county commissioners,
delivered to the planning and zoning administrator. The meeting request shall
include a proof of hardship. Early termination of the APA shall only occur upon
the proving by the landowner of an undue hardship as defined in this code. The
landowner seeking to terminate an APA bears the burden of proof in
demonstrating the hardship.
(Ord. 2024-05, 12-23-2024)
8-21-8: ENROLLMENT DURATION AND REVIEW::
   Lands designated as an APA will remain so designated for a period of twenty
(20) years. At that time, either the County or the landowner may opt to remove
the APA designation. If the County wishes to change an APA designation, it must
notify the landowner and reinitiate the review process as outlined above. A
landowner wishing to end an approved APA designation after twenty (20) years
must notify the board of county commissioners in writing of their desire not to
renew the land's APA designation. Failure of the landowner to notify the
county, or failure of the county to review the APA terms, will result in the
APA designation continuing for another twenty (20) years.
(Ord. 2024-05, 12-23-2024)
8-21-9: FEES:
   An application fee shall be required to cover administrative costs,
including, but not limited to, reviewing materials, conducting public meetings
and hearings, processing and recording documents, and updating county land use
maps.
(Ord. 2024-05, 12-23-2024)
8-21-10: ENFORCEMENT, PROHIBITIONS, AND PENALTIES:
   Unless otherwise approved by the board of county commissioners, the
following land uses are not allowed within an APA:
   A.   The siting of residential, commercial, manufacturing, industrial, solar
energy, wind energy, or battery storage structures; or
   B.   Any other nonagricultural land uses.
   The board of county commissioners or acting code enforcement officer shall
be responsible for enforcing the provisions of this chapter. Any person found
to be in violation of this code shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and punishable
as provided in Section 18-113, Idaho Code.
(Ord. 2024-05, 12-23-2024)
TITLE 9
SUBDIVISIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
9-1-1: Title And Purpose
9-1-2: Authority
9-1-3: Administration And Jurisdiction
9-1-4: Failure To Comply
9-1-5: Minimum Requirements
9-1-6: Combining Of Permits
9-1-7: Preservation Of Private Property Rights
9-1-8: Application Required; Suspension Of Time Limitations
9-1-9: Severability Clause
9-1-1: TITLE AND PURPOSE:
   A.   Title: This title shall be known and may be cited as the PAYETTE COUNTY
SUBDIVISION ORDINANCE.
   B.   Purpose: The purpose of these regulations is to promote public health,
safety and general welfare, and to provide for:
      1.   The harmonious development of the area;
      2.   The coordination of streets and roads within the subdivision with
other existing or planned streets and roads;
      3.   Adequate open space for travel, light, air and recreation;
      4.   Adequate transportation, water drainage and sanitary facilities;
      5.   The avoidance of scattered subdivision of land that would result in
either of the following:
         a.   The lack of water supply, sewer service, drainage, transportation
or other public services; and
         b.   The unnecessary imposition of an excessive expenditure of public
funds for the supply of such services;
      6.   The requirements as to the extent and the manner in which:
         a.   Roads shall be created and improved; and
         b.   Water and sewer and other utility mains, piping connections or
other facilities shall be installed;
      7.   The manner and form of making and filing of any plat; and
      8.   The administration of these regulations by defining the powers and
duties of approval authorities. (Ord. 40, 4-9-1984)
9-1-2: AUTHORITY:
This title is adopted pursuant to authority granted by Idaho Code, title 67,
chapter 65 and article 12, section 2 of the Idaho constitution as amended or
subsequently modified. (Ord. 40, 4-9-1984)
9-1-3: ADMINISTRATION AND JURISDICTION:
   A.   Administration: The provisions of this title shall be administered by
the board of county commissioners of the county, or their delegated agent.
   B.   Jurisdiction: This title applies to the dividing, subdividing or short
subdividing of all lands within the unincorporated area of the county. (Ord.
40, 4-9-1984)
9-1-4: FAILURE TO COMPLY:
It shall be unlawful for any person, proprietor, or developer to subdivide any
real property within the county of Payette, unless such person, proprietor, or
developer has first fully complied with the procedures and provisions of this
title and obtained the approval or approvals of and for such subdivision as
required herein. (Ord. 2009-04, 6-15-2009)
9-1-5: MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS:
In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this title are
minimum requirements, adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety
and general welfare. Whenever the requirements of this title may be exercised
concurrently with the requirements of any other lawfully adopted rules,
regulations, ordinances or resolutions, the ordinance, rule, regulation or
resolution imposing the most restrictive standard shall govern. (Ord. 40, 4-9-
1984)
9-1-6: COMBINING OF PERMITS:
Prior to issuing any permit, the board of county commissioners, planning and
zoning commission, planning and zoning administrator or building inspector will
require an applicant to have all permits required by other affected
departments, authorities or regulatory agencies. (Ord. 2009-04, 6-15-2009)
9-1-7: PRESERVATION OF PRIVATE PROPERTY RIGHTS:
   A.   Interpretation; Application: This title shall be deemed to apply
similarly and equally to each person and property in similar circumstances, and
shall not be enforced to discriminate between one individual or other
individuals or other groups as compared to all others.
   B.   Private Restrictions: This title is not intended to impair or interfere
with private restrictions on the use of land, improvements and structures.
(Ord. 40, 4-9-1984)
9-1-8: APPLICATION REQUIRED; SUSPENSION OF TIME LIMITATIONS:
No matter will be considered or acted upon until an application approved by the
administrator is properly submitted. In the event an applicant or the planning
and zoning commission, board of county commissioners or planning and zoning
administrator finds or desires that additional information is needed or that
additional studies are required, any time limitations imposed upon the
commission, board or administrator are suspended until the studies are
completed and the results returned to the requesting entity. (Ord. 2009-04, 6-
15-2009)
9-1-9: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
Should any word, section, paragraph, portion, chapter, provision or provisions
of this title be declared by the courts to be unconstitutional or invalid, such
decision shall not affect the validity of the title as a whole or any part
thereof other than the part so declared to be unconstitutional or invalid.
(Ord. 40, 4-9-1984)
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
9-2-1: Interpretation Of Terms Or Words
9-2-2: Meaning Of Terms Or Words
9-2-1: INTERPRETATION OF TERMS OR WORDS:
For the purposes of this title, certain terms or words used herein shall be
interpreted as follows:
   A.   The word "person" includes a firm, association, organization,
partnership, trust, company or corporation, as well as an individual;
   B.   The present tense includes the future tense, the singular numbers
include the plural, and the plural numbers include the singular;
   C.   The word "shall" is a mandatory requirement, the word "may" is a
permissive requirement, and the word "should" is a preferred requirement;
   D.   The words "used" or "occupied" include the words "intended",
"designed", or "arranged to be used or occupied"; and
   E.   The word "lot" includes the words "plot", "parcel" and "tract". (Ord.
40, 4-9-1984)
9-2-2: MEANING OF TERMS OR WORDS:
As used in this title, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
ACCESSORY USE OR STRUCTURE: A use or structure on the same tract, parcel or lot
with, and of a nature customarily incidental and subordinate to, the principal
use or structure.
ADMINISTRATOR: An official who is appointed by the board of county
commissioners to administer this title.
ALLEY: A minor way which is used primarily for vehicular service access to the
back or side of properties otherwise abutting on a street.
AS BUILT PLANS: Revised construction plans in accordance with all approved
field changes.
BLOCK: A piece or parcel of land or group of lots within a subdivision that is
entirely surrounded by public streets, streams, railroads, parks or the
exterior boundary of the subdivision or a combination thereof.
BOARD: The board of county commissioners of Payette County, Idaho.
BOND, PERFORMANCE OR SURETY: A financial guarantee by a third party on behalf
of a developer with the county in the amount of the estimated construction cost
guaranteeing the completion of physical improvements according to plans and
specifications within the time prescribed by the agreement.
BUILDING LINE OR SETBACK LINE: A line parallel with a street right of way line,
shore of a lake, edge of a stream, property line or riverbank, established on a
parcel of land or on a lot for the purpose of prohibiting construction of a
building between such line and such right of way, shore of a lake, edge of a
stream, or riverbank.
CAPTION: The name by which a plat is legally and commonly known.
COMMERCIAL DEVELOPMENT: A planned commercial center providing building,
parking, service areas and screen planting; wider streets, turning movement and
safety lane roadway improvements.
COMMISSION: The planning and zoning commission appointed by the board of county
commissioners.
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: A plan, or any portion thereof, adopted pursuant to the
Idaho Code, title 67, chapter 65, by the board of county commissioners,
including such things as the general location and extent of present and
proposed physical facilities, including housing, industrial and commercial
uses, major transportation, parks, schools and other community facilities.
CONDOMINIUM: An estate consisting of an undivided interest in common in real
property, in an interest or interests in real property or in any combination
thereof; together with a separate interest in real property, in an interest or
interests in real property or in any combination thereof.
COVENANTS: A written promise or pledge, which, when recorded, attaches to
affected realty and which cannot be separated from the land without the consent
of all affected landowners.
CROSSWALK (PEDESTRIAN WALKWAYS): Right of way dedicated to public use and which
crosses a block to facilitate pedestrian access to adjacent streets and
properties.
DEDICATION: The setting apart of land or interests in land for use by the
public by ordinance, resolution or entry in official minutes as by the
recording of a plat. Dedicated land becomes public land upon the acceptance by
the county.
DEVELOPER: Any person who executes the application and initiates proceedings
for the subdivision of land in accordance with the provisions of the Payette
County subdivision ordinance. The developer need not be the owner of the
property.
DIVIDE OR DIVISION: Any partition of a parcel of real property whether by deed,
mortgage, deed of trust, sales agreement, will, trust, court order or decree,
or otherwise.
DRIVEWAY: A minor private way used by vehicles and pedestrians on a home site
or a mobile home site or used as common access to a group of sites or
facilities.
DWELLING: House, home or family abode for single-family usage.
EASEMENT: A right, privilege, service or convenience, possessed by one person,
either through agreement or through condemnation, to use for a specified
purpose a designated portion of a property owner's land.
ENGINEER: A person who has met the necessary requirements and been licensed by
the state of Idaho as an engineer.
FLOODPLAIN: The relatively flat area or lowland adjoining the channel of a
river, stream, lake or other body of water which has been or may be covered by
water of a flood of 100-year frequency. The floodplain includes the channel,
floodway and floodway fringe, as established by the engineering practices as
specified by the army corps of engineers, as follows:
   Channel: A natural or artificial watercourse of perceptible extent, with a
definite bed and banks to confine and conduct continuously or periodically
flowing water;
   Flood: The temporary inundation of land adjacent to and inundated by
overflow from a river, stream, lake or other body of water;
   Flood Of 100-Year Frequency: A flood magnitude which has a one percent (1%)
chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year;
   Floodway: The channel or a watercourse and those portions of the floodplain
adjoining the channel which are reasonably required to carry and discharge the
floodwater of any watercourse; and
   Floodway Fringe: That part of the floodplain which is beyond the floodway.
Such areas will include those portions of the floodplain which will be
inundated by a flood of 100-year frequency.
GREENBELTS OR BUFFER PARKS: A strip or parcel of land, privately restricted or
publicly dedicated as open space located between uses for the purpose of
protecting and enhancing the residential environment.
HEALTH AUTHORITY: The Southwest health district, Idaho department of health and
welfare, or its successor.
HIGHWAY DEPARTMENT: The county road and bridge, highway district 1, highway
department or the road districts of Payette County.
HILLSIDE SUBDIVISION: Any subdivision, or portion thereof having any slope of
ten percent (10%) or more.
IMPROVEMENTS: Any structure incident to servicing or furnishing facilities for
a subdivision such as grading, street surfacing, curb and gutter, driveway
approaches, sidewalks, crosswalks, water mains and lines, sanitary sewers,
storm sewers, culverts, bridges, utilities, lagoons, slips, waterways, lakes,
bays, canals, and other such items, together with all appurtenant construction.
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT: A planned industrial area designed specifically for
industrial use and providing screened buffers, wider streets and turning
movement, and safety lane roadway improvements where necessary.
LOT: For the purposes of this title, a lot is a parcel of land of sufficient
size to meet minimum zoning requirements for use, coverage and area, and to
provide such yards and other open spaces as are herein required. Such lot shall
have frontage on an improved public street, and may consist of: a) a single lot
of record; b) a combination of complete lots of record, or of portions of lots
of record.
LOT COVERAGE: The ratio of enclosed ground floor area of all buildings on a lot
to the horizontally projected area of the lot, expressed as a percentage.
LOT DEPTH: The horizontal distance between the front and rear lot lines as
measured along the median between the side lot lines.
LOT FRONTAGE: The front of a lot shall be construed to be the portion nearest
the street. For the purpose of determining yard requirements on corner lots and
through lots, all sides of a lot adjacent to streets shall be considered
frontage.
LOT, MINIMUM AREA OF: Lot area excluding any portion of the right of way of any
public or private street.
LOT OF RECORD: A lot which is part of a subdivision recorded in the office of
the county recorder; or a lot or parcel described by metes and bounds, the
description of which has been so recorded.
LOT TYPES: Terminology used in this title with reference to corner lots,
interior lots and through lots is as follows:
   Corner Lot: A lot located at the intersection of two (2) or more streets;
   Interior Lot: A lot with only one frontage on a street;
   Reversed Frontage Lot: A lot on which frontage is at right angles to the
general pattern in the area. A reversed frontage lot may also be a corner lot;
   Through Lot: A lot other than a corner lot with frontage on more than one
street. Through lots abutting two (2) streets may be referred to as double
frontage lots.
LOT WIDTH: The horizontal distance between the side lot lines measured at the
setback line and at right angles to the lot depth.
MOBILE HOME: A detached single-family dwelling unit with all of the following
characteristics:
   A.   Designed for long term occupancy and containing sleeping
accommodations, a flush toilet, a tub or shower bath and kitchen facilities
with plumbing and electrical connections provided for attachment to outside
systems;
   B.   Designed to be transported after fabrication on its own wheels, or a
flatbed or other trailer or detached wheels;
   C.   Arriving at the site where it is to be occupied as a dwelling, usually
including major appliances and furniture, and ready for occupancy except for
minor and incidental unpacking and assembly operations, such as location on
foundation supports, connection to utilities and the like.
   D.   Mounted on a chassis running the length of the unit, with the outer
walls cantilevered from the chassis or supported by the chassis rather than by
a foundation running along the perimeter of the unit.
MOBILE HOME PARK: Any site or tract of land upon which two (2) or more mobile
homes are parked on a permanent or semipermanent basis, either free of charge
or for revenue purposes; including any roadway, building, structure, vehicle or
enclosure used or intended for use as a part of the facilities of such park.
OPEN SPACE: An area substantially open to the sky which may be on the same lot
with a building. The area may include, along with the natural environmental
features, water areas, and recreational facilities which the planning and
zoning commission deems permissive. Streets, parking areas, structures for
habitations, accessory buildings or structures and the like, shall not be
included.
ORIGINAL PARCEL: A parcel or tract as recorded on any plat or on file in the
office of the county recorder, or any unplatted contiguous parcel of land held
in one ownership or recorded as the property of one person, as of March 21,
1979. This shall not apply to bona fide purchases of contiguous parcels
purchased on different occasions with separate financing for the purpose of
increasing the size of a parcel or tract, which parcels have not been combined
into a single legal description. An original parcel transferred to one or more
heirs pursuant to a decree of distribution shall retain its status as an
original tract and shall not gain any additional building rights.
ORIGINAL TRACT: See definition of Original Parcel.
OUTLOT: A lot set aside for purposes other than a building site, park or other
such land dedicated to public use, or reserved for private use.
PARCEL: A contiguous quantity of land owned by, or recorded as, the property
of, the same person. Parcels purchased on different occasions with separate
financing for the purpose of increasing the size of a parcel or tract, which
parcels have not been combined into a single legal description, are individual
parcels.
PERMIT: A document issued by the planning and zoning administrator or building
inspector, with the approval or authority of the board of county commissioners
or planning and zoning commission, authorizing the use of land and structures,
and the characteristics of the uses.
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT: An area of land in which a variety of uses developed
under single ownership or control are accommodated in a preplanned environment
with more flexible standards, such as lot size and setbacks, than those
restrictions that would normally apply under these regulations.
PLANNING COMMISSION: The planning and zoning commission of Payette County,
Idaho, as established by the board of county commissioners thereof (also
referred to as commission).
PLAT: The drawing, map or plan of a subdivision, cemetery, townsite or other
tract of land, or a replatting of such, including certifications, descriptions,
and approvals. Several types of plats are contemplated by the provisions of
this title and are defined as follows:
   Conceptual Plan: A drawing less detailed than a preliminary plat,
mechanically drafted to scale, showing a footprint of existing and proposed
structures, access to public roadways, parking areas, easements, utilities,
retention basins, setbacks and other features that may be applicable to the
property.
   Final Plat: A map of a subdivision of land made up in final form ready for
approval by the planning and zoning commission, board of county commissioners,
county recorder, county treasurer, county assessor, Southwest health district
or its successor, county surveyor, and county engineer.
   Preliminary Plat: A map showing the salient features of a proposed
subdivision of land including, but not limited to, contours, easements, lot
lines, streets, utilities, grades, watercourses, curbs, gutters, sewers,
sidewalks, and all improvements, submitted to an approving authority for the
purpose of preliminary consideration.
PROPRIETOR OR DEVELOPER: A natural person, firm, association, partnership,
corporation, or combination of any of them which may hold any recorded or
unrecorded ownership interest in land.
PUBLIC SERVICE FACILITY: The erection, construction, alteration, operation or
maintenance of buildings, power plants or substations, water treatment plants
or pumping stations, sewage disposal or pumping plants, and other similar
public service structures by a public utility, by a railroad, whether publicly
or privately owned, or by a municipal or other governmental agency, including
the furnishing of electrical, gas, rail transport, communication, public water
and sewage services.
PUBLIC UTILITY: All persons, firms, corporations, partnerships, or municipal or
other public authority providing gas, electricity, water, steam, telephone,
telegraph, storm sewers, sanitary sewers, transportation, communication or
other services of similar nature.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV) PARK: Any site or tract of land whereupon two (2) or
more mobile homes or travel trailers are placed, located and maintained for
dwelling purposes on a temporary basis.
RIGHT OF WAY: A strip of land taken or dedicated for public use as a public
way. In addition to the roadway it normally incorporates the curbs, lawn
strips, sidewalks, lighting and drainage facilities, and may include special
features (required by the topography or treatment) such as grade separation,
landscaped areas, viaducts and bridges.
SIGHT DISTANCE: The unobstructed vision on a horizontal plane along a street
centerline from a driver eye height of 3.75 feet to an object height of six
inches (6").
SIGN: Any device designed to inform or attract the attention of persons not on
the premises on which the sign is located.
STATE: State of Idaho.
STREET: Any right of way which provides vehicular and pedestrian access to
adjacent properties, the dedication of which has been officially accepted. The
term "street" also includes the terms "highway", "thoroughfare", "parkway",
"road", "avenue", "boulevard", "lane", "place" and other such terms. A
privately owned street may be included.
   Arterial Street: Those streets of considerable continuity which are or may
be used primarily for fast or heavy traffic.
   Collector Street: Those streets used to carry traffic from minor streets to
arterial streets to large residential developments.
   Cul-De-Sac: A minor street of short length having one end terminated by a
vehicular turnaround.
   Freeway: Those streets designed for high speed, high volume through traffic,
with completely controlled access, no grade crossings, and no private driveway
connections.
   Frontage Road: A minor street which is parallel and adjacent to arterial
streets and which provides access to abutting properties and protection from
through traffic but not carrying through traffic.
   Limited Access: Those streets designed for high speed, high volume traffic,
with full or partially controlled access, some grade crossings, but no driveway
connections.
   Minor Street: A street which is intended primarily for access to abutting
properties.
   Parkway: A street designed for noncommercial, pleasure oriented traffic
moving at moderate speeds between and through scenic areas and parks.
STREET WIDTH: The shortest distance between the lines delineating the right of
way of streets.
SUBDIVISION: Any land which is divided or proposed to be divided into five (5)
or more lots, whether contiguous or not, for the purpose of sale, lease,
transfer or development as part of a common plan and where subdivided land is
offered for sale, lease, transfer or development by a single developer, or a
group of developers acting in concert, and such land is contiguous or is known,
designated or advertised as a common unit or by a common name. Such land shall
be presumed, without regard to the number of lots covered by each individual
offering, as being offered for sale, lease, transfer or development as a part
of a common plan. However, this title shall not apply to any of the following:
   A.   An adjustment of lot lines as shown on a recorded plat which does not
reduce the area, frontage, width, depth or building setback lines of each
building site below the minimum zoning requirements and does not change the
original number of lots in any block of the recorded plat;
   B.   The unwilling sale of land as a result of "legal condemnation" as
defined and allowed in the Idaho Code;
   C.   Widening of existing streets to conform to the comprehensive plan;
   D.   The acquisition of street rights of way by a public agency in
conformance with the comprehensive plan;
   E.   The exchange of land for the purpose of straightening property
boundaries which does not result in the change of the present land usage;
   F.   A sale or exchange of lands used exclusively and solely for
agricultural purposes.
SURVEYOR: A legally qualified surveyor or engineer authorized to perform land
surveying in the state of Idaho.
TOPOGRAPHICAL MAP: A map showing existing physical characteristics with contour
lines at sufficient intervals to permit determination of proposed grades and
drainage.
TRACT: A piece of land of any size (see also definition of Parcel).
VARIANCE: A modification of the requirements of this title and title 8 of this
code as to lot size, lot coverage, width, depth, front yard, side yard, rear
yard, setback, parking space, height of buildings or other ordinance provisions
affecting the size or shape of the structure or the size of a lot.
VICINITY MAP: A drawing which sets forth by dimensions or other means, the
relationship of the proposed development to other nearby developments or
landmarks and community facilities and services within the general area in
order to better locate and orient the area in question.
YARD: A required open space, other than a court, unoccupied and unobstructed by
any structure or portion of a structure from three feet (3') above the general
ground level of the graded lot upward.
   Yard, Front: A yard extending between side lot lines across the front of a
lot and from the front lot line to the front of the principal building.
   Yard, Interior Side: A yard extending from the principal building to the
side lot line on both sides of the principal building between the lines
establishing the front and rear yards.
   Yard, Rear: A yard extending between side lot lines across the rear of a lot
and from the rear lot line to the rear of the principal building.
   Yard, Street Side: A yard extending from the principal building to the
secondary street that adjoins the lot between the lines establishing the front
and rear yards. (Ord. 2009-04, 6-15-2009)
CHAPTER 3
ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES
SECTION:
9-3-1: Sale Of Unplatted Lots
9-3-2: Enforcement Of Private Covenants
9-3-3: Penalties And Enforcement
9-3-1: SALE OF UNPLATTED LOTS:
   A.   Misdemeanor: It shall be a misdemeanor, punishable in accordance with
the misdemeanor statutes of the state of Idaho, for any person to dispose of,
sell or offer for sale or trade, any lot or lots, before the final plat
describing that lot or those lots has been signed by all required signatories
thereto and recorded in the office of the county recorder of Payette County,
Idaho.
   B.   Civil Penalty: As authorized by section 50-1316 of the Idaho Code, any
person who shall dispose of or offer for sale any lot or lots prior to the
recording of the plat therefor, as provided in sections 50-1301 through 50-1325
Idaho Code, shall pay one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each lot or part of any
lot sold or disposed of or offered for sale. Enforcement of this penalty does
not preclude the county from taking additional enforcement action as authorized
by law.
      1.   Notice Of Penalty And Hearing:
         a.   A person upon whom a penalty is imposed shall receive a written
notice of the penalty to be assessed and the factual basis upon which the
penalty has been imposed. Such notice shall be called a citation and shall be
sent by first class mail, postage prepaid, to the owner(s) of record, at the
address on file with the county assessor.
         b.   A person cited for violating this title shall have the right to
file, within fifteen (15) days after the mailing of the notice, a written
request for a hearing before the board of county commissioners to contest the
citation.
         c.   The hearing shall be informal and the rules of evidence shall not
apply. The person requesting the hearing shall be called the petitioner. The
petitioner may be represented by counsel, present oral and written evidence and
cross examine witnesses.
         d.   The board of county commissioners shall issue a decision within a
reasonable time after the close of the hearing and shall notify the petitioner
in writing of the decision.
         e.   If the petitioner fails to appear at a hearing or fails to
request a hearing, it shall be conclusively established that this title was
violated and the one hundred dollar ($100.00) per lot civil penalty shall be
applied.
         f.   The decision of the board of county commissioners shall be
recorded and the required civil penalties shall be paid before any deeds will
be recorded or any property transfers will be recognized by the county.
         g.   In addition to the above penalty, if a portion of the property
that is the subject of a subdivision request is divided prior to the recording
of the plat, the application shall become null and void and a new application
must be filed by the owners. If the property is not divided and is sold in its
entirety, a new application is not required and the new owner or owners may
proceed through the subdivision process with the existing application. (Ord.
2009-06, 10-5-2009)
9-3-2: ENFORCEMENT OF PRIVATE COVENANTS:
Neither the county nor any employee or representative of the county shall be
required to enforce any private subdivision covenants or restrictions, unless
those specific restrictions were imposed as a condition of county approval for
zone change, conditional use, subdivision approval, etc., in which case county
enforcement shall be discretionary with the board of county commissioners.
(Ord. 40, 4-9-1984)
9-3-3: PENALTIES AND ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Violation; Failure To Comply: Any violation of this title shall be a
misdemeanor punishable by not more than one year in the Payette County jail or
a fine of not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or both. (Ord. 2009-
04, 6-15-2009)
   B.   Continuing Violation: Each day a violation is allowed to continue shall
constitute a new and separate offense.
   C.   Abatement; Award Of Costs: Nothing contained herein, shall prevent the
board of county commissioners, the planning and zoning commission, any public
official or any private citizen from taking any lawful action to restrain,
prevent or abate any act, proposed act or action which is in violation of or
which would violate any provision of this title. Should any person successfully
sue for the restraining, prevention or abatement of any act or proposed act
which would violate this title, that person shall be awarded all costs and fees
incurred in pursuing that action. (Ord. 40, 4-9-1984; amd. 1996 Code)
CHAPTER 4
PROCEDURES AND REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
9-4-1: Subdivision Requirements
9-4-2: Preliminary Plat Required
9-4-3: Preliminary Plat; Engineering Plans; Fee
9-4-4: Preliminary Plat Requirements
9-4-5: Review, Consideration, Approval
9-4-6: Conditions And Duration Of Preliminary Plat Approval
9-4-7: Preapplication And Final Plat Procedure
9-4-8: Final Plat Requirements
9-4-9: Final Plats, Additional Approvals Required
9-4-10: Submission Of Final Covenants And Restrictions
9-4-11: Board Of County Commissioners Review
9-4-12: Improvements And Facilities Required
9-4-13: Recording Of Final Plat
9-4-14: Construction Standards
9-4-15: Payment Of Costs
9-4-16: Reversion Of Rezoned Lands
9-4-1: SUBDIVISION REQUIREMENTS:
No application for subdivision approval shall be accepted unless the
application limits ingress and egress to no more than two (2) points from any
public roadway. No application for subdivision approval shall be accepted
unless the application contains provisions for five (5) or more residential
lots. The five (5) lot minimum does not apply to commercial or industrial
developments. (Ord. 2009-04, 6-15-2009)
9-4-2: PRELIMINARY PLAT REQUIRED:
No person, proprietor, or developer shall subdivide any real property within
Payette County until such time as said person, proprietor, or developer has
submitted to the commission, and secured required approval, of a preliminary
and final plat pertaining to said proposed subdivision, in accordance with the
procedures and provisions hereinafter set forth. (Ord. 2009-04, 6-15-2009)
9-4-3: PRELIMINARY PLAT; ENGINEERING PLANS; FEE:
An application shall be presented to the planning and zoning administrator. The
administrator shall set a meeting with the technical review committee. After
the technical reports are returned to the administrator, the administrator
shall place the application on the next available agenda as accommodated by the
scheduled public hearing date for a regularly scheduled planning and zoning
commission meeting at which a preliminary plat will be considered. The
developer shall submit to the planning and zoning administrator the following:
   A.   Copies Of Preliminary Plat: Six (6) copies of said preliminary plat of
the subdivision, drawn in accordance with the requirements hereinafter stated;
each copy of said preliminary plat shall be on good quality paper, shall have
dimensions of not less than eighteen inches by twenty four inches (18" x 24"),
shall be drawn to such a scale as will permit the whole thereof to be placed on
one single sheet of paper, shall show the drafting date and shall indicate
thereon, by arrow, the generally northerly direction of the land depicted.
   B.   Technical Review Compliance Or Rebuttal Of Issues: Applicant shall show
how he has complied with the technical review committee recommendations or
shall discuss why that compliance is unwarranted.
   C.   Additional Engineering Information: Engineering information required as
a result of unusual land characteristics. The applicability of any chapter of
this title or other laws or restrictions.
   D.   Request For Approval: A written application requesting approval of the
preliminary plat on a form prescribed by the board of county commissioners.
   E.   City Recommendation: The recommendation of any city council, in whose
impact area the property lies.
   F.   Fee: The fee established hereinafter for application of plats. (Ord.
2009-04, 6-15-2009)
9-4-4: PRELIMINARY PLAT REQUIREMENTS:
The following shall be shown on any preliminary plat submitted or shall be
submitted with the same:
   A.   Subdivision Name: The name of the proposed subdivision. Any proposed
subdivision name is subject to a review. Subdivision names shall not duplicate
any existing subdivision name or portion of name within Payette County;
subdivision names that may be spelled differently but sound the same as
existing subdivisions shall not be used.
   B.   Identification Of Parties Involved: The names, addresses and telephone
numbers of the owners, builders, designers, sponsors, developer or developers
and the surveyor or engineer who prepared the plat.
   C.   Legal Description: The legal description of and for the subdivision,
including the date, scale, true north point, section, township and range.
   D.   Abutting Subdivisions And/Or Landowners: The names of any abutting
subdivisions and/or any abutting property owners and property owners within
three hundred feet (300') of the proposed subdivision.
   E.   Statement Of Intended Use: A statement of the intended use of the
proposed subdivision, such as, but not necessarily limited to, residential
single-family; two-family and multiple housing; industrial, recreational, or
agricultural; together with a showing of the proposed sites, if any, of multi-
family dwellings, shopping centers, churches, industrial establishments, and
any other nonpublic uses exclusive of single-family residences, and further, a
showing of any sites proposed for parks, playgrounds, schools, or other public
uses.
   F.   Development Map: A map of the entire area scheduled for development if
the proposed subdivision is a portion of a larger holding intended for
subsequent development.
   G.   Location Map: A location map showing the relationship of the proposed
plat to the surrounding area (1/2 mile minimum radius, scale optional).
   H.   Size And Area: The size and area of subdivision, and existing easements
and deed restrictions.
   I.   Sewage Structures: Location and sizes of sewer lines, catch basins,
pumps and other drainage and sewage structures.
   J.   Water Structures: Location, size and grade of water distribution
systems, pipes, valves and hydrants.
   K.   Land Use: The land use and existing zoning of the proposed subdivision
and the adjacent tracts.
   L.   Streets: Any existing or proposed streets, street names, rights of way
and roadway widths including adjoining streets or roadways.
   M.   Lot Information: Lot lines, dimensions and numbers, setback lines and
the total number of lots by block.
   N.   Topography: Land contours and grades.
   O.   Site Report: A site report as described in the rules of the Southwest
health district, percolation test results and water table data.
   P.   Utilities: Any proposed or existing utilities including, but not
limited to, storm and sanitary sewers, bridges, culverts, water mains, fire
hydrants, and their respective profiles or indicated alternative methods.
   Q.   Restrictions: Six (6) copies of any proposed restrictive covenants and/
or deed restrictions or, if none, a statement that none are proposed.
   R.   Existing Structures: Any existing structures, watercourses, railroad
lines and municipal boundary line.
   S.   Improvements: Curbs, gutters, sewers, sidewalks.
   T.   Public Dedications; Easements: Any dedications to the public and/or
easements, together with a statement of location, dimensions, and purpose of
such.
   U.   City Recommendation: Recommendation from any city in whose impact area
the subdivision will be.
   V.   Variances: A statement as to whether or not any variances will be
requested, and the reasons therefor.
   W.   Additional Information: All matters described in section 9-4-3 of this
chapter.
   X.   Technical Review Response: Discussion of compliance or defense of
noncompliance with technical review committee recommendations. (Ord. 2009-04,
6-15-2009)
9-4-5: REVIEW, CONSIDERATION, APPROVAL:
   A.   Review By Planning And Zoning Commission:
      1.   Hearing; Publication Of Notice: If the preliminary plat is properly
submitted and meets all requirements, within sixty five (65) days of the
meeting at which the preliminary plat is submitted, the planning and zoning
commission shall hold a public hearing.
         a.   At least fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing, notice of the
time and place and a summary of the proposal shall be published in the official
newspaper or a paper of general circulation within the jurisdiction.
         b.   At least fifteen (15) days prior to the public hearing, the
planning and zoning administrator shall send notice of the hearing to the
following persons:
            (1)   County engineer.
            (2)   Southwest health district or its successor.
            (3)   Payette County assessor.
            (4)   Idaho Power Company or its successor.
            (5)   Appropriate law enforcement and fire protection agencies.
            (6)   Any affected highway department.
            (7)   The telephone company providing local service to the affected
location.
            (8)   Department of water resources.
            (9)   Any drainage district in which the property may be located.
            (10)   Any water or irrigation district in which the property may
be located.
            (11)   Any city which has extended its impact area to encompass the
affected area.
            (12)   Any person, agency or easement holder which the zoning
administrator may deem is an appropriate party to receive notice.
      2.   Planning And Zoning Commission Recommendation: In conjunction with
the public hearing the planning and zoning commission will review the
preliminary plat and do the following:
Within sixty five (65) days of the public hearing, the planning and zoning
commission will submit the plat to the board of county commissioners, together
with written recommendations to approve, deny, conditionally approve with
modifications or approve subject to conditions. Motions to approve or deny will
be in order. Any recommendation to deny any plat shall clearly specify the
reasons for such recommendation. If no action is taken by the commission within
the said sixty five (65) day period, and if no extension of said period has
been obtained, the preliminary plat shall be submitted to the board without
recommendation.
   B.   City Recommendation: If the proposed property lies within a city impact
area, the preliminary plat will be considered by the city and a recommendation
may be sent to the county.
   C.   Consideration Of The Board Of County Commissioners: Within sixty five
(65) days of the receipt of the preliminary plat from the planning and zoning
commission, the board of county commissioners will schedule a public hearing
with notice to be given as set forth above. Within sixty five (65) days of the
public hearing the board will consider the preliminary plat; provided, however,
that the board shall not reschedule a public hearing or consider approval,
denial or approval with conditions for any preliminary plat until it has
received the same from the planning and zoning commission, together with the
recommendations of the said commission with respect to said plat. Upon
consideration of said preliminary plat, the board will either approve,
disapprove or approve with conditions or approve subject to modifications,
stating, in writing, the reasons for any denial or any conditions or
modifications. Any approval or denial will be done in accordance with Idaho
Code section 67-6535. (Ord. 2009-04, 6-15-2009)
9-4-6: CONDITIONS AND DURATION OF PRELIMINARY PLAT APPROVAL:
Approval of any preliminary plat by the board of county commissioners shall
continue for a period of one year. If the final plat is not presented within
the one year period, approval shall terminate, be rendered without effect and a
new application must be submitted. Provided, however, the board may extend such
period for a period not to exceed ninety (90) days, if such extension is
applied for prior to expiration and granted in writing. Approval of such
preliminary plat shall not constitute or guarantee approval of the final plat
of the subdivision involved, but approval will not be withheld without cause.
Any variation from the preliminary plat, any fact that renders the proposed
subdivision hazardous or unsafe for future inhabitants, or any fact that would
make the subdivision an undue burden on Payette County taxpayers shall be
sufficient cause. (Ord. 40, 4-9-1984; amd. 1996 Code)
9-4-7: PREAPPLICATION AND FINAL PLAT PROCEDURE:
The preapplication procedure and final plat procedures adopted by Payette
County in sections 8-6-4 and 8-6-6 of this code are hereby incorporated herein
by reference as if set out in full. (Ord. 40, 4-9-1984)
9-4-8: FINAL PLAT REQUIREMENTS:
All proposed final plats submitted for approval hereunder shall:
   A.   Approved Preliminary Plat: Conform to the approved preliminary plat and
meet any requirements or conditions thereof.
   B.   Subdivision Title: Conform to all requirements and provisions of this
title.
   C.   State Law: Conform to all requirements of Idaho law.
   D.   Drawing Specifications: Be drawn as provided by state law, Idaho Code
sections 50-1301 through 50-1306. The plat, diagram or drawing shall be drawn
at such scale and contain lettering of such size, including reference to
dedication and affidavit of survey, as to enable the same to be placed upon a
single sheet of paper with no part thereof nearer to the edge of said sheet
than one inch (1"). The reverse of the same shall not be used for any portion
of the drawing but may contain written matter as to dedication and other
information matters.
      1.   Preliminary control points, approved by the county engineer, or
description and "ties" to such control point, to which all dimensions, angles,
bearings, and similar data on the plat shall be referred. Such primary control
points must include either a section corner, quarter section corner or meander
corner according to government survey.
      2.   Tract boundary lines, right of way lines of streets, easements and
other right of way, and property lines of residential lots and other sites;
with accurate dimensions, bearings or deflection angles, and radii, arcs, and
center angles of all curves.
      3.   Name, centerline and right of way width of each street or other
right of way.
      4.   Location, dimensions and purpose of any easements.
      5.   Location and description of monuments.
      6.   Name and location of adjoining subdivisions.
      7.   Certification by surveyor and county engineer certifying to accuracy
of survey and plat.
      8.   Statement by owner dedicating street, rights of way and any sites
for public use.
      9.   Statement of dedication of easements.
      10.   Title, scale, north arrow, and date.
      11.   A provision setting forth the book, page and county recorder's fee
number where the protective covenants governing the subdivision are recorded
shall be noted and shown on the plat.
   E.   Required Signatures: The final plat shall be signed by the county
engineer charged with the responsibility of certifying to the correctness of
said plat, by such other persons as are required by law and also by the
chairman of the board of county commissioners.
      1.   The county shall designate a legally qualified, professional land
surveyor, one who is qualified to do land surveying in Idaho, to check the
sufficiency of any plat and the computations thereon, to determine that the
requirements of ordinances 40, 57 and any other applicable Payette County
ordinances and the Idaho Code are complied with. Said professional land
surveyor shall certify on the plat that the plat is in compliance with county
ordinances and state codes. For performing said service, the county shall
collect from any developer proposing a plat a fee which is adequate to cover
the cost of providing such service.
      2.   In the event the developer does not pay the fee in a timely manner
when billed, the county may file a lien against the land subject to the
subdivision request. In addition to filing a lien, the county may file a claim
against the developer in the form of a civil action.
      3.   For purposes of this section, an applicant, a subdivider or a
landowner shall be considered a developer.
   F.   Multiple Uses Indicated: Where more than one type of land use is
provided, sites to be used other than for one-family detached dwellings shall
be shaded or crosshatched and the purposes for which it is to be used
indicated. Where sites for one-family detached dwellings are not included, such
requirements shall apply to all uses other than the most substantial in area.
   G.   Setbacks: Minimum building setback lines on all lots and other sites
for front and side yards, on side street, and for rear.
   H.   Highway District Approval: In an area in the county where a county
highway district exists and is in operation, no plat shall be accepted for
recording by the county recorder, unless the acceptance of said plat by the
commissioners of the county highway district is endorsed thereon in writing, in
addition to the other endorsements required by statute or ordinance. (Ord.
2009-04, 6-15-2009)
9-4-9: FINAL PLATS, ADDITIONAL APPROVALS REQUIRED:
Prior to the submission of any final plat to the planning and zoning
administrator for approval in accordance with the provisions hereinafter
stated, the developer shall submit said final plat (and "as built" engineering
plans where required) to, and obtain approval of, the following authorities and
in the following order:
   A.   County engineer.
   B.   County surveyor.
   C.   The Southwest health district, or its successor.
   D.   The highway department.
   E.   The county assessor.
   F.   The county treasurer.
   G.   The county planning and zoning chairman.
   H.   Attest: The county clerk.
   I.   The chair of the county board of commissioners. (Ord. 2009-04, 6-15-
2009)
9-4-10: SUBMISSION OF FINAL COVENANTS AND RESTRICTIONS:
The developer shall submit to the planning and zoning administrator a statement
of covenants and/or restrictions. No more than one domicile, home or dwelling
unit shall be placed on any one parcel offered for sale or sold. (Ord. 2009-04,
6-15-2009)
9-4-11: BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS REVIEW:
   A.   Review By Board Of County Commissioners: The board of county
commissioners shall review any submitted final plat, within thirty (30) days
after receipt of such final plat or at a meeting to be called within thirty
(30) days after such receipt; the board shall either approve or disapprove the
proposed final plat, and, if the same is disapproved, the board shall advise
the developer of such and state the reasons therefor in writing. The secretary
shall record all such proceedings in the minutes of such meetings, which
minutes shall be open to public inspection. Upon approval of any final plat by
the board, the chairman shall sign the required certificate of approval thereon
on behalf of the board. (Ord. 2009-04, 6-15-2009)
9-4-12: IMPROVEMENTS AND FACILITIES REQUIRED:
Prior to approval of any final plat, the board of county commissioners may:
   A.   Completion Of Improvements And Facilities: Require all improvements and
facilities to be completed.
   B.   Contract, Bond In Lieu Of Completion: In the event the board of county
commissioners does not require completion of all improvements and facilities,
the board shall require that the developer enter into a contract with the board
wherein such developer contracts that all such required improvements and
facilities will be completed pursuant to such contract; performance of any such
contract shall be guaranteed by a cash deposit, certified check, surety bond,
or irrevocable bank letter of credit in an amount sufficient to secure such
performance as determined by the board; provided, however, that the board shall
not require any bond duplicating any bond posted as required by another
governmental agency. Any security hereunder may be rebated or credited to the
account of the proprietor in proposition to the progress of the performance
secured thereby and as stated by written agreement between the board and the
developer. (Ord. 2009-04, 6-15-2009)
9-4-13: RECORDING OF FINAL PLAT:
No final plat shall be recorded until all prior steps have been taken, all
approvals required have been obtained, and all conditions imposed by the
planning and zoning commission or board of county commissioners have been
complied with. (Ord. 40, 4-9-1984)
9-4-14: CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS:
Any construction in an approved subdivision shall be done in accordance with
the building codes 1  in effect at the time any building permit is requested.
(Ord. 40, 4-9-1984)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 7, chapter 1 of this code.
9-4-15: PAYMENT OF COSTS:
All engineering costs, including costs of review shall be borne by the
developer. Any costs levied or charged by county officials shall be paid by the
developer, and if not paid shall become a lien against said subdivision. (Ord.
2009-04, 6-15-2009)
9-4-16: REVERSION OF REZONED LANDS:
Section
8-5-8 of this code is incorporated herein as if set out in full verbatim and
adopted in full by reference. (Ord. 40, 4-9-1984)
CHAPTER 5
RESERVED
(Ord. 2009-04, 6-15-2009)
CHAPTER 6
DESIGN STANDARDS
SECTION:
9-6-1: Minimum Design Standards
9-6-2: Street And Road Dedications
9-6-3: Street And Road Location
9-6-4: Street And Road Specifications
9-6-5: Parking
9-6-6: Street Names
9-6-7: Intersections
9-6-8: Pedestrian Walkways
9-6-9: Easements
9-6-10: Blocks
9-6-11: Crosswalks
9-6-12: Lots
9-6-13: Public Sites And Open Spaces
9-6-14: Commercial Or Industrial Modification
9-6-15: Unimproved Residential
9-6-16: Neighborhood Mailboxes
9-6-1: MINIMUM DESIGN STANDARDS:
All plats submitted pursuant to the provisions of this title, and all
subdivisions, improvements and facilities done, made or constructed, shall
fully comply with the minimum design standards set forth in this chapter;
provided, however, that any higher standards adopted by any highway district
shall prevail over those set forth herein. (Ord. 40, 4-9-1984)
9-6-2: STREET AND ROAD DEDICATIONS:
Arterial streets shall be dedicated to the public in all cases; in general, all
other streets shall also be dedicated to public use. (Ord. 40, 4-9-1984)
9-6-3: STREET AND ROAD LOCATION:
Street and road location shall conform to the following:
   A.   County Road Specifications 1 : All streets shall be designed in
compliance with the county road specifications which are set out in Payette
County road specifications or highway district 1 standards and regulations, as
amended; ordinance 40, as amended; or this code, as amended.
   B.   Local Or Minor Streets: Local or minor streets shall be so arranged as
to discourage their use by through traffic.
   C.   Existing Streets: The arrangement of streets shall provide for the
continuation of existing streets from adjoining areas into new subdivisions
unless otherwise approved by the board of county commissioners and the highway
district or department having jurisdiction over such streets.
   D.   Adjoining Areas Unsubdivided: Where adjoining areas are not subdivided,
the arrangement of streets in new subdivisions shall be such that said streets
extend to the boundary line of the tract to make provisions for the future
projection of said streets into adjacent areas.
   E.   Topography: Streets shall be arranged in proper relation to topography
so as to result in usable lots, safe streets and reasonable grades.
   F.   Alleys: Alleys shall not be permitted in areas of detached single- or
two-family residences; alleys shall be provided in multiple dwelling or
commercial subdivisions unless other provisions are made for service access,
off street loading and parking. Dead end alleys shall be prohibited in all
cases.
   G.   Arterial Street: Where a subdivision abuts or contains an arterial
street, it shall be required that there be frontage roads approximately
parallel with and on each side of the right of way of such arterial street, and
that there be such other treatment as is necessary for the adequate protection
of residential properties and to separate through traffic from local traffic.
Subdivisions shall be designed so that all traffic enters an arterial street, a
state highway or a county road from a single access point.
   H.   Cul-De-Sacs: Cul-de-sacs shall not be more than five hundred feet
(500') in length and shall terminate with an adequate turnaround having a
minimum radius of sixty feet (60') for right of way, exclusive of parking. Cul-
de-sacs are limited to residential subdivisions serving single-family dwellings
only.
   I.   Half Streets: Half streets shall be prohibited except where unusual
circumstances make such necessary to the reasonable development of a tract in
conformance with this title and where satisfactory assurance for dedication of
the remaining part of the street is provided. Whenever a tract to be subdivided
borders on an existing half or partial street, the other part of the street
shall be dedicated within such tract.
   J.   Private Streets And Roads: Private streets and roads shall be
prohibited. (Ord. 2009-04, 6-15-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 6-2-2 of this code.
9-6-4: STREET AND ROAD SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   Street Right Of Way Width: Street and road right of way widths shall
conform to the adopted arterial plan and the rules of the state department of
highways and the highway district or department having jurisdiction. Minimum
right of way standards are as follows:
 
Street Types     Widths
Collector street 60 feet
Local street     60 feet
Major arterial   120 feet
Minor arterial   80 feet
 
   B.   Street Grades: Street grades shall not exceed nine percent (9%) on
either local or collector streets, and no street grade shall be less than one-
half of one percent (0.5%). To avoid the need for sanding, it is recommended
that street grades do not exceed five percent (5%).
   C.   Street Alignment:
      1.   Horizontal Alignment: When street lines deflect from each other by
more than ten degrees (10°) in alignment, the centerlines shall be connected by
a curve having a minimum radius of five hundred feet (500') for arterial
streets, and one hundred fifty feet (150') for local or minor streets. Between
reverse curve on minor streets, there shall be a minimum tangent distance of
one hundred feet (100'), and, on collector and arterial streets, two hundred
feet (200').
      2.   Vertical Alignment: Minimum sight distance shall be two hundred feet
(200') for minor streets and three hundred feet (300') for collector and other
streets. (Ord. 40, 4-9-1984)
9-6-5: PARKING:
All dwellings and apartment houses shall provide parking space off the road or
street and outside the public right of way, together with the means of ingress
and egress thereto, for not less than two (2) motor vehicles per dwelling unit
or apartment. Each off street parking space shall not be less than ten feet
(10') wide and not less than twenty feet (20') long, shall be accessible from a
street or road, shall be properly drained and surfaced with gravel, asphalt,
concrete or equivalent material and shall be located within convenient walking
distance of the principal buildings for which the parking or loading space is
required. (Ord. 40, 4-9-1984)
9-6-6: STREET NAMES:
The naming of streets shall be subject to review and shall conform to the
following:
   A.   Duplication Of Names: Street names shall not duplicate any existing
street name within Payette County except where a new street is a continuation
of an existing street; street names that may be spelled differently but sound
the same as existing streets shall not be used.
   B.   Rules For Naming: All new streets shall be named as follows: Streets
having a predominantly north-south direction shall be named "avenue" or "road",
streets having a predominately east-west direction shall be a numbered street
or "highway"; meandering streets shall be named "drive", "lane", "path",
"trail", "place", or shall conform to local customs. (Ord. 2009-04, 6-15-2009)
9-6-7: INTERSECTIONS:
Intersections shall conform to the following:
   A.   Angle Of Intersection: Streets shall intersect at ninety degrees (90°)
or as closely thereto as possible, and, in no case, shall streets intersect at
less than eighty degrees (80°).
   B.   Sight Triangles: Minimum clear sight distance at all minor street
intersections shall permit vehicles to be visible to the driver of another
vehicle when each is one hundred twenty five feet (125') from the center of the
intersection.
   C.   Number Of Streets: No more than two (2) streets shall cross at any one
intersection.
   D.   T Intersections: Except on arterials and certain collectors, T-type
intersections shall be used where practical.
   E.   Centerline Offsets: Slight jogs at intersections shall be prohibited;
where jogs are unavoidable, street centerlines shall be offset by a distance of
at least one hundred twenty five feet (125').
   F.   Vertical Alignment Of Intersections: An almost flat grade with
appropriate drainage slopes is desirable within intersections. This flat
section shall be extended fifty feet (50') to one hundred feet (100') each way
from the intersection. An allowance of two percent (2%) maximum intersection
grade in rolling terrain, and four percent (4%) in hilly terrain will be
permitted.
   G.   Minimum Standards: The board of county commissioners shall stipulate at
time of approval of each preliminary plat, the minimum standards of
construction. In no instance shall the dedicated streets have less than a sixty
foot (60') right of way, with usable width of thirty six feet (36') measured
from curb to curb. Requirements for construction shall meet or exceed the
requirements set up by the "highway department" as defined in section 9-2-2 of
this title. (Ord. 40, 4-9-1984)
9-6-8: PEDESTRIAN WALKWAYS:
Right of way for pedestrian walkways in the middle of long blocks shall be
required where necessary to obtain convenient pedestrian circulation to
schools, parks or shopping areas; the right of way shall be at least ten feet
(10') wide and shall extend entirely through the block. (Ord. 40, 4-9-1984)
9-6-9: EASEMENTS:
Unobstructed easements shall be provided along rear lot lines for utilities and
also along side lot lines when necessary; total easement width shall be not
less than five feet (5') along any one lot line and shall not be less than ten
feet (10') where lots adjoin. Unobstructed drainageway easements shall be
provided as required by the planning and zoning commission and the board of
county commissioners. (Ord. 40, 4-9-1984)
9-6-10: BLOCKS:
Every block shall be so designed as to provide two (2) tiers of lots, except
where lots back onto an arterial street, natural feature, or subdivision
boundary; blocks shall not be less than five hundred feet (500') long in all
cases. (Ord. 40, 4-9-1984)
9-6-11: CROSSWALKS:
Pedestrian crosswalks, not less than ten feet (10') wide may be required where
deemed essential to provide circulation, or access to schools, playgrounds,
shopping centers, transportation, and other community facilities, and shall be
constructed in accordance with the standards and specifications prescribed in
the manual containing the road standards and specifications adopted by Payette
County. (Ord. 40, 4-9-1984)
9-6-12: LOTS:
Lots shall conform to the following:
   A.   Zoning: The lot width, depth, and total area shall not be less than the
requirements of any applicable zoning ordinance except where outlots are
provided and permitted pursuant to authority granted hereunder.
   B.   Lot Lines: Side lot lines shall be essentially at right angles to
straight streets and shall conform to the radius of curved streets.
   C.   Width Related To Length: Narrow, deep lots shall be avoided. The depth
of any lot shall not exceed one and one-half (11/2) times the width of said lot
as measured at the building line, except where unusual topographical features
of the subdivision warrant a variance.
   D.   Corner Lots: Corner lots shall have sufficient extra width to permit
appropriate building setback from both streets or orientation to both streets.
Lots abutting a pedestrian midblock crosswalk shall be treated as corner lots.
   E.   Uninhabitable Areas: Land subject to flooding or which shall otherwise
be deemed to be uninhabitable shall not be platted for residential purposes or
for any other uses that may increase or create a danger to health, life, or
property or which may increase or create a flood hazard. Such land within a
subdivision shall be set aside for other uses such as parks or other open
space.
   F.   Backup Lots: Lots shall not back into such features as freeways,
arterial streets, shopping centers, or industrial properties, except where
there is a marginal access street, unless a secondary access is provided. Such
lots shall contain a landscaped easement along the rear at least twenty feet
(20') wide in addition to the utility easement to restrict access to the
arterial street to minimize noise and to protect outdoor living areas. Lots
extending through a block and having frontage on two (2) local streets shall be
prohibited.
   G.   Lot Frontage: All rectangular lots shall have at least seventy five
feet (75') of frontage upon a publicly dedicated street. Variances may be
permitted for approved planning community unit development.
   H.   Future Arrangements: Where parcels of land are subdivided into
unusually large lots (such as when large lots are required for septic tank
operations), the parcels shall be divided, where feasible, to allow for
resubdividing into smaller parcels in a logical fashion when central utilities
are provided. Lot arrangements shall allow for the ultimate extension of
adjacent streets through the middle of wide blocks. Wherever such future
subdividing or lot splitting is contemplated, after public hearing, the plan
thereof shall be approved by the planning and zoning commission prior to the
taking of such action.
   I.   Lot Division: The division of a lot in a recorded plat is prohibited,
unless approved following application, review, and recommendation by the
commission and approval by the board of county commissioners. The application
shall be filed with the administrator and shall state the reasons of the
proposed division. No lot in a recorded plat shall be smaller in area than
permitted by title 8 of this code. No building permit shall be issued, or any
building commenced until the division has been approved by the board of county
commissioners and the suitability of the land for building sites has been
approved by the Southwest health district, or its successor.
   J.   Number Of Units Per Lot: No more than one single-family domicile, home
or dwelling unit shall be placed on any lot sold or offered for sale. (Ord.
2009-04, 6-15-2009)
9-6-13: PUBLIC SITES AND OPEN SPACES:
Public sites and open spaces shall conform to the following:
   A.   Public Uses: Where a proposed park, playground, school or other public
use shown on the comprehensive plan is located in whole or in part within a
subdivision, a suitable area for this purpose shall be dedicated to the public
or reserved for public purchase.
   B.   Natural Features: Existing natural features which add value to
residential development and enhance the attractiveness of the community (such
as trees, watercourses, historic spots, and similar irreplaceable assets) shall
be preserved, insofar as possible, in the design of the subdivision. (Ord. 40,
4-9-1984)
9-6-14: COMMERCIAL OR INDUSTRIAL MODIFICATION:
This title shall apply to the development of commercial subdivisions, except
that if there exists any discrepancy between the requirements of this title and
title 8 of this code, the requirements of title 8 of this code will prevail.
These subdivision design standards may be modified in accordance with section
9-4-1 of this title in the case of subdivisions exclusively for commercial or
industrial development, including shopping districts, wholesale areas, and
planned industrial districts. In all cases, however, adequate provisions shall
be made for off street parking and loading areas as well as for traffic
circulation. (Ord. 40, 4-9-1984)
9-6-15: UNIMPROVED RESIDENTIAL:
The tax assessor shall regularly examine the records of the county. All lands
shall be classified and taxed accordingly. (Ord. 2009-04, 6-15-2009)
9-6-16: NEIGHBORHOOD MAILBOXES:
Any person who shall propose, build or create a new subdivision, a mobile home
park, a PUD which includes residential development, a residential development
consisting of six (6) or more dwelling units, or who expands an existing
subdivision, an existing mobile home park, or an existing PUD which includes
residential development, shall provide for the installation of consolidated
mailboxes, generally described by the United States postal service as a
neighborhood box unit (NBU) system. An NBU may also be known as a neighborhood
mailbox system, or a cluster box system. The NBU shall service homes within the
proposed development. (Ord. 1999-4, 9-13-1999; amd. Ord. 2009-04, 6-15-2009)
For developments of less than six (6) homes, a developer shall endeavor to
cooperate with adjoining landowners for the installation of an NBU system. Upon
application to the county planning and zoning administrator for a development
described herein, in addition to any other agencies entitled to notice, the
administrator shall notify the postmaster of the affected postal department of
the proposal. In addition, upon application to the county planning and zoning
administrator, after notice and public hearing, the requirement for an NBU
system in a development may be waived, for good cause shown. After construction
the developer shall create a homeowners' association which shall be responsible
to keep the system accessible to the postal carrier. (Ord. 1999-4, 9-13-1999)
CHAPTER 7
IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
9-7-1: Required Public Improvements
9-7-2: Optional Public Improvements
9-7-3: Guarantee Of Completion Of Required Improvements
9-7-1: REQUIRED PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS:
Every developer shall be required to install the following public and other
improvements in accordance with the conditions and specifications as follows:
   A.   Monuments: Monuments shall be set in accordance with the Idaho state
code.
   B.   Streets And Alleys: All streets and alleys shall be constructed in
accordance with the standards and specifications adopted by the highway
department.
   C.   Curbs And Gutters: Curbs and gutters shall be required on neighborhood
access streets and/or roads that are dedicated in accordance to the standards
set by the "highway department" as defined in this title.
   D.   Installment Of Public Utilities: Public utilities and driveways shall
be located in accordance with the rules of the affected highway department.
Underground utilities will be required.
   E.   Driveways: All driveway openings in curbs shall be specified by the
highway department.
   F.   Storm Drainage: An adequate storm drainage system shall be required in
all subdivisions. The requirements for each particular subdivision shall be
established by the board of county commissioners. Construction shall follow the
specifications and procedures established by the board. All proposed storm
drainage construction plans for proposed plats shall be approved by the board.
   G.   Water Supply System: All proposed subdivisions, except those with less
than eight (8) lots, shall be served by a public water supply system; provided,
however, that the requirement may be waived if each of the proposed lots within
the subdivision consists of four (4) acres or more. The developer shall require
that all individual wells be constructed and drilled according to the
specifications for farm and rural dwellings, as required by the farmers home
administration of the U.S. department of agriculture.
   H.   Irrigation Water: If the parcel of land is subdivided and such parcel
has an irrigation water right by deed or certificate, then the developer shall
be required to deliver irrigation water to the corner of each lot with
sufficient pressure to serve that lot with sprinkler irrigation. A water users'
district shall be formed.
   I.   Irrigation Systems: No subdivision shall interfere with any existing
irrigation or drainage system. In the event any subdivision is constructed in
any area where irrigation ditches, canals or laterals or drainage works are
located, the developer shall ensure that no obstruction or structure is created
which will in any way interfere with the free flow of water. In the event any
subdivision is built around or bordering a ditch, canal, lateral or
drainageway, before filing of any final plat or before construction, the
developer shall first reach an agreement with the affected drainage or
irrigation district for proper tiling of any affected ditches or waterways. For
the protection of children all ditches shall be tiled before any occupancy
permits are issued for the entire subdivision.
   J.   Ditches, Laterals And Canals: All irrigation ditches, laterals or
canals, exclusive of natural waterways, intersecting, crossing or lying
adjacent and contiguous to an area being subdivided shall be covered, or if not
feasible, then fenced with an 11-gauge two inch (2") mesh chainlink fence or
other construction equivalent in ability to deter access to said ditch, lateral
or canal at least six feet (6') in height and securely fastened at its base at
all places where any part of said lands or areas being subdivided touch either
or both sides of said ditch, lateral or canal. Said fence shall not be cut,
gated or abridged. The commission may waive the requirements for covering or
fencing if it finds that the public purpose requiring such will not be served
in the individual case. Any covering or fencing program involving the
distribution system of any irrigation district shall have the prior approval of
the affected district. No subdivision plat shall be approved where the
subdivision is arbitrarily or artificially laid out to avoid being adjacent to
any irrigation ditch, lateral or canal to which it would otherwise be naturally
adjacent or which it would otherwise naturally include.
   K.   Sanitary Sewer System: When a proposed subdivision is to be serviced by
a public sanitary sewage system, sanitary sewers and other required
appurtenances thereto shall be provided by the developer. If there is no
existing or accessible public sewer system, a sewer system for the common use
of the lot owners may be required to be provided by the developer, if feasible,
in the judgment of the planning and zoning commission with the advice of the
Southwest health district. Where it is determined in the judgment of the
planning and zoning commission, with the advice of the Southwest health
district, that a subdivision cannot be economically connected with an existing
public or private sewer system or that a public or private sewer system cannot
be provided for the subdivision itself, then an approved disposal system may be
approved which shall comply with the requirements of the Southwest health
district.
   L.   Street Name Signs: Street name signs shall be installed in the
appropriate locations at each street intersection in accordance with the
requirements of the highway department.
   M.   Sidewalks And Pedestrian Walkways: Sidewalks may be required on both
sides of the street. Pedestrian walkways, when required, shall have easements
at least ten feet (10') in width and include a paved walk at least five feet
(5') in width, located generally along the centerline of the easement,
dedicated as a public pedestrian walkway. Sidewalks and crosswalks shall be
constructed in accordance with the requirements of the highway department.
   N.   Safety Requirements: The board of county commissioners may, upon its
own initiative, or upon the recommendation of the planning and zoning
commission, require that prior to the final approval of the proposed
subdivision, certain improvements be made in order to protect the public and
more particularly the occupants and residents of the subdivision from any
hazard or danger which may be present in or near the proposed subdivision.
   O.   Noxious Weeds: During the development period of any subdivision, a
developer shall not allow any noxious weeds to grow. To keep noxious weeds from
growing, a developer shall seed and maintain all cuts, fills and other open
areas with native grasses or some other grass seed approved by the board of
county commissioners. "Development period" shall be defined as the time between
the filing of an application for subdivision approval and the time the last
remaining lot is sold. In addition, the owner of any parcel in a subdivision
shall not allow any noxious weeds to grow thereon. "Noxious weeds" shall be
defined as any weed, plant or other vegetation which is defined as a noxious
weed by title 22, chapter 24 of the Idaho Code, the board of county
commissioners, or the United States of America, department of agriculture.
In the event the board of county commissioners, the county weed supervisor, the
county road supervisor, the county ordinance officer or any other designated
county employee is informed that noxious weeds are growing upon a person's
property, or are growing in an open area in a developing subdivision, a person
designated by the board of county commissioners shall notify the property
owner, the developer or a person responsible for the property, that noxious
weeds are growing thereon, and such growth is in a violation of this code. That
person shall also be notified that the weeds shall be destroyed within ten (10)
days of the notice. In the event the weeds are not destroyed within the ten
(10) day period, the county weed supervisor, county ordinance officer or any
other person designated by the board of county commissioners shall destroy the
weeds. All costs for weed eradication shall be charged to the property and
shall be collected as taxes are collected.
   P.   Acceptance: No subdivision, plat, road or other publicly dedicated
public improvement will be deemed accepted by the county until there is an
affirmative vote of the board of county commissioners. (Ord. 2009-04, 6-15-
2009)
9-7-2: OPTIONAL PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS:
Optional public improvements shall be governed by the following:
   A.   Recreational: Where a school site, neighborhood park, recreation area,
or public access to water frontage is located in whole or in part in the
proposed subdivision, the board of county commissioners may request the
reservation of such open spaces for school, park and recreation or public
access purposes. All such areas shall be reserved either for the respective
school district, in the case of school sites, or for the county in all other
cases; however, voluntary dedication of these land areas will be accepted.
   B.   Greenbelts: Greenbelts may be required for the protection of
residential properties. Greenbelts or landscaped screen planting located
between a residential development and adjacent major arterial streets and
railroad rights of way may be required. Where a developer desires to protect
his development in this respect, a proposed subdivision plat shall show the
location of said greenbelts and provisions for maintenance.
   C.   Street Lighting: Streetlights may be required to be installed at
intersections throughout the subdivision. In these cases a developer shall
conform to the requirements of the county and the public utility providing such
lighting. (Ord. 2009-04, 6-15-2009)
9-7-3: GUARANTEE OF COMPLETION OF REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Financial Guarantee Arrangements; Exceptions: No lots or portions of
lots shall be sold or construction commenced until all public improvements are
installed. In lieu of the actual installation of public improvements, the board
of county commissioners, upon recommendation of the commission, may permit the
developer to provide a financial guarantee of performance for those
requirements which are over and beyond the requirements of the affected highway
department. The financial guarantee may be in the form of a surety bond, cash
deposit, certified check, negotiable bond or irrevocable bank letter of credit,
subdivision bond, completion bond or any combination thereof.
   B.   Surety Bond:
      1.   Accrual: The bond shall inure to the benefit of the county and shall
cover the costs of construction, operation, and maintenance of the specific
public improvement.
      2.   Amount: The bond shall be in an amount equal to the total estimated
costs of completing construction of the specific public improvement, including
contingencies, as determined by the board of county commissioners.
      3.   Term Length: The term length in which the bond is in force is until
improvements are in place.
      4.   Bonding Or Surety Company: The bond shall be with a surety company
authorized to do business in the state, acceptable to the board of county
commissioners.
      5.   Escrow Agreement: The escrow agreement shall be drawn and furnished
by the board of county commissioners.
   C.   Cash Deposit, Certified Check, Negotiable Bond, Or Irrevocable Bank
Letter Of Credit:
      1.   Treasurer, Escrow Agent Or Trust Company: A cash deposit, certified
check, negotiable bond, or an irrevocable bank letter of credit, such surety
acceptable by the board of county commissioners, shall accrue to the county.
These deposits shall be made with the county treasurer, or deposited with a
reputable escrow agent, or trust company, subject to the approval of the board
of county commissioners.
      2.   Dollar Value: The dollar value of the cash deposit, certified check,
negotiable bond, or an irrevocable bank letter of credit shall be equal to the
total estimated costs of construction of the specific public improvement
including contingencies, as estimated by a qualified engineering firm.
      3.   Escrow Time: The dollar value of the cash deposit, certified check,
negotiable bond, or an irrevocable bank letter of credit, shall be for a period
to be specified by the board of county commissioners.
      4.   Progressive Payments: In the case of cash deposits or certified
checks, an agreement between the county and the developer may provide for
progressive payments out of the cash deposit or reduction of the certified
check, negotiable bond or irrevocable bank letter of credit, to the extent of
the cost of the completed portion of the public improvement.
   D.   Conditional County Approval Of Final Plat: With respect to guarantees,
the approval of all final subdivision plats shall be conditioned on the
accomplishment of one of the following:
      1.   The construction of improvements required by this title shall have
been completed by the developer and formally accepted and approved in writing
at a regular meeting of the board of county commissioners.
      2.   Surety acceptable to the county shall have been filed in the form of
a cash deposit, certified check, negotiable bond, irrevocable bank letter of
credit or surety bond.
   E.   Inspection Of Public Improvements Under Construction: Before approving
final plat and construction plans and specifications for public improvements,
an agreement between the developer and the board of county commissioners shall
be made to provide for checking or inspecting the construction and its
conformity to the submitted plans.
   F.   Penalty In Case Of Failure To Complete The Construction Of A Public
Improvement: In the event the developer shall, for any reason, fail to complete
such work within the period of time as required by the conditions of the
guarantee for completion of public improvements, it shall be the responsibility
of the board of county commissioners to proceed to have such work completed. In
order to accomplish this, the board of county commissioners shall reimburse
itself for the cost and expense thereof by appropriating the cash deposit,
certified check, irrevocable bank letter of credit, subdivision bond,
completion bond or negotiable surety bond, or may take such steps as may be
necessary to require performance by the bonding or surety company, and as
included in a written agreement between the board of county commissioners and
the developer. (Ord. 2009-04, 6-15-2009)
CHAPTER 8
RESERVED
(Ord. 2009-04, 6-15-2009)
CHAPTER 9
HILLSIDE SUBDIVISIONS
SECTION:
9-9-1: Purpose
9-9-2: Appearance; Preservation
9-9-3: Applicability; Conflicts
9-9-4: General Requirements; Information
9-9-5: Hillside Development Evaluation
9-9-6: Engineering Plans
9-9-7: Grading Plan
9-9-8: Development Standards
9-9-9: Vegetation And Revegetation
9-9-10: Maintenance
9-9-11: Utilities
9-9-12: Request For Waiver
9-9-13: Inspection
9-9-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this Chapter is to identify various types of developments that
normally pose special concerns to the Planning and Zoning Commission and
elected officials when reviewing and acting upon subdivision requests. This
Chapter outlines the plan submittal requirements and design standards that
shall be taken into consideration when acting on special developments. The
provisions of this Chapter are in addition to the plan requirements, design
standards and improvement standards that are required by this Title 1 . (Ord.
40, 4-9-1984)
 
Notes
1 1. See Chapters 6 and 7 of this Title.
9-9-2: APPEARANCE; PRESERVATION:
In order to preserve, retain, enhance and promote the existing and future
appearance, natural topographic features, qualities and resources of hillsides,
special consideration shall given to the following:
   A.   Skyline and ridge tops;
   B.   Rolling grassy land forms, including knolls, ridges and meadows;
   C.   Tree and shrub masses, grasses, wild flowers and topsoil;
   D.   Rock outcroppings;
   E.   Stream beds, draws and drainage swales, especially where tree and plant
formations occur; and
   F.   Characteristic vistas and scenic panoramas. (Ord. 40, 4-9-1984)
9-9-3: APPLICABILITY; CONFLICTS:
   A.   Scope: The provisions of this Chapter shall apply to any development
proposed for properties where any slope exceeds ten percent (10%), or where
adverse conditions associated with slope, stability, erosion or sedimentation
are present.
   B.   Conflicts: Wherever the regulations or standards contained in this
Chapter are in conflict with other Chapters of this Title or other pertinent
ordinances, the provisions of the more restrictive shall govern. (Ord. 40, 4-9-
1984)
9-9-4: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS; INFORMATION:
   A.   Project Engineer Required; Responsibilities: To ensure the necessary
coordination of manpower and technical data, the developer shall retain a
professional engineer registered in the State to serve as the project engineer.
It shall be the responsibility of the project engineer:
      1.   To prepare the grading plans;
      2.   To incorporate into the grading plans all recommendations contained
in the soils, geology and hydrology reports;
      3.   To inspect and certify all work within the project;
      4.   To act as coordinating agent if the need arises for liaison between
other professionals, the developer and the Planning and Zoning Commission; and
      5.   To prepare any revised plans and to submit to the Planning and
Zoning Commission record drawings of the plans upon the completion of the
project.
      6.   Prior to and during grading operations, all necessary reports,
compaction data, soils, geology and hydrology recommendations shall be
submitted by the project engineer to the Planning and Zoning Commission.
   B.   Report Substandard Work: If, in the course of fulfilling his
responsibilities, the project engineer discovers that the work is being
accomplished to a substantially lesser standard than required by this Title or
by the approved final grading plan, the discrepancy, if not corrected within a
reasonable time, shall be reported immediately, in writing, to the County
Engineer and to the Commission. Recommendations for corrective measures, if
applicable, shall be submitted.
   C.   Change In Key Personnel: If the project engineer, the soils engineer,
the geologist or the hydrologist of record is changed during the course of
work, the work shall be stopped until the replacement has agreed to accept the
responsibility for certification of the work within the areas of his technical
competence. In the event work stoppage is during inclement weather, protection
shall be provided for all open, vulnerable, unfinished work on the project,
including drainage. (Ord. 40, 4-9-1984)
9-9-5: HILLSIDE DEVELOPMENT EVALUATION:
All development proposals shall take into account and shall be judged by the
way in which land use planning, soil mechanics, engineering geology, hydrology,
civil engineering, environmental and civic design, architectural and landscape
design are applied in hillside areas, including but not limited to:
   A.   Planning of development to fit the topography, soils, geology,
hydrology and other conditions existing on the proposed site;
   B.   Orientation of development on the site so that grading and other site
preparation is kept to an absolute minimum;
   C.   Shaping of essential grading to blend with natural land forms and to
minimize the necessity of padding and/or terracing of building sites;
   D.   Division of large tracts into smaller workable units on which
construction can be completed within one construction season so that large
areas are not left bare and exposed during the winter/spring runoff period;
   E.   Completion of paving as rapidly as possible after grading;
   F.   Allocation of areas not well suited for development because of soil,
geology or hydrology limitations for open space and recreation uses;
   G.   Minimizing disruption of existing plant and animal life; and
   H.   Consideration of the view from and of the hills.
Areas having soil, geology or hydrology hazards shall not be developed unless
it is shown that their limitations can be overcome; that hazard to life or
property will not exist; that the safety, use or stability of a public way or
drainage channel is not jeopardized; and that the natural environment is not
subjected to undue impact. (Ord. 40, 4-9-1984)
9-9-6: ENGINEERING PLANS:
The developer shall retain a licensed professional engineer(s) to obtain the
following information, which information shall be submitted to the Planning and
Zoning Commission with the original application:
   A.   Soils Report: For any proposed hillside development a soils engineering
report shall be submitted with a preliminary plat. This report shall include
data regarding the natural distribution and strength of existing soils,
conclusions and recommendations for grading procedures, design criteria for
corrective measures, and opinions and recommendations covering the adequacy of
sites to be developed.
   B.   Geology Report: For any proposed hillside development a geology report
shall be submitted with the preliminary plat. This report shall include an
adequate description of site geology and an evaluation of the relationship
between the proposed development and the underlying geology and recommendations
of remedial remedies. The investigation and subsequent report shall be
completed by a professional geologist registered in the State. Any area in
which the investigation indicates geologic hazards shall not be subjected to
development unless the project engineer can demonstrate conclusively to the
Commission, based on the required engineering reports, that these hazards can
be overcome in such a manner as to prevent hazard to life or limb, hazard to
property, adverse effects on the safety, use or stability of a public way or
drainage channel, and adverse impact on the natural environment.
   C.   Hydrology Report: For any proposed hillside development a hydrology
report shall be submitted with the preliminary plat. This report shall include
an adequate description of the hydrology, conclusions and recommendations
regarding the effect of hydrologic conditions on the proposed development, and
opinions and recommendations covering the adequacy of sites to be developed.
Flood frequency curves shall be provided for the area proposed for development.
The investigation and subsequent report shall be completed by a professional
engineer registered in the State, and experienced and knowledgeable in the
science of hydrology and in the techniques of hydrologic investigation. Any
area in which the investigation indicates hydrologic hazards shall not be
subjected to development unless the project engineer can demonstrate
conclusively to the Commission based on the required engineering reports that
these hazards can be overcome in such a manner as to prevent hazard to life or
limb, hazard to property, adverse affects on the safety, use or stability of
the public way or drainage channel, and adverse impact on the natural
environment. (Ord. 40, 4-9-1984)
9-9-7: GRADING PLAN:
   A.   Preliminary Grading Plan: A preliminary grading plan shall be submitted
with each hillside preliminary plat proposal. The grading plan shall be
designated to ensure that the lots within the development are able to conform
to the appendix, chapter 70, of the Uniform Building Code. The preliminary
grading plan shall include, but not be limited to, the following information:
      1.   Approximate limiting dimensions, elevations or finish contours to be
achieved by the grading, including all cut and fill slopes, proposed drainage
channels and related construction;
      2.   Preliminary plans and approximate locations of all surface and
subsurface drainage devices, walls, dams, sediment basins, storage reservoirs
and other protective devices to be constructed; and
      3.   A description of methods to be employed in disposing of soil and
other material that is removed from the grading site, including the location of
the disposal site.
      4.   All information required by this Title at the submission of the
preliminary plat;
      5.   Details and contours (2 foot intervals) of property;
      6.   Details of terrain and area drainage;
      7.   Location of any existing buildings or structures on the property
where the work is to be performed, the location of any existing buildings or
structures on land of adjacent owners which are within one hundred feet (100')
of the property or which may be affected by the proposed grading operations,
approximate locations of structures joining topography;
      8.   The direction of drainage flow and grade of all streets (not to be
requirement for final street design); and
      9.   Any and all other pertinent data.
   B.   Final Grading Plan: A final grading plan shall be submitted with each
final plat and shall include the following information:
      1.   All information required by this Title at the submission of the
preliminary plat;
      2.   Limiting dimensions, elevations or finish contours to be achieved by
the grading, including all proposed cut and fill slopes, and proposed drainage
channels and related construction;
      3.   Detailed plans and locations of all surface and subsurface drainage
devices, walls, dams, sediment basins, storage reservoirs and other protective
devices to be constructed; and
      4.   A schedule showing when each stage of the project will be completed,
including the total area of soil surface which is to be disturbed during each
stage together with estimated starting and completion dates. In no event shall
existing natural vegetative ground cover be destroyed, removed or disturbed
more than fifteen (15) days prior to grading.
   C.   Plan Preparation: The grading plan shall be prepared by a professional
engineer registered in the State who shall also serve as the overall project
engineer 1 ;
   D.   Modification Of Project Schedule: The Planning and Zoning Commission
may require that grading operations and/or project schedule be modified if
delays occur which result in weather-generated problems not anticipated at the
time approval was granted. (Ord. 40, 4-9-1984)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection 9-9-4A of this Chapter.
9-9-8: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
   A.   Limiting Factors: Any area which presents one or more of the following
limiting factors shall not be subjected to development unless the project
engineer can demonstrate conclusively to the Planning and Zoning Commission,
based on the required engineering reports, that these limitations can be
overcome in such a manner as to prevent hazard to life, hazard to property,
adverse effects on the safety, use or stability of a public way or drainage
channel, and adverse impact on the natural environmental:
      1.   Landslide areas or scarps, or areas of active landslides;
      2.   Lines of active faults;
      3.   Soils with a high shrink/swell potential and hydrocompactable soils;
      4.   Soils with a unified classification of ML, CL, OL, MH, CH, OH and
PT;
      5.   Natural slopes greater than twenty five percent (25%);
      6.   Water table within six feet (6') of the surface at any time of the
year.
   B.   Soils:
      1.   Fill areas shall be prepared by removing organic material, such as
vegetation and rubbish, and any other material which is determined by the
engineer to be detrimental to proper compaction or otherwise not conducive to
stability; no rock or similar irreducible material with a maximum dimension
greater than eight inches (8") shall be used as fill material in fills that are
intended to provide structural strength.
      2.   Fills shall be compacted to at least ninety five percent (95%) of
maximum density, as determined by American Association of State Highway
Officials T99 (AASHO) and American Society for Testing Materials D698 (ASTM).
      3.   Cut slopes shall be no steeper than two horizontal to one vertical
(2:1); subsurface drainage shall be provided as necessary for stability.
      4.   Fill slopes shall be no steeper than two horizontal to one vertical
(2:1); fill slopes shall not be located on natural slopes two to one (2:1) or
steeper, or where fill slope toes out within twelve feet (12') horizontally of
the top of an existing or planned cut slope.
      5.   Tops and toes of cut and fill slopes shall be set back from property
boundaries a distance of three feet (3') plus one-fifth (1/5) of the height of
the cut or fill but need not exceed a horizontal distance of ten feet (10');
tops and toes of cut and fill slopes shall be set back from structures a
distance of six feet (6') plus one-fifth (1/5) the height of the cut or fill,
but need not exceed ten feet (10').
      6.   The maximum horizontal distance of disturbed soil surface shall not
exceed seventy five feet (75').
   C.   Roadways:
      1.   Road alignments should follow natural terrain and no unnecessary
cuts or fills shall be allowed in order to create additional lots or building
sites.
      2.   One-way streets shall be permitted and encouraged where appropriate
for the terrain and where public safety would not be jeopardized. Minimum width
shall be seventeen feet (17') between the backs of curbs.
      3.   The width of the graded section shall extend three feet (3') beyond
the curb back or edge of pavement on both the cut and fill sides of the
roadway. If sidewalk is to be installed parallel to the roadway, the graded
section shall be increased by the width of the sidewalk plus one foot (1')
beyond the curb back.
      4.   Standard six inch (6") vertical curb and gutter shall be installed
along both sides of all paved roadways.
      5.   A pedestrian walkway plan shall be required.
   D.   Driveways And Parking: Combinations of collective private driveways,
cluster parking areas and on-street parallel parking bays shall be used to
attempt to optimize the objectives of minimum soil disturbance, minimum
impervious cover, excellence of design and aesthetic sensitivity.
   E.   Grading And Stabilization: No grading, filling, clearing or excavation
of any kind shall be initiated until the final grading plan is formally
approved and a grading permit is obtained from the Planning and Zoning
Administrator/Building Inspector.
   F.   Retaining Walls Or Facings: All retaining walls or facings with a total
vertical projection in excess of three feet (3') shall be designed as
structural members keyed into stable foundations and capable of sustaining the
design loads.
   G.   Fill: Borrowing for fill shall be prohibited unless the material is
obtained from a cut permitted under an approved grading plan or imported from
outside the hillside areas of the County. No cuts shall be permitted solely for
the purpose of obtaining fill.
   H.   Stabilization: All disturbed soil surfaces shall be stabilized or
covered prior to December 1. If the planned impervious surfaces (e.g., roads,
driveways, etc.) cannot be established prior to December 1, a temporary
treatment adequate to prevent erosion shall be installed on those surfaces.
   I.   Hydrologic Controls: Interceptor ditches shall be established above all
cut/fill slopes, and the intercepted water conveyed to a stable channel or
natural drainageway with adequate capacity. Natural or improved open channel
drainageways shall be preserved or provided for in major waterways, except that
at road crossings, conduits may be permitted. Minor waterways shall be
permitted to be enclosed in conduits. (Ord. 40, 4-9-1984)
9-9-9: VEGETATION AND REVEGETATION:
   A.   Slope Stabilization And Revegetation Plan: The developer shall submit a
slope stabilization and revegetation plan which shall include a complete
description of the existing vegetation, the vegetation to be removed and the
method of disposal, the vegetation to be planted, and slope stabilization
measures to be installed.
   B.   Contents Of Plan: The plan shall include an analysis of the
environmental effects of such operations, including the effects on slope
stability, soil erosion, water quality and fish and wildlife.
   C.   Vegetation: Vegetation sufficient to stabilize the soil shall be
established on all disturbed areas as each stage of grading is completed. Areas
contained within lot boundaries shall be protected with perennial vegetal cover
after all construction is completed. Efforts shall be made to plant those
species that tend to recover from fire damage and do not contribute to rapid
rate of fire spread.
   D.   Responsibility For Destroyed Vegetation: The developer shall be fully
responsible for any destruction of native vegetation proposed for retention. He
shall carry the responsibility both for his own employees and for all
subcontractors from the first day of construction until the notice of
completion is filed. The developer shall be responsible for replacing such
destroyed vegetation. (Ord. 40, 4-9-1984)
9-9-10: MAINTENANCE:
The owner of any private property on which grading or other work has been
performed pursuant to a grading plan approved or a building permit granted
under the provisions of this Title shall continuously maintain and repair all
graded surfaces and erosion prevention devices, retaining walls, drainage
structures or means, and other protective devices, plantings and ground cover
installed or completed. (Ord. 40, 4-9-1984)
9-9-11: UTILITIES:
All new service utilities shall be placed under ground. (Ord. 40, 4-9-1984)
9-9-12: REQUEST FOR WAIVER:
Any developer who intends to request a waiver of any of the provisions of this
Chapter, must submit the request in writing. The request shall itemize each
requirement for which a waiver is sought and shall state the reason or reasons
for which each waiver is requested. (Ord. 40, 4-9-1984)
9-9-13: INSPECTION:
   A.   Inspection And Testing: All construction subject to these regulations
shall be subject to inspection by the county engineer. When required by the
county engineer, special inspections and special testing shall be performed to
verify conformance with these regulations.
   B.   Costs: The costs of such special inspections and special testing shall
be borne by the developer.
   C.   Nonconformance: If such inspection determines that any portion of the
project is not in conformance with the requirements of this chapter and no
waiver of such requirements has been granted, the county engineer shall report
such discrepancy in writing to the project engineer within a specified period
of time not to exceed fifteen (15) days, and shall stop work on the project if
corrective action is not taken.
   D.   Stop Work Order: If any deficiency is deemed by the county engineer to
be an imminent threat to the public health, safety or welfare, he shall notify
the planning and zoning administrator, and the building inspector who will
require that work be stopped immediately until such deficiencies are corrected.
(Ord. 2009-04, 6-15-2009)
CHAPTER 10
PLANNED UNIT AND CONDOMINIUM SUBDIVISIONS
SECTION:
9-10-1: General Requirements
9-10-2: Minimum Area
9-10-3: Site Development Plan
9-10-4: Private Streets
9-10-5: Homeowners' Association
9-10-6: Storage Areas
9-10-7: Parking Spaces
9-10-8: Maintenance Building
9-10-9: Open Space
9-10-10: Control During Development
9-10-1: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
Planned units and condominium developments shall be subject to requirements set
forth in title 8 of this code and also subject to all provisions of this title.
(Ord. 40, 4-9-1984)
9-10-2: MINIMUM AREA:
A planned unit development for the following principal uses shall contain an
area of not less than:
   A.   Three (3) acres or one city block for residential use;
   B.   Five (5) acres for residential use with subordinate commercial use;
   C.   Ten (10) acres for commercial use; and
   D.   Ten (10) acres for industrial use. (Ord. 2009-04, 6-15-2009)
9-10-3: SITE DEVELOPMENT PLAN:
The developer shall provide the planning and zoning commission with a colored
rendering of adequate scale to show the completed development that will include
at least the following:
   A.   Architectural style and building design;
   B.   Building materials and color;
   C.   Landscaping;
   D.   Screening;
   E.   Garbage areas;
   F.   Parking; and
   G.   Open space. (Ord. 40, 4-9-1984)
9-10-4: PRIVATE STREETS:
Private street construction standards will conform to county road
specifications. Adequate construction standards may vary depending on the size
of the development and the demands placed on such improvements. (Ord. 40, 4-9-
1984)
9-10-5: HOMEOWNERS' ASSOCIATION:
The homeowners' association bylaws and other similar deed restrictions, which
provide for the control and maintenance of all common areas, recreation
facilities or open space, shall meet with the approval of the board of county
commissioners. Any and all powers as specified in such agreements may also be
assigned to the board for the purpose of assessing property for delinquencies
and enforcement of motor vehicle speed to protect the best interest of the
owners involved and the general public. (Ord. 40, 4-9-1984)
9-10-6: STORAGE AREAS:
Storage areas shall be provided for the anticipated needs of boats, campers and
trailers. For typical residential development, one adequate space shall be
provided for every two (2) living units. This may be reduced by the board of
county commissioners if there is a showing that the needs of a particular
development are less. (Ord. 40, 4-9-1984)
9-10-7: PARKING SPACES:
One additional parking space beyond that which is required by title 8 of this
code may be required for every three (3) dwelling units to accommodate visitor
parking. (Ord. 40, 4-9-1984)
9-10-8: MAINTENANCE BUILDING:
A maintenance building shall be provided; size and location to be suitable for
the service needs that are necessary for the repair and maintenance of all
common areas. (Ord. 40, 4-9-1984)
9-10-9: OPEN SPACE:
The location of open space shall be appropriate to the development and shall be
of such shape and area to be usable and convenient to the residents of the
development. (Ord. 40, 4-9-1984)
9-10-10: CONTROL DURING DEVELOPMENT:
Single ownership or control during development shall be required, and a time
limit may be imposed to guarantee the development is built and constructed as
planned. (Ord. 40, 4-9-1984)
CHAPTER 11
LARGE-SCALE DEVELOPMENT SUBDIVISIONS
SECTION:
9-11-1: Required Information
9-11-1: REQUIRED INFORMATION:
Due to the impact that a large-scale development would have on public utilities
and services, the developer shall submit the following information along with
the preliminary plat:
   A.   Identification of all public services that would be provided to the
development (i.e., fire protection, police protection, central water, central
sewer, road construction, parks and open space, recreation, maintenance,
schools and solid waste collection);
   B.   An estimate of the public service costs to provide adequate service to
the development;
   C.   An estimate of the tax revenue that will be generated from the
development; and
   D.   Suggested public means of financing the services for the development if
the cost for the public services would not be offset by tax revenue received
from the development. (Ord. 40, 4-9-1984)
CHAPTER 12
SUBDIVISIONS WITHIN A FLOODPLAIN
SECTION:
9-12-1: Flood Areas
9-12-1: FLOOD AREAS:
There shall be no subdivisions upon any lands lying within a floodplain. (Ord.
2009-04, 6-15-2009)
CHAPTER 13
VARIANCES
SECTION:
9-13-1: General; Qualifications
9-13-2: Topographical Physical Limitation; Variances
9-13-3: Planned Unit Development
9-13-4: Application And Standards
9-13-5: Supplementary Conditions And Safeguards
9-13-6: Public Hearing
9-13-7: Action By The Planning And Zoning Commission
9-13-1: GENERAL; QUALIFICATIONS:
The planning and zoning commission may recommend to the board of county
commissioners a variance from the provisions of this title on a finding that
undue hardship may result from strict compliance with specific provisions or
requirements of this title or that application of such provision or requirement
is impracticable. The commission shall only recommend variances that it deems
necessary to or desirable for the public interest. In making its findings, as
required hereinbelow, the commission shall take into account the nature of the
proposed use of land and the existing use of land in the vicinity, the number
of persons to reside or work in the proposed subdivision, and the probable
effect of the proposed subdivision upon traffic conditions in the vicinity. No
variance shall be recommended unless the commission finds that there are
special conditions, such as:
   A.   That there are such special circumstances or conditions affecting said
property that the strict application of the provisions of this title would
clearly be impracticable or unreasonable. In such cases the developer shall
first state his reasons in writing as to the specific provisions or requirement
involved and submit them to the planning and zoning commission.
   B.   That the granting of the specified variance will not be detrimental to
the public welfare or injurious to other property in the area in which said
property is situated.
   C.   That such variance will not violate the provisions of the Idaho Code.
   D.   That such variance will not have the effect of nullifying the interest
and purpose of this title, title 8 of this code, and the comprehensive plan of
the county. (Ord. 2009-04, 6-15-2009)
9-13-2: TOPOGRAPHICAL PHYSICAL LIMITATION; VARIANCES:
Where, in the case of the particular proposed subdivision, it can be shown that
strict compliance with the requirements of this title would result in
extraordinary hardship to the developer because of unusual topography, other
physical conditions, or other such conditions which are not self-inflicted, or
that these conditions would result in inhibiting the achievement of the
objectives of this title, the commission may recommend to the board of county
commissioners that a variance modification or a waiver of these requirements be
granted. (Ord. 2009-04, 6-15-2009)
9-13-3: PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT:
The developer may request a variance from specified portions of this title in
the case of planned unit development. If in the judgment of the planning and
zoning commission such a plan provides adequate public spaces and includes
provisions for efficient circulation, light and air and other needs, it shall
make findings, as required below. The commission shall take into account the
nature of the proposed use of the land and existing use of land in the
vicinity, the number of persons to reside or work in the proposed subdivision,
and the probable effect of the proposed subdivision upon traffic conditions in
the vicinity. The commission shall report to the board of county commissioners
whether:
   A.   The proposed project will constitute a desirable and stable community
development.
   B.   The proposed project will be in harmony with adjacent areas. (Ord. 40,
4-9-1984)
9-13-4: APPLICATION AND STANDARDS:
A variance from the terms of this title shall not be granted by the commission
unless and until a written application for a variance is submitted to the
planning and zoning administrator/building inspector and the planning and
zoning commission, which application contains the following information:
   A.   Name, address and phone number of applicant(s);
   B.   Legal description of property;
   C.   Description of nature of variance requested; and
   D.   Names and addresses of property owners within three hundred feet (300')
beyond the external boundaries of the land being considered;
   E.   A filing fee shall accompany the application;
   F.   A narrative statement demonstrating that the requested variance
conforms to the following standards:
      1.   That special conditions and circumstances exist which are peculiar
to the land, structure or building involved and which are not applicable to
other lands, structures or buildings in the zone;
      2.   That a literal interpretation of the provisions of this title would
deprive the applicant of rights commonly enjoyed by other properties in the
same zone under the terms of this code;
      3.   That special conditions and circumstances do not result from the
actions of the applicant; and
      4.   That granting the variance requested will not confer on the
applicant any special privilege that is denied by this title to other lands,
structures or buildings in the same zone. A variance attaches to the realty and
is transferable with the title to the property.
A variance shall not be granted unless the planning and zoning commission makes
specific findings of fact based directly on the particular evidence presented
to it which support conclusions that the above mentioned standards and
conditions have been met by the applicant. (Ord. 40, 4-9-1984; amd. 1996 Code)
9-13-5: SUPPLEMENTARY CONDITIONS AND SAFEGUARDS:
Under no circumstances shall the planning and zoning commission grant a
variance to allow a use not permissible under the terms of this code in the
zone involved, or any use expressly or by implication prohibited by the terms
of this code in said zone. In granting any variance, the commission may
prescribe appropriate conditions and safeguards and, when made a part of the
terms under which the variance is granted, any deviation shall be deemed a
violation of this title. (Ord. 40, 4-9-1984; amd. 1996 Code)
9-13-6: PUBLIC HEARING:
Upon receipt of the application for a variance, the planning and zoning
commission shall hold a public hearing, publish notice in a newspaper of
general circulation within the county, and give written notice to all parties
as required in section
8-11-6 of this code. (Ord. 40, 4-9-1984)
9-13-7: ACTION BY THE PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION:
   A.   Decision Of Planning And Zoning Commission: Within sixty five (65) days
after the public hearing or at the next regular meeting of the planning and
zoning commission, whichever occurs last, the commission shall either approve,
conditionally approve or disapprove the request for a variance.
   B.   Grounds For Decision: Upon granting or denying an application, the
planning and zoning commission shall specify:
      1.   The ordinance and standards used in evaluating the application;
      2.   The reasons for approval or denial; and
      3.   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain a
permit.
   C.   Written Notice To Applicant: Within thirty (30) days after a decision
has been rendered, the planning and zoning administrator/building inspector
shall provide the applicant with written notice of the action on the request.
   D.   Appeal: The applicant or any affected person who appeared in person or
in writing before the planning and zoning commission may appeal the decision of
the commission to the board of county commissioners, in accordance with this
title. (Ord. 40, 4-9-1984)
CHAPTER 14
AMENDMENT PROCEDURES
SECTION:
9-14-1: Amendment
9-14-1: AMENDMENT:
   A.   The Board of County Commissioners may, from time to time, amend,
supplement or repeal the regulations and provision of this Title in the manner
prescribed by the Idaho Code.
   B.   Notice and hearing provisions as set forth in Idaho Code section 67-
6509, will be followed.
   C.   A proposed amendment, supplement or repeal may be originated by the
Board of County Commissioners or Planning and Zoning Commission. All proposals
shall be reviewed by the Commission for their recommendations and a report
thereon before any action is taken on the proposal. Hearings shall be held by
the Commission before any changes are recommended. The Board will hold a public
hearing before any changes are made. (Ord. 40, 4-9-1984)
TITLE 10
AIRPORT HAZARD ZONING
CHAPTER 1
PAYETTE AIRPORT
SECTION:
10-1-1: Title
10-1-2: Purpose And Authority
10-1-3: Scope
10-1-4: Definitions
10-1-5: Airport Administrator
10-1-6: Zones Established
10-1-7: Land Use Safety Zones
10-1-8: Permits
10-1-9: Hazard Marking And Lighting
10-1-10: Sound Control, Noise Abatement And Safety Precautions
10-1-11: Nonconforming Uses
10-1-12: Variances
10-1-13: Limitations
10-1-14: Appeals
10-1-15: Judicial Review
10-1-16: Conflicts
10-1-17: Severability
10-1-18: Recordation And Filing
10-1-19: Penalty
10-1-20: Airport Zoning Map; Master Plan
10-1-1: TITLE:
This Chapter shall be known and may be cited as the PAYETTE MUNICIPAL AIRPORT
HAZARD ZONING ORDINANCE. (Ord. 33, 7-20-1982)
10-1-2: PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY:
Pursuant to the authority conferred and granted by article 12, section 2, of
the Idaho Constitution, and by title 67, chapter 65, of the Idaho Code, it is
hereby found that an airport hazard endangers the lives and property of users
of Payette Municipal Airport, and property or occupants of land in its
vicinity, and also such hazards may reduce the size of the area available for
the landing, takeoff, and maneuvering of aircraft, thus tending to destroy or
impair the utility of Payette Municipal Airport and the public investment
therein. Accordingly, it is declared:
   A.   The creation or establishment of an airport hazard is a public nuisance
and an injury to the region served by the Payette Municipal Airport.
   B.   It is necessary in the interest of the public health, public safety,
and general welfare that the creation or establishment of aircraft hazards be
prevented; and
   C.   The prevention of these hazards should be accomplished, to the extent
legally possible, by the exercise of the police power, without compensation.
It is further declared that both the prevention of the creation or
establishment of airport hazards and the elimination, removal, alteration,
mitigation, or marking and lighting of existing airport hazards are public
purposes for which a political subdivision may raise and expend public funds
and acquire land or interest in land. (Ord. 33, 7-20-1982)
10-1-3: SCOPE:
The Ordinance codified in this Chapter is adopted to provide zoning to protect
the present and long-term use of the Payette Municipal Airport and to ensure
the harmonious development of the City of Payette and the unincorporated
portions of Payette County which may be affected by airport related activities.
The Ordinance codified in this Chapter is part of a long-range development plan
for the Payette Municipal Airport approved by the legislative bodies of the
City of Payette and Payette County. This Chapter shall apply to the
incorporated and unincorporated parts of Payette County as such boundaries
exist at the effective date of the Ordinance codified in this Chapter, or as
such boundaries may be changed. It is intended that the City of Payette and
Payette County will each enforce the ordinance codified in this Chapter to
implement the long-range development plan for the Payette Municipal Airport.
(Ord. 33, 7-20-1982)
10-1-4: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this Chapter, certain terms are defined as set forth. All
words of the Chapter in the present tense include the future tense, all words
in the plural include the singular and all words in the singular include the
plural unless the nature of sentence construction indicates otherwise. In this
Chapter, the word shall is mandatory.
As used in this Chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this Section:
ADMINISTRATOR: When used in conjunction with this Chapter shall mean the
Building Inspector of the City of Payette when any enforcement or action is
required concerning land and uses within its limits and jurisdiction; it shall
mean the Planning and Zoning Administrator of the County when any enforcement
or action is required concerning land and uses within the County's
jurisdiction; or it shall mean any other person appointed to enforce and
administer the provisions in this Chapter.
AIRPORT ELEVATION: The highest point of the airport's usable land area having
an elevation of two thousand two hundred twenty eight feet (2,228') above mean
sea level.
AIRPORT HAZARD: Any structure or object of natural growth located on or in the
vicinity of a public airport, or any use of land near such airport, which
obstructs the airspace required for the flight of aircraft in landing or
takeoff at such airport or is otherwise hazardous to such landing or takeoff of
aircraft.
AIRPORT LANDING STRIP OR RUNWAY: A conditioned strip of ground established for
taking off or landing aircraft, equal in width to twice that of the pavement
and running the length of the runways plus overrun areas at each end.
AIRPORT OR PAYETTE MUNICIPAL AIRPORT: The Payette Municipal Airport.
AIRPORT REFERENCE POINT: The approximate geographical center of the Payette
Municipal Airport; latitude 44° 05' 33" and longitude 116° 53' 34".
AIRPORT TYPES: Any airport or terminal classification including utility,
general, hub, nonhub and such other designations as the Federal Aviation
Administration or substitute agencies may establish or classify.
BOARD: The Board of County Commissioners.
BOARD OF APPEALS: The Payette Airport Commission.
BUILDING: Any structure built for the support, shelter, or enclosure of
persons, animals, chattels or property of any kind.
CITY: The City of Payette, Idaho.
COMMISSION: When used in conjunction with this Chapter, shall mean the Payette
Airport Commission, and in like manner when any enforcement or action is
required by the City of Payette, "Payette Airport Commission", or "Commission"
shall mean the Payette Planning and Zoning Commission, and in the case of
Payette County, the Payette County Planning and Zoning Commission.
COUNCIL: The City Council of the City of Payette, Idaho.
COUNTY: The County of Payette, Idaho.
DEVELOPMENT PLAN: The long-range development plan of the Payette Municipal
Airport adopted as such to accomplish the purposes, objectives and declarations
of such plan and the ordinance codified in this Chapter.
DIVISION OF AERONAUTICS AND PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION: The Idaho Division of
Aeronautics and Public Transportation.
MANAGER: The manager of the Payette Municipal Airport; referred to in this
Chapter as Manager.
NONCONFORMING USE: Any preexisting structure, object of natural growth, or use
of land which is inconsistent with the provisions of this Chapter or any
amendment thereto.
OVERRUN AREA: An area two hundred feet (200') long and five hundred feet (500')
wide for nonprecision instrument runways located immediately at each end of the
runway.
PERSON: An individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company, association,
joint stock association, or governmental entity. It includes a trustee,
receiver, assignee, or similar representative of any of them.
PRIMARY SURFACE: A surface longitudinally centered on a runway. When the runway
has a specially prepared hard surface, the primary surface extends two hundred
feet (200') beyond each end of that runway. The width of the primary surface of
a runway will be that width prescribed by the Federal aviation regulations for
the most precise approach existing or planned for either end of that runway.
The elevation of any point on the primary surface is the same as the elevation
of the nearest point on the runway center line.
STRUCTURE: An object constructed or installed by man, including, but without
limitation, buildings, towers, smokestacks, earth formation, fences, and
overhead transmission lines.
TREE: An object of natural growth.
UTILITY RUNWAY: A runway that is constructed for and intended to be used by
aircraft of twelve thousand five hundred (12,500) pounds maximum gross weight
and less.
VISUAL RUNWAY: A runway intended solely for the operation of aircraft using
visual approach procedures with no straight-in instrument approach procedure
and with no instrument designation indicated on an FAA approved airport layout
plan, or by any planning document submitted to the FAA by competent authority.
ZONING MAP: The map or maps indicating the current hazard zoning for the
Payette Municipal Airport. (Ord. 33, 7-20-1982)
10-1-5: AIRPORT ADMINISTRATOR:
It shall be the duty of the Administrator to administer and enforce the
regulations prescribed herein. Applications for permits and variances shall be
made to the Administrator upon a form furnished by him. Permit applications
shall be promptly considered and granted or denied by him. Variance
applications shall be forthwith transmitted by the Administrator for action by
the Commission. (Ord. 33, 7-20-1982)
10-1-6: ZONES ESTABLISHED:
In order to carry out the provisions of this Chapter, there are hereby created
and established certain zones as they apply to the Payette Municipal Airport.
Such zones are shown on the Payette Municipal Airport Height Limitation Zoning
Map and The Hazard Zoning Map both of which are contained in Section 10-1-20 of
this Chapter. Any area located in more than one zone is considered to be only
in the zone with the more restrictive limitations unless specifically found to
be otherwise proper by the Commission. The various zones are hereby established
and described as follows:
   A.   Height Limitation Zones: The following zones relate to height
considerations above the airport elevation:
      1.   Zone P Or Primary Surface Areas:
         a.   Zone P includes all that land which lies directly under an
imaginary primary surface longitudinally centered on a runway and extending two
hundred feet (200') beyond each end of the runway 13/31.
         b.   The elevation of any point on the primary surface is the same as
the elevation of the nearest point on the runway center line. The width of the
primary surface is two hundred fifty feet (250') for runway 13/31.
      2.   Zone H Or Horizontal Zone: Zone H includes all that land which lies
directly under an imaginary horizontal surface one hundred fifty feet (150')
above the established airport elevation, or a height of two thousand three
hundred seventy eight feet (2,378') above mean sea level, the perimeter of
which is constructed by swinging arcs of specified radii from the center of
each end of the primary surface of each runway and connecting the adjacent arcs
by lines tangent to those arcs. The radius of each arc is five thousand feet
(5,000').
      3.   Zone C Or Conical Zone: Zone C includes all that land which lies
directly under an imaginary conical surface extending outward and upward from
the periphery of the horizontal zone at a slope of twenty horizontal feet to
one vertical foot (20:1) for a horizontal distance of four thousand feet
(4,000') as measured radially outward from the periphery of the horizontal
zone.
      4.   Zones A And B Or Approach Zones:
         a.   Zones A and B include all that land which lies directly under an
imaginary approach surface longitudinally centered on the extended center line
at each end of a runway. The inner edge of the approach surface is at the same
width and elevation as, and coincides with, the end of the primary surface. The
approach surface inclines outward and upward at a slope of twenty (20)
horizontal feet to one vertical foot (20:1).
         b.   The approach surface expands uniformly to a width of one thousand
five hundred feet (1,500') from each end of the primary surface centered on
runway 13/31.
         c.   The approach surface extends for a horizontal distance of five
thousand feet (5,000') from each end of the primary surface on runway 13/31.
         d.   The approach zone on the northerly end of runway 13/31 is Zone A;
the approach zone on the southerly end of runway 13/31 is Zone B.
      5.   Zone T Or Transitional Zone: Zone T includes all that land which
lips directly under an imaginary surface extending outward and upward at right
angles to the runway center line and extended at a slope of seven horizontal
feet to one vertical foot (7:1) from the sides of the primary surfaces and from
the sides of the approach surfaces until they intersect the horizontal zone.
   B.   Height Restrictions: Except as otherwise provided in this Chapter and
except as necessary and incidental to airport operations, no structure or tree
shall be constructed, altered, maintained, or allowed to grow in any airspace
zone created in subsection A of this Section so as to project above any of the
imaginary airspace surfaces described in said subsection A hereof. Where an
area is covered by more than one height limitation, the most restrictive
limitation shall prevail. Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed as
prohibiting the growth, construction, alteration or maintenance of any tree or
structure to a height up to thirty feet (30') above the surface of the land
except in Zones A-2 and B-2 as defined in Section
10-1-7 of this Chapter. However, this condition or interpretation of the
severability clause shall in no way foreclose the public right to acquire
easements, through purchase or condemnation, over such area, when necessary.
(Ord. 33, 7-20-1982)
10-1-7: LAND USE SAFETY ZONES:
   A.   Boundaries: In order to carry out the purpose of this Chapter as set
forth above, and also, in order to restrict those uses which may be hazardous
to the operational safety of aircraft operating to and from the Payette
Municipal Airport, and furthermore to limit population and building density in
the runway-approach areas, thereby creating sufficient open space so as to
protect life and property in case of an accident, there are hereby created and
established the following land use safety zones:
      1.   Safety Zone B-1: All land in that portion of the approach zones of
runway 13/31 as defined in subsection
10-1-6A4 hereof, which extends outward from the southerly end of the primary
surface a distance of two thousand four hundred fifty feet (2,450') along the
extended center of runway 13/31. The east boundary being the easterly boundary
of Section 26 of Township 9 North, Range 5 West of the Boise Meridian. The
south boundary being the southerly boundary of said Section 26.
      2.   Safety Zone A-1: All land in that portion of the approach zone of
runway 13/31 as defined in subsection
10-1-6A4 hereof, which extends outward from the northerly end of the primary
surface a distance of two thousand four hundred fifty feet (2,450') along the
extended center line of runway 13/31.
      3.   Safety Zone B-2: All land in that portion of the approach zone of
runway 13/31 as defined in subsection
10-1-6A4 hereof, which extends outward from the southerly end of the primary
surface a distance of one thousand feet (1,000').
      4.   Safety Zone A-2: All land in that portion of the approach zone of
runway 13/31 as defined in subsection
10-1-6A4 hereof, which extends outward from the northerly end of the primary
surface a distance of one thousand feet (1,000').
   B.   Use Restrictions:
      1.   General: Subject at all times to the height restrictions set forth
in subsection
10-1-6B, no use shall be made of any land in any of the safety zones defined in
subsection
10-1-6A which creates or causes interference with the operations of radio or
electronic facilities on the airport or with radio or electronic communications
between the airport and aircraft, makes it difficult for pilots to distinguish
between airport lights and other lights, results in glare in the eyes of pilots
using the airport, impairs visibility in the vicinity of the airport, or
otherwise endangers the landing, taking off, or maneuvering of aircraft.
      2.   Zones A-2 And B-2: Subject at all times to the height restrictions
set forth in subsection
10-1-6B and to the general restrictions contained in subsection
10-1-7B1, areas designated as Zones A-2 and B-2 shall contain no buildings or
temporary structures and shall be restricted to those uses which will not
create, attract, or bring together an assembly of persons thereon. Permitted
uses may include agriculture, light outdoor recreation (nonspectator),
cemeteries and auto parking.
      3.   Zones A-1 And B-1: Subject at all times to the height restrictions
set forth in subsection
10-1-6B and to the general restrictions contained in subsection
10-1-7B1, areas designated as Zones A-1 and B-1 shall be restricted in use as
follows:
         a.   Each use shall be on a site whose area shall not be less than
three (3) acres.
         b.   Each use shall not create, attract, or bring together a site
population that would exceed fifteen (15) times that of the site acreage.
         c.   Each site shall have not more than one building plot upon which
any number of structures may be erected.
         d.   A building plot shall be a single, uniform and noncontrived area,
whose shape is uncomplicated and whose area shall not exceed the following
minimum ratios with respect to the total site area:
   Site Area At    But Less    Ratio of Site Area to Bldg. Plot    Building Plot    Maximum Site    Population
Least              Than           Area                                   Area                   (15 Persons/Acre)
   (Acres)         (Acres)                                            (Sq. Ft.)
3                                12:1                                   10,900              45
                  4              12:1                                                       
4                                10:1                                   17,400              60
                  6              10:1                                                       
6                                8:1                                    32,600              90
                  10             8:1                                                        
10                               6:1                                    72,500              150
                  20             6:1                                                        
20                 and up         4:1                                    218,000             300
 
(Ord. 33, 7-20-1982)
10-1-8: PERMITS:
   A.   Future Uses:
      1.   Permit Required: Except as specifically provided in subsections B
and C hereunder, no material change shall be made in the use of land and no
structure shall be erected, altered, or otherwise established in any zone
hereby created unless a permit therefor shall have been applied for and granted
by the Administrator, as hereinafter provided for.
      2.   Application: Each application for a permit shall indicate the
purpose for which the permit is desired, be on the form provided by the
Administrator, and with sufficient particularity to permit the Administrator to
determine whether it conforms to the regulations herein prescribed and other
pertinent laws and ordinances.
      3.   Granting Of Permit: If such determination is in the affirmative, the
permit may be granted.
   B.   Existing Uses:
      1.   Permit Required: Before any existing use or structure may be
replaced, substantially altered or repaired, or rebuilt within any zone
established herein, a permit must be secured authorizing such replacement,
change, or repair.
      2.   Nonconforming Use: No permit shall be granted that would allow the
establishment or creation of an airport hazard or permit a nonconforming use,
structure, or tree to become a greater hazard to air navigation than it was on
the effective date of the Ordinance codified in this Chapter or any amendments
thereto, or than it is when the application for a permit is made.
      3.   Granting Of Permit: Except as indicated, all applications for such a
permit may be granted.
   C.   Nonconforming Uses Abandoned Or Destroyed:
      1.   Order To Abandon Or Destroy: Whenever the Zoning Administrator
determines that a nonconforming structure or tree has been abandoned or more
than eighty percent (80%) torn down, destroyed, physically deteriorated, or
decayed no permit shall be granted that would allow such structure or tree to
exceed the applicable height limit or otherwise deviate from the zoning
regulations. Whether application is made for a permit under this subsection or
not, the Administrator may order the owner of the abandoned or partially
destroyed nonconforming structure, at the landowner's expense, to lower,
remove, reconstruct, or equip the same in the manner necessary to conform to
the provisions of this Chapter.
      2.   Failure To Comply: In the event the owner of the nonconforming
structure shall neglect or refuse to comply with such order for ten (10) days
after receipt of written notice of such order, the Administrator may, by
appropriate legal action, proceed to have the abandoned or partially destroyed
nonconforming structure lowered, removed, reconstructed, or equipped, and
assess the cost and expense thereof against the land on which the structure is
or was located.
      3.   Assessment Of Costs: Unless such an assessment is paid within ninety
(90) days from the service of notice thereof on the owner of the land, the sum
shall bear interest at the maximum legal rate from the date the cost and
expense is incurred until paid, and shall be collected in the same manner as
are general taxes. (Ord. 33, 7-20-1982)
10-1-9: HAZARD MARKING AND LIGHTING:
   A.   Nonconforming Uses:
      1.   Installation, Operation And Maintenance: The owner of any
nonconforming structure or tree is hereby required to permit the installation,
operation, and maintenance thereon of such markers and lights as shall be
deemed necessary by the Administrator to indicate to the operators of aircraft
in the vicinity of the airport the presence of such airport hazards.
      2.   Standards: Such markings and lighting shall be in conformance with
existing published standards provided by the State or Federal government.
      3.   Costs Of Operation: Such markers and lights shall be installed,
operated, and maintained at the expense of the City of Payette.
   B.   Permits And Variances: Any permit or variance granted by the
Administrator or Commission as the case may be, may, if such action is deemed
advisable to effectuate the purpose of this Chapter and be reasonable in the
circumstances, so condition such permit or variance as to require the owner of
the structure or tree in question at his own expense, to install, operate and
maintain thereon such markers and lights as may be necessary to indicate to
pilots the presence of an airport hazard. (Ord. 33, 7-20-1982)
10-1-10: SOUND CONTROL, NOISE ABATEMENT AND SAFETY PRECAUTIONS:
   A.   Notices To Operators Of Aircraft: Within the airport zones referred to
herein, aircraft shall be operated in accordance with Federal Aviation
Administration regulations and other applicable laws and regulations in order
to minimize the noise thereof and to provide for the safety of such operation,
and the residents within the separate zoning districts of the Payette Municipal
Airport.
   B.   Action On Complaints:
      1.   Notification Of Planning And Zoning Commissions: Acting on any
complaint of a violation within the separate zoning districts of FAA
regulations or other applicable laws or regulations, the Administrator shall
notify the Planning and Zoning Commissions of the City of Payette and of
Payette County of the incident.
      2.   Hearing By Planning And Zoning Commissions; Notice; Findings: Upon
fifteen (15) days' notice to all parties concerned, including the complainant
and the alleged offender, the Planning and Zoning Commissions of the City of
Payette and of Payette County jointly shall hold a hearing, and shall make
prompt written findings of the incident complained of, and also make a
recommendation to the City Council of Payette as to whether the offending
party's authority to use the Payette Municipal Airport should be suspended.
      3.   Hearing By City Council; Notice: The City Council shall hold a
hearing upon fifteen (15) days' notice to all parties concerned, including
complainant and alleged offender, and then determine, after reviewing the
recommendations of the Planning and Zoning Commissions of the City of Payette
and Payette County whether the operator of the aircraft alleged to have
violated certain laws and regulations should be prohibited from using the
Payette Municipal Airport for aircraft operation.
   C.   Land Use Sound Control Requirements:
      1.   Technical Details And Data: In all cases where sound control
features are required, the developers shall submit to the Administrator
technical details and data to assure complete consideration of the proposed
construction.
      2.   Conditions And Controls: Such conditions and controls may be
required as are found to be necessary to eliminate adverse effects of aircraft,
and aircraft related noises on the land use proposed. The sound control
requirements shall be required in Zone J or Sound Control Zone. The sound
control requirements are recommended for all construction that takes place
within Zone T, Zone A and Zone B, but are not required.
         a.   Zone J Or Sound Control Zone: all land in that portion of the
approach Zone B that is located within Section 26, Township 9 North, Range 5
West, Boise Meridian. All land in that portion of the approach Zone A that is
located within three thousand feet (3,000') of the northerly end of the primary
surface as measured along the extension of the center line of runway 13/31.
         b.   Sound Control Features: Within Zone J noise levels of sixty five
(65) decibels and greater are anticipated. Sound control features shall be
required for residences, and other occupied buildings which are permitted to be
constructed within Zone J. Said features shall be implemented in accordance
with architecturally recognized standards, for the purpose of eliminating the
adverse effects of the noise levels of aircraft. (Ord. 33, 7-20-1982)
10-1-11: NONCONFORMING USES:
Regulations Not Retroactive: The regulations prescribed by this Chapter shall
not be construed to require the removal, lowering, or other changes or
alteration of any structure or tree not conforming to the regulations as of the
effective date of the Ordinance codified in this Chapter, or otherwise
interfere with the continuance of any nonconforming use. Nothing herein
contained shall require any change in the construction, alteration, or intended
use of any structure, the construction or alteration of which was begun prior
to the effective date of the Ordinance codified in this Chapter, and is
diligently prosecuted and completed within two (2) years thereof. (Ord. 33, 7-
20-1982)
10-1-12: VARIANCES:
   A.   Application: Any person desiring to erect or increase the height of any
structure, or permit the growth of any tree, or use his property, not in
accordance with the regulations prescribed in this Chapter, may apply to the
Board of Appeals, hereinafter provided for, for a variance from such
regulations on the form provided by the Inspector.
   B.   Allowance: Such variance may be allowed where it is duly found that a
literal application or enforcement of the regulations would result in practical
difficulty or unnecessary hardship, and relief granted would not be contrary to
the public interest but do substantial justice and be in accordance with the
spirit of this Chapter; provided any variance so allowed may be subject to any
reasonable conditions that the Board of Appeals may deem necessary to
effectuate the purposes of this Chapter. (Ord. 33, 7-20-1982)
10-1-13: LIMITATIONS:
The requirements established by this Chapter in no way preempt or waive the
requirements for notification or review established by other public agencies,
such as those established by Federal Aviation Administration regulations. (Ord.
33, 7-20-1982)
10-1-14: APPEALS:
   A.   Appeal Decision Of Administrator: Any person aggrieved by any decision
of the Administrator made in his administration of this Chapter may appeal to
the Commission. Such appeals may also be made by any governing body of a
municipality, County, or commission, which is of the opinion that a decision of
the Administrator is an improper application of this Chapter as it concerns
such governing body or board.
   B.   Notice Of Appeal; Transmittal Of Records: All appeals hereunder must be
commenced within thirty (30) days of the Administrator's decision, by filing
with the Administrator a notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof. The
Administrator shall forthwith transmit to the Commission all the paper
constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was taken.
   C.   Stay Of Proceedings: An appeal shall stay all proceedings in
furtherance of the action appealed from, unless the Administrator certifies to
the Commission, after the notice of appeal has been filed with it, that by
reason of the facts stated in the certificate a stay would, in his opinion,
cause imminent peril to life or property. In such case, proceedings shall not
be stayed except by order of the Commission on notice to the Administrator and
on due cause shown.
   D.   Hearing; Notice: The Commission shall fix a reasonable time for hearing
appeals, give public notice and due notice to the parties in interest, and
decide the same within a reasonable time. Upon the hearing any party may appear
in person or by agent or by attorney.
   E.   Commission Decision: The Commission may, in conformity with the
provisions of this Chapter, reverse or affirm, in whole or in part, or modify
the order, requirement, decision or determination, as may be appropriate under
the circumstances, and to that end shall have all the powers of the
Administrator.
   F.   Secondary Appeal: A second appeal of any decision made by the
Commission may be made directly to the Board of County Commissioners or Payette
City Council having jurisdiction over the appellants property. Such second
appeal shall be in accordance with the procedures outlined. (Ord. 33, 7-20-
1982)
10-1-15: JUDICIAL REVIEW:
Any person aggrieved by any decision of the Board of Appeals or appellant
authority defined in subsection
10-1-14F, or any governing body of a municipality, or County, which is of the
opinion that a decision of the Board of Appeals or appellant authority is
illegal may present to the District Court of Payette County a verified petition
setting forth that the decision or action is illegal, in whole or in part, and
specifying the grounds of the illegality. Such petition shall be presented to
the Court within thirty (30) days after the decision is filed in the office of
the Commission. The petitioner must exhaust the remedies provided in this
Chapter before availing himself of the right to petition the Court as provided
by this Section. (Ord. 33, 7-20-1982)
10-1-16: CONFLICTS:
Where there exists a conflict between any of the regulations or limitations
prescribed in this Chapter and any other regulations applicable to the same
area, whether the conflict be with respect to the height of structures or
trees, the use of land, or any other matter, the more stringent limitation or
regulation shall govern and prevail. This Chapter may be coordinated with and
become an appendices to area-wide comprehensive zoning ordinances encompassing
the areas described. (Ord. 33, 7-20-1982)
10-1-17: SEVERABILITY:
   A.   In any case in which the provisions of this Chapter, although generally
reasonable, are held by a court to interfere with the use or enjoyment of a
particular structure or parcel of land to such an extent, or to be so onerous
in their application to such a structure or parcel of land, as to constitute a
taking or deprivation of that property in violation of the Constitution of this
State or the Constitution of the United States, such holding shall not affect
the application of this Chapter as to other structures and parcels of land, and
to this end the provisions of this Chapter are declared to be severable. Such
holding will not foreclose the public right to exercise its authority to obtain
title over land affected thereby through acquisition or condemnation action.
   B.   Should any section or provision of this Chapter be declared by the
courts to be unconstitutional or invalid, such decision shall not affect the
validity of the Chapter as a whole or any part thereof other than the parts so
declared to be unconstitutional or invalid. (Ord. 33, 7-20-1982)
10-1-18: RECORDATION AND FILING:
Copies of the Ordinance codified in this Chapter and accompanying zoning map
shall be filed with the County Recorder, the County Assessor, the State
Division of Aeronautics of the Idaho Transportation Department, and the
Community Affairs Bureau of the Division of Budget, Policy Planning and
Coordination. All amendments, permits and variances granted pursuant to
authority herein shall be recorded and filed at the County and City level in a
manner prescribed and adopted by the zoning authority. (Ord. 33, 7-20-1982)
10-1-19: PENALTY:
   A.   Violation; Penalty: Every person who shall construct, establish,
substantially change, alter or repair any existing structure or use, or permit
the growth of any tree without having complied with the provision of this
Chapter or who, having been granted a permit or variance under the provisions
of this Chapter, shall construct, establish, substantially change or
substantially alter or repair any existing growth or structure or permit the
growth of any tree, except as permitted by such permit or variance, or any
person who shall violate any section of this Chapter, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be subject to penalty as provided in Section 1-4-1 of
this Code.
   B.   Continuing Violation: Each day a violation continues to exist shall
constitute a separate offense.
   C.   Additional Remedies: The Administrator may enforce all provisions of
this Chapter through such proceedings for injunctive relief and other relief as
may be proper under the laws of Idaho and other applicable laws. (Ord. 33, 7-
20-1982; 1996 Code)
10-1-20: AIRPORT ZONING MAP; MASTER PLAN:
The several zones and the comprehensive plan herein established are shown on
the Hazard Zoning Map and Payette Municipal Airport Height Limitation Zoning
Map and the Airport Master Plan, prepared by Blakley Engineers, are as follows:
A.   Hazard Zoning Map:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/baae6294dc957d6005b68e441f4b47ed17813bca/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1193.gif]
 
which map, together with such amendments thereto as may from time to time be
made, and all notations, references, elevations, data, zone boundaries, and
other information thereon, shall be and the same is hereby adopted as part of
the Ordinance codified in this Chapter.
B.   Airport Layout Plan:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/baae6294dc957d6005b68e441f4b47ed17813bca/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1195.gif]
 
C.   Approach And Clear Zone Plan:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/baae6294dc957d6005b68e441f4b47ed17813bca/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1197.gif]
 
(Ord. 33, 7-20-1982)
TITLE 11
AREAS OF CITY IMPACT
CHAPTER 1
FRUITLAND AREA OF CITY IMPACT
SECTION:
11-1-1: Purpose
11-1-2: Consideration
11-1-3: Geographic Area Of City Impact
11-1-4: Penalty
11-1-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of establishing an area of city impact is to identify a logical
urban fringe area adjoining the City of Fruitland. The urban fringe area is
realizing, or will realize, development pressure that must be planned for in an
orderly manner. Idaho Code section 67-6526, requires that cities and counties
negotiate an area of city impact. (Ord. 27, 5-17-1976, eff. 5-27-1976)
11-1-2: CONSIDERATION:
The following factors were considered by the Planning and Zoning Commission and
the Fruitland City Council in the establishment of an area of City impact:
   A.   Trade area;
   B.   Geographic factors; and
   C.   Areas that can reasonably be expected to be annexed to the City of
Fruitland in the future. (Ord. 27, 5-17-1976, eff. 5-27-1976; 1996 Code)
11-1-3: GEOGRAPHIC AREA OF CITY IMPACT:
The officially adopted geographic area of City impact is shown on the map
entitled "City of Fruitland, Impact Area Map" attached to Ordinance 69 as
Exhibit B, on file in the office of the County Clerk, and incorporated herein
the same as if set out in full. (Ord. 27, 5-17-1976, eff. 5-27-1976; amd. Ord.
69, 5-6-1991)
11-1-4: PENALTY:
Any violation of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor punishable by not more
than six (6) months in the Payette County Jail or a fine of not more than
$1,000.00 or both. (Ord. 2023-02, 2-21-2023)
CHAPTER 2
PAYETTE AREA OF CITY IMPACT
SECTION:
11-2-1: Purpose
11-2-2: Consideration
11-2-3: Geographic Area Of City Impact
11-2-4: Penalty
11-2-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of establishing an area of city impact is to identify a logical
urban fringe area adjoining the city of Payette. The urban fringe area is
realizing, or will realize, development pressure that must be planned for in an
orderly manner. Idaho Code section 67-6526 requires that cities and counties
negotiate an area of city impact. (Ord. 29, 9-26-1977, eff. 9-29-1977)
11-2-2: CONSIDERATION:
The following factors were considered by the planning and zoning commission and
the Payette city council in the establishment of an area of city impact:
   A.   Trade area;
   B.   Geographic factors; and
   C.   Areas that can reasonably be expected to be annexed to the city of
Payette in the future. (Ord. 29, 9-26-1977, eff. 9-29-1977; amd. 1996 Code)
11-2-3: GEOGRAPHIC AREA OF CITY IMPACT:
The officially adopted geographic area of city impact is shown on the map
entitled "city of Payette, Payette County, Idaho, comp plan map" introduced as
exhibit A in the public hearing held October 25, 2010, which map is adopted
herein by reference, as if set out in full verbatim, and made a part of this
code. Three (3) copies of that map shall be kept in the office of the county
clerk and three (3) additional copies shall be kept in the office of the
planning and zoning administrator/building inspector. Copies thereof shall be
made available to members of the public upon request. (Ord. 2010-08, 10-25-
2010)
11-2-4: PENALTY:
Any violation of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor punishable by not more
than six (6) months in the Payette County Jail or a fine of not more than
$1,000.00 or both. (Ord. 2023-03, 2-21-2023)
TITLE 12
FLOOD CONTROL
CHAPTER 1
FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
SECTION:
12-1-1: Statutory Authorization, Findings Of Fact, Purpose, And Objectives
12-1-2: Definitions
12-1-3: General Provisions
12-1-4: Administration
12-1-5: Provisions For Flood Hazard Reduction
12-1-6: Legal Status Provisions
12-1-1: STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACT, PURPOSE, AND OBJECTIVES:
   A.   Statutory Authority: The legislature of the State of Idaho pursuant to
Idaho Code 46-1020 through 46-1024, authorized local government units to adopt
a floodplain map and floodplain management ordinance that identify floodplains
and minimum floodplain development standards to minimize flood hazards and
protect human life, health, and property. Therefore, the Board of County
Commissioners of Payette County, Idaho does hereby ordain as follows.
   B.   Findings Of Fact:
      1.   The flood hazard areas of Payette County are subject to periodic
inundation which adversely affects the public health, safety, and general
welfare that results in:
         a.   Loss of life and property;
         b.   Health and safety hazards;
         c.   Disruption of commerce and governmental services;
         d.   Extraordinary public expenditures for flood relief and
protection; and
         e.   Impairment of the tax base.
      2.   These flood losses are caused by natural forces and structures in
the flood hazard areas, which are inadequately elevated, flood-proofed, or
otherwise unprotected from flood damages, and by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in floodplains causing increases in flood heights and velocities.
      3.   Local government units have the primary responsibility for planning,
adopting, and enforcing land use regulations to accomplish proper floodplain
management.
      4.   Flooding is aggravated by the collection of debris upstream of the
many channel obstructions located in the floodplain areas. Such obstructions
include bridges, fences, houses, trees, etc. The accumulation of debris has
resulted in significantly higher water surface elevations upstream from the
obstructions than would otherwise be expected. Obstructions can and tend to
cause flooding to extend beyond anticipated FEMA 100-year flood boundaries at
points of debris accumulation which cannot be predicted.
      5.   All structures located roughly within the limits of the 500-year
floodplain are subject to inundation, if not directly impacted by the channel
itself, during floods of return frequencies of ten (10) to twenty (20) years.
This is due to the tendency of the channel to change abruptly, during high
water periods, because of the river's characteristics.
      6.   The levees built by private property owners may be considered by
FEMA to be inadequately designed or deteriorated such that they cannot be
classified as permanent structures capable of withstanding a 100-year flood;
and, therefore, may result in higher risk and be included in the area of
special flood hazard.
      7.   Encroachments (i.e., houses, fill, etc.) on floodplains reduce the
flood carrying capacity and increase flood heights, thus increasing flood
hazards beyond the encroachment. With every new structure or other development
since the FEMA 100-year flood boundary was determined, the ability of the
floodplain to function changes.
      8.   The Payette and Snake Rivers and their tributaries and floodplains
in Payette County are essential to the well being of its citizens as a source
of recreation, fish and wildlife habitat, aesthetic beauty, and a source of
irrigation water as well as other economic and lifestyle values.
      9.   Development adjacent to waterways has had a direct effect on the
natural stream by destroying or greatly altering fish and wildlife habitat and
by unnaturally armoring the banks of the waterways to prevent erosion and
damage riparian areas thus resulting in increased risk to manmade structures.
   C.   Statement Of Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to promote public
health, safety, and general welfare and to minimize public and private losses
due to flood conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
      1.   Protect human life, health and property;
      2.   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water
purification and sewage treatment plants, water and gas mains, electric,
telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located in floodplains;
      3.   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas;
      4.   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
      5.   Minimize the need for rescue and emergency services associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
      6.   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
      7.   Ensure those who occupy the areas of special flood hazard assume
responsibility for their actions;
      8.   Through the building permit process require those who occupy the
areas of special flood hazard to assume responsibility for their flood risk.
   D.   Objectives And Methods Of Reducing Flood Losses: In order to accomplish
its purpose, this chapter includes methods and provisions to:
      1.   Require that development that is vulnerable to floods, including
structures and facilities necessary for the general health, safety and welfare
of citizens, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
      2.   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety and
property due to water or erosion hazards, or which increase flood heights,
velocities, or erosion;
      3.   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase flood damage or erosion;
      4.   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers that will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or that may increase flood hazards to other
lands;
      5.   Preserve and restore natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers which carry and store floodwaters. (Ord. 2017-4, 6-
28-2017)
12-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter shall
be interpreted according to the meaning they have in common usage and to give
this chapter its most reasonable application.
ACCESSORY STRUCTURE: A structure on the same lot or parcel as a principal
structure, the use of which is incidental and subordinate to the principal
structure.
ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING BUILDING): An extension or increase in the floor area
or height of a building or structure.
ADJACENT: Next to or contiguous with.
APPEAL: A request for review of the Floodplain Administrator's interpretation
of provisions of this chapter or request for a variance.
AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING: A designated AO, AH, AR/AO, or AR/AH Zone on a
community's flood insurance rate map (FIRM) with a one percent (1%) or greater
annual chance of flooding to an average depth of one foot (1') to three feet
(3') where a clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding
is unpredictable and indeterminate, and where velocity flow may be evident.
Such flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD: See definition of special flood hazard area
(SFHA).
AS-BUILT: Surveyed plans certifying the fill, cut or construction of a
development.
BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year.
BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE): A determination by the Federal Insurance
Administrator of the water surface elevations of the base flood, that is, the
flood level that has a one percent (1%) or greater chance of occurrence in any
given year. When the BFE has not been provided in a special flood hazard area,
it may be obtained from engineering studies available from a Federal, State, or
other source using FEMA-approved engineering methodologies. This elevation,
when combined with the freeboard, establishes the flood protection elevation.
BASEMENT: Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
BUILDING: See definition of structure.
CERTIFICATION: Stamped and signed plans or document by a professional engineer
or surveyor licensed in the State of Idaho.
CRITICAL FACILITY: Facilities that are vital to flood response activities or
critical to the health and safety of the public before, during, and after a
flood, such as a hospital, emergency operations center, electric substation,
police station, fire station, nursing home, school, vehicle and equipment
storage facility, or shelter; and facilities that, if flooded, would make the
flood problem and its impacts much worse, such as a hazardous materials
facility, power generation facility, water utility, or wastewater treatment
plant.
DATUM: The vertical datum is a base measurement point (or set of points) from
which all elevations are determined. Historically, that common set of points
has been the National Geodetic Vertical Datum of 1929 (NGVD29). The vertical
datum currently adopted by the Federal government as a basis for measuring
heights is the North American Vertical Datum of 1988 (NAVD88).
DEVELOPMENT: Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations, or storage of
equipment or materials.
DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITY: Any activity defined as development which will
necessitate a floodplain development permit; such as: the construction of
buildings, structures, or accessory structures; additions or substantial
improvements to existing structures; bulkheads, retaining walls, piers, and
pools; the placement of mobile homes; or the deposition or extraction of
materials; the construction or elevation of dikes, berms and levees.
DIGITAL FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (DFIRM): The digital official map of a
community, issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency, on which both the
special flood hazard areas and the risk premium zones applicable to the
community are delineated.
ELEVATED BUILDING: For insurance purposes, a non-basement building which has
its lowest elevated floor raised above ground level by foundation walls, shear
walls, posts, piers, pilings, or columns.
ELEVATION CERTIFICATE: The elevation certificate is an important administrative
tool of the NFIP. It is used to determine the proper flood insurance premium
rate; it is used to document elevation information necessary to ensure
compliance with community floodplain management regulations; and it may be used
to support a request for a Letter of Map Amendment (LOMA) or Letter of Map
Revision Based on Fill (LOMR-F).
ENCLOSURE: An area enclosed by solid walls below the BFE/FPE or an area formed
when any space below the BFE/FPE is enclosed on all sides by walls or
partitions. Insect screening or open wood lattice used to surround space below
the BFE/RFPE is not considered an enclosure.
ENCROACHMENT: The advance or infringement of uses, fill, excavation, buildings,
structures, or development into a floodplain, which may impede or alter the
flow capacity of a floodplain.
EXISTING CONSTRUCTION: For the purposes of determining rates, a structure for
which the "start of construction" commenced before the effective date of the
FIRM or before February 15, 1984.
EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision where the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and final site grading
or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date of the
original floodplain management regulations adopted by the community, February
15, 1984.
EXISTING STRUCTURES: See definition of existing construction.
EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: The preparation
of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed, including the installation of
utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the
pouring of concrete pads.
FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (FEMA): The agency with the overall
responsibility for administering the National Flood Insurance Program.
FLOOD ELEVATION DETERMINATION: See definition of base flood elevation (BFE).
FLOOD ELEVATION STUDY: See definition of Flood Insurance Study (FIS).
FLOOD FRINGE: The portion of the floodplain outside of the floodway covered by
floodwaters during the regulatory flood.
FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM): An official map of a community, issued by the
Federal Insurance Administrator, where the boundaries of the flood, mudslide
(i.e., mudflow) related erosion areas having special hazards have been
designated as Zones A, M, and/or E.
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM): An official map of a community, on which the
Federal Insurance Administrator has delineated both the special flood hazard
areas and the risk premium zones applicable to the community. A FIRM that has
been made available digitally is called a Digital Flood Insurance Rate Map
(DFIRM).
FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS): An examination, evaluation, and determination of
flood hazards and, if appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations; or
an examination, evaluation and determination of mudslide (i.e., mudflow) and/or
flood-related erosion hazards.
FLOOD OR FLOODING: A. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
   1.    The overflow of inland or tidal waters.
   2.    The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   3.    Mudslides (i.e., mudflows) which are proximately caused by flooding as
defined in subsection A2 of this definition and are akin to a river of liquid
and flowing mud on the surfaces of normally dry land areas, as when earth is
carried by a current of water and deposited along the path of the current.
   B.   The collapse or subsidence of land along the shore of a lake or other
body of water as a result of erosion or undermining caused by waves or currents
of water exceeding anticipated cyclical levels or suddenly caused by an
unusually high water level in a natural body of water, accompanied by a severe
storm, or by an unanticipated force of nature, such as flash flood or an
abnormal tidal surge, or by some similarly unusual and unforeseeable event
which results in flooding as defined in subsection A1 of this definition.
FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (FPE): The base flood elevation plus the freeboard.
   A.   In "special flood hazard areas" where base flood elevations (BFEs) have
been determined, this elevation shall be the BFE plus two feet (2') of
freeboard; and
   B.   In "special flood hazard areas" where no BFE has been established, this
elevation shall be at least three feet (3') above the highest adjacent grade.
FLOOD ZONE: A geographical area shown on a Flood Hazard Boundary Map (FHBM) or
Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) that reflects the severity or type of flooding
in the area.
FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR: The individual appointed to administer and enforce
the floodplain management regulations.
FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT: Any type of permit that is required in
conformance with the provisions of this chapter, prior to the commencement of
any development activity.
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT: The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage, including but not limited to
emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, and floodplain management
regulations.
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS: Zoning ordinances, subdivision regulations,
building codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances (such as a
floodplain ordinance, grading ordinance, and erosion control ordinance), and
other applications of police power. The term describes such State or local
regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide standards for the
purpose of flood damage prevention and reduction.
FLOODPLAIN OR FLOOD-PRONE AREA: Any land area susceptible to being inundated by
water from any source (see definition of "flooding").
FLOODPROOFING: Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
FLOODWAY: The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation.
FREEBOARD: A factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level for
the purposes of floodplain management. Freeboard tends to compensate for the
many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than the
height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such as
wave action, obstructed bridge openings, debris and ice jams and the hydrologic
effects of urbanization in a watershed. The base flood elevation (BFE) plus the
freeboard establishes the flood protection elevation (FPE). Freeboard shall be
two feet (2').
FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT FACILITY: A facility that cannot be used for its
intended purpose unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to
water, such as a docking or port facility necessary for the loading and
unloading of cargo or passengers, shipbuilding, or ship repair facilities. The
term does not include long term storage, manufacture, sales, or service
facilities.
HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE (HAG): The highest natural elevation of the ground
surface prior to construction, adjacent to the proposed walls of a structure.
Refer to the elevation certificate for HAG related to building elevation
information.
HISTORIC STRUCTURE: A structure that is:
   A.   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the U.S. Department of Interior) or preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing on the National Register.
   B.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior
as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic
district or to a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to qualify
as a registered historic district.
   C.   Individually listed on a State Inventory of Historic Places and
determined as eligible by states with historic preservation programs which have
been approved by the Secretary of the Interior, or
   D.   Individually listed on a local Inventory of Historic Places and
determined as eligible by communities with historic preservation programs that
have been certified either:
   1.    By an approved State program as determined by the Secretary of the
Interior, or
   2.    Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without approved
programs.
LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC): A general term used to refer to the several types
of revisions and amendments to FEMA maps that can be accomplished by letter.
They include Letter of Map Amendment (LOMA), Letter of Map Revision (LOMR),
Letter of Map Revision Based on Fill (LOMR-F) and Conditional Letter of Map
Revision CLOMR):
   Conditional Letter Of Map Revision (CLOMR): A formal review and comment by
FEMA as to whether a proposed flood protection project or other project
complies with the minimum NFIP requirements for such projects with respect to
delineation of special flood hazard areas. A CLOMR does not revise the
effective Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) or Flood Insurance Study (FIS). Upon
submission and approval of certified as-built documentation, a Letter of Map
Revision (LOMR) may be issued by FEMA to revise the effective FIRM. Building
permits cannot be issued based on a CLOMR, because a CLOMR does not change the
NFIP map.
   Letter Of Map Amendment (LOMA): An official amendment, by letter, to an
effective National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) map. An LOMA establishes a
property's location in relation to the special flood hazard area (SFHA). LOMAs
are usually issued because a property has been inadvertently mapped as being in
the floodplain but is actually on natural high ground above the base flood
elevation.
   Letter Of Map Revision (LOMR):   FEMA's modification to an effective Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) or a Flood Boundary and Floodway Map (FBFM) or both.
LOMRs are generally based on the implementation of physical measures that
affect the hydrologic or hydraulic characteristics of a flooding source and
thus result in the modification of the existing regulatory floodway, the
effective base flood elevations (BFEs), or the special flood hazard area
(SFHA). The LOMR officially revises the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) or
Flood Boundary and Floodway Map (FBFM), and sometimes the Flood Insurance Study
(FIS) report, and when appropriate, includes a description of the
modifications. The LOMR is generally accompanied by an annotated copy of the
affected portions of the FIRM, FBFM, or FIS report.
   Letter Of Map Revision Based On Fill (LOMR-F):   FEMA's modification of the
special flood hazard area (SFHA) shown on the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM)
based on the placement of fill outside the existing regulatory floodway. The
LOMR-F does not change the FIRM, FBFM, or FIS report.
LEVEE: A manmade structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed according to sound engineering practices, to contain, control, or
divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary flooding.
LEVEE SYSTEM: A flood protection system that consists of a levee, or levees,
and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are
constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE (LAG): The lowest point of the ground level adjacent to
the structure. Refer to the FEMA Elevation Certificate for LAG related to
building elevation information.
LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, used solely for parking
of vehicles, building access, or storage, in an area other than a basement area
is not considered a building's lowest floor; provided, that such enclosure is
not built so as to render the structure in violation of the applicable non-
elevation design requirements of 44 CFR section 60.3 and this chapter.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure, transportable in one or more sections, built on
a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a permanent
foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term "manufactured
home" does not include a "recreational vehicle".
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land
divided into two (2) or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
MARKET VALUE: The building value, not including the land value and that of any
accessory structures or other improvements on the lot. Market value may be
established by independent certified appraisal; replacement cost depreciated
for age of building and quality of construction (actual cash value); or
adjusted tax assessed values.
MEAN SEA LEVEL: For purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP),
the National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 or other datum, to which
base flood elevations shown on a community's FIRM are referenced.
MUDSLIDE (i.e., MUDFLOW): Describes a condition where there is a river, flow,
or inundation of liquid mud down a hillside usually as a result of a dual
condition of loss of brush cover and the subsequent accumulation of water on
the ground preceded by a period of unusually heavy or sustained rain. A
mudslide (i.e., mudflow) may occur as a distinct phenomenon while a landslide
is in progress, and will be recognized as such by the Administrator only if the
mudflow, and not the landslide, is the proximate cause of damage that occurs.
MUDSLIDE (i.e., MUDFLOW) AREA MANAGEMENT: The operation of an overall program
of corrective and preventive measures for reducing mudslide (i.e., mudflow)
damage, including but not limited to emergency preparedness plans, mudslide
control works, and floodplain management regulations.
MUDSLIDE (i.e., MUDFLOW) PRONE AREA: An area with land surfaces and slopes of
unconsolidated material where the history, geology, and climate indicate a
potential for mudflow.
NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM (NFIP): The NFIP is a Federal program created
by Congress to mitigate future flood losses nationwide through sound,
community-enforced building and zoning ordinances and to provide access to
affordable, Federally backed flood insurance protection for property owners.
NEW CONSTRUCTION: For floodplain management purposes, a structure for which the
start of construction commenced on or after the effective date of a floodplain
management regulation adopted by a community and includes any subsequent
improvements to such structures.
Any construction started after February 15, 1984 and before the effective start
date of this chapter is subject to the ordinance in effect at the time the
permit was issued, provided the start of construction was within one hundred
eighty (180) days of permit issuance.
POST-FIRM: Construction or other development for which the "start of
construction" occurred on or after the effective date of the initial Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM).
PRE-FIRM: Construction or other development for which the "start of
construction" occurred before February 15, 1984, the effective date of the
initial Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM).
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicle that is:
   A.   Built on a single chassis,
   B.   Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection,
   C.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towed by a light duty
truck, and
   D.   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
REGULATORY FLOODWAY: See definition of floodway.
REMEDY A VIOLATION: To bring the structure or other development into compliance
with State or local floodplain management regulations, or, if this is not
possible, to reduce the impacts of its non-compliance. Ways that impacts may be
reduced include protecting the structure or other affected development from
flood damages, implementing the enforcement provisions of this chapter or
otherwise deterring future similar violations, or reducing Federal financial
exposure with regard to the structure or other development.
REPETITIVE LOSS STRUCTURE: An NFIP-insured structure that has had at least two
(2) paid flood losses of more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) each in any
10-year period since 1978.
RIVERINE: Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook, etc.
SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA): The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a one percent (1%) or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
For purposes of these regulations, the term "special flood hazard area" is
synonymous in meaning with the phrase "area of special flood hazard".
START OF CONSTRUCTION: Includes substantial improvement and means the date the
building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair,
reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement, or other improvement was
within one hundred eighty (180) days of the permit date. The actual start means
either the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site,
such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the
construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the
placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does
not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading, and filling; nor does
it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include
excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or foundations or the erection of
temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of
accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or
not part of the main structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual start
of construction means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or
other structural part of a building, whether or not the alteration affects the
external dimensions of a building.
STRUCTURE: A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage tank
that is principally aboveground, as well as a manufactured home.
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the
cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal or
exceed fifty percent (50%) of its market value before the damage occurred. (See
definition of "substantial improvement".) Substantial damage also means flood-
related damage sustained by a structure on two (2) separate occasions during a
10-year period for which the cost of repairs at the time of each such flood
event, on the average, equals or exceeds twenty five percent (25%) of the
market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other
improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent
(50%) of the market value of the structure before the "start of construction"
of the improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred
"substantial damage", regardless of the actual amount of repair work performed.
The market value of the structure should be: a) the appraised value of the
structure prior to the start of the initial repair or improvement, or b) in the
case of damage, the value of the structure prior to the damage occurring. The
term does not include either:
   A.   A project for improvement of a structure to correct existing violations
of State or local Health, Sanitary, or Safety Code specifications, which have
been identified by the local Code enforcement official and which are the
minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions, or
   B.   Any alteration of a "historic structure", provided that the alteration
will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a "historic
structure" and the alteration is approved by variance issued pursuant to this
chapter.
TECHNICAL BULLETINS AND TECHNICAL FACT SHEETS:   FEMA publications that provide
guidance concerning the building performance standards of the NFIP, which are
contained in title 44 of the U.S. Code of Federal Regulations section 60.3. The
bulletins and fact sheets are intended for use primarily by State and local
officials responsible for interpreting and enforcing NFIP regulations and by
members of the development community, such as design professionals and
builders. New bulletins, as well as updates of existing bulletins, are issued
periodically as needed. The bulletins do not create regulations. Rather they
provide specific guidance for complying with the minimum requirements of
existing NFIP regulations.
It should be noted that Technical Bulletins and Technical Fact Sheets provide
guidance on the minimum requirements of the NFIP regulations. State or
community requirements that exceed those of the NFIP take precedence. Design
professionals should contact the community officials to determine whether more
restrictive State or local regulations apply to the building or site in
question. All applicable standards of the State or local Building Code must
also be met for any building in a flood hazard area.
TEMPERATURE CONTROLLED: Having the temperature regulated by a heating and/or
cooling system, built-in or appliance.
VARIANCE: A grant of relief by the Governing Body from a requirement of this
chapter.
VIOLATION: The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community's floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the Finished Construction Elevation Certificate,
other certifications, or other evidence of compliance required in 44 CFR
section 60.3(b)(5), (c)(4), (c)(10), (d)(3), (e)(2), (e)(4), or (e)(5) is
presumed to be in violation until such time as that documentation is provided.
WATER SURFACE ELEVATION: The height, in relation to the National Geodetic
Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 or the North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) of
1988 (or other specified datum) of floods of various magnitudes and frequencies
in the floodplains of coastal or riverine areas.
WATERCOURSE: A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel, or other topographic
feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically. Watercourse
includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood damage may
occur. (Ord. 2017-4, 6-28-2017)
12-1-3: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Lands To Which This Chapter Applies: This chapter shall apply to all
special flood hazard areas within the jurisdiction of Payette County. Nothing
in this chapter is intended to allow uses or structures that are otherwise
prohibited by the zoning ordinance.
   B.   Basis For Special Flood Hazard Area: The special flood hazard areas
identified by the Federal Emergency Management Agency in its flood insurance
study (FIS) for Payette County, Idaho, unincorporated areas dated August 15,
1983, with accompanying flood insurance rate maps (FIRMs) or digital flood
insurance rate maps (DFIRM), and other supporting data, are hereby adopted by
reference and declared a part of this chapter. The FIS and the FIRMs are on
file at the Office of the Payette County Clerk, 1130 3rd Avenue N., Payette,
Idaho. In addition, the best available information for flood hazard area
identification as outlined in subsection
12-1-4C1c of this chapter shall be the basis for regulation until a new FIRM,
letter of map amendment, or letter of map revision is issued by FEMA that
incorporates data utilized under subsection
12-1-4C1c of this chapter. Maps and historical data depicting the best
available information used as the basis for regulation, including engineering
studies submitted as required in subsection
12-1-4C1c of this chapter, are adopted by reference and declared a part of this
chapter. Said information will also be on file at the offices of Payette
County.
   C.   Establishment Of Floodplain Development Permit: A floodplain
development permit shall be required in conformance with the provisions of this
chapter prior to the commencement of any development activities in special
flood hazard areas determined in accordance with the provisions of section
12-1-4 of this chapter.
   D.   Compliance: No structure or land shall hereafter be located, extended,
converted, altered, or developed in any way without full compliance with the
terms of this chapter and other applicable regulations.
   E.   Abrogation And Greater Restrictions: This chapter shall not in any way
repeal, abrogate, impair, or remove the necessity of compliance with any other
laws, ordinances, regulations, easements, covenants, or deed restrictions,
etcetera. However, where this chapter and another conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes more stringent or greater restrictions shall control.
   F.   Interpretation: In the interpretation and application of this chapter
all provisions shall be:
      1.   Considered as minimum requirements;
      2.   Liberally construed in favor of the Governing Body; and
      3.   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
State Statutes.
   G.   Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability: The degree of flood protection
required by this chapter is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and
is based on scientific and engineering considerations. Larger floods can and
will occur. Flood heights may be increased by manmade or natural causes. This
chapter does not imply that land outside the special flood hazard areas or uses
permitted within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This
chapter shall not create liability on the part of Payette County or by any
officer or employee thereof for flood damages that result from reliance on this
chapter or an administrative decision lawfully made hereunder.
   H.   Penalties For Violation: No structure or land shall hereafter be
located, extended, converted, or altered unless in full compliance with the
terms of this chapter and other applicable regulations.
Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any of
its requirements, including violation of conditions and safeguards established
in connection with grants of variance or special exceptions, shall constitute a
misdemeanor. Any person who violates this chapter or fails to comply with any
of its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or imprisoned for not more than one year, or both.
Each day the violation continues shall be considered a separate offense.
Nothing herein contained shall prevent the Payette County from taking such
other lawful actions as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation. (Ord.
2017-4, 6-28-2017)
12-1-4: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Designation Of Floodplain Ordinance Administrator: The Planning and
Zoning Administrator, hereinafter referred to as the "Floodplain
Administrator", is hereby appointed to administer and implement the provisions
of this chapter.
   B.   Duties And Responsibilities Of The Floodplain Administrator: The
Floodplain Administrator shall perform, but not be limited to, the following
duties:
      1.   Review all floodplain development applications and issue permits for
all proposed development within special flood hazard areas to assure that the
requirements of this ordinance have been satisfied.
      2.   Review all proposed development with special flood hazard areas to
assure that all necessary local, State, and Federal permits have been received,
including section 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of
1972, 33 USC 1334.
      3.   Notify adjacent communities and the Idaho Department of Water
Resources State Coordinator for the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP)
prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse and submit evidence of
such notification to the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA).
      4.   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is maintained.
      5.   Prevent encroachments into floodways and flood fringe areas unless
the certification and flood hazard reduction provisions of subsection
12-1-5F of this chapter are met.
      6.   Obtain actual elevation from applicant (in relation to mean sea
level) of the reference level (including basement) and all attendant utilities
of all new and substantially improved structures, in accordance with the
provisions of subsection C4 of this section.
      7.   Obtain actual elevation from applicant (in relation to mean sea
level) to which all new and substantially improved structures and utilities
have been floodproofed, in accordance with the provisions of subsection C4 of
this section.
      8.   Obtain actual elevation from applicant (in relation to mean sea
level) of all public utilities in accordance with the provisions of subsection
C4 of this section.
      9.   When floodproofing is utilized for a particular structure, obtain
certifications from a registered professional engineer or architect in
accordance with the provisions of subsection C4 of this section and subsection
12-1-5C2 of this chapter.
      10.   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of
boundaries of the special flood hazard areas, floodways, or flood fringe areas
(for example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary
and actual field conditions), make the necessary interpretation. The person
contesting the location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity
to appeal the interpretation as provided in this chapter.
      11.   When base flood elevation (BFE) data has not been provided in
accordance with the provisions of subsection
12-1-3B of this chapter, obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any BFE data,
along with floodway data or flood fringe area data available from a Federal,
State, or other source, including data developed pursuant to subsection
12-1-5D2 of this chapter, in order to administer the provisions of this
chapter.
      12.   When base flood elevation (BFE) data is provided but no floodway or
flood fringe area data has been provided in accordance with the provisions of
subsection
12-1-3B of this chapter, obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any floodway
data or flood fringe area data available from a Federal, State, or other source
in order to administer the provisions of this chapter.
      13.   When the lowest floor and the lowest adjacent grade of a structure
or the lowest ground elevation of a parcel in a special flood hazard area
(SFHA) is above the base flood elevation (BFE), advise the property owner of
the option to apply for a letter of map amendment (LOMA) from FEMA. Maintain a
copy of the LOMA issued by FEMA in the floodplain development permit file.
      14.   Permanently maintain all records that pertain to the administration
of this chapter and make these records available for public inspection,
recognizing that such information may be subject to the Privacy Act of 1974, as
amended.
      15.   Make on-site inspections of work in progress. As the work pursuant
to a floodplain development permit progresses, the Floodplain Administrator
shall make as many inspections of the work as may be necessary to ensure that
the work is being done according to the provisions of the local ordinance and
the terms of the permit. In exercising this power, the Floodplain Administrator
has a right, upon presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises
within the jurisdiction of the community at any reasonable hour for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action.
      16.   Issue stop-work orders as required. Whenever a building or part
thereof is being constructed, reconstructed, altered, or repaired in violation
of this chapter, the Floodplain Administrator may order the work to be
immediately stopped. The stop-work order shall be in writing and directed to
the person doing or in charge of the work. The stop-work order shall state the
specific work to be stopped, the specific reason(s) for the stoppage, and the
condition(s) under which the work may be resumed. Violation of a stop-work
order constitutes a misdemeanor.
      17.   Revoke floodplain development permits as required. The Floodplain
Administrator may revoke and require the return of the floodplain development
permit by notifying the permit holder in writing stating the reason(s) for the
revocation. Permits shall be revoked for any substantial departure from the
approved application, plans, and specifications; for refusal or failure to
comply with the requirements of State or local laws; or for false statements or
misrepresentations made in securing the permit. Any floodplain development
permit mistakenly issued in violation of an applicable State or local law may
also be revoked.
      18.   Make periodic inspections throughout the special flood hazard areas
within the jurisdiction of the community. The Floodplain Administrator and each
member of his or her Inspections Department shall have a right, upon
presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises within the
territorial jurisdiction of the department at any reasonable hour for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action.
      19.   Follow through with corrective procedures of subsection E of this
section.
      20.   Review, provide input, and make recommendations for variance
requests.
      21.   Maintain a current map repository to include, but not limited to,
the FIS Report, FIRM and other official flood maps, and studies adopted in
accordance with the provisions of subsection
12-1-3B of this chapter, including any revisions thereto including letters of
map change, issued by FEMA. Notify the NFIP State Coordinator and FEMA of your
community's mapping needs.
      22.   Coordinate revisions to FIS reports and FIRMs, including letters of
map revision based on fill (LOMR-Fs) and letters of map revision (LOMRs).
   C.   Floodplain Development Application, Permit, And Certification
Requirements:
      1.   Application Requirements: Application for a floodplain development
permit shall be made to the Floodplain Administrator prior to any development
activities located within special flood hazard areas. The following items shall
be presented to the Floodplain Administrator to apply for a floodplain
development permit:
         a.   A plot plan in duplicate drawn to scale which shall include, but
shall not be limited to, the following specific details of the proposed
floodplain development:
            (1)   The nature, location, dimensions, and elevations of the area
of development/disturbance; existing and proposed structures, utility systems,
grading/pavement areas, fill materials, storage areas, drainage facilities, and
other development;
            (2)   The boundary of the special flood hazard area as delineated
on the FIRM or other flood map as determined in subsection
12-1-3B of this chapter, or a statement that the entire lot is within the
special flood hazard area;
            (3)   The flood zone(s) designation of the proposed development
area as determined on the FIRM or other flood map as determined in subsection
12-1-3B of this chapter;
            (4)   The boundary of the floodway(s) or flood fringe area(s) as
determined in subsection
12-1-3B of this chapter;
            (5)   The base flood elevation (BFE) where provided as set forth in
subsection
12-1-3B, C, or
12-1-5D of this chapter;
            (6)   The old and new location of any watercourse that will be
altered or relocated as a result of proposed development; and
            (7)   The certification of the plot plan elevation and scale by a
registered land surveyor or professional engineer.
         b.   Proposed elevation, and method thereof, of all development within
a special flood hazard area including, but not limited to:
            (1)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level of the proposed
reference level (including basement) of all structures;
            (2)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any non-
residential structure in Zone A, AE, AH, AO or A1-30 will be floodproofed; and
            (3)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any proposed
utility systems will be elevated or floodproofed.
         c.   If base flood elevation data or floodway data are not available
from the most current FIS and FIRM, or from a Federal or State source, then it
shall be developed independently by the applicant through analysis by a
registered professional engineer using FEMA-approved engineering methodologies
described in Managing Floodplain Development in Approximate Zone A Areas
(1995), or A Summary of NFIP Policy for Local Officials.
         d.   If base flood and floodway data are from other than a current
FIRM, and are less restrictive than the current FIRM, the information shall be
submitted to FEMA to obtain a letter of map change before construction occurs
under a floodplain development permit. Otherwise the current FIRM shall be
used.
         e.   If floodproofing, a floodproofing certificate (FEMA Form 086-0-
33) with supporting data, an operational plan, and an inspection and
maintenance plan that include, but are not limited to, installation, exercise,
and maintenance of floodproofing measures.
         f.   A foundation plan, drawn to scale, which shall include details of
the proposed foundation system to ensure all provisions of this chapter are
met. These details include, but are not limited to:
            (1)   The proposed method of elevation, if applicable (i.e., fill,
solid foundation perimeter wall, solid backfilled foundation, open foundation,
or on columns/posts/piers/piles/shear walls); and
            (2)   Openings to facilitate automatic equalization of hydrostatic
flood forces on walls in accordance with subsections
12-1-5B8b(1) through B8b(6) of this chapter when solid foundation perimeter
walls are used in Zones A, AE, AH, AO, and A1-30.
         g.   Usage details of any enclosed areas below the lowest floor.
         h.   Plans and/or details for the protection of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems to be located and
constructed to minimize flood damage.
         i.   Copies of all other local, State, and Federal permits, including
studies and mitigation plans for wetlands, required prior to floodplain
development permit issuance.
         j.   Documentation for placement of recreational vehicles and/or
temporary structures, when applicable, to ensure that the provisions of
subsections
12-1-5C5 and C6 of this chapter are met.
         k.   A description of proposed watercourse alteration or relocation,
when applicable, including an engineering report on the effects of the proposed
project on the flood-carrying capacity of the watercourse and the effects to
properties located both upstream and downstream; and
         l.   A map (if not shown on plot plan) showing the location of the
proposed watercourse alteration or relocation.
         m.   The Administrator may require additional information if necessary
to determine impacts to special flood hazard areas or to ensure that the
development mitigates such impacts.
      2.   Technical Review:
         a.   A technical review will be required to evaluate the technical
data that is part of the application. The applicant will pay the costs of an
independent technical review.
      3.   Permit Requirements: The floodplain development permit shall
include, but not be limited to:
         a.   A complete description of all the development to be permitted
under the floodplain development permit (i.e., house, garage, pool, septic,
bulkhead, cabana, pole barn, chicken coop, pier, bridge, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations, or storage of
equipment or materials, etcetera).
         b.   The special flood hazard area determination for the proposed
development in accordance with available data specified in subsection
12-1-3B of this chapter.
         c.   The flood protection elevation required for the protection of all
public utilities.
         d.   All certification submittal requirements with timelines.
Certificate deficiencies identified by the Floodplain Administrator shall be
corrected by the permit holder immediately and prior to work proceeding.
Failure to submit certification or failure to make the corrections shall be
cause for the Floodplain Administrator to issue a stop work order for the
project.
         e.   A statement that no fill material or other development shall
encroach into the floodway or flood fringe area of any watercourse, as
applicable.
         f.   The flood openings requirement, if in Zones A, AE, AH, AO, or A1-
30.
         g.   All floodplain development permits shall be conditional upon the
start of construction of work within one hundred eighty (180) days. A
floodplain development permit shall expire one hundred eighty (180) days after
issuance unless the permitted activity has commenced as per the start of
construction definition. This time may be extended upon written request if
applicant can demonstrate project is delayed due to a review process.
         h.   A statement of the limitations of below BFE enclosure uses, if
applicable (i.e., parking, building access and limited storage only).
         i.   A statement that all materials below BFE/FPE must be flood
resistant materials.
      4.   Certification Requirements:
         a.   Elevation Certificates:
            (1)   An Elevation Certificate (FEMA Form 86-0-33) is required
prior to the actual start of any new construction. It shall be the duty of the
permit holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the
elevation of the reference level, in relation to mean sea level. The Floodplain
Administrator shall review the certificate data submitted. Deficiencies
detected by such review shall be corrected by the permit holder prior to the
beginning of construction. Failure to submit the certification or failure to
make required corrections shall be cause to deny a floodplain development
permit.
            (2)   An Elevation Certificate (FEMA Form 86-0-33) is required
after the reference level is established. Within seven (7) calendar days of
establishment of the reference level elevation, it shall be the duty of the
permit holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the
elevation of the reference level, in relation to mean sea level. Any work done
within the seven (7) day calendar period and prior to submission of the
certification shall be at the permit holder's risk. The Floodplain
Administrator shall review the certificate data submitted. Deficiencies
detected by such review shall be corrected by the permit holder immediately and
prior to further work being permitted to proceed. Failure to submit the
certification or failure to make required corrections shall be cause to issue a
stop-work order for the project.
            (3)   A final as-built Finished Construction Elevation Certificate
(FEMA Form 86-0-33) is required after construction is completed and prior to
Certificate of Compliance/Occupancy issuance. It shall be the duty of the
permit holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of
final as-built construction of the elevation of the reference level and all
attendant utilities. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate
data submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the
permit holder immediately and prior to Certificate of Compliance/Occupancy
issuance. In some instances, another certification may be required to certify
corrected as-built construction. Failure to submit the certification or failure
to make required corrections shall be cause to withhold the issuance of a
Certificate of Compliance/Occupancy.
The Finished Construction Elevation Certificate certifier shall provide at
least two (2) photographs showing the front and rear of the building taken
within ninety (90) days from the date of certification. The photographs must be
taken with views confirming the building description and diagram number
provided in subsection A of the elevation certificate. To the extent possible,
these photographs should show the entire building including foundation. If the
building has split-level or multi-level areas, provide at least two (2)
additional photographs showing side views of the building. In addition, when
applicable, provide a photograph of the foundation showing a representative
example of the flood openings or vents. All photographs must be in color and
measure at least 3" x 3". Digital photographs are acceptable.
         b.   Floodproofing Certificate: If non-residential floodproofing is
used to meet the flood protection elevation requirements, a Floodproofing
Certificate (FEMA Form 086-0-34), with supporting data, an operational plan,
and an inspection and maintenance plan are required prior to the actual start
of any new construction. It shall be the duty of the permit holder to submit to
the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the floodproofed design
elevation of the reference level and all attendant utilities, in relation to
mean sea level. Floodproofing certification shall be prepared by or under the
direct supervision of a professional engineer or architect and certified by
same. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate data, the
operational plan, and the inspection and maintenance plan. Deficiencies
detected by such review shall be corrected by the applicant prior to permit
approval. Failure to submit the certification or failure to make required
corrections shall be cause to deny a floodplain development permit. Failure to
construct in accordance with the certified design shall be cause to withhold
the issuance of a Certificate of Compliance/Occupancy.
         c.   Manufactured Homes: If a manufactured home is placed within Zone
A, AE, AH, AO, or A1-30 and the elevation of the chassis is more than thirty
six inches (36") in height above grade, an engineered foundation certification
is required in accordance with the provisions of subsection
12-1-5C3b of this chapter.
         d.   Watercourses: If a watercourse is to be altered or relocated, the
following shall all be submitted by the permit applicant prior to issuance of a
floodplain development permit:
            (1)   A description of the extent of watercourse alteration or
relocation; and
            (2)   A professional engineer's certified report on the effects of
the proposed project on the flood-carrying capacity of the watercourse and the
effects to properties located both upstream and downstream; and
            (3)   A map showing the location of the proposed watercourse
alteration or relocation; and
            (4)   An Idaho stream channel alteration permit approval shall be
provided by the applicant to the Floodplain Administrator.
         e.   Certification Exemptions: The following structures, if located
within Zone A, AE, AH, AO, or A1-30, are exempt from the elevation/
floodproofing certification requirements specified in subsections C4a and C4b
of this section:
            (1)   Recreational vehicles meeting requirements of subsection
12-1-5C5 of this chapter;
            (2)   Temporary structures meeting requirements of subsection 12-1-
5C6 of this chapter; and
            (3)   Accessory structures less than two hundred (200) square feet
meeting requirements of subsection
12-1-5C7 of this chapter.
      5.   Determinations For Existing Buildings And Structures: For
applications for building permits to improve buildings and structures,
including alterations, movement, enlargement, replacement, repair, change of
occupancy, additions, rehabilitations, renovations, substantial improvements,
repairs of substantial damage, and any other improvement of or work on such
buildings and structures, the Floodplain Administrator, in coordination with
the building official, shall:
         a.   Estimate the market value, or require the applicant to obtain an
appraisal of the market value prepared by a qualified independent appraiser, of
the building or structure before the start of construction of the proposed
work. In the case of repair, the market value of the building or structure
shall be the market value before the damage occurred and before any repairs are
made;
         b.   Compare the cost to perform the improvement, the cost to repair a
damaged building to its pre-damaged condition, or the combined costs of
improvements and repairs, if applicable, to the market value of the building or
structure;
         c.   Determine and document whether the proposed work constitutes
substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage; and
         d.   Notify the applicant if it is determined that the work
constitutes substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage and that
compliance with the flood resistant construction requirements of the adopted
International Building Code as adopted by the State of Idaho and this chapter
is required.
   D.   Fees And Deposits: Any fees for the floodplain development permit shall
be set by resolution by the Board of County Commissioners.
   E.   Corrective Procedures:
      1.   Violations To Be Corrected: When the Floodplain Administrator finds
violations of applicable State and local laws, it shall be his or her duty to
notify the owner or occupant of the building of the violation. The owner or
occupant shall immediately remedy each of the violations of law cited in such
notification.
      2.   Actions In Event Of Failure To Take Corrective Action: If the owner
of a building or property shall fail to take prompt corrective action, the
Floodplain Administrator shall give the owner written notice, by certified or
registered mail to the owner's last known address or by personal service,
stating:
         a.   That the building or property is in violation of the floodplain
management regulations;
         b.   That a hearing will be held before the Floodplain Administrator
at a designated place and time, not later than ten (10) days after the date of
the notice, at which time the owner shall be entitled to be heard in person or
by counsel and to present arguments and evidence pertaining to the matter; and
         c.   That following the hearing, the Floodplain Administrator may
issue an order to alter, vacate, or demolish the building; or to remove fill as
applicable.
      3.   Order To Take Corrective Action: If, upon a hearing held pursuant to
the notice prescribed above, the Floodplain Administrator shall find that the
building or development is in violation of this chapter, he or she shall issue
an order in writing to the owner, requiring the owner to remedy the violation
within a specified time period, not less than sixty (60) calendar days, nor
more than one hundred eighty (180) calendar days. Where the Floodplain
Administrator finds that there is imminent danger to life or other property, he
or she may order that corrective action be taken in such lesser period as may
be feasible.
      4.   Appeal: Any owner who has received an order to take corrective
action may appeal the order to the local elected Governing Body by giving
notice of appeal in writing to the Floodplain Administrator and the Clerk
within ten (10) days following issuance of the final order. In the absence of
an appeal, the order of the Floodplain Administrator shall be final. The local
Governing Body shall hear an appeal within a reasonable time and may affirm,
modify and affirm, or revoke the order.
      5.   Failure To Comply With Order: If the owner of a building or property
fails to comply with an order to take corrective action for which no appeal has
been made or fails to comply with an order of the Governing Body following an
appeal, the owner shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished at the
discretion of the court.
   F.   Variance Procedures:
      1.   The Payette County Planning and Zoning Commission as established by
Payette County, hereinafter referred to as the "Appeal Board", shall hear and
decide requests for variances from the requirements of this chapter.
      2.   Variances may be issued for:
         a.   The repair or rehabilitation of historic structures upon the
determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the
structure's continued designation as a historic structure and that the variance
is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the
structure;
         b.   Functionally dependent facilities, if determined to meet the
definition as stated in section
12-1-2 of this chapter, provided provisions of subsections F9b, F9c, and F9d of
this section, have been satisfied, and such facilities are protected by methods
that minimize flood damages during the base flood and create no additional
threats to public safety; or
         c.   Any other type of development, provided it meets the requirements
of this section.
      3.   In passing upon variances, the Appeal Board shall consider all
technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in other
sections of this chapter, and:
         a.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
         b.   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion
damage;
         c.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
         d.   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility
to the community;
         e.   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location as defined
under section
12-1-2 of this chapter as a functionally dependent facility, where applicable;
         f.   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to
flooding or erosion damage, for the proposed use;
         g.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and
anticipated development;
         h.   The relationship of the proposed use to the Comprehensive Plan
and Floodplain Management Program for that area;
         i.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles;
         j.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
         k.   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
      4.   The applicant shall include a written report addressing each of the
above factors in subsections F3a through F3k of this section with their
application for a variance.
      5.   Upon consideration of the factors listed above and the purposes of
this chapter, the Appeal Board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes and objectives of this
chapter.
      6.   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the base flood elevation (BFE) and the
elevation to which the structure is to be built and that such construction
below the BFE increases risks to life and property, and that the issuance of a
variance to construct a structure below the BFE will result in increased
premium rates for flood insurance up to twenty five dollars ($25.00) per one
hundred dollars ($100.00) of insurance coverage. Such notification shall be
maintained with a record of all variance actions, including justification for
their issuance.
      7.   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of all
appeal actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management
Agency and the State of Idaho upon request.
      8.   Conditions for variances:
         a.   Variances shall not be issued when the variance will make the
structure in violation of other Federal, State, or local laws, regulations, or
ordinances.
         b.   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway or
flood fringe area if the variance would result in any increase in flood levels
during the base flood discharge.
         c.   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
         d.   Variances shall only be issued prior to development permit
approval.
         e.   Variances shall only be issued upon:
            (1)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
            (2)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would
result in exceptional hardship; and
            (3)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not
result in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, or
extraordinary public expense, create nuisance, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
      9.   A variance may be issued for solid waste disposal facilities or
sites, hazardous waste management facilities, salvage yards, and chemical
storage facilities that are located in special flood hazard areas provided that
all of the following conditions are met.
         a.   The use serves a critical need in the community.
         b.   No feasible location exists for the use outside the special flood
hazard area.
         c.   The reference level of any structure is elevated or floodproofed
to at least the flood protection elevation.
         d.   The use complies with all other applicable Federal, State and
local laws.
      10.   The Payette County will notify the State NFIP Coordinator of the
Idaho Department of Water Resources of its intention to grant a variance at
least thirty (30) calendar days prior to granting the variance.
      11.   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal Board may appeal
such decision to the court, as provided in Idaho Code 67-6535. (Ord. 2017-4, 6-
28-2017)
12-1-5: PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION:
   A.   Subdivision Standards:
      1.   No new subdivisions shall be permitted within a flood hazard area.
   B.   General Standards: In all special flood hazard areas the following
provisions are required:
      1.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be designed
(or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, and
lateral movement of the structure.
      2.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage in
accordance with the Technical Bulletin 2, Flood Damage-Resistant Materials
Requirements, and available from the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
      3.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damages.
      4.   All new and replacement electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing,
air conditioning equipment, and other service facilities shall be designed and/
or located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of flooding to the flood protection elevation.
These include, but are not limited to, HVAC equipment, water softener units,
bath/kitchen fixtures, ductwork, electric/gas meter panels/boxes, utility/cable
boxes, hot water heaters, and electric outlets/switches.
      5.   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
      6.   All new and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into flood waters.
      7.   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
      8.   A fully enclosed area, of new construction and substantially
improved structures, which is below the lowest floor shall:
         a.   Be constructed entirely of flood resistant materials at least to
the flood protection elevation; and
         b.   Include, in Zones A, AE, AH, AO, and A1-30, flood openings to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on walls by allowing for the
entry and exit of floodwaters. To meet this requirement, the openings must
either be certified by a professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed
the following minimum design criteria:
            (1)   A minimum of two (2) flood openings on different sides of
each enclosed area subject to flooding;
            (2)   The total net area of all flood openings must be at least one
square inch for each square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding;
            (3)   If a building has more than one enclosed area, each enclosed
area must have flood openings to allow floodwaters to automatically enter and
exit;
            (4)   The bottom of all required flood openings shall be no higher
than one foot (1') above the interior or exterior adjacent grade;
            (5)   Flood openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, or
other coverings or devices, provided they permit the automatic flow of
floodwaters in both directions; and
            (6)   Enclosures made of flexible skirting are not considered
enclosures for regulatory purposes, and, therefore, do not require flood
openings. Masonry or wood underpinning, regardless of structural status, is
considered an enclosure and requires flood openings as outlined above.
      9.   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction, or improvements to a
structure, which is in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, shall
meet the requirements of "new construction" as contained in this chapter.
      10.   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the repair, reconstruction,
or replacement of a building or structure existing on the effective date of
this chapter and located totally or partially within the floodway, flood fringe
area, or stream setback, provided there is no additional encroachment below the
flood protection elevation in the floodway, flood fringe area, or stream
setback, and provided that such repair, reconstruction, or replacement meets
all of the other requirements of this chapter.
      11.   New solid waste disposal facilities and sites, hazardous waste
management facilities, salvage yards, and chemical storage facilities shall not
be permitted, except by variance as specified in subsection
12-1-4F9 of this chapter. A structure or tank for chemical or fuel storage
incidental to an allowed use or to the operation of a water treatment plant or
wastewater treatment facility may be located in a special flood hazard area
only if the structure or tank is either elevated or floodproofed to at least
the flood protection elevation and certified in accordance with the provisions
of subsection
12-1-4C4 of this chapter.
      12.   All development proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage and determined to be reasonably safe from flooding.
      13.   All development proposals shall have public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems located and
constructed to minimize flood damage.
      14.   All development proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood hazards.
      15.   All development proposals shall have received all necessary permits
from those governmental agencies for which approval is required by Federal or
State law, including section 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act
Amendments of 1972, 33 USC 1334.
      16.   When a structure is partially located in a special flood hazard
area, the entire structure shall meet the requirements for new construction and
substantial improvements.
      17.   When a structure is located in multiple flood hazard zones or in a
flood hazard risk zone with multiple base flood elevations, the provisions for
the more restrictive flood hazard risk zone and the highest base flood
elevation (BFE) shall apply.
   C.   Specific Standards: In all special flood hazard areas where base flood
elevation (BFE) data has been provided, as set forth in subsection
12-1-3B of this chapter, or subsection E of this section, the following
provisions, in addition to the provisions of subsection B of this section, are
required:
      1.   Residential Construction: New construction and substantial
improvement of any residential structure (including manufactured homes) shall
have the reference level, including basement, elevated no lower than the flood
protection elevation, as defined in section
12-1-2 of this chapter.
      2.   Non-Residential Construction: New construction and substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial, or other non- residential structure
shall have the reference level, including basement, elevated no lower than the
flood protection elevation, as defined in section
12-1-2 of this chapter. Structures located in Zones A, AE, AH, AO, and A1-30
may be floodproofed to the flood protection elevation in lieu of elevation
provided that all areas of the structure, together with attendant utility and
sanitary facilities, below the flood protection elevation are watertight with
walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water, using structural
components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loads and the effect of buoyancy. For AH and AO Zones, the floodproofing
elevation shall be in accordance with subsection G2 of this section. A
registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that the
floodproofing standards of this subsection are satisfied. Such certification
shall be provided to the Floodplain Administrator as set forth in subsection
12-1-4C4 of this chapter, along with the operational plan and the inspection
and maintenance plan.
      3.   Manufactured Homes:
         a.   New and replacement manufactured homes shall be elevated so that
the reference level of the manufactured home is no lower than the flood
protection elevation, as defined in section
12-1-2 of this chapter.
         b.   Manufactured homes shall be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement, either
by certified engineered foundation system, or in accordance with the most
current edition of the Idaho Division of Building Safety's "Idaho Manufactured
Home Installation Standard" in accordance with Idaho Code section 44-2201(2).
Additionally, when the elevation would be met by an elevation of the chassis
thirty six inches (36") or less above the grade at the site, the chassis shall
be supported by reinforced piers or engineered foundation. When the elevation
of the chassis is above thirty six inches (36") in height, an engineering
certification is required.
         c.   All enclosures or skirting below the lowest floor shall meet the
requirements of subsection C4 of this section.
         d.   An evacuation plan must be developed for evacuation of all
residents of all new, substantially improved, or substantially damaged
manufactured home parks or subdivisions located within flood prone areas. This
plan shall be filed with and approved by the Floodplain Administrator and the
local Emergency Management Coordinator.
      4.   Additions/Improvements:
         a.   Additions and/or improvements to pre-FIRM structures when the
addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications to
the existing structure are:
            (1)   Not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or
improvements must be designed to minimize flood damages and must not be any
more non-conforming than the existing structure; or
            (2)   A substantial improvement, both the existing structure and
the addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new
construction.
         b.   Additions to post-FIRM structures that are a substantial
improvement with no modifications to the existing structure other than a
standard door in the common wall shall require only the addition to comply with
the standards for new construction.
         c.   Additions and/or improvements to post-FIRM structures when the
addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications to
the existing structure are:
            (1)   Not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or
improvements only must comply with the standards for new construction; or
            (2)   A substantial improvement, both the existing structure and
the addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new
construction.
         d.   Any combination of repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation,
addition, or improvement of a building or structure taking place during a {'
{'}insert number of years{'}'} year period, the cumulative cost of which equals
or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the
improvement or repair is started, must comply with the standards for new
construction. For each building or structure, the {'{'}insert number of years
{'}'} year period begins on the date of the first improvement or repair of that
building or structure subsequent to the effective date of this chapter. If the
structure has sustained substantial damage, any repairs are considered
substantial improvement regardless of the actual repair work performed. The
requirement does not, however, include either:
            (1)   Any project for improvement of a building required to correct
existing Health, Sanitary, or Safety Code violations identified by the building
official and that are the minimum necessary to assume safe living conditions;
or
            (2)   Any alteration of a historic structure provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a
historic structure.
      5.   Recreational Vehicles: Recreational vehicles shall be either:
         a.   Temporary placement:
            (1)   Be on site for fewer than one hundred eighty (180)
consecutive days and be fully licensed and ready for highway use (a
recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking
system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities, and
has no permanently attached additions); or
         b.   Permanent placement:
            (1)   Recreational vehicles that do not meet the limitations of
temporary placement shall meet all the requirements for new construction, as
set forth in subsection B of this section.
      6.   Temporary Non-Residential Structures: Prior to the issuance of a
floodplain development permit for a temporary structure, the applicant must
submit to the Floodplain Administrator a plan for the removal of such structure
(s) in the event of a flash flood or other type of flood warning notification.
The following information shall be submitted in writing to the Floodplain
Administrator for review and written approval:
         a.   A specified time period for which the temporary use will be
permitted. Time specified may not exceed six (6) months, renewable up to one
year;
         b.   The name, address, and phone number of the individual responsible
for the removal of the temporary structure;
         c.   The time frame prior to the event at which a structure will be
removed (i.e., immediately upon flood warning notification);
         d.   A copy of the contract or other suitable instrument with the
entity responsible for physical removal of the structure; and
         e.   Designation, accompanied by documentation, of a location outside
the special flood hazard area, to which the temporary structure will be moved.
      7.   Accessory Structures: When accessory structures (sheds, detached
garages, etc.) are to be placed within a special flood hazard area, elevation
or floodproofing certifications are required for all accessory structures in
accordance with subsection
12-1-4C4 of this chapter, and the following criteria shall be met:
         a.   Accessory structures shall not be used for human habitation
(including working, sleeping, living, cooking, or restroom areas);
         b.   Accessory structures shall not be temperature-controlled;
         c.   Accessory structures shall be designed to have low flood damage
potential;
         d.   Accessory structures shall be constructed and placed on the
building site so as to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters;
         e.   Accessory structures shall be firmly anchored in accordance with
the provisions of subsection B1 of this section;
         f.   All service facilities, such as electrical, shall be installed in
accordance with the provisions of subsection B4 of this section; and
         g.   Flood openings to facilitate automatic equalization of
hydrostatic flood forces shall be provided below flood protection elevation in
conformance with the provisions of subsections B8b(1) through B8b(6) of this
section.
An accessory structure with a footprint less than two hundred (200) square feet
and is a minimal investment of two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) or
less and satisfies the criteria outlined in subsections C7a through C7g of this
section is not required to meet the elevation or floodproofing standards of
subsection C2 of this section.
      8.   Tanks: When gas and liquid storage tanks are to be placed within a
special flood hazard area, the following criteria shall be met:
         a.   Underground tanks in flood hazard areas shall be anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement resulting from hydrodynamic
and hydrostatic loads during conditions of the base flood, including the
effects of buoyancy (assuming the tank is empty);
         b.   Elevated above-ground tanks, in flood hazard areas shall be
attached to and elevated to or above the design flood elevation on a supporting
structure that is designed to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement
during conditions of the base flood. Tank-supporting structures shall meet the
foundation requirements of the applicable flood hazard area;
         c.   Not elevated above-ground tanks, that do not meet the elevation
requirements of subsection C2 of this section shall be permitted in flood
hazard areas provided the tanks are anchored or otherwise designed and
constructed to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads during conditions of the design flood,
including the effects of buoyancy assuming the tank is empty and the effects of
flood-borne debris.
         d.   Tank inlets, fill openings, outlets and vents shall be:
            (1)   At or above the flood protection elevation or fitted with
covers designed to prevent the inflow of floodwater or outflow of the contents
of the tanks during conditions of the base flood; and
            (2)   Anchored to prevent lateral movement resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy, during
conditions of the base flood.
      9.   Construction Of Below-Grade Crawlspace:
         a.   The interior grade of a crawlspace must not be below the BFE and
must not be more than two feet (2') below the exterior lowest adjacent grade
(LAG).
         b.   The height of the below-grade crawlspace, measured from the
interior grade of the crawlspace to the top of the crawlspace foundation wall,
must not exceed four feet (4') at any point.
         c.   There must be an adequate drainage system that removes
floodwaters from the interior area of the crawlspace. The enclosed area should
be drained within a reasonable time after a flood event.
         d.   The velocity of floodwaters at the site should not exceed five
feet (5') per second for any crawlspace.
See Technical Bulletin 11 for further information.
Caution: Buildings that have below-grade crawlspaces will have higher flood
insurance premiums than buildings that have the preferred crawlspace
construction, with the interior elevation of the crawlspace soil at or above
the base flood elevation (BFE).
      10.   Other Development In Regulated Floodways And Flood Fringe:
         a.   Fences that have the potential to block the passage of
floodwaters, such as stockade fences and wire mesh fences, in regulated
floodways and flood fringe shall meet the limitations of subsection F of this
section.
         b.   Retaining walls, bulkheads, sidewalks, and driveways that involve
the placement of fill in regulated floodways and flood fringe shall meet the
limitations of subsection F of this section.
         c.   Roads and watercourse crossings, including roads, bridges,
culverts, low-water crossings, and similar means for vehicles or pedestrians to
travel from one side of a watercourse to the other side, which encroach into
regulated floodways and flood fringe, shall meet the limitations of subsection
F of this section.
         d.   Drilling water, oil, and/or gas wells including fuel storage
tanks, apparatus, and any equipment at the site that encroach into regulated
floodways and flood fringe shall meet the limitations of subsection F of this
section.
         e.   Docks, piers, boat ramps, marinas, moorings, decks, docking
facilities, port facilities, shipbuilding, and ship repair facilities that
encroach into regulated floodways and flood fringe shall meet the limitations
of subsection F of this section.
   D.   Standards For Floodplains Without Established Base Flood Elevations:
Within the special flood hazard areas designated as Zone A (also known as
Unnumbered A Zones) and established in subsection 12-1-3B of this chapter,
where no base flood elevation (BFE) data has been provided by FEMA, the
following provisions, in addition to the provisions of subsection B of this
section, shall apply:
The BFE used in determining the flood protection elevation (FPE) shall be
determined based on the following criteria:
      1.   When base flood elevation (BFE) data is available from other
sources, all new construction and substantial improvements within such areas
shall also comply with all applicable provisions of this chapter and shall be
elevated or floodproofed in accordance with standards in subsections B and C of
this section.
      2.   When floodway or flood fringe data is available from a Federal,
State, or other source, all new construction and substantial improvements
within floodway and flood fringe areas shall also comply with the requirements
of subsections C and F of this section.
      3.   All manufactured home park and other development proposals shall
provide base flood elevation (BFE) data if development is greater than five (5)
acres or has more than fifty (50) lots/manufactured home sites. Such base flood
elevation (BFE) data shall be adopted by reference in accordance with
subsection
12-1-3B of this chapter and utilized in implementing this chapter. The
applicant/developer shall submit an application for a Conditional Letter of Map
Revision (CLOMR) prior to preliminary plat approval and have obtained a Letter
of Map Revision (LOMR) prior to any building permits for structures being
issued. See FEMA 480 and/or FEMA 265 for further information.
      4.   When base flood elevation (BFE) data is not available from a
Federal, State, or other source as outlined above, the reference level shall be
elevated or floodproofed (non-residential) to two feet (2.0') above the highest
adjacent grade (HAG) at the building site or to the flood protection elevation
(FPE) whichever is higher, as defined in section
12-1-2 of this chapter. All other applicable provisions of subsection C of this
section shall also apply.
   E.   Standards For Riverine Floodplains With Base Flood Elevations But
Without Established Floodways Or Flood Fringe Areas: Along rivers and streams
where base flood elevation (BFE) data is provided by FEMA or is available from
another source but neither floodway nor flood fringe areas are identified for a
special flood hazard area on the FIRM or in the FIS report, the following
requirements shall apply to all development within such areas:
      1.   Standards of subsections B and C of this section; and
      2.   Until a regulatory floodway or flood fringe area is designated, no
encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial improvements, or
other development shall be permitted unless certification with supporting
technical data by a registered professional engineer is provided demonstrating
that the cumulative effect of the proposed development, when combined with all
other existing and anticipated development, will not increase the water surface
elevation of the base flood at any point within the community.
   F.   Standard For Floodways And Flood Fringe Areas: Areas designated as
floodways or flood fringe areas are located within the special flood hazard
areas established in subsection
12-1-3B of this chapter. The floodways and flood fringe areas are extremely
hazardous areas due to the velocity of floodwaters that have erosion potential
and carry debris and potential projectiles. The following provisions, in
addition to standards outlined in subsections B and C of this section, shall
apply to all development within such areas:
      1.   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements, and other developments shall be permitted unless:
         a.   It is demonstrated that the proposed encroachment would not
result in any increase in the flood levels during the occurrence of the base
flood, based on hydrologic and hydraulic analyses performed in accordance with
standard engineering practice and presented to the Floodplain Administrator
prior to issuance of floodplain development permit; or
         b.   A Conditional Letter of Map Revision (CLOMR) has been approved by
FEMA. A Letter of Map Revision (LOMR) must also be obtained within six (6)
months of completion of the proposed encroachment.
      2.   If subsection F1 of this section is satisfied, all development shall
comply with all applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of this chapter.
      3.   Manufactured homes may be permitted provided the following
provisions are met:
         a.   The anchoring and the elevation standards of subsection C3 of
this section; and
         b.   The encroachment standards of subsection F1 of this section.
   G.   Standards For Areas Of Shallow Flooding (Zone AO, AH, AR/AO, Or AR/AH):
Located within the special flood hazard areas established in subsection
12-1-3B of this chapter, are areas designated as shallow flooding areas. These
areas have special flood hazards associated with base flood depths of one foot
(1') to three feet (3') where a clearly defined channel does not exist and
where the path of flooding is unpredictable and indeterminate. In addition to
subsections B and C of this section, all new construction and substantial
improvements shall meet the following requirements:
      1.   The reference level shall be elevated at least as high as the depth
number specified on the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM), in feet, plus a
freeboard of two feet (2'), above the highest adjacent grade; or at least four
feet (4') above the highest adjacent grade if no depth number is specified.
      2.   Non-residential structures may, in lieu of elevation, be
floodproofed to the same level as required in subsection G1 of this section so
that the structure, together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities,
below that level shall be watertight with walls substantially impermeable to
the passage of water and with structural components having the capability of
resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy.
Certification is required in accordance with subsection
12-1-4C4 of this chapter, and subsection C2 of this section.
      3.   Adequate drainage paths shall be provided around structures on
slopes to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed structures. (Ord.
2017-4, 6-28-2017)
12-1-6: LEGAL STATUS PROVISIONS:
   A.   Effect On Rights And Liabilities Under The Existing Flood Damage
Prevention Ordinance: This chapter, in part, comes forward by re-enactment of
some of the provisions of the flood damage prevention ordinance enacted
December 27, 1983, as amended, and it is not the intention to repeal but rather
to re-enact and continue to enforce without interruption of such existing
provisions, so that all rights and liabilities that have accrued thereunder are
reserved and may be enforced. The enactment of this chapter shall not affect
any action, suit, or proceeding instituted or pending. All provisions of the
flood damage prevention ordinance of Payette County enacted on December 27,
1983, as amended, which are not reenacted herein are repealed.
   B.   Effect Upon Outstanding Floodplain Development Permits: Nothing herein
contained shall require any change in the plans, construction, size, or
designated use of any development or any part thereof for which a floodplain
development permit has been granted by the Floodplain Administrator or his or
her authorized agents before the time of passage of this chapter. Provided,
however, that when construction is not begun under such outstanding permit
within a period of one hundred eighty (180) days subsequent to the date of
issuance of the outstanding permit, construction or use shall be in conformity
with the provisions of this chapter.
   C.   Severability: This chapter is hereby declared to be severable. Should
any portion of this chapter be declared invalid by a court of competent
jurisdiction, the remaining provisions shall continue in full force and effect
and shall be read to carry out the purpose(s) of this chapter before the
declaration of partial invalidity. (Ord. 2017-4, 6-28-2017)
TITLE 13
DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEES
CHAPTER 1
TITLE, AUTHORITY, APPLICABILITY, FINDINGS AND PURPOSE
SECTION:
13-1-1: Short Title
13-1-2: Authority
13-1-3: Applicability
13-1-4: Findings
13-1-5: Purpose
13-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This title shall be known and may be cited as the Payette County Development
Impact Fee Ordinance. (Ord. 2023-09, 7-17-2023)
13-1-2: AUTHORITY:
This ordinance is enacted pursuant to Payette County’s general police powers
and its authority to enact ordinances as set forth in Article XII, Section 2 of
the Idaho Constitution and section 31-714, Idaho Code, its authority as
provided by the Act and other applicable laws of the state of Idaho to impose
and collect development impact fees on behalf of the County; and on behalf of
certain districts pursuant to the County’s authority to enter into
intergovernmental agreements as provided for in section 67-8204A, Idaho Code
when jointly affected by growth and development. (Ord. 2023-09, 7-17-2023)
13-1-3: APPLICABILITY:
This title shall apply to the Development of property located within the
unincorporated area of Payette County.
Except as otherwise exempted in section
13-7-1, this title shall apply to the Development of property located within
the unincorporated area of Payette County, Idaho. (Ord. 2023-09, 7-17-2023)
13-1-4: FINDINGS:
   A.   The County is experiencing considerable growth and Development; and
   B.   The purposes of the Act [I.C. § 67-8202] are as follows:
      1.   Ensure that adequate Public Facilities are available to serve new
growth and Development; and
      2.   Promote orderly growth and Development by establishing uniform
standards by which local governments, such as the County, and any District with
which the County has entered into an intergovernmental agreement pursuant to
I.C. § 67-8204A, may require those who benefit from new growth and Development
pay [development impact fees] their Proportionate Share of the costs of new
Public Facilities needed to serve that new growth and Development; and
      3.   Establish minimum standards for adoption of development impact fee
ordinances by cities; and
      4.   Ensure that those who benefit from new growth and Development are
required to pay no more than their Proportionate Share of the cost of Public
Facilities needed to serve that new growth and Development and to prevent
duplicate and ad hoc Development Requirements; and
      5.   To empower counties to adopt ordinances to impose development impact
fees.
   C.   The Act does not authorize any district with which the County has
entered into an Intergovernmental Agreement, pursuant to I.C. § 67-8204A, to
enact a development impact fee ordinance; and
   D.   The Act does provide, pursuant to I.C. § 67-8204A, in circumstances
where the County and any district with which the County has entered into an
Intergovernmental Agreement pursuant to I.C. § 67-8204A are both affected by
the considerable growth and Development, that the County and any district with
which the County has entered into an intergovernmental agreement pursuant to
I.C. § 67-8204A may enter into the Intergovernmental Agreement for the purpose
of agreeing to collect and expend development impact fees for System
Improvements which provides for a new funding mechanism for those System
Improvements Costs incurred by any district with which the County has entered
into an Intergovernmental Agreement to meet the demand and growth occurring
within the unincorporated area of the County and which promotes and
accommodates orderly growth and Development and protects the public health,
safety and general welfare of the residences within the unincorporated area of
the County; and
   E.   New growth within the County imposes and will impose increasing and
excessive demands upon the existing, capital facilities of the County and of
any district with which the County has entered into an Intergovernmental
Agreement pursuant to I.C. § 67-8204A; and
   F.   New growth within the County is expected to continue, and will place
ever-increasing demands on the County, and any district with which the County
has entered into an Intergovernmental Agreement pursuant to I.C. § 67-8204A, to
provide and expand capital facilities to serve that new growth; and
   G.   The tax revenues generated from new Development within the
unincorporated area of the County often do not generate sufficient funds to
provide the necessary improvements and expansion of existing County, and any
district with which the County has entered into an Intergovernmental Agreement
pursuant to I.C. § 67-8204A, to accommodate for that new growth; and
   H.   Section 67-8204A of the Act authorizes the County to adopt an impact
fee system and to enter into the Intergovernmental Agreements to offset,
recoup, or reimburse the portion of the costs of needed improvements to capital
facilities caused by new growth and Development within the unincorporated area
of the County; and
   I.   The creation of an equitable impact fee system facilitated by the
Intergovernmental Agreements, will promote the purposes set forth in the Act,
in that it would: (a) ensure that adequate Capital Facilities are available to
serve new growth and Development; (b) promote orderly growth and Development by
establishing uniform standards by which the County may require that those who
benefit from new growth and Development pay a Proportionate Share of the cost
of new Capital Facilities needed to serve new growth and Development in the
unincorporated area of the County; (c) establish minimum standards for the
adoption of impact fees; (d) ensure that those who benefit from new growth and
Development are required to pay no more than their Proportionate Share of the
cost of Capital Facilities needed to serve new growth and Development; and (e)
prevent duplicate and ad hoc Development Requirements in the unincorporated
area of the County; and
   J.   The Capital Improvements Plans contain the Capital Improvements planned
for by the District during the term of the Capital Improvements Plan, and such
elements have been developed in conformance with the requirements Chapter 82 of
Title 67, Idaho Code; and
   K.   The Capital Improvements Plans set forth reasonable methodologies and
analyses for determining the impacts of various types of new Development on the
capital facilities and determines the cost of acquiring or constructing the
improvements necessary to meet the demands for such facilities created by new
Development; and
   L.   In accordance with Idaho Code, the Capital Improvements Plan was based
on actual System Improvements Costs or reasonable estimates of such costs. In
addition, the Capital Improvements Plan uses a fee calculation methodology that
is net of credits for the Present Value of revenues that will be generated by
new growth and Development based on historical funding patterns and that are
anticipated to be available to pay for System Improvements, including taxes,
assessments, user fees, and intergovernmental transfers; and
   M.   The development impact fees established by this title are based on the
Capital Improvements Plan, and do not exceed System Improvements Costs to serve
new Development that will pay the Impact Fees; and
   N.   The capital facilities, included in the calculation of fees in the
Capital Improvements Plans, will benefit all new residential Development
throughout the service area identified for purposes of calculating, collecting,
and spending the Impact Fees collected from Developers; and
   O.   There is both a rational nexus and a rough proportionality between
Development impacts created by each type of Development covered by this title,
the development impact fees assessment of such Development covered by this
title, and the development impact fees that such Developer will be required to
pay; and
   P.   This title creates a system by which development impact fees paid by
Developers will be used to finance, defray, or reimburse a portion of the costs
incurred by the County, and any district with which the County has entered into
an Intergovernmental Agreement pursuant to I.C. § 67-8204A, to construct and/or
purchase System Improvements in ways that benefit the Development for which
each development impact fee was paid within a reasonable period of time after
the development impact fee is paid, and in conformance with I.C. § 67-8210; and
   Q.   This title creates a system under which development impact fees shall
not be used to correct existing deficiencies for any Capital Facilities, or to
replace or rehabilitate existing Capital Facilities, or to pay for routine
operation or maintenance of those facilities; and
   R.   This title creates a system under which there shall be no double
payment of development impact fees, in accordance with I.C. § 67-8204(19); and
   S.   This title is consistent with all applicable provisions of the Act
concerning development impact fee ordinances. (Ord. 2023-09, 7-17-2023)
13-1-5: PURPOSE:
   A.   This title is adopted to be consistent with, and to help implement the
Capital Improvements Plan.
   B.   The intent of this title is to ensure that new Development bears a
Proportionate Share of the cost of System Improvements; to ensure that such
Proportionate Share does not exceed the cost of such System Improvements
required to accommodate new Development; and to ensure that funds collected
from new Development are used for System Improvements in accordance with the
Act.
   C.   It is the further intent of this title to be consistent with those
principles for allocating a fair share of the cost of System Improvements to
new Development, and for adopting development impact fee ordinances,
established by the Act.
   D.   It is not the intent of this title to collect any money from any new
Development more than the actual amount necessary to offset new demands for
System Improvements created by such new Development.
   E.   It is the intent of this title that any monies collected, as imposed
Impact Fees, are deposited in the appropriate Impact Fees Capital Projects
Trust Fund account, are never commingled with monies from a different impact
fee account, are never used for a development impact fee component different
from that for which the fee was paid, are never used to correct current
deficiencies in any district’s, with which the County has entered into an
Intergovernmental Agreement pursuant to I.C. § 67-8204A, Capital Facilities,
and are never used to replace, rehabilitate, maintain or operate any Capital
Facilities. (Ord. 2023-09, 7-17-2023)
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
13-2-1: Definitions
13-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this title, the following words and terms shall have the following
meanings, unless another meaning is plainly intended and words and terms
appearing in the singular number includes the plural and the plural the
singular:
ACCOUNTS:      Any of one or more interest bearing accounts within a Development Impact Fee
               Capital Projects Trust Fund established in chapter 13 of this title.
ACT:           The Idaho Development Impact Fee Act as set forth in Chapter 82 of Title 67, Idaho
               Code.
ADMINISTRATOR: the administrator of the County s impact fees or an administrator of a District s
               impact fees.
               The advisory committee established and identified in section 2.31. of the County
ADVISORY       Code of Payette County, Idaho which are formed and staffed pursuant to I.C. 67-
COMMITTEE:     8205 to prepare and recommend the Capital Improvements Plan and any amendments,
               revisions, or updates of the same.
APPROPRIATE:   To legally obligate by contract or otherwise commit to the expenditure of funds by
               appropriation or other official act of the Board of Commissioners.
BUILDING       The County permit required for foundations, new construction, and additions.
PERMIT:
               Facilities, stations, apparatus, vehicles, and equipment which are identified in
CAPITAL        the Capital Improvements Plan, and specifically including those related costs
FACILITIES:    including System Improvements Costs, but not including maintenance, operations, or
               improvements that do not expand their capacity.
CAPITAL        Improvements with a useful life of ten (10) years or more, by new construction or
IMPROVEMENTS:  other action, which increases the service capacity of Capital Facilities.
CAPITAL        A component of the Capital Improvements Plans identified in each Capital
IMPROVEMENTS   Improvements Plan adopted the Board of County Commissioners pursuant to Chapters
ELEMENT:       65 and 82 of Title 67, Idaho Code, and as amended, which component meets the
               requirements of a Capital Improvements Plan required by the Act.
CAPITAL        The County s or a District s Capital Improvements Plan, as the case may be,
IMPROVEMENTS   recommended by the Advisory Committee, and adopted pursuant to the Act that
PLAN:          identifies Capital Facilities for which Impact Fees may be used as a funding
               source.
COUNTY:        Payette County.
COUNTY         The Payette County Board of Commissioners.
COMMISSIONERS:
DEVELOPER:     Any person or legal entity undertaking Development and/or undertaking the
               subdivision of property pursuant to I.C. §§ 50-1301 through 50-1334, as amended.
               Any construction or installation of a building or structure, or any change in use
               of a building or structure, or any change in the use, character, or appearance of
DEVELOPMENT:   land, which creates additional demand and need for Public Facilities and/or
               subdivision of property that would permit any change in the use, character or
               appearance of land.
DEVELOPMENT    Any written duly authorized document from the County which authorizes the
APPROVAL:      commencement of a Development.
DEVELOPMENT
IMPACT FEE
CAPITAL        The County s or a District s, as the case may be, individual impact fee capital
PROJECTS TRUST projects trust fund account.
FUND (the
TRUST FUND ):
               A requirement attached to a developmental approval or other County governmental
DEVELOPMENT    action approving or authorizing a particular Development Project including, but
REQUIREMENT:   not limited to, a rezoning, which requirement compels the payment, dedication or
               contribution of goods, services, land, or money as condition of approval.
DISTRICT:      Any district (individually) with which the County has separately entered into an
               intergovernmental agreement pursuant to I.C. § 67-8204A.
DISTRICT       The board of commissioners of a District, which is its governing board.
COMMISSIONERS:
EXTRAORDINARY  Those costs incurred as result of an Extraordinary Impact.
COSTS:
               An impact which is reasonably determined by the Administrator to: (I) result in
               the need for System Improvements, the cost of which will significantly exceed the
EXTRAORDINARY  sum of the development impact fees to be generated from the Project or the sum
IMPACT:        agreed to be paid pursuant to a development agreement as allowed by I.C. § 67-8214
               (2), as amended; or (ii) result in the need for System Improvements which are not
               identified in the Capital Improvements Plan.
FEE PAYER:     The person who pays or is required to pay Impact Fees. A Fee Payer may include a
               Developer.
               A payment of money imposed as condition of Development to pay for a Proportionate
               Share of the County s or a District s, as the case may be, costs of System
               Improvements needed to serve the Development. The term does not include the
               following:
                   A charge or fee to pay the administrative plan review, or inspection cost
               associated with permits required for Development; or
                    Connection or hookup charges; or
IMPACT FEES:       Availability charges for drainage, sewer, water or transportation charges for
               services provided directly to the Development; or
                   Amounts collected from a Developer in a transaction in which the County or a
               District has incurred expenses in constructing Capital Improvements for the
               Development if the owner or Developer has agreed to be financially responsible for
               the construction or installation of those Capital Improvements, unless a written
               agreement is made, pursuant to I.C. 67-8209(3) as amended, for credit or
               reimbursement.
INTER-         Any agreement entered into by and between the County and a District pursuant to
GOVERNMENTAL   I.C. § 67-8204A for the collection and expenditure of Impact Fees established
AGREEMENT:     pursuant to this title.
LAND USE       A description of the Service Area and projections of land uses, densities,
ASSUMPTIONS:   intensities, and population in the Service Area over at least a ten-year period.
LEVEL OF       A measure of the relationship between service capacity and service demand for
SERVICE:       Public Facilities.
               A structure, constructed according to HUD/FHA mobile home construction and safety
               standards, transportable in one (1) or more sections, which, in the traveling
               mode, is eight (8) feet or more in width or is forty (40) body feet or more in
               length, or when erected on site, is three hundred twenty (320) ormore square feet,
               and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling
MANUFACTURED/  with or without a permanent foundation when connected to required utilities, and
MOBILE HOME:   includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning and electrical systems contained
               in such structure, except that such term shall include any structure which meets
               all the requirements of this subsection except the size requirements and with
               respect to which the manufacturer voluntarily files a certification required by
               the secretary of housing and urban development and complies with the standards
               established under 42 U.S.C. 5401 et seq.
               Any building or building component other than a Manufactured/Mobile Home, which is
MODULAR        constructed according to the International Building Code, as adopted or any
BUILDING:      amendments thereto, which is of closed construction and is either entirely or
               substantially prefabricated or assembled at a place other than the building site.
               The total current monetary value of past, present or future payments,
PRESENT VALUE: contributions or dedications of goods, services, materials, construction, or
               money.
PROJECT:       A particular Development on an identified parcel of land.
PROJECT
IMPROVEMENTS   Site improvements and facilities that are planned and designed to provide service
(in contrast   for a particular Development Project and that are necessary for the use and
to System      convenience of the occupants or users of the Project.
Improvements):
PROPORTIONATE  That portion of System Improvements Costs determined pursuant to I.C. § 67-8207
SHARE:         which reasonably relates to the service demands and needs of the Project.
               Water supply production, treatment, storage and distribution facilities;
               wastewater collection, treatment and disposal facilities; roads, streets and
               bridges, including rights-of-way, traffic signals, landscaping and any local
PUBLIC         components of state or federal highways; stormwater collection, retention,
FACILITIES:    detention, treatment and disposal facilities, flood control facilities, and bank
               and shore protection and enhancement improvements; parks, open space and
               recreation areas, and related capital improvements; and public safety facilities,
               including law enforcement, fire stations and apparatus, emergency medical and
               rescue, and street lighting facilities.
RECREATIONAL   A vehicular type unit primarily designed as temporary quarters for recreational,
VEHICLE:       camping, or travel use, which either has its own motive power or is mounted on or
               drawn by another vehicle.
               Any defined geographic area within the unincorporated area of the County as
SERVICE AREA:  identified in a Capital Improvement Plan in which specific Public Facilities
               provide service to Development within the areas defined, on the basis of sound
               planning or engineering principles or both.
               A standardized measure of consumption, use, generation, or discharge attributable
               to an individual unit of Development calculated in accordance with generally
SERVICE UNIT:  accepted engineering or planning standards for a particular category of Capital
               Improvements. As specifically used in this title, Service Units include dwelling
               units as defined in County code and square feet of nonresidential Development.
SYSTEM
IMPROVEMENTS   Capital Improvements to Public Facilities which are designed to provide service to
(in contrast   a Service Area.
to Project
Improvements):
               Costs incurred for construction or reconstruction of System Improvements,
               including design, acquisition, engineering, and other costs, and also including,
               without limitation, the type of costs described in Idaho Code § 50-1702(h), as
               amended, to provide additional Public Facilities needed to service new growth and
               development. For clarification, System Improvements Costs do not include:
                   Construction, acquisition, or expansion of Public Facilities other than
               Capital Improvements identified in the Capital Improvements Plan; or
                   Improvements, repair, operation, or maintenance of existing or new capital; or

SYSTEM             Upgrading, updating, expanding, or replacing existing Capital Improvements to
IMPROVEMENTS   serve existing Development in order to meet stricter safety, efficiency,
COSTS:         environmental or regulatory standards; or
                   Upgrading, updating, expanding, or replacing existing Capital Improvements to
               provide better service to existing Development; or
                   Administrative and operating costs of the District and/or the County unless
               such costs are attributable to development of the Capital Improvements Plan, as
               provided in IC § 67-8208, and as amended; or
                   Principal payments and interest or other finance charges on bonds or other
               indebtedness except financial obligations issued by or on behalf of the County or
               a District, as the case may be, to finance Capital Improvements identified in the
               Capital Improvements Plan. (Ord. 2023-09, 7-17-2023)
 
CHAPTER 3
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS PLANS
SECTION:
13-3-1: Proportionate Determination Methodology
13-3-2: Service Areas
13-3-3: Review And Modification Of Capital Improvements Plan
13-3-4: Capital Improvements Plan Error Discovery
13-3-1: PROPORTIONATE DETERMINATION METHODOLOGY:
Impact Fees are determined by the approved Capital Improvement Plan and shall
not exceed a Proportionate Share of the cost of the System Improvements
determined in accordance with I.C. § 67-8207, as amended. Impact Fees shall be
based on actual System Improvements Costs or reasonable estimates of such
costs. The amounts of the Impact Fees shall be calculated using the methodology
contained in the Capital Improvements Plan which complies with the following:
   A.   Based on a reasonable and fair formula or method under which the Impact
Fees imposed do not exceed a Proportionate Share of the costs incurred or to be
incurred by the County or a District, as the case may be, in the provision of
System Improvements to serve the new Development. The Proportionate Share is
the costs attributable to the new Development after the consideration of the
following:
      1.   Any appropriate credit, offset or contribution of money, dedication
of land or construction of System Improvements; and
      2.   Payments reasonably anticipated to be made by or as a result of a
new Development in the form of user fees and debt service payments; and
      3.   That portion of general tax or other revenues allocated by a
District to System Improvements; and
      4.   All other available sources of funding such System Improvements.
   B.   In determining the Proportionate Share of the cost of System
Improvements to be paid by the Developer, the following factors shall be
considered by the County or a District, as the case may be, and accounted for
in the calculation of the Impact Fees:
      1.   The costs of existing System Improvements within the Service Area;
and
      2.   The means by which existing System Improvements have been financed;
and
      3.   The extent to which the new Development will contribute to System
Improvements costs through taxation, assessments, or Developer or landowner
contributions, or has previously contributed to System Improvements costs
through Developer or landowner contributions; and
      4.   The extent to which the new Development is required to contribute to
the cost of existing System Improvements in the future; and
      5.   The extent to which the new Development should be credited for
providing System Improvements, without charge to other properties within the
Service Area; and
      6.   Extraordinary Costs, if any, incurred in serving the new
Development; and
      7.   The time and price differential inherent in a fair comparison of
fees paid at different times; and
      8.   The availability of other sources of funding System Improvements
including, but not limited to, user charges, general tax levies,
intergovernmental transfers, and special taxation.
   C.   Levels of service. Impact Fees shall be calculated on the basis of
levels of service for Public Facilities adopted in this title that are
applicable to existing Development as well as new growth and Development. The
construction, improvement, expansion or enlargement of new or existing Public
Facilities for which the Impact Fees are imposed must be attributable to the
capacity demands generated by the new Development. (Ord. 2023-09, 7-17-2023)
13-3-2: SERVICE AREAS:
Service Areas include unincorporated areas of the County as are identified and
defined in the approved Capital Improvement Plan. (Ord. 2023-09, 7-17-2023)
13-3-3: REVIEW AND MODIFICATION OF CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS PLAN:
Unless the County Commissioners regarding the County’s Capital Improvements
Plan; and unless the County Commissioners and the District Commissioners
regarding a District Capital Improvements Plan deems some other period is
appropriate, the County Commissioners and the District Commissioners shall, at
least once every five (5) years, commencing from the date of the original
adoption of the Capital Improvements Plan, review the Development potential and
update the Capital Improvements Plan in cooperation and in accordance with the
procedures set forth in I.C. § 67-8206, as amended. Each update shall be
prepared by the Administrator in consultation with the advisory committee.
(Ord. 2023-09, 7-17-2023)
13-3-4: CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS PLAN ERROR DISCOVERY:
If the County or a District discovers an error in a Capital Improvements Plan
which results in assessment or payment of more than a Proportionate Share of
System Improvements Costs on any proposed Development, the Administrator shall:
   A.   Adjust the Impact Fees to collect no more than a Proportionate Share;
or
   B.   Discontinue the collection of any Impact Fees until the error is
corrected by ordinance. (Ord. 2023-09, 7-17-2023)
CHAPTER 4
INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENTS
SECTION:
13-4-1: Authority To Enter Into Intergovernmental Agreements
13-4-2: County And District Intergovernmental Agreements
13-4-3: District Governed By This Title
13-4-4: Amendments To Intergovernmental Agreement
13-4-1: AUTHORITY TO ENTER INTO INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENTS:
The County is a governmental entity that is empowered by the Act to adopt
development impact fee ordinances, and as such is authorized, by I.C. § 67-
8204A, to enter into Intergovernmental Agreement with highway districts, fire
districts, ambulance districts, water districts, sewer districts, recreational
water and sewer districts, or irrigation districts for the purpose of
developing joint plans for capital improvements or for the purpose of agreeing
to collect and expend development impact fees for system improvements. (Ord.
2023-09, 7-17-2023)
13-4-2: COUNTY AND DISTRICT INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENTS:
The County has entered into an Intergovernmental Agreement with each District
which Intergovernmental Agreements are in full force and effect. (Ord. 2023-09,
7-17-2023)
13-4-3: DISTRICT GOVERNED BY THIS TITLE:
The Intergovernmental Agreements comply with this title and requires each
District to be governed by and to fully abide by the provisions of this title.
(Ord. 2023-09, 7-17-2023)
13-4-4: AMENDMENTS TO INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT:
Any amendments of any Intergovernmental Agreement shall be implemented by
corresponding relevant amendments of this title which amendments shall not
apply to any Impact Fees then not expended and currently held in the Trust
Fund. (Ord. 2023-09, 7-17-2023)
CHAPTER 5
IMPOSITION OF IMPACT FEES AND PAYMENT
SECTION:
13-5-1: Impact Fees Imposed
13-5-2: Impact Fee Calculation
13-5-3: Impact Fee Schedules
13-5-4: Developer’s Election
13-5-5: Procedures
13-5-6: Certification Of Impact Fees Due
13-5-7: Payment And Receipt Of Fees
13-5-8: Payment Under Protest
13-5-1: IMPACT FEES IMPOSED:
Impact Fees are hereby imposed on all new Development within a Service Area, as
defined in the Capital Improvements Plan, in accordance with the impact fee
schedules as set forth in this chapter. (Ord. 2023-09, 7-17-2023)
13-5-2: IMPACT FEE CALCULATION:
The Impact Fees shall be calculated and imposed in accordance with the Impact
Fee schedule set forth in the Capital Improvements Plan which provide for
standard fees based on the total number of dwelling units or square feet of
nonresidential space in the Development, unless:
   A.   The Fee Payer requests an individual assessment pursuant to chapter 8
of this title; or
   B.   The Development will have an Extraordinary Impact pursuant to chapter 9
of this title. The methodology for determining the costs per Service Unit
provided for in the fee schedule is set forth in the Capital Improvements Plan.
(Ord. 2023-09, 7-17-2023)
13-5-3: IMPACT FEE SCHEDULES:
The schedules of development impact fees for the various land uses per unit of
development are herein set forth as follows:
   A.   Parma Rural Fire Protection District
 
Residential (per Single Family Dwelling Unit)        $1 ,984.00
Residential (per Multi-Family Dwelling Unit)         $ 825.00
Non-Residential (per 1000 retail square feet)        $ 4,126.00
Non-Residential (per 1000 office square feet)        $ 1,590.00
Non-Residential (per 1000 industrial square feet)    $ 714.00
Non-Residential (per 1000 Institutional square feet) $ 3,314.00
 
   B.   New Plymouth Fire Protection District
 
Residential (per Single Family Dwelling Unit)        $1,237.00
Residential (per Multi-Family Dwelling Unit)         $ 728.00
Non-Residential (per 1000 retail square feet)        $3,645.00
Non-Residential (per 1000 office square feet)        $1,405.00
Non-Residential (per 1000 industrial square feet)    $ 631.00
Non-Residential (per 1000 Institutional square feet) $1,396.00
 
   C.   Sand Hollow Rural Fire Protection District
 
Residential (per Single Family Dwelling Unit)        $ 2,402.00
Residential (per Multi-Family Dwelling Unit)         $ 1,413.00
Non-Residential (per 1000 retail square feet)        $13,748.00
Non-Residential (per 1000 office square feet)        $ 5,298.00
Non-Residential (per 1000 industrial square feet)    $ 2,380.00
Non-Residential (per 1000 Institutional square feet) $11,042.00
 
(Ord. 2023-09, 7-17-2023)
13-5-4: DEVELOPER’S ELECTION:
A Developer shall have the right to elect to pay a Project’s Proportionate
Share of System Improvements Costs by payment of an Impact Fee according to the
fee schedule as full and complete payment of the Development Project’s
Proportionate Share of System Improvements Costs, except as provided in I.C. §
67-8214(3), as amended. (Ord. 2023-09, 7-17-2023)
13-5-5: PROCEDURES:
The collection of Impact Fees shall be in accordance with the following:
   A.   Building Permit. Upon submittal of complete Building Permit plans for
the Development to the County, the County shall calculate the Impact Fees for
the Development in accordance with an Impact Fee Schedule (section
13-5-2) unless the Fee Payer requests an individual assessment or is the
subject of a credit or the Administrator determines that the Development may
have Extraordinary Impact.
   B.   Exemption. An exemption pursuant to section
13-7-1 of this title must be claimed by the Fee Payer upon application for a
Building Permit or manufactured home installation permit. Any exemption not so
claimed shall be deemed waived by the Fee Payer. (Ord. 2023-09, 7-17-2023)
13-5-6: CERTIFICATION OF IMPACT FEES DUE:
After the Impact Fees due for a proposed Development have been calculated by
the County pursuant to the Impact Fees Schedule or by the Administrator using
the individual assessment process or there is a credit or Extraordinary Impact,
the Fee Payer may request from the County or the Administrator a certification
of the amount of the Impact Fee due for that Development. Within thirty (30)
days after receiving such request the Administrator shall issue a written
certification of the amount of the Impact Fee due for the proposed Development.
Such certification shall establish the Impact Fee so long as there is no
material change to the Project as identified in the individual assessment
application, or the impact fees schedule of the Capital Improvements Plan. The
certification shall include an explanation of the calculation of the Impact Fee
including an explanation of factors considered under Idaho Code Section 67-
8207, and shall also specify the system improvement(s) for which the Impact Fee
is intended to be used. If the Impact Fee is calculated by the County pursuant
to the impact fee schedule, the County shall provide the certification to the
Fee Payer and the Administrator. If the impact fee is determined by the
Administrator following an individual assessment of the fee, the Administrator
shall provide the certification to the Fee Payer and the County. (Ord. 2023-09,
7-17-2023)
13-5-7: PAYMENT AND RECEIPT OF FEES:
The Impact Fees shall be paid to the County at the following times:
   A.   If a Building Permit or Manufactured/Mobile Home installation permit is
required, then at the time before the permit is issued; or
   B.   If no Building Permit or Manufactured/Mobile Home installation permit
is required, then at the time that construction commences; or
   C.   At such other time as the Developer and County or a District, as the
case may be, have agreed upon in writing with notice to the County.
   D.   All Impact Fees paid to the County pursuant to an intergovernmental
agreement shall then be delivered to the Administrator on a once-a-month basis.
   E   In the event Impact Fees are paid to a District, then the District
Administrator shall immediately notify the County of said payment. (Ord. 2023-
09, 7-17-2023)
13-5-8: PAYMENT UNDER PROTEST:
A Fee Payer may pay an Impact Fee under protest in order not to delay in the
issuance of a Building Permit by the County. A Fee Payer making a payment under
protest shall not be estopped from exercising the right to appeal provided
herein, nor shall such Fee Payer be estopped from receiving a refund of any
amount deemed to have been illegally collected. (Ord. 2023-09, 7-17-2023)
CHAPTER 6
COUNTY AND ADMINISTRATOR POWERS TO REQUIRE PAYMENT OF IMPACT FEES
SECTION:
13-6-1: Impact Fee Payment enforcement
13-6-1: IMPACT FEE PAYMENT ENFORCEMENT:
When any Impact Fee is due pursuant to this title, or pursuant to the terms of
any written agreement between a Fee Payer and the County or a District, as the
case may be, and or otherwise such Impact Fee has not been paid in a timely
manner, the County, or Administrator on behalf of a District, may exercise any
or all of the following powers as applicable to their authority, in any
combination, to enforce the collection of the Impact Fee:
   A.   Withhold Building Permits, manufactured home installation permits, or
other County Development related to the Development for which the County or a
District Impact Fee is due until all Impact Fees due have been paid, issue stop
work orders, and revoke or suspend a Building Permit.
   B.   Withhold utility services from the Development for which the Impact Fee
is due until all Impact Fees due have been paid.
   C.   Add interest to the Impact Fees not paid in full at the legal rate
provided for in I.C. § 28-22-104, as amended, plus five (5) percent beginning
on the date at which the payment of the Impact Fees was due until paid in full.
   D.   Impose a penalty of five (5) percent of the total Impact Fee (not
merely the portion dishonored, late or not paid in full) per month, beginning
on the date at which the payment of the Impact Fee was due, until paid in full.
   E.   Impose a lien pursuant to the authority of I.C. § 67-8213(4) for
failure to timely pay an Impact Fee following the procedures contained in Idaho
Code Title 45, Chapter 5. (Ord. 2023-09, 7-17-2023)
CHAPTER 7
EXEMPTIONS
SECTION:
13-7-1: Exemptions
13-7-2: Exemption Claim Process
13-7-1: EXEMPTIONS:
The provisions of this title shall not apply to the following:
   A.   Rebuilding the same amount of floor space of a structure which is
destroyed by fire or other catastrophe, provided the structure is rebuilt and
ready for occupancy within two (2) years of its destruction; or
   B.   Remodeling or repairing a structure which does not increase the number
of Service Units;
   C.   Replacing a residential unit, including a Manufactured/Mobile Home,
with another residential unit on the same lot; provided that the number of
Service Units does not increase; or
   D.   Placing a temporary construction trailer or office on a lot; or
   E.   Constructing an addition on a residential structure which does not
increase the number of Service Units; or
   F.   Adding uses that are typically accessory to residential uses, such as a
tennis court or a clubhouse, unless it can be clearly demonstrated that the use
creates a significant impact on the capacity of System Improvements; or
   G.   The installation of a Modular Building, Manufactured/Mobile Home, or
Recreational Vehicle if the Fee Payer can demonstrate by documentation, such as
utility bills and tax records, that either:
      1.   A Modular Building, Manufactured/Mobile Home, or Recreational
Vehicle was legally in place on the lot or space prior to the effective date of
this title; or
      2.   an Impact Fee has been paid previously for the Modular Building,
Manufactured/Mobile Home, or Recreational Vehicle on that same lot or space.
   H.   Construction that would otherwise be subject to payment of the
development impact fee pursuant to this chapter if undertaken by a taxing
district, as defined in section 63-201, Idaho Code, or by an authorized public
charter school, as defined in section 33-5202A, Idaho Code, in the course of
carrying out its statutory responsibilities. (Ord. 2023-09, 7-17-2023)
13-7-2: EXEMPTION CLAIM PROCESS:
An exemption from an Impact Fee must be claimed on the application by the
Developer (Fee Payer) upon submitting their application for a Building Permit
or manufactured home installation permit. Any exemption not so claimed shall be
deemed waived by the Fee Payer. Applications for exemption shall be determined
by the Administrator within ninety (90) days of receipt of the claim for
exemption.
(Ord. 2023-09, 7-17-2023)
CHAPTER 8
INDIVIDUAL ASSESSMENTS
SECTION:
13-8-1: Individual Assessment Process
13-8-1: INDIVIDUAL ASSESSMENT PROCESS:
Requests for individual assessment shall be processed in accordance with the
following:
   A.   In lieu of calculating the amount of the Impact Fee pursuant to section
13-5-2  and the Capital Improvements Plan, a Fee Payer may file a request with
the County or a District, that the amount of the required Impact Fee be
determined by the Administrator through an individual assessment for the
proposed Development. A request for an individual assessment process shall
involve consideration of studies, data, and any other relevant information
submitted by the Fee Payer to adjust the amount of the Impact Fee. If a Fee
Payer files a request for the use of an individual assessment, the Fee Payer
shall be responsible for retaining a qualified professional to prepare the
individual assessment that complies with the requirements of this title, at the
Fee Payer’s expense. The Fee Payer shall, at the Fee Payer’s expense, bear the
burden of proving by clear and convincing evidence that the resulting
individual assessment complies with the requirements of this title. The Fee
Payer shall bear the burden of proving by clear and convincing evidence that
the resulting individual assessment is a more accurate measure of its
Proportionate Share of the cost of System Improvements, based on the adopted
levels of service, than the Impact Fees that would otherwise be due pursuant to
section
13-5-2  and the Capital Improvements Plan.
   B.   Each individual assessment shall be based on the same Level of Service
standards and unit costs for System Improvements used in the Capital
Improvements Plan, shall use an average cost (not a marginal cost) methodology,
and shall document the relevant methodologies and assumptions used.
   C.   A request for an individual assessment shall be delivered and filed
with the County or a District Administrator, as the case may be, at any time
that the number of dwelling units in the proposed Development and the types and
amounts of Development in each non-residential category identified in section
13-5-2 , and the Capital Improvements Plan is known. Upon filing a request for
individual assessment, the County shall transmit the request to the
Administrator for review. The Administrator shall issue a written decision
within thirty (30) days following receipt of a completed request for individual
assessment together with all supporting information from the Fee Payer, so as
not to unreasonably delay the Developer’s (Fee Payer’s) subsequent applications
to the County for Building Permits.
   D.   Each individual assessment request delivered to the Administrator may
then be accepted, rejected, or accepted with modifications by the Administrator
as the basis for calculating the Impact Fee. The criteria for acceptance,
rejection, or acceptance with modifications shall be whether the individual
assessment is a more accurate measure of demand for System Improvements Element
(s) created by the proposed Development, or the costs of those facilities, than
the applicable fee shown in the fee schedule attached to the Capital
Improvements Plan.
   E.   The decision by the Administrator on an application for an individual
assessment shall include an explanation of the calculation of the Impact Fee,
shall specify the system improvement(s) for which the Impact Fee is intended to
be used, and shall include an explanation of those factors identified in I.C. §
67-8207.
   F.   If an individual assessment is accepted or accepted with modifications
by the Administrator, then the Impact Fee due under this title for such
Development shall be calculated according to such individual assessment.
   G.   The Administrator shall provide notice of final determination of an
individual assessment to the Developer (Fee Payer). (Ord. 2023-09, 7-17-2023)
CHAPTER 9
EXTRAORDINARY IMPACTS
SECTION:
13-9-1: Extraordinary Impact Determinations
13-9-1: EXTRAORDINARY IMPACT DETERMINATIONS:
Determinations of Extraordinary Impacts are made as follows:
   A.   The Administrator shall review and determine whether the Development
application will impose Extraordinary Impact.
   B.   If the Administrator determines that a proposed Development generates
Extraordinary Impact that will result in extraordinary Systems Improvements
Costs, the Administrator will notify the Fee Payer of their determination
within thirty (30) days after Administrator’s receipt of the Development
application. Such notice shall include a statement that the potential impacts
of such Development on System Improvements are not adequately addressed by the
Capital Improvements Plan, and that a supplemental study, at the Fee Payer’s
expense, will be required.
   C.   Circumstances that may lead to a determination of Extraordinary Impact
include, but are not limited to an indication that the assumptions used in the
Capital Improvements Plan underestimate the level of activity or impact on
Capital Facilities from the proposed Development or activity.
   D.   Within thirty (30) days following the designation of a Development with
Extraordinary Impact, the Administrator shall meet with the Fee Payer to
discuss whether the Fee Payer wants to:
      1.   Pay for the supplemental study necessary to determine the System
Improvements Costs related to the proposed Development; or
      2.   Modify the proposal to avoid generating Extraordinary Impact; or
      3.   Withdraw the application for certification, Building Permit, or
Development.
   E.   If the Fee Payer agrees to pay for the supplemental study required to
document the proposed Development’s Proportionate Share of System Improvements
Costs, then the County or the District, as the case may be, and the Fee Payer,
shall jointly select an individual or organization acceptable to both to
perform such study. The Fee Payer shall enter into a written agreement with the
individual or organization to pay the costs of the study. Such agreement shall
require the supplemental study to be completed within thirty (30) days of such
written agreement unless the Fee Payer agrees to a longer time.
   F.   Once the study has been completed, the Fee Payer may choose to:
      1.   Pay the Proportionate Share of System Improvements Costs documented
by the supplemental study; or
      2.   Modify the proposed Development to reduce such costs; or
      3.   Withdraw the application.
   G.   If the Fee Payer agrees to pay the System Improvements Costs documented
in the supplemental study, that agreement shall be reduced to writing between
the County or the District, as the case may be, and the Fee Payer, prior to
review and consideration of any application for any Development or Building
Permit related to the proposed Development.
   H.   Notwithstanding any agreement by the Fee Payer to pay the Proportionate
Share of System Improvements Costs documented by the supplemental study,
nothing in this ordinance shall obligate the County or a District to approve
Development that results in an Extraordinary Impact to the County or a
District, as the case may be. (Ord. 2023-09, 7-17-2023)
CHAPTER 10
DEVELOPER CREDITS AND REIMBURSEMENT
SECTION:
13-10-1: Developer Credits And Reimbursement Process
13-10-2: Credit Limitations
13-10-3: Valuation of Credit At Present Value
13-10-4: When Credits Become Effective
13-10-5: Credit Request Procedures
13-10-1: DEVELOPER CREDITS AND REIMBURSEMENT PROCESS:
When a Developer or their predecessor in title or interest has constructed
System Improvements of the same category as a Capital Improvements Element, or
contributed or dedicated land or money towards the completion of System
Improvements of the same category as a Capital Improvements Element, and the
County or the District, as the case may be, has accepted such construction,
contribution or dedication, the County or the District, as the case may be,
shall issue a credit, in accordance with the provisions of this chapter,
against the Impact Fees otherwise due for the same Capital Improvements Element
in connection with the proposed Development, as set forth in this section.
Credit shall be issued regardless of whether the contribution or dedication to
System Improvements was required as a condition of Development or was offered
by the Developer and accepted by the County or the District, as the case may
be, in writing, and regardless of whether the contribution or dedication was
contributed by the Developer or by a local improvement district controlled by
the Developer. (Ord. 2023-09, 7-17-2023)
13-10-2: CREDIT LIMITATIONS:
Credits against an Impact Fee shall not be given for:
   A.   Project Improvements; or
   B.   Any construction, contribution, or dedication not agreed to in writing
by the County or a District, as the case may be, prior to commencement of the
construction, contribution, or dedication. Credits issued for one Capital
Improvements Element may not be used to reduce the impact fee due for a
different capital improvement. No credits shall be issued for System
Improvements contributed or dedicated prior to the effective date of this
title. (Ord. 2023-09, 7-17-2023)
13-10-3: VALUATION OF CREDIT AT PRESENT VALUE:
The valuation of system improvements for credit against Impact Fees shall be in
accordance with the following:
   A.   Land. Credit for qualifying land dedications shall, at the Fee Payer’s
option, be valued at the Present Value of:
      1.   One hundred (100) percent of the most recent assessed value for such
land as shown in the records of the county assessor; or
      2.   The fair market value established by a private appraiser acceptable
to the County or a District, as the case may be, in an appraisal paid for by
the Fee Payer.
   B.   Improvements. Credit for qualifying acquisition or construction of
System Improvements shall be valued by the County or a District, as the case
may be, at the Present Value of such improvements based on complete engineering
drawings, specifications, and construction cost estimates as submitted by the
Fee Payer. The Administrator shall determine the amount of credit due based on
the information submitted, or, if it determines that such information is
inaccurate or unreliable, then on alternative engineering or construction costs
acceptable to the County or a District, as the case may be, as a more accurate
measure of the value of the offered System Improvements. (Ord. 2023-09, 7-17-
2023)
13-10-4: WHEN CREDITS BECOME EFFECTIVE:
Credit against Impact Fees become effective in accordance with the following:
   A.   Land. Approved credits for land dedications shall become effective when
the land has been conveyed to the County or a District, in a form acceptable,
at no cost, and has been accepted by the County or a District, as the case may
be. Upon request of the Fee Payer, the County or a District shall issue a
letter stating the amount of credit available, as the case may be.
   B.   Improvements. Approved credits for acquisition or construction of
System Improvements shall generally become effective when (a) all required
construction has been completed and has been accepted by the County or the
District, as the case may be, (b) a suitable maintenance and warranty bond has
been received and approved by the to the County or the District, as the case
may be, and (c) all design, construction, inspection, testing, bonding, and
acceptance procedures have been completed in compliance with all applicable
requirements of the County or a District, as the case may be and the State of
Idaho. Upon request of the Fee Payer, the County or a District, as the case may
be, shall issue a letter stating the amount of credit available. (Ord. 2023-09,
7-17-2023)
13-10-5: CREDIT REQUEST PROCEDURES:
The following are the procedural requirements for the processing of credit
against impact fees requests:
   A.   Request. In order to obtain a credit against (an) Impact Fee(s)
otherwise due, a Fee Payer shall submit to the County or a District, as the
case may be, a written offer of request to dedicate specific parcels of
qualifying land or a written offer to contribute or construct specific System
Improvements to the Capital Facilities in accordance with all applicable state
and local governmental design and construction standards, and shall
specifically request a credit against the type of impact fee for which the land
dedication or System Improvements is offered. The County or a District, as the
case may be, shall then deliver the written offer of request to the
Administrator.
   B.   Review. After receipt of the written offer of request for credit, the
Administrator shall review the request and determine whether the land or System
Improvements offered for credit will reduce the costs of providing Capital
Facilities by an amount at least equal to the value of the credit. If the
Administrator determines that the offered credit satisfies those criteria and
will be acceptable to the County or the District Commissioners, as the case may
be, then the credit shall be issued. The review and determination of a written
offer/application for credit shall be completed by the Administrator within
thirty (30) days after receipt of a written offer and application for credit.
   C.   Credits exceeding fee amounts due. If the credit due to a Fee Payer
pursuant to sections above exceeds the Impact Fees that would otherwise be due
from the Fee Payer pursuant to this title (whether calculated through the fee
schedule attached to the capital improvement plan or through an independent
assessment), the Fee Payer may choose to receive such credit in the form of
either:
      1.   A credit against future County or a District’s Impact Fees due for
the same System Improvements; or
      2.   A reimbursement from Impact Fees paid by future Development that
impacts the System Improvements contributed or dedicated by the Fee Payer.
Unless otherwise stated in an agreement with the Fee Payer, the County, or the
District, as the case may be, shall be under no obligation to use any of its
funds other than Impact Fees paid by other Development for the same System
Improvements to reimburse the Fee Payer for any credit in excess of the Impact
Fees that are due.
   D.   Written agreement required. If credit or reimbursement is due to the
Fee Payer pursuant to this section, the County or a District, as the case may
be, shall enter into a written agreement with the Fee Payer, negotiated in good
faith, prior to the contribution, dedication, or funding of the System
Improvements giving rise to the credit. The agreement shall provide for the
amount of credit or the amount of time and form of reimbursement, and shall
have a term not exceeding ten (10) years.
   E.   The Administrator’s determination on the written offer of request for
credit shall be provided to the Fee Payer and the County or the District
Commissioners, as the case may be. (Ord. 2023-09, 7-17-2023)
CHAPTER 11
IMPACT FEE PAYMENT MISTAKE OR MISREPRESENTATION
SECTION:
13-11-1:   Incorrect Impact Fee Payment
13-11-1: INCORRECT IMPACT FEE PAYMENT:
If Impact Fees are calculated and paid based on a mistake or misrepresentation,
they shall be recalculated. Any amounts overpaid by a Fee Payer shall be
refunded by the County or the District, as the case may be, within thirty (30)
days after the acceptance of the recalculated amount, with interest at the
legal rate provided for in I.C. § 28-22-104 from the date on which the fee was
paid. Any amounts underpaid by the Fee Payer shall be paid to the County or the
District, as the case may be, within thirty (30) days after the Administrator’s
acceptance of the recalculated amount, with interest at the legal rate provided
for in I.C. § 28-22-104 from the date on which the fee was paid. In the case of
an underpayment of Impact Fees, the Administrator may request the County and
the County may withhold issuance of the Building Permits or Development for the
Project for which the Impact Fees were paid until such underpayment is
corrected, and if amounts owed are not paid within such thirty-day period, the
Administrator may also ask the County to revoke any Building Permits or
Development issued in reliance on the previous payment of such Impact Fees and
refund such fees to the Fee Payer. (Ord. 2023-09, 7-17-2023)
CHAPTER 12
REFUNDS
SECTION:
13-12-1: Duty To Refund
13-12-2: Refund Determination
13-12-3: No Refund Due For Subsequent Reduction In Size Of Development or
Service Units
13-12-4: Interest
13-12-5: Timing
13-12-1: DUTY TO REFUND:
Impact Fees shall be refunded to the Fee Payer, or to a successor in interest,
in the following circumstances:
   A.   Service is available but never provided; or
   B.   A Building Permit, or permit for installation of a manufactured home,
is denied by the County or abandoned; or
   C.   The Fee Payer pays Impact Fees under protest and a subsequent review of
the fee paid or the completion of an individual assessment determines that the
fee paid exceeded the Proportionate Share to which the County or a District, as
the case may be, was entitled to receive; or
   D.   The County or the District, as the case may be, collected the Impact
Fees and failed to Appropriate or expend the collected fees pursuant to the
section below; or
   E.   Failure of the County or a District, as the case may be, to commence
construction or encumber the funds in the Development Impact Fee Capital
projects Trust Fund. (Ord. 2023-09, 7-17-2023)
13-12-2: REFUND DETERMINATION:
Any Impact Fee paid shall be refunded if the County or a District, as the case
may be, has failed to commence construction of System Improvements in
accordance with this title, or to Appropriate funds for such construction,
within eight (8) years after the date on which such Impact Fees were collected.
Any refund due shall be paid to the owner of record of the parcel for which the
Impact Fees were paid. The County or the District, as the case may be, may hold
Impact Fees for longer than eight (8) years if it is identified in writing and
in written notice to the owner of record of the parcel identifying:
   A.   A reasonable cause for why the Impact Fees should be held longer than
eight (8) years; and an anticipated date by which the fees will be expended,
but in no event greater than eleven (11) years from the date the Impact Fees
were collected.
      1.   If the County or a District, as the case may be, fails to comply
with the previous sentence, fails to commence construction of System
Improvements in accordance with the written notice, or to Appropriate funds for
such construction on or before the date identified in such writing then any
Impact Fees so identified shall be refunded to the Fee Payer or to a successor
in interest, as the case may be. (Ord. 2023-09, 7-17-2023)
13-12-3: NO REFUND DUE FOR SUBSEQUENT REDUCTION IN SIZE OF DEVELOPMENT OR
SERVICE UNITS:
After Impact Fees have been paid pursuant to this title and after a certificate
of occupancy has been issued by the County, no refund of any part of such fee
shall be made if the Project for which the fee was paid is later demolished,
destroyed, or is altered, reconstructed, or reconfigured so as to reduce the
size of the Project or the number of units in the Project. (Ord. 2023-09, 7-17-
2023)
13-12-4: INTEREST:
Each refund shall include a refund of interest at one-half the legal rate
provided for in I.C. § 28-22-104 from the date on which the fee was originally
paid. (Ord. 2023-09, 7-17-2023)
13-12-5: TIMING:
The County or a District, as the case may be, shall make a determination of
whether a refund is due within thirty (30) days after receipt of a written
request for a refund from the owner of record of the property for which the fee
was paid. When the right to a refund exists, the County or the District, as the
case may be, shall send the refund to the owner of record within ninety (90)
days after it determines that a refund is due. (Ord. 2023-09, 7-17-2023)
CHAPTER 13
DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEE CAPITAL PROJECTS TRUST FUNDS/EXPENDITURES, BUDGET, AUDIT
AND SURCHARGE
SECTION:
13-13-1:   Establishment of Development Impact Fee Capital Projects Trust Funds
by County and Districts
13-13-2:   Trust Fund Deposits and Accounting
13-13-3:   Expenditure Eligibility
13-13-4:   Annual Capital budget
13-13-5:   Monies in Trust Fund not Expended Carried Over from Fiscal Year to
Fiscal Year
13-13-6:   Annual Audit Report
13-13-7:   Surcharge Reimbursement
13-13-1: ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEE CAPITAL PROJECTS TRUST FUNDS
BY COUNTY AND DISTRICTS:
The County and each District shall establish a Trust Fund. The County shall
maintain the County’s Trust Fund and each District shall maintain their
respective Trust Fund, for the purpose of ensuring that all Impact Fees
collected, pursuant to this title, are used to address impacts reasonably
attributable to new Development for which the Impact Fees are paid. Each Trust
Fund shall be divided into the Accounts. All funds in all Accounts in each
Trust Fund shall be maintained in an interest-bearing account. The interest
earned on each Account pursuant to I.C. § 67-8210(1) shall not be governed by
I.C. § 57-127, as amended, but shall be considered funds of the Account and
shall be subject to the same restrictions on uses of funds as the Impact Fees
on which the interest is generated. (Ord. 2023-09, 7-17-2023)
13-13-2: TRUST FUND DEPOSITS AND ACCOUNTING:
All monies paid by a Fee Payer, pursuant to this title, shall be identified as
Impact Fees and shall be promptly deposited by the Administrator in the
appropriate account of the Trust Fund.
   A.   First-in/first-out. Monies in each account shall be spent in the order
collected, on a first-in/first-out basis.
   B.   Maintenance of Records. The County and each District shall maintain and
keep accurate financial records for each account that shall show the source and
disbursement of all revenues, account for all monies received, ensure that the
disbursement of funds from each account shall be used solely and exclusively
for the provisions of Projects specified in the Capital Improvements Plan, and
provide an annual accounting for each Impact Fee Account showing the source and
amount of all funds collected and the Projects that were funded.
   C.   Accounting Principles. The calculation of Impact Fees shall be in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Impact Fees shall not
be deemed invalid because payment of Impact Fees may result in an incidental
benefit to owners or Developers within the Service Area other than the Fee
Payer. (Ord. 2023-09, 7-17-2023)
13-13-3: EXPENDITURE ELIGIBILITY:
Expenditures of Impact Fees collected and deposited in the Trust Fund shall be
made only for System Improvements within the Service Area for which the Impact
Fees were collected in accordance with the Capital Improvements Plan. (Ord.
2023-09, 7-17-2023)
13-13-4: ANNUAL CAPITAL BUDGET:
The County and each District shall annually adopt a capital budget. (Ord. 2023-
09, 7-17-2023)
13-13-5: MONIES IN TRUST FUND NOT EXPENDED CARRIED OVER FROM FISCAL YEAR TO
FISCAL YEAR:
Any monies, including any accrued interest not assigned to specific System
Improvements within such Capital Improvements Plan and not expended or refunded
shall be retained in the same account until the next fiscal year. (Ord. 2023-
09, 7-17-2023)
13-13-6: ANNUAL AUDIT REPORT:
As part of their annual audit process, the County and the District(s) shall
each prepare an annual report:
   A.   Describing the amount of all Impact Fees collected, appropriated, or
spent during the preceding year by category of public facility; and
   B.   Describing the percentage of taxes and revenues from sources other than
the Impact Fees collected, appropriated, or spent for System Improvements
during the preceding year in the systems improvements category of Capital
Facilities. (Ord. 2023-09, 7-17-2023)
13-13-7: SURCHARGE REIMBURSEMENT:
A portion of each Impact Fee collected shall be designated as a surcharge for
reimbursement for the cost of preparing the Capital Improvements Plan in
accordance with I.C. § 67-8208. The surcharge shall not exceed the
Development’s Proportionate Share of the cost of preparing the Capital
Improvements Plan. (Ord. 2023-09, 7-17-2023)
CHAPTER 14
APPEALS/MEDIATION
SECTION:
13-14-1:   Appeals To The District’s Commissioners
13-14-2:   Appeals To The County Commissioners
13-14-3:   Mediation
13-14-1: APPEALS TO THE DISTRICT’S COMMISSIONERS:
Any Fee Payer who is or may be obligated to pay an Impact Fee, which is
established by the County by Intergovernmental Agreement, and who claims a
right to receive a refund, reimbursement, exemption, or credit under this title
or is otherwise dissatisfied with a decision made by the Administrator in
applying this title, may appeal such decision to the District Commissioners in
accordance with the following process:
   A.   The Fee Payer shall have the burden of demonstrating that the decision
was in error.
   B.   In order to pursue the appeal described in this subsection, the Fee
Payer shall file a written notice of appeal with the Administrator within
thirty (30) days after the date of the Administrator’s decision, or the date on
which the Fee Payer submitted a payment of the Impact Fees under protest,
whichever is later. Such written notice of appeal shall include a statement
describing why the Fee Payer believes that the appealed decision was in error,
together with copies of any documents that the Fee Payer believes support the
claim.
   C.   The Commissioners shall hear the appeal within sixty (60) days after
receipt of a written notice of appeal. The Fee Payer shall have a right to be
present and to present evidence in support of the appeal. The Administrator
shall likewise have the right to be present and to present evidence in support
of their decision. The criteria to be used by the District Commissioners in
considering the appeal shall be whether:
      1.   The decision or interpretation made by the Administrator or the
alternative decision or interpretation offered by the Fee Payer, more
accurately reflects the intent of this title that new Development in the
Service Area pay its Proportionate Share of the costs of System Improvements to
the District’s facilities necessary to serve new Development and whether the
provisions of this title have been correctly applied. The District
Commissioners shall issue a decision upholding, reversing, or modifying the
decision being appealed within thirty (30) days after hearing the appeal. (Ord.
2023-09, 7-17-2023)
13-14-2: APPEALS TO THE COUNTY COMMISSIONERS:
Any Fee Payer who is or may be obligated to pay an Impact Fee which is
established by the County and is subject to an Intergovernmental Agreement, and
who claims a right to receive a refund, reimbursement, exemption, or credit
under this title or is otherwise dissatisfied with a decision made by the
County Administrator or the decision of the District Commissioners in applying
this title, may appeal such decision to the County Commissioners.
   A.   The Fee Payer shall have the burden of demonstrating that the County
Administrator’s or the District Commissioners’ decision was in error.
   B.   In order to pursue the appeal described in this subsection, the Fee
Payer shall file a written notice of appeal with the County Administrator
within thirty (30) days after the date of the District Commissioners’ decision.
Such written notice of appeal shall include a statement describing why the Fee
Payer believes that the appealed decision of the County Administrator or the
District Commissioners, as the case may be, was in error, together with copies
of any documents that the Fee Payer believes support the claim. The County
Administrator shall within three (3) business days deliver the notice of appeal
together with copies of any documents filed with it to the County Clerk.
   C.   The County Commissioners shall hear the appeal within sixty (60) days
after receipt by the County Clerk of a written notice of appeal. The Fee Payer
shall have a right to be present and to present evidence in support of the
appeal. The County Administrator or the District Administrator, as the case may
be, shall likewise have the right to be present and to present evidence in
support of the decision. The criteria to be used by the County Commissioners in
considering the appeal shall be whether:
      1.   The decision or interpretation made by the County Administrator or
the District Commissioners’ decision on appeal, or the alternative decision or
interpretation offered by the Fee Payer, more accurately reflects the intent of
this title that new Development pay its Proportionate Share of the costs of
System Improvements to facilities necessary to serve new Development and
whether the provisions of this title have been correctly applied. The County
Commissioners shall issue a decision upholding, reversing, or modifying the
decision being appealed within thirty (30) days after hearing the appeal. (Ord.
2023-09, 7-17-2023)
13-14-3: MEDIATION:
Any Fee Payer that has a disagreement with an Administrator regarding an Impact
Fee determination that is or may be due for a proposed Development pursuant to
this title, may enter into a voluntary agreement with (depending upon the
progress of the protest) the County or the District, as the case may be, to
submit the disagreement to mediation by a qualified independent party
acceptable to both the Fee Payer and the County or the District.
   A.   Mediation may take place at any time following the filing of a timely
appeal pursuant to sections
13-14-1 and
13-14-2, or as an alternative to such appeal, provided that the request for
mediation is filed no later than the last date on which a timely appeal could
be filed pursuant to section
13-14-2.
   B.   Participation in mediation does not preclude the Fee Payer from
pursuing other remedies provided for in this section.
   C.   If mediation is requested, any related mediation costs shall be shared
equally by the Fee Payer and the County or the District, (depending upon the
progress of the protest), and a written agreement regarding the payment of such
costs shall be executed prior to the commencement of mediation.
   D.   In the event that mediation does not resolve the issues, the Fee Payer
retains all rights to seek relief from a court of competent jurisdiction. (Ord.
2023-09, 7-17-2023)
CHAPTER 15
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
SECTION:
13-15-1: No Requirement Of The County To Approve Extraordinary Impact
Development
13-15-2: District Not Obligated To Approve Development That Reduces Levels Of
Service
13-15-3: No Additional Right To Develop Created By This Title
13-15-4: No Limit On County’s Eminent Domain Authority
13-15-5: Agreements Between Property Owners, Idaho Transportation Department
(ITD), And Other Governmental Entities For Construction Or Installation Of
System Improvements
13-15-6: Plan Of Alternative Sources Of Revenue
13-15-7: Safety Codes And Other Rules Applicable To Project Improvements
13-15-8: Development Approved By The County Prior To The Effective Date Of This
Title Not Subject To Impact Fees
13-15-9: Punishment
13-15-10: Liberal Construction
13-15-1: NO REQUIREMENT OF THE COUNTY TO APPROVE EXTRAORDINARY IMPACT
DEVELOPMENT:
Nothing in this title shall obligate the County to approve Development which
results in an Extraordinary Impact. (Ord. 2023-09, 7-17-2023)
13-15-2: DISTRICT NOT OBLIGATED TO APPROVE DEVELOPMENT THAT REDUCES LEVELS OF
SERVICE:
Nothing in this title shall obligate a District to approve any Development
request which may reasonably be expected to reduce levels of service below
minimum acceptable levels established in this title. (Ord. 2023-09, 7-17-2023)
13-15-3: NO ADDITIONAL RIGHT TO DEVELOP CREATED BY THIS TITLE:
Nothing in this title shall be construed to create any additional right to
develop real property or diminish the County in regulating the orderly
development of real property within its boundaries. (Ord. 2023-09, 7-17-2023)
13-15-4: NO LIMIT ON COUNTY’S EMINENT DOMAIN AUTHORITY:
Nothing in this title limits the use of the County’s power of eminent domain or
supersedes or conflicts with requirements or procedures authorized in the Idaho
Code for local improvement districts or general obligation bond issues. (Ord.
2023-09, 7-17-2023)
13-15-5: AGREEMENTS BETWEEN PROPERTY OWNERS, IDAHO TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT
(ITD), AND OTHER GOVERNMENTAL ENTITIES FOR CONSTRUCTION OR INSTALLATION OF
SYSTEM IMPROVEMENTS:
Nothing in this title shall be construed to prevent or prohibit private
agreements between property owners or Developers, Idaho Transportation
Department, and governmental entities in regards to the construction or
installation of System Improvements or providing for credits or reimbursements
for System Improvements Costs incurred by a Developer including inter-project
transfers of credits or providing for reimbursement for Project Improvements
which are used or shared by more than one (1) Development Project. (Ord. 2023-
09, 7-17-2023)
13-15-6: PLAN OF ALTERNATIVE SOURCES OF REVENUE:
The County and the Districts shall each develop a plan for alternative sources
of revenue, which shall include but not necessarily be limited to plans
generated during their annual budget process. These alternative sources of
revenue may include lobbying efforts, tax increment financing, and
implementation of user fees, administrative and regulatory fees, and other
forms of revenue. (Ord. 2023-09, 7-17-2023)
13-15-7: SAFETY CODES AND OTHER RULES APPLICABLE TO PROJECT IMPROVEMENTS:
Nothing in this title shall prevent the County or a District from requiring a
Developer to construct reasonable Project Improvements, as are required by
applicable safety codes and other rules that are adopted which have
jurisdiction to enforce in conjunction with a Development. (Ord. 2023-09, 7-17-
2023)
13-15-8: DEVELOPMENT APPROVED BY THE COUNTY PRIOR TO THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF THIS
TITLE NOT SUBJECT TO IMPACT FEES:
Notwithstanding any other provision(s) of this title, that portion of a Project
for which a complete application for a Building Permit has been received by the
County, prior to the effective date of this title, shall not be subject to an
Impact Fee imposed by this title. If the resulting Building Permit is later
revised or replaced after the effective date of the ordinance codified in this
title, and the new Building Permit(s) reflects a Development with density,
intensity, size or number of units more than ten (10) percent higher than
reflected in the original Building Permit, then the Impact Fee may be charged
on the difference in density, intensity, size or number of units between the
original and the revised or replacement Building Permit. (Ord. 2023-09, 7-17-
2023)
13-15-9: PUNISHMENT:
Any person who violates any provision of this title shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, punishable by up to one (1) year in county jail, and/or a one
thousand dollar ($1,000.00) fine, or both. Knowingly furnishing false
information to any official of the County or a District charged with the
administration of this title, including without limitation, the furnishing of
false information regarding the expected size, use, or impacts from a proposed
Development, shall be a violation of this title. (Ord. 2023-09, 7-17-2023)
13-15-10: LIBERAL CONSTRUCTION:
All provisions, terms, phrases, and expressions contained in this title shall
be liberally construed in order that the true intent and meaning of the Act may
be fully carried out by the County Commissioners and each District’s
Commissioners. (Ord. 2023-09, 7-17-2023)
 
