CITY CODE
of
PLUMMER, IDAHO
1993
Code current through:
Ord. 474, passed 12-19-2024
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
   This code of the City of Plummer, as supplemented, contains ordinances up to
and including ordinance 474, passed 12-19-2024. Ordinances of the City adopted
after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the extent that
they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the City office in
order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has been
amended, superseded or repealed.
American Legal Publishing
Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they have not been incorporated into
the code and they may not show the original ordinances in their entirety.
Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions concerning
the ordinances listed.
ORDINANCE NO. 474
AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF PLUMMER, BENEWAH COUNTY, A MUNICIPAL CORPORATION OF
THE STATE OF IDAHO, AMENDING THE PLUMMER CITY CODE TO AMEND TITLE 8, CHAPTER 8
C-1 GENERAL COMMERCIAL CODE TO UPDATE INDEX; AMENDING TITLE 8, CHAPTER 8,
SECTION 1 TO REPLACE GENERAL RESTRICTIONS TO PURPOSE AND INTENT; AMENDING TITLE
8, CHAPTER 8, SECTION 2 TO REPLACE LOT SIZE WITH GENERAL RESTRICTIONS; AMENDING
TITLE 8, CHAPTER 8, SECTION 3 TO REPLACE SITE AREA WITH LOT SIZE; AMENDING
TITLE 8, CHAPTER 8, SECTION 4 TO REPLACE USES PERMITTED WITH SITE AREA;
AMENDING TITLE 8, CHAPTER 8, SECTION 5 TO REPLACE USES PROHIBITED WITH USES
PERMITTED; AMENDED TITLE 8, CHAPTER 8, SECTION 6 TO REPLACE BUILDING SETBACK
REQUIREMENTS WITH USES PROHIBITED; AMENDED TITLE 8, CHAPTER 8, SECTION 7 TO
REPLACE OFF STREE PARKING REQUIREMENTS WITH BUILDING SETBACK REQUIREMENTS;
AMENDING TITLE 8, CHAPTER 8, SECTION 8 TO REPLACE LOADING SPACE REQUIREMENTS
WITH OFF STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS; AMENDING TITLE 8, CHAPTER 8, SECTION 9 TO
REPLACE SIGN REQUIREMENTS WITH LOADING SPACE REQUIREMENTS; AMENDING TITLE 8,
CHAPTER 8, SECTION 10 TO REPLACE FENCE REQUIREMENTS TO SIGN REQUIREMENTS;
AMENDING TITLE 8, CHAPTER 8, SECTION 10 TO REPLACE FENCE REQUIREMENTS WITH SIGN
REQUIREMENTS; AMENDING TITLE 8, CHAPTER 8, SECTION 11 TO REPLACE LANDSCAPING
REQUIREMENTS TO FENCE REQUIREMENTS; AMENDING TITLE 8, CHAPTER 8, SECTION 12 TO
REPLACE SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS WITH LANDSCAPING REQUIREMENTS; AMENDING TITLE 8,
CHAPTER 8, SECTION 13 TO REPLACE SPECIAL USE TO SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS; ADOPTING
TITLE 8, CHAPTER 8, SECTION 14 TO INCLUDE THE SPECIAL USE SECTION; AMENDING
TITLE 8, CHAPTER 9 TO DELETE C-2 MAIN STREET COMMERCIAL CODE; ADOPTING TITLE 5
CHAPTER 8 TO PROVIDE FOR RENAMING ROADS; AMENDING TITLE 9, CHAPTER 9, SECTION 8
TO BE CONSISTENT WITH TITLE 5 CHAPTER 8; AMENDING TITLE 7, CHAPTER 4, SECTION
3, SUBPARAGRAPH C TO PROVIDE CONSISTENCY THROUGHOUT THE CODE AND CLARIFY THE
SCOPE OF THE SNOW ROOF LOAD ; PROVIDING FOR SEVERABILITY; PROVIDING FOR REPEAL
OF CONFLICTING PROVISIONS; AND PROVIDING AN EFFECTIVE DATE.
 
 
Ordinance No. 474 was adopted after notice and hearing required by state law
and upon suspension of the rules, upon a roll call vote, and duly enacted at a
regular session of the Plummer City Council, on the 19 day of December, 2024,
and approved by the Mayor.
 
WHEREAS, the City of Plummer (“City”) conducted a reading of the ordinance, and
one half plus one of the members of the full council dispensed of the rule
requiring two more readings on December 19, 2024; and
 
WHEREAS, on December 19, 2024, the City held a public hearing, duly noticed by
publication in the St. Maries Gazette Record, on the amendments to the City’s
zoning code, and the record shows that all other requirements required by law
were followed; and
 
WHEREAS, the City finds it necessary to adopt a procedure for future road
naming and addressing to ensure efficiency and compatibility with roads
currently named and addressed; and
 
WHEREAS, the City finds that certain zoning restrictions with respect to
sidewalks and parking are not appropriate for the City’s circumstances; and
 
WHEREAS, the City finds that some exceptions by special use permits provided
for in the zoning ordinance are not favored by the City or its residents; and
 
WHEREAS, the City finds that certain language in the zoning ordinance is not
consistent throughout the Municipal Code and with other local, state and
federal regulations, and the City desires to provide consistent language
through its Municipal Code, as well as any other local, state or federal
regulations; and
 
WHEREAS, pursuant to Idaho Code §§ 50-302, 50-902, 67-6509, 67-6511, and other
related statutes, the City finds that these amendments are not in conflict with
the policies of the adopted comprehensive plan, and there are no adverse
impacts upon the delivery of services by any political subdivision providing
public services, including school districts, within the planning jurisdiction.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF
PLUMMER, BENEWAH COUNTY, IDAHO:
 
SECTION 1: That Title 8, Chapter 8, be repealed, in its entirety, and amended
as follows:
 
CHAPTER 8
C-1 GENERAL COMMERCIAL ZONE
SECTION:
 
8-8-1: Purpose and Intent
 
8-8-2: General Restrictions
 
8-8-3: Lot Size
 
8-8-4: Site Area
 
8-8-5: Uses Permitted
 
8-8-6: Uses Prohibited
 
8-8-7: Building Setback Requirements
 
8-8-8: Off Street Parking Requirements
 
8-8-9: Loading Space Requirements
 
8-8-10: Sign Requirements
 
8-8-11: Fence Requirements
 
8-8-12: Landscaping Requirements
 
8-8-13: Special Requirements
 
8-8-14: Special Use
 
 
8-8-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
 
A.   The purpose of this chapter is to enact regulations that implement the
vision and goals of the comprehensive plan.
 
B.   The Commercial district is intended to be the urban center of the city.
 
C.   The code encourages the placement of buildings closer to each other as
well as closer to the street where pedestrian activity is expected to occur. As
sidewalks are a principal place of pedestrian movement and casual social
interaction, designs and uses should be complementary to that function.
 
8-8-2: GENERAL RESTRICTIONS:
 
A.   The C-1 zone is a land use classification for a district suitable for
wholesale and retail sales, offices, service establishments and multi-family
housing.
 
B.   In the C-1 zone, no building or premises shall be used, nor any building
or structure be hereafter erected or altered unless otherwise provided in this
title, except for one or more of the uses in accordance with the following
standards of this chapter.
 
C.   All use types permitted in the C-1 zone shall be conducted entirely within
a building with the exception of vehicle/equipment rentals, vehicle/equipment
sales and parking lots. Retail outdoor storage may be approved by special use
permit. On outdoor sales and rental lots or premises, all new or used passenger
cars, trucks, trailers, mobile homes, boats, farm machinery or other machinery
or equipment, normally displayed for sales or rental purposes on an open lot
shall be in working order, if displayed in the open for public view.
 
D.   Maximum height of buildings shall not exceed two (2) stories or thirty
feet (35'), except that structures may exceed this height by special use
permit.
 
E.   All refuse collection containers shall be maintained in a clean manner.
 
F.   All commercial buildings must face a public street. All commercial
buildings must provide at least one customer entrance within fifty feet (50')
of an adjacent public sidewalk or within fifty feet (50’) from the frontage
parcel boundary line where no sidewalk exists or will be constructed. Where
public sidewalk exists or is otherwise required to be constructed, pedestrian
access from the public sidewalk to the building entrance shall be provided and
must be protected from vehicular traffic and provide access for disabled
persons in a manner that complies with applicable state and federal law. This
standard does not apply to espresso stands or other small stands.
 
G.   Commercial lots adjacent to residentially zoned properties shall have a
twenty foot (20') buffer along the abutting residentially zoned property.
Buffers shall not be used for the purpose of parking, loading, servicing or
other business activity.
 
H.   Deliveries shall not be made off of US-95 or SH-5. All loading and
unloading of trucks shall be performed off of the traveled portion of side
streets and alleys.
 
I.   Metal structures known as pole buildings and prefabricated structures
shall be sided on the front to give the general appearance of a stick built
structure.
 
J.   If possible, voids between buildings should be removed to create a
continuous building line along the street. Building details should be simple
with an emphasis on shape, proportion, and texture rather than ornateness or
repetition.
 
8-8-3: LOT SIZE:
 
The minimum allowable lot size is seven thousand (7,000) square feet with a
minimum of fifty feet (50’) of continuous frontage on a public street.
 
8-8-4: SITE AREA:
 
A.   On a parcel of land or lot of whatever size in the C-1 zone a minimum of
twenty percent (20%) of the area of the site shall be left in open space free
from all structures.
 
B.   Open space can be utilized for parking and landscaping as required in
section 8-8-12 of this chapter.
8-8-5: USES PERMITTED:
 
Assembly of products whose parts were manufactured elsewhere. Assembly, storage
of materials, and storage of finished products must be conducted within a
structure, providing the same takes place in a clean, quiet atmosphere, free of
noise, odor, dust and smoke.
 
Automobile service stations, convenience stores.
Automotive and/or equipment service, maintenance, repair, body and paint shops
provided that no more than two (2) inoperative vehicles or pieces of equipment
shall be stored outside of the building per bay. All storage of vehicles or
equipment must be on premises. Storage of additional vehicles awaiting work may
be allowed by special use permit.
 
Barbershops, beauty salons.
 
Beverage distribution facilities under fifteen thousand (15,000) square feet,
but not including bottling plants.
 
Clinics, dental offices.
 
Department, furniture, appliance stores, and lumberyards.
 
Drive-through facilities must have a stacking lane with a minimum of eighty
feet (80') in length for cars waiting to access a drive-through window. The
stacking lane must be contained entirely on private property between the public
right of way and the drive-through window. The stacking lane shall not
interfere with vehicle parking or circulation.
 
Eating or drinking establishments.
 
Espresso stands and other small standalone drive-up businesses under five
hundred (500) square feet. Drive-up stands shall be set back a minimum of
twenty feet (20') from all property lines and other buildings. A minimum of
forty five feet (45') in length shall be provided for cars waiting to access a
drive-through window. The stacking lane must be contained entirely on private
property between the public right of way and the drive-through window. The
stacking lane shall not interfere with vehicle parking or circulation.
 
Government buildings and offices, public buildings and offices, public
utilities installation.
 
Hotels, motels, or motor inns.
 
Indoor storage facilities, ministorage, self-storage units, garages for storage
of private passenger automobiles and recreational vehicles.
 
Indoor transfer, storage and warehouse facilities.
 
Laundromats, public laundry facilities.
 
Outdoor advertising display signs or structures shall be permitted in the
immediate use area only and in accordance with section 8-8-10 of this chapter.
 
Parks and recreational facilities controlled and maintained by the city or a
private landowner.
 
Pet shops and animal clinics when conducted wholly within an enclosed building.
 
Pharmacy
 
Photographers, artist studios, galleries
 
Professional or service offices, banks.
 
Public parking areas provided they comply with requirements in section 8-8-8 of
this chapter.
 
Retail, service, or rental businesses. Businesses where over ten percent (10%)
of the goods offered for sale or rent are to be stored outdoors shall operate
under special use permit only.
 
Supermarkets, malls and other shopping facilities under fifteen thousand
(15,000) square feet. Public shopping facilities over fifteen thousand (15,000)
square feet may be allowed by special use permit.
 
Taverns
 
Temporary building or trailer for construction office purposes for a period not
to exceed the duration of such construction or six (6) months, whichever is the
lesser. Such structure shall not be used for human occupancy.
 
Temporary sales offices, construction trailers, or storage facilities for
subdivisions or building sites, during the period construction work is in
progress, but such temporary facilities shall be removed upon completion of the
construction work. All temporary buildings shall be set back at least ten feet
(10') from all property lines.
 
Theaters, libraries, museums, art galleries.
 
Vehicle, trailer and equipment sales and rental lots. All vehicles and
equipment stored outdoors shall be on a paved lot and in working order.
 
8-8-6: USES PROHIBITED:
 
Auto wrecking and junk yards.
 
Disposal of garbage or waste materials by sanitary landfill, fill and cover
method, composting, or incineration. Collection and/or storage of garbage or
waste materials for transfer to a disposal facility not within a structure.
 
Recycling Centers
 
General manufacturing and processing uses unless they are part of the operation
of a business or service specifically permitted in the C-1 Zone.
 
Grain elevators.
 
Industrial uses.
 
Manufactured homes.
 
Mining, rock crushing or commercial excavation of building or constructing
materials.
 
Outdoor advertising display signs or structures on premises other than those
for which the principal use is intended.
 
Single-family dwellings, tiny homes, duplexes, and triplexes. Apartment
buildings may be allowed by special use permit.
 
Stockyards, kennels.
 
Vehicle, trailer or equipment sales or rental lots.
 
The preparation and processing of dust producing mineral product, including,
but not limited to, abrasive, cement, fertilizer, plaster, crushed stone,
mining, extraction of sand, gravel and/or topsoil.
 
8-8-7: BUILDING AND SETBACK REQUIREMENTS:
 
A.   All buildings permitted in section 8-8-5 of this chapter, unless otherwise
indicated:
 
 
Flanking street    10 feet, 20 feet maximum
Front yard         5 feet minimum, 20 feet maximum
Rear or side alley 10 feet
Side yard          0 feet minimum, 10 feet maximum
 
    C.   The following encroachments are permitted:
 
1.   Awnings may encroach upon the public sidewalk without limit, but shall
provide a minimum height clearance of ten feet (10').
 
2.   Balconies and bay windows may encroach up to twenty five percent (25%) of
the depth of the setback.
 
       3.   Roof overhangs and eaves may encroach up to ten percent (10%) of
the depth of the setback.
 
4. Patios may encroach one hundred percent (100%) of the depth of a front
setback.
 
5. Open porches may encroach fifty percent (50%) of the depth of a front
setback.
 
D.   All freestanding signs as permitted in this chapter must be set back a
minimum of five feet (5') from all property lines.
 
E Voids between buildings should be removed when possible to create a
continuous building line along the street.
 
8-8-8: OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS:
 
A.   All off street parking areas with 5 or more parking spaces shall be paved.
Off street parking areas with 4 or fewer spaces may be surfaced with gravel, or
a similar stabilized surface. All parking areas, regardless of the number of
spaces, shall be maintained in good condition and kept free of trash and other
debris. Driveway approaches to off street parking areas with 5 or more parking
spaces shall also be paved if the street it is connecting to is paved.
 
B.   Prior to development of any parking area in excess of two (2) spaces, a
detailed written report shall be submitted containing the following
information:
1.   The proposed use of the land and/or structures.
2.   Proposed plan for handling any parking or traffic flow problems that may
be generated by this use. The proposed use shall not cause congestion of
adjacent streets or alleyways.
3.   Proposed plan for snow storage and removal. Pushing or stockpiling of snow
from private property into the public streets, highways, alleyways, or rights-
of-way is prohibited.
4.   Stormwater drainage for all parking areas, service drives, and approaches.
 
C.   Groups of two (2) or more parking spaces shall be served by a service
drive so that no backward movement or other maneuvering of a vehicle within a
street will be required. Service drives shall be designed and constructed in
such a manner that any vehicle leaving or entering the parking area from or
onto a public or private street shall be traveling in a forward manner and
provide maximum safety for pedestrian and vehicular traffic on site. In no case
shall two-way and one-way driveways be less than twenty feet (20') and twelve
feet (12') wide, respectively. All parking areas will have specific points
designated as ingress or egress areas.
 
D.   Parking facilities as required shall be used for vehicle parking only. No
automobile sales or storage, equipment or machinery sales or storage, dead
storage, outdoor sales, repair work, or dismantling of any kind shall be
permitted within the required parking spaces.
 
E.   No parking area for more than ten (10) vehicles shall be closer than
twenty feet (20') to any dwelling unit, motel, school or hospital, or
institution for human care located on an adjoining lot, unless separated by a
screen consisting of a fence, wall, or planting not less than four feet (4')
nor more than six feet (6') in height and maintained in good condition.
 
F.   In no case shall any part of a parking area by closer than four feet (4’)
to any established road or alley right of way or adjoining property.
 
G.   All uses in the C-1 zone shall have a minimum number of off street parking
spaces located not more than five hundred feet (500’) from the principal use as
described below.
 
 
Apartment houses            1 space plus 1/2 space for every bedroom for each
                            unit
Auto service garage         1 space for 2 fuel pumps plus 2 per service bay
Banks, financial            1 space for each 300 square feet gross floor area
institutions
Bowling alleys              4 spaces for each alley or lane
Childcare centers           1 space for every 10 children plus 1 for each
                            employee
Church, auditorium, theater 1 space for every 5 fixed seats or 1 per 100 square
                            feet if not fixed seats
Dance hall, skating rink,   1 space for each 100 square feet gross floor area
lodge hall
Eating and drinking         1 space for each 100 square feet gross floor area
establishments              devoted to customer service and dining
Group housing               1 space for each 3 units
Hospitals                   1 space per bed
Libraries, museums, art     1 space for each 400 square feet
galleries
Manufacturing               1 space for every 2 employees plus 1 for each motor
                            vehicle used in the business
Medical and dental offices  4 spaces for each doctor or 1 per 400 square feet
                            whichever is greater
Motel and hotels            1 space for each unit plus 1 for every 2 employees
Nursing home                1 space per 2 beds
Offices                     1 space for each 400 square feet gross floor area
Recreational facilities,    1 space for each 5 persons in capacity
pools
Retail stores               1 space for each 300 square feet gross floor area
Retail stores of bulky      1 space for each 600 square feet gross floor area
merchandise
Schools:
 Business, technical, trade 1 space for every 2 students
 school
 Business trade or          1 space for each 3 classroom seats
 industrial schools
 Elementary, middle schools 2 spaces per classroom
 High schools               1 space per 10 students plus 1 per teacher and
                            employee
 Kindergarten, nursery      2 spaces for each classroom, but not less than 6
 school
Service establishments      1 space for each 300 square feet gross floor area
 
Where the parking requirements for a use are not specifically defined in this
title, the parking requirements for such use shall be based upon the
requirements for the most comparable use specified in this title, or other
requirements based upon the best available information concerning the proposed
use.
 
H.   Two (2) or more nonresidential uses may jointly provide and use parking
spaces when their hours of operation do not normally overlay, provided that a
written agreement shall be filed with the application for building permit.
Shared parking shall be no farther than five hundred feet (500’) from the
building or use to be served.
 
I.   ADA accessible parking spaces shall be provided in accordance with the
currently adopted building code and current ADA requirements.
 
J.   All parking areas which are intended to be used during non-daylight hours
shall be properly illuminated to avoid accidents. Any lights used to illuminate
a parking lot shall be downward directed and shielded to minimize glare on
adjoining property.
 
K.   All driveway approaches to State Highways shall be paved and meet Idaho
Transportation Department construction standards for approaches. All building
permit applications for properties with approaches to State Highways shall
provide a copy of the ITD approved approach permit to the City with the
building permit application.
 
L.   On street parking spaces within five hundred feet (500’) of the business
entrance shall be counted toward fulfilling the parking requirements in this
section.
 
All off street parking areas for property abutting SH-5 shall be accessed from
the alley side of the property. Access from a flanking street may be allowed by
special use permit.
 
8-8-9: LOADING SPACE REQUIREMENTS:
 
A. Loading space as hereinafter set forth shall be provided for all permitted
or special uses in the C-1 Zone off of public streets and not in the front,
provided however, that a greater number of spaces may be required in any case
where approval of a special use permit is involved.
 
B. On the same premises with every building hereafter erected which contains
more than five thousand (5,000) square feet and which is designed to be
occupied by any use requiring regular receipt or dispatch of merchandise by
truck, there shall be provided and maintained at least one loading space, not
less than thirty feet (30') in length and twelve feet (12') in width, exclusive
of access platform and maneuvering area.
 
C. In no case shall the required off street loading area be part of the area
used to satisfy the off street parking requirements.
 
8-8-10: SIGN REQUIREMENTS:
 
A.   The purpose of this section is to establish standards for the fabrication,
erection, and use of signs, symbols, markings, and advertising devices within
the city. These standards are enacted to protect the public health, safety and
welfare of persons within the community. They are intended to aid in the
development and promotion of business and industry by providing sign
regulations which encourage aesthetic creativity, effectiveness and flexibility
of the design of such devices without creating detriment to the general public.
They are also intended to promote clear views of the natural surroundings by
minimizing visual clutter.
 
B.   All signs must adhere to the following regulations:
 
1.   No signs shall be placed in any public right of way except publicly owned
signs.
 
2. No sign imitating or resembling an official traffic or government sign or
signal shall be placed on property visible from any public right of way.
 
3. No sign shall be constructed or erected so as to create a traffic hazard.
 
4. No sign shall emit audible sound, odor, smoke, steam, laser or hologram
lights.
 
5. It is the obligation of the owner of every sign within the city to maintain
the sign in a good state of repair at all times. A sign which, due to
structural weakness, design defect, or other reason, constitutes a threat to
the health, safety, and welfare of any person or property, must be repaired,
replaced or removed within thirty (30) days of notice from the city.
 
6. No lighted sign shall create a public nuisance or utilize an exposed
incandescent, metal halide, or fluorescent light bulb.
 
 
7. Lighting shall be designed, located, shielded, and directed to prevent
misdirected or excessive artificial light upon any adjacent public right of
way, surrounding property, residential property or in motorists' vision.
 
8. Signs located along Highway 95 and State Highway 5 shall also conform to
Idaho state transportation department regulations.
 
9. The reduction or turning off of sign lighting during nonoperating hours is
encouraged.
 
10. All signs shall be constructed in accordance with applicable building and
electrical codes.
 
11. Abandoned signs or any sign which identifies or advertises an activity,
business, service or event which is no longer produced, conducted, performed or
sold on the premises where the sign is located is prohibited and must be
removed within thirty (30) days of the use being vacated.
 
C. The following signs are allowed within the C-1 zone in conformance with the
size and setback standards set forth:
 
1. Address numbers are required on the face of the building or sign visible
from the fronting street right of way for easy identification of the property.
 
2. Hours of operation signs.
 
3. Signs located on private property, not oriented to the general public, and
intended to provide information or directions to those using the facility.
 
4. Flags, symbols, or insignias.
 
5. Works of fine art displayed on private property within the setback of a
building.
 
6. Memorial signs or tablets, names of buildings and dates of erection, when
cut into or attached to the surface or facade of the building.
 
7. Religious symbols and seasonal decorations erected within the appropriate
holiday season.
 
8. One freestanding on premises sign no more than thirty feet (30') in height,
having a maximum total sign area of one hundred (100) square feet per display
area and located not closer than ten feet (10') to any street right of way line
and not closer than twenty feet (20') to any adjoining lot line may be erected.
There shall be only one freestanding sign for each building, regardless of the
number of businesses conducted in said building. Landscaping is required around
the base.
 
9. Wall mounted, on premises signs may have an area equivalent to one and one-
half (11/2) square feet of sign area for each linear foot of building width
occupied by such enterprise but shall not exceed a maximum area of one hundred
(100) square feet.
 
10. Signs painted directly on a wall shall not exceed fifteen percent (15%) of
the wall area.
 
11. Projecting signs may be placed on any building but shall not extend more
than three feet (3') from the surface to which it is attached. Signs projecting
over a public right of way must have at least ten feet (10') of ground
clearance.
 
12. Hanging signs may be placed on a building or underneath an awning or
colonnade, but may not project beyond the same. Signs hanging over a public
right of way must have at least eight feet (8') ground clearance.
 
13. Nonilluminated directional signs, not exceeding two (2) square feet in
size, may be placed at the vehicular entrances to a business set back a minimum
of five feet (5') from the street right of way.
 
14. Menu display boxes for drive-through facilities.
 
15. Manual changeable copy signs (reader boards) not to exceed sixteen (16)
square feet in size, with changeable copy limited to five (5) lines of
lettering and/or numbers not exceeding six inches (6") in height.
 
16. Portable signs and A-frame signs not to exceed six (6) square feet per side
are allowed within the setback area. Businesses must maintain a minimum four
foot (4') clearance around any sign located in the public sidewalk.
 
17. Temporary signs not exceeding fifty (50) square feet in area announcing the
erection of a building, the architect, owner or contractor may be erected for a
period of sixty (60) days plus the construction period.
 
18. Real estate signs are permitted provided they are no greater than twelve
(12) square feet in size and set back a minimum of ten feet (10') from the
right of way line of any street or highway. Real estate signs no larger than
six (6) square feet in size can be set at the right of way line.
 
D. The following signs may be allowed within the C-1 zone by special use
permit:
 
1. Buildings over one hundred thousand (100,000) square feet may have signs
larger than those allowed above provided that a master sign plan is submitted
and approved as part of the special use permit process for the facility.
 
2.   Electronic message signs, signs with flashing lights, inflatable signs or
displays, and animated signs may be allowed by special use permit provided that
the council can determine that they will not create a nuisance to the public or
hazard for motorists.
 
8-8-11: FENCE REQUIREMENTS:
 
A.   When sight obscuring fences are required by this title to protect the
surrounding property owners, the use requiring the fence shall be the principal
party in erecting the fence at the time the use is started and they or future
owners shall be the principal party in maintaining the fence in a constant and
good state of repair to include painting, etc.
 
B.   The council shall have the authority to require fencing or screening in
addition to what is specifically required elsewhere in this title.
 
8-8-12: LANDSCAPING REQUIREMENTS:
 
A. A minimum of two percent (2%) of the total lot shall be beautified by any of
the following individual methods or any combination thereof:
 
1.   Landscaped with trees, shrubbery, vines, ground covers, grass, or any
combination thereof, all of which should be drought tolerant.
2.   Enhanced with pavers, concrete, or other beautified ground cover.
3.   Enhanced with benches, planters, bicycle racks, garbage cans, or other
items for public use.
4.   Beautified with public art approved by the City Council.
B. All landscaped areas shall be maintained in a healthy and thriving condition
free of weeds, trash and debris. All areas visible to the public shall be
maintained free of trash and debris.
 
C. Parking lots with more than twenty (20) parking spaces shall have a minimum
of one 15-gallon deciduous tree for every twenty (20) parking spaces. Trees
shall be evenly distributed throughout the parking area to provide shade and
visual relief.
 
D. Trees planted along a public street shall be done in compliance with Plummer
tree ordinance, title 5, chapter 4 of this code, and shall be maintained in a
manner to avoid interference with public utilities, sidewalks and streets.
 
8-8-13: SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS:
 
A.    Sidewalks. Sidewalks shall be required to be installed and maintained by
the property owner in the following circumstances:
1.   Along the frontage of all State Highways in the C-1 General Commercial
zone;
2.   Where sidewalks have been identified as necessary or desirable in any
transportation or sidewalk plan duly adopted by the City; or
3.   Where adjacent parcels on two sides have existing sidewalks that could be
connected by a new sidewalk on the subject property.
Sidewalks so required shall be a minimum of six feet (6’) in width with curb
cuts at each public street corner in accordance with ADA accessibility
standards.
 
Exception to sidewalk requirement: No sidewalk shall be required when the site
improvements and building costs are less than thirty thousand dollars
($30,000.00), as determined by building permit valuation or from the valid,
signed contract to complete the work. If a footing and foundation only building
permit is issued, and a subsequent building permit is issued for the structure
that is to be placed on top of that same foundation, and the combined valuation
of both permits exceeds thirty thousand dollars ($30,000.00), then for the
purposes of this section both permits shall be considered as one permit and
sidewalks shall be required.
 
A.   Flat roofs shall be enclosed by parapets a minimum of forty-two inches
(42") high, or as required to conceal mechanical equipment.
 
B.   Any metal siding used shall be colored or painted to prevent glare.
 
Lighting placed upon the building shall be architecturally integrated, downward
directed and shielded, and shall not produce glare on public highways and
neighboring property.
 
8-8-14: SPECIAL USE:
 
On property meeting the minimum lot size requirement within the C-1 zone the
following uses may be permitted through the issuance of a special use permit
pursuant to chapter 16 of this title.
 
Animal clinic, veterinary office, or kennel with any animals to be kept
outdoors. Such facilities must be located at least three hundred feet (300')
from any residence including motels and hotels, except for owner's residences.
 
Apartment buildings with greater than four (4) living units. Apartment
buildings shall have a twenty foot (20') setback from streets, alleys and
adjoining property.
 
      Beverage distribution facilities over fifteen thousand (15,000) square
feet.
 
Bulk fuel storage, above or below ground bulk fuel or chemical storage other
than that required for a retail service station outlet. Such facilities shall
be located at least three hundred feet (300') from any residence and shall have
suitable loading and unloading spaces.
 
     Call centers.
 
      Church, and accessory buildings used for religious teaching.
 
Dry cleaners employing facilities for not more than one thousand (1,000) pounds
of dry goods per day and using carbon tetrachloride or other nonflammable
cleaning agents.
 
Foster home, group home, institution, nursery, kindergarten, halfway house, and
similar facility.
 
      Hospitals or sanatoriums.
 
      Manufactured home sales.
 
Mini-mall with individual storefronts not to exceed five thousand (5,000)
square feet of floor space.
 
      Mortuary, undertaking establishments.
 
Multiuse building with residential units above or behind the commercial space.
Such residential use shall be secondary to the commercial use and its square
footage shall not exceed that of the commercial space. Each residential unit
shall have off street parking spaces as required for apartments and the
entrance to the living unit(s) shall be separate from that of the commercial
use.
 
Nursery schools and childcare centers. A fenced outdoor play area with a
minimum of one hundred (100) square feet per child to be cared for shall be
required.
 
      Outdoor advertising display signs or structures other than for the
immediate use area.
 
      Outdoor recreational facilities, sports arenas.
 
      Outdoor storage of private passenger automobiles and recreational
vehicles.
 
Radio, television or FM broadcasting stations which include aerials as an
integral part of the principal building. Communications antennas and towers
provided that antennas greater than forty five feet (45') in height and tower
mounted antennas shall require a statement from a registered professional
engineer regarding the structural integrity of the antenna and/or tower.
 
      Recreational vehicle parks.
 
Retail, service, or rental businesses where more than ten percent (10%) of the
goods offered for sale or rent are to be stored outdoors.
 
Sale or rental facility where more than ten percent (10%) of the goods for sale
or rent are stored outdoors.
 
      Schools, public, private, parochial, business, trade, or industrial.
 
Shopping facilities over fifteen thousand (15,000) square feet in size. A
traffic study may be required as part of the application if more than fifty
(50) vehicles per peak hour is anticipated.
 
Storage of vehicles and equipment awaiting repair work, bodywork, or painting.
Sight obscuring fencing may be required.
 
Transfer, storage and warehouse facilities using outside storage. Outside
storage must be within a minimum six foot (6') high sight obscuring fence or
equal in height to the stored material, whichever is greater.
 
      Transit or trucking terminal.
 
No use shall be permitted, the nature or manner of operation of which shall be
determined by the city council to be unduly hazardous or injurious to other
properties in the vicinity or to the general public welfare by reason of the
emission or odor, dust, smoke, vibration, electrical or other disturbance.
 
SECTION 2: That Title 8, Chapter 9, “C-2 Main Street Commercial Zone” be
repealed, in its entirety.
 
SECTION 3: That Title 5, Chapter 8 be created and adopted as follows:
 
CHAPTER 8
ROAD NAMES AND ADDRESSES
SECTION:
5-8-1: General Provisions
5-8-2: Implementation And Responsibilities
5-8-3: Performance Standards
5-8-4: Signing
5-8-5: Enforcement
5-8-1: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.    Authority: This chapter is authorized under the provisions of Idaho
constitution article 12, section 2, and by Idaho Code title 50, chapter 13, and
title 67, chapter 65, as amended or subsequently codified.
   B.    Purpose: This chapter further implements portions of the City of
Plummer comprehensive plan and supplements the City of Plummer ordinances. Its
purpose is to provide the residents of the City of Plummer with a uniform and
standardized system of road naming and addressing to:
      1.    Minimize future road name and addressing conflicts.
      2.    Provide a database for city and county records and enhanced 911
service.
      3.    Expedite property identification by emergency services.
      4. Comply with addressing guidelines issued by the National Emergency
Number Association (NENA), the U.S Postal Service (USPS), and emergency
communication providers.
   C.    Applicability: This chapter shall apply to all property and to all
public and private roads in the City of Plummer.
5-8-2: IMPLEMENTATION AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
   A.   The city code administrator shall have the responsibility of
implementing, enforcing and maintaining the addressing and road naming
standards as defined by this chapter.
   B.    Property owners are responsible for placing alphanumeric
identification and for erecting private road signs in accordance with the
detailed performance standards in section 5-8-4 of this chapter. Posting of
addresses and road names must be done within a six (6) month time frame after
effective date hereof and all new developments shall be issued addresses at the
time of permit approval.
   C. In the event that violations of this chapter are not connected by the
date required herein, the city may perform the work and bill the property owner
for work completed.
5-8-3: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
   A.    Road Designations: Designation of roads within the City of Plummer
shall be in accordance with the following guidelines, except in the case of
existing and recorded road designations:
1.   All named roads that extend from incorporated areas into unincorporated
areas shall retain the same name except in the case of duplication or
noncompliance with this chapter.
2.   Roads which have a definite north-south directional course shall be
designated as a "street". Roads which have a definite east-west directional
course shall be designated an "avenue".
3.   Roads which do not have a definite directional course shall be designated
as a "road", "drive", "trail", "way" or "lane".
 4.   A dead end road or cul-de-sac less than one thousand feet (1,000') in
length, when not an extension of an existing road or a continuation of a
proposed road, shall be called a "court".
5.   A road that has its ingress and egress on the same road shall be
designated a "loop".
6.   A road that circles back upon itself shall be designated as a "circle".
7.   Special scenic routes or park drives may be designated "parkway".
8.    A newly established road, which has less than a one hundred twenty five
foot (125') centerline alignment offset from an existing road, shall continue
the same road name. A newly established road, which has more than a one hundred
twenty five foot (125') centerline alignment offset from an existing road,
shall adopt a new name.
9.   Duplicate road names are prohibited. Existing duplicated names shall be
corrected in accordance with these performance standards.
10. Both “L” shaped and “T” shaped streets or private roads should carry the
same name if either leg is one hundred feet (100’) or less in length. “L”
shaped and “T” shaped streets or private roads over 100 feet in length each
should carry a different name on each leg of the “L” or the “T”.
11. When a road name within the incorporated area of the City of Plummer is
duplicated by a road name within the County and such duplication causes
conflict, the City of Plummer and the County should work together to decide
which road should be renamed. Roads shall be renamed in accordance with the
procedures outlined in this Ordinance.
   B.   Addressing Along Roads:
1.   Address numbers will run consecutively to the north, south, east and west
from the point of beginning.
2.   From the point of beginning, one thousand six hundred (1,600) address
numbers will be added as each section line is crossed (approximately 1,600 per
mile).
3.   All addresses shall be defined with a direction letter (N, S, E, W)
following the address number.
4.   Even numbers shall appear on the south and east side of roads, and odd
numbers on the north and west sides.
5.    If a building or mobile home park has a number of entrances each serving
a separate occupant(s), then each entrance shall be assigned an address. If
whole numbers are exhausted, half numbers shall be utilized.
6.    Mobile home parks and multi-family dwelling structures with one main
entrance shall be assigned one number with the owner of the park or structure
responsible for the individual numbering of each unit. Addressing of the
individual apartments or mobile homes within the structure shall be based upon
the postal addressing standards, publication 28, dated October 2023.
7.    Circle and loop road direction designations shall be determined by the
road's predominate direction. Numbering shall start either at its north
intersection point with a north-south primary road, or at its west intersection
point with an east-west primary road and shall continue, according to the grid,
in a clockwise direction, as if the road were straight.
8.   Properties with structure(s) which are accessed by a driveway shall be
assigned an address at the point where the driveway intersects a road.
9.   If three (3) or more properties use one road as access, it shall be
assigned a road name and the structures shall be addressed in accordance with
these standards.
10.    Properties accessed by a common right of way or easement with two (2) or
fewer living units or business structures shall be assigned an address at the
point where the right of way or easement intersects a public or private road.
   C.    Road Naming Policy: "Roads" are defined as all vehicle paths of travel
serving three (3) or more properties, residences or businesses. Driveways or
other vehicle paths of travel serving less than three (3) properties,
residences or businesses shall not be named, to reduce administrative costs and
potential confusion for emergency service providers. In selecting road names,
consideration shall be given to the following:
1.   Centerline alignment road name standards of subsection A8 of this section
shall be observed for noncontinuous roads, unless there is no possibility for
extension of the road to make it a continuous through road.
2.   There shall be no duplication of existing names. Benewah County shall
assemble, update and maintain an official list of all road names throughout the
county for use by all jurisdictions.
3.   Names of similar pronunciation and/or spelling shall be prohibited
(example: Briar Lane, Brier Lane).
4.    Variations of the same name with a different road designation shall be
prohibited within the first word of the two (2) word title or in the road
extension (example: Pine Road, Pine Drive, Pine Lane).
5.   No road name shall consist of more than two (2) words or contain more than
fourteen (14) letters, excluding the road direction (N, S, E, W) and extension
(street, lane, court, etc.).
6.   No road shall have more than one name.
7.   No road name shall contain the words north, south, east or west, or any
combination thereof, within the road name.
   D.    Naming Of New Roads Or Naming Of Existing Unnamed Roads: Any new road
to be established within the City of Plummer, public or private, or any
existing unnamed road, public or private, shall require a road name approved by
the mayor and city council.
1.   In the case of plats, road names shall be specified on the final plat map.
2.    In the case of other new roads or naming of unnamed roads, the mayor and
city council will assign a road name in accordance with these standards.
Recommendations made by residents of the road and community at large may be
given considerable weight.
   E.    Renaming Of Existing Duplicated Road Names: Where duplicate names
exist, roads shall be immediately renamed by the mayor and city council to
eliminate the duplication. The mayor and city council will decide which roads
shall be renamed with consideration to the following criteria:
1.   When the road was originally named.
2.   The number of improved properties served by the road.
3.   Other factors as deemed appropriate by the city council. When a road name
is duplicated by a road outside the city, the city shall work with the county
to decide which road shall be renamed.
4. Whether the road contains the name or is referencing a figure or individual
of importance to the City of Plummer.
   F.    Renaming Of Roads: In cases where property owners request to change
the name of a road which has an existing city approved name, the property
owners may petition the City of Plummer to change such road name, subject to a
fee as set by the city council by resolution.
The petition must be presented no later than fifteen (15) days prior to the
regularly scheduled city council hearing, and contain the signatures of at
least fifty one percent (51%) of the property owners abutting the road under
consideration. Changing road names is deemed an administrative function, and
therefore, does not require a public hearing. Road names shall not be changed
more frequently than once every five (5) years.
5-8-4: SIGNING:
   A.    Physical Address Numbers: Physical address numbers shall be clearly
readable from the roadway, and shall contrast with background color pursuant to
the international fire code, as adopted by the City of Plummer. If a structure
is more than seventy-five feet (75') from the road, or is otherwise not clearly
visible from the road, its address shall be posted at the intersection of its
access road and public or private road. The address sign shall be no less than
four feet (4') nor more than six feet (6') above the ground on a substantial,
maintained support structure. The view of the address from the road must be
unobstructed and maintained.
   B.    Road Signs: Road signs shall be placed between six (6) and eight feet
(8') above the roadway, clearly visible at intersections. All primary letters,
numbers and symbols shall be a minimum of four inches (4") in height, with a
one-half inch (1/2") stroke, and shall be reflectorized and contrasting with
the background color of the sign in accordance with the manual of uniform
traffic control devices. Public road signs shall be green with white lettering.
Private road signs shall be blue, with white letters. All public and private
road signs shall be constructed and installed to the standards of the City of
Plummer and shall include the road name and address number derived from the
grid.
   C.    Road Sign Installation Standards: Standards for installation of road
signs is guided by the manual for uniform traffic control devices; however,
some additional criteria are needed to define specific circumstances:
1.   Sign visibility requirements are set at a height of five feet (5') minimum
in rural areas and seven feet (7') in urban areas above the pavement.
2.   Road signs placed for public roads shall be set by the City of Plummer and
shall meet the requirements of these standards.
3.   Road signs may be mounted on the stop or yield sign posts with an approved
bracket and after receiving approval from the City of Plummer or Idaho
Transportation Department.
5-8-5: ENFORCEMENT:
A.   Violations: It shall be unlawful for any person to:
1.   Erect or install a street name sign not in accordance with this chapter;
2.   Remove, alter, change, or deface a street name sign or address
identification erected or installed as provided herein;
3.   Place or post addresses not approved by this chapter;
4.   Fail to place an address visible from the street.
Penalties: Any person who violates or fails to comply with any of the
provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of an infraction punishable by a
fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00). In the event that violations of this
chapter are not corrected within fifteen (15) days of written notice, the City
of Plummer may perform the work and bill the property owners in accordance with
the laws of the State of Idaho.
 
SECTION 4: That Title 9, Chapter 9, Section 8 entitled “Street Names:” be
repealed, in its entirety, and amended as follows:
 
9-9-8: STREET NAMES:
 
All street names shall be established consistent with Title 5, Chapter 8, of
the Plummer Municipal Code entitled “Road Names and Addresses”.
 
SECTION 5:  That Title 7, Chapter 4, Section 3, Subparagraph C be amended and
repealed as follows:
Any mobile or manufactured or mobile home, tiny home or modular building newly
set in the incorporated area of the city of Plummer, including within mobile
home parks, must be documented as meeting no less than a forty (40) fifty
(50) sixty (60) pounds per square foot roof snow load for newly constructed
mobile or manufactured homes. Any mobile or manufactured or mobile home, tiny
home or modular building that is not listed as meeting the minimum roof snow
requirements of this chapter may satisfy these requirements by one of the
following methods:
 
 
SECTION 6: SEVERABILITY.  Any part of this ordinance found to be unlawful shall
be deemed severable and shall not affect the remaining provisions hereof.
 
SECTION 7:  CONFLICTS. All provisions of the ordinances of the City of Plummer
which conflict with the provisions of this ordinance are hereby repealed to the
extent of such conflict.
 
SECTION 8: EFFECTIVE DATE . This ordinance shall take effect and be in full
force upon its passage, approval and publication, either in full or by summary
as provided in Section 50-901A, Idaho Code, and published in at least one (1)
issue of the St. Maries Gazette Record, a newspaper of general circulation
within the City of Plummer and the official newspaper thereof.
 
      PASSED pursuant to the provisions of Idaho Code § 50-902, upon a proper
roll call vote and duly enacted at a properly noticed session of the Plummer
City Council held on the 19th day of December, 2024.
 
                           CITY OF PLUMMER
ATTEST:                        
                           
                           By:_____________________
__________________________               Chris Dohrman, Mayor
Rhiannon Veltri, City Clerk
 
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 312
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING THE CITY CODE OF PLUMMER, IDAHO
   BE IT ORDAINED by the Mayor and City Council of the City of Plummer, Idaho,
a Idaho Municipal Corporation:
   Section 1: From and after the date of passage of this Ordinance, the City
Code of the City of Plummer, Idaho prepared by Sterling Codifiers, Inc.,
containing the compilation of all ordinances of a general nature together with
the changes made to said ordinances, under the direction of the governing body
of the City, shall be accepted in all courts without question as the Official
Code and Law of the City as enacted by the Mayor and City Council.
   Section 2: There is hereby adopted, as a method of perpetual codification,
the loose-leaf type of binding together with the continuous supplement service,
provided by Sterling Codifiers, Inc., whereby each newly adopted ordinance of a
general and permanent nature amending, altering, adding or deleting provisions
of the Official City Code is identified by the proper catchline and is inserted
in the proper place in each of the official copies, three (3) copies of which
shall be maintained in the office of the City Clerk, certified as to
correctness and available for inspection at any and all times that said office
is regularly open.
   Section 3: All ordinances of a general nature included in this Official City
Code shall be considered as a continuation of said ordinance provision and the
fact that some provisions have been deliberately eliminated by the governing
body shall not serve to cause any interruption in the continuous effectiveness
of ordinances included in said Official City Code. All ordinances of a special
nature, such as tax levy ordinances, bond ordinances, franchises, vacating
ordinances and annexation ordinances shall continue in full force and effect
unless specifically repealed or amended by a provision of the City Code. Such
ordinances are not intended to be included in the Official City Code.
   Section 4: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of such Code, or
to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such
Code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the City to be
misrepresented thereby.
   Section 5: All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith, are,
to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
   Section 6: This Ordinance and the Code adopted by the same shall be in full
force and effect from and after its passage and approval in accordance with
law, as printed and published in book form by order of the Mayor and City
Council.
[image]
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL MUNICIPAL CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon the adoption by the City Council, this City Code is hereby declared to be
and shall hereafter constitute the official City Code of Plummer. This City
Code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the PLUMMER MUNICIPAL CODE and
is hereby published by authority of the Council and shall be supplemented to
incorporate the most recent legislation of the City as provided in Section
1–1–3  of this Chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this City Code by title in any legal documents. (1993 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
The City Code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in all administrative tribunals of this
State as the ordinances of the City of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in Section
1–2–1 of this Title. (1993 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending the City Code shall set forth the title, chapter and
section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this City Code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this City Code. Each such replacement page
shall be properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of
the City Code. (1993 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this City Code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages may
be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by the
City Council. The City Clerk shall see that the replacement pages are properly
inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of the Clerk. Any
person having in his custody a copy of the City Code shall make every effort to
maintain said Code current as to the most recent ordinances passed. He shall
see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement pages when such are
delivered to him or made available to him through the office of the City Clerk.
Said Code books, while in actual possession of officials and other interested
persons, shall be and remain the property of the City and shall be returned to
the office of the City Clerk when directed so to do by order of the City
Council. (1993 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the City passed prior to the adoption of this City
Code are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this City Code or are
by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances; appropriation
ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations; franchise
ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances
establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public places;
improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to elections;
ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the
City; and all special ordinances. (1993 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this City Code or by virtue of the
preceding section, excepting as the City Code may contain provisions for such
matters, in which case, this City Code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (1993 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former
ordinance whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to any
offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any
penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such
offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   This Section shall extend to all repeals, either by express words or
implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any new provisions
upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Nothing contained in this Chapter shall be construed as abating any
action now pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance of the City
herein repealed, and the provisions of all general ordinances contained in this
Code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions and not a new enactment of the
same provisions; nor shall this Chapter be deemed as discontinuing, abating,
modifying or altering any penalty accrued or to accrue, or as affecting the
liability of any person, firm or corporation, or as waiving any right of the
City under any ordinance or provision thereof in force at the time of the
adoption of this City Code. (1993 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this City Code or any part thereof is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of
the remaining portions of this Code, or any part thereof. The City Council
hereby declares that it would have passed each section, subsection,
subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the
fact that any one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs,
sentences, clauses or phrases be declared unconstitutional, invalid or
ineffective. (1993 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction of Words
1-3-2: Definitions, General
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
   A.   Whenever any word in any section of this City Code importing the plural
number is used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or persons,
any single matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included, although
distributive words may not have been used. When any subject matter, party or
person is referred to in this City Code by words importing the singular number
only, or the masculine gender, several matters, parties or persons and females
as well as males and bodies corporate shall be deemed to be included; provided,
that these rules of construction shall not be applied to any section of this
City Code which contains any express provision excluding such construction or
where the subject matter or context may be repugnant thereto.
   B.   The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the City has been
changed in the content of this City Code to "Title", "Chapter", "Section" and/
or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and clarification
purposes only. Such change to the City's ordinances is not meant to amend
passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (1993 Code)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this Code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them unless the context makes such meanings
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
CITY: The City of Plummer, County of Benewah, State of Idaho.
CODE: The Municipal Code of the City of Plummer.
EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this Code to a City employee by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the City of
Plummer".
FEE: A sum of money charged by the City for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
INFRACTION: A civil public offense, not constituting a crime, punishable by a
penalty not exceeding one hundred dollars ($100.00) and for which no
incarceration may be imposed 1 .
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
MISDEMEANOR: Any offense not defined as a felony or infraction under State law
2 .
NUISANCE: Anything offensive to the sensibilities of reasonable persons, or any
act or activity creating a hazard which threatens the health and welfare of
inhabitants of the City, or any activity which, by its perpetuation, can
reasonably be said to have a detrimental effect on the property of a person or
persons within the community.
OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this Code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this Code.
OFFICERS: Whenever reference is made in this Code to a City officer by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the City of
Plummer".
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Shall include every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things direct to the consumer.
RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
STREET: Shall include alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places and sidewalks.
TENANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who occupies
the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with others.
WHOLESALER: The term "wholesaler" and "wholesale dealer" as used in this Code,
unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate to the
sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things to persons who purchase for the
purpose of resale.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person, or in case he is unable to write, by his proper
mark. (1993 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. I.C. §§18-111 and 18-113A.
2 2. I.C. §§18-111 and 18-113.
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of the City Code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or re-
enacted. (1993 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Application Of Provisions
1-4-3: Liability Of Officers
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY 1 :
   A.   Misdemeanor: Unless specifically provided elsewhere, any person
convicted of a violation of any section or provision of this code deemed a
misdemeanor may be fined in the sum not to exceed one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) for any offense and may be confined in jail for a period of not
more than one (1) year. Either or both such fine and imprisonment may be
imposed; and in addition thereto, any person so convicted shall pay such costs
as the court may assess.
   B.   Infraction: When the offense is designated as an infraction by any
section or provision of this code or by state law, it is punishable only by a
penalty not exceeding three hundred dollars ($300.00) and no incarceration may
be imposed; and in addition thereto, any person so convicted shall pay such
costs as the court may assess. (Ord. 394, 1-8-2009)
   C.   Federally Mandated Program: Any city which is participating in a
federally mandated program, wherein penalties or enforcement remedies are
required by the terms of participation in the program, may enforce such
requirements by ordinance, to include a criminal or civil monetary penalty not
to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), or imprisonment for criminal
offenses not to exceed six (6) months or to include both a fine and
imprisonment for criminal offenses. (1993 Code)
   D.   Separate Violation: Each calendar day that a violation, as defined in
this code, occurs or continues to occur shall constitute a separate violation
of this code, subject to an additional penalty pursuant to the foregoing
provisions, unless specifically stated otherwise.
   E.   Remedies And Sanctions Not Exclusive: The remedies and sanctions set
forth herein shall not be construed so as to exclude any other remedies and
sanctions, either criminal or civil, elsewhere provided in this code. (Ord.
359, 4-8-2004; amd. Ord. 468, 6-8-2023)
 
Notes
1 1. IC §50-302.
1-4-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   The penalty provided in this chapter shall be applicable to every
section of this code the same as though it were a part of each and every
separate section. Any person convicted of a violation of any section of this
code where any duty is prescribed or obligation imposed or where any action
which is of a continuing nature is forbidden or is declared to be unlawful
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor unless otherwise provided. A separate
offense shall be deemed committed upon each day such duty or obligation remains
unperformed or such act continues unless otherwise specifically provided in
this code.
   B.   In all cases where the same offense is made punishable or is created by
different clauses or sections of this code, the prosecuting officer may elect
under which to proceed, but not more than one recovery shall be had against the
same person for the same offense; provided, that the revocation of a license or
permit shall not be considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other
penalty being enforced.
   C.   Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act constitutes
a breach of any section or provision of this code, and there shall be no fine
or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the provisions of this
chapter shall apply. (1993 Code)
1-4-3: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty unless the intention of
the city council to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or employee is
specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the duty. (1993
Code)
CHAPTER 5
MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-5-1: Election Of Officers
1-5-2: Mayor
1-5-3: Council Members
1-5-4: Salaries Of Mayor And Council Members
1-5-5: Meetings Of The City Council
1-5-6: Quorum, Attendance Of Members
1-5-7: Ordinances Of The City
1-5-1: ELECTION OF OFFICERS:
The governing body of the city shall be composed of a mayor and four (4)
council members who shall be elected at the time and in the manner as provided
by the state 1 . (Ord. 219, 10-5-1967; amd. 1993 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. IC §§50-701 and 50-401 et seq.
1-5-2: MAYOR:
   A.   Qualifications: Any person shall be eligible to hold the office of
mayor who is a qualified elector of the city at the time of his election and
remains a qualified elector during his term of office.
   B.   Term Of Office: The term of office of the mayor shall be for a period
of four (4) years, except as otherwise specifically provided. He shall take
office at the time and in the manner provided for installation of council
members.
   C.   Vacancy In Office: In case of a temporary vacancy in the office of
mayor due to absence or disability, the president of the council shall exercise
the office of mayor during such disability or temporary absence and until the
mayor shall return. When a vacancy occurs in the office of mayor by reason of
death, resignation or permanent disability, the city council shall fill the
vacancy from within or without the council as may be deemed in the best
interests of the city, which appointee shall serve until the next general city
election, at which election a mayor shall be elected for the full four (4) year
term.
   D.   Powers And Duties: The mayor shall have those powers and duties as
provided by state law 1 . (1993 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. IC §50-602 et seq.
1-5-3: COUNCIL MEMBERS:
   A.   Qualifications; Terms Of Office: Any person shall be eligible to hold
the office of council member of the city who is, at the time of election, and
remains a qualified elector under the constitution and laws of the state. Each
council member elected at the general city election shall be installed at the
first meeting in January following election.
   B.   Vacancies In Office: A vacancy on the council shall be filled by
appointment made by the mayor with the consent of the council, which appointee
shall serve only until the next general city election, at which election the
vacancy shall be filled for the balance of the original term.
   C.   Powers And Duties: The city council shall have such powers and duties
as are now or may hereafter be provided under the general laws of the state.
(1993 Code)
1-5-4: SALARIES OF MAYOR AND COUNCIL MEMBERS:
Commencing January 1, 2020, the salaries of the mayor and of the members of the
Plummer City Council shall be as follows:
   A.   The mayor shall receive an annual salary in the sum of two thousand,
four hundred dollars ($2,400.00); and
   B.   Each member of the Council shall receive an annual salary in the sum of
one thousand, eight hundred dollars ($1,800.00). (Ord. 371, 8-11-2005; amd.
Ord. 457, 7-11-2019)
1-5-5: MEETINGS OF THE CITY COUNCIL:
   A.   Regular Meetings: The city council of the city of Plummer, Benewah
County, Idaho, shall meet regularly on the second Thursday of each month at six
o'clock (6:00) P.M., at the city hall. If such day be a legal holiday, the
meeting shall be held on the day following such holiday. The mayor of the
council may convene the council at any time. (Ord. 444, 4-13-2017)
   B.   Special Meetings: One-half (1/2) plus one of the council shall have the
power to call special meetings of the city council, the object of which shall
be submitted to the council members, in writing, at least twenty four (24)
hours before the meeting. Notice of the meeting shall also be posted. Special
meetings shall be held at such place in the city as is designated in the
notice.
   C.   Meetings Open To The Public: All meetings of the city council shall be
open to the public; except, that executive sessions may be closed upon a two-
thirds (2/3) vote recorded in the minutes of the meeting by individual vote
pursuant to Idaho Code section 67-2345.
   D.   Presiding Officer: In the event of the mayor's absence, the city
council meetings shall be presided over by a council president to be selected
by the council from its members biennially at the January meeting following the
general city election. (Ord. 423, 1-14-2013)
1-5-6: QUORUM, ATTENDANCE OF MEMBERS:
At all meetings of the city council, a majority of the members shall constitute
a quorum to do business. Whenever at or during any meeting less than a quorum
shall be present, the members present may, by order entered upon the minutes,
direct any absent member or members to attend forthwith or at a stated time and
place and cause said direction to be communicated orally or in writing to, or
served upon, such absent member or members. Successive directions may be
ordered, communicated or served. (1993 Code)
1-5-7: ORDINANCES OF THE CITY:
All ordinances of the city shall be presented and voted upon in the manner and
style and shall be subject to the terms and conditions of Idaho Code sections
50-901 et seq. (1993 Code)
CHAPTER 6
CITY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-6-1: Appointment And Removal Of Officers
1-6-2: Bonds Of Officers
1-6-3: Code Of Ethics
1-6-1: APPOINTMENT AND REMOVAL OF OFFICERS:
   A.   The mayor shall, with the consent of the city council, appoint a clerk,
treasurer, attorney, chief of police, superintendent of public works, and other
officers as may be deemed advisable for the efficient operation of the city.
   B.   Any appointive officer may be removed by the mayor for any cause by him
deemed sufficient, but such removal shall be by and with the affirmative vote
of one-half (½) plus one of the members of the full council; provided, that the
city council, by the unanimous vote of all its members, may upon its own
initiative, remove any appointive officer. (Ord. 437, 5-12-2016; amd. Ord. 459,
9-12-2019)
1-6-2: BONDS OF OFFICERS:
The following officers shall give bonds to the city with two (2) or more
sufficient sureties in the penal sums as follows; provided, that surety bonds
may be furnished at the expense of the city in lieu of personal bonds:
 
City clerk     $200,000.00
City treasurer 200,000.00
 
(1993 Code)
1-6-3: CODE OF ETHICS:
   A.   Declaration Of Policy:
      1.   The public judges its government by the way public officials and
employees conduct themselves in the posts to which they are elected or
appointed.
      2.   The people have a right to expect that every public official and
employee will conduct himself in a manner that will tend to preserve public
confidence in and respect for the government he represents. Such confidence and
respect can best be promoted if every public official and employee, whether
paid or unpaid, and whether elected or appointed, will uniformly:
         a.   Treat all citizens with courtesy, impartiality, fairness and
equality under the law; and
         b.   Avoid both actual and potential conflicts between their private
self-interest and the public interest.
   B.   Definitions: The terms used in this section are hereby defined as
follows:
   FINANCIAL INTEREST: Any interest which shall yield, directly or indirectly,
a monetary or other material benefit (other than the duly authorized salary or
compensation for his services to the city) to the official or employee or to
any person employing or retaining services of the official or employee.
   OFFICIAL OR EMPLOYEE: Any person elected or appointed to, or employed or
retained by, any public office or public body of the city whether paid or
unpaid and whether part time or full time.
   PERSON: Any person, firm, association, group, partnership or corporation, or
any combination thereof.
   PERSONAL INTEREST: Any interest arising from blood or marriage relationships
or from close business or political association whether or not any financial
interest is involved.
   PUBLIC BODY: Any agency, board, body, commission, committee, department or
office of the city.
   C.   Fair and Equal Treatment:
      1.   Impartiality: No official or employee shall grant or make available
to any person any consideration, treatment, advantage or favor beyond that
which is the general practice to grant or make available to the public at
large.
      2.   Use of Public Property: No official or employee shall request, use
or permit the use of any publicly-owned or publicly-supported property,
vehicle, equipment, labor or service for the personal convenience or the
private advantage of himself or any other person. This rule shall not be deemed
to prohibit an official or employee from requesting, using or permitting the
use of publicly-owned or publicly-supported property, vehicle, equipment,
material, labor or service which it is the general practice to make available
to the public at large or which are provided as a matter of stated public
policy for the use of public officials and employees in the conduct of official
business.
   D.   Conflict of Interest:
      1.   Public Disclosure of Financial or Personal Interest:
         a.   No official or employee, either on his own behalf or any other
person, shall have any financial or public interest in any business or
transaction with any public body unless he shall first make full public
disclosures of the nature and extent of such interest.
b.Whenever the performance of his official duties shall require any official or
employee to deliberate and vote on any matter involving his financial or
personal interest, he shall publicly disclose the nature and extent of such
interest and disqualify himself from participating in the deliberation as well
as in the voting.
c.No official or employee shall engage in private employment with, or render
services for, any private person who has business transactions with any public
body unless he shall first make full public disclosure of the nature and extent
of such employment or services.
      2.   Representation of Private Persons: No official or employee shall
appear on behalf of any private person, other than himself, before any public
body in the City.
      3.   Receiving Gifts: No official or employee shall accept any gift,
whether in the form of money, thing, favor, loan or promise, that would not be
offered or given to him if he were not an official or employee.
      4.   Disclosing Confidential Information: No official or employee shall,
without prior formal authorization of the public body having jurisdiction,
disclose any confidential information concerning any other official or
employee, or any other person, or any property or governmental affairs of the
City.
      5.   Nepotism: No elected official shall appoint or vote for appointment
any person related to him by blood or marriage to any clerkship, office,
position, employment or duty when the salary, wages, pay or compensation is to
be paid out of public funds as provided in section 59-701, Idaho Code. (1993
Code)
ARTICLE A. CITY CLERK
SECTION:
1-6A-1: Appointment; Term of Office
1-6A-2: Duties
1-6A-3: Claims
1-6A-1: APPOINTMENT; TERM OF OFFICE:
The City Clerk shall be appointed by the Mayor, subject to the approval of the
City Council. He shall hold office for the duration of his appointment unless
sooner removed. (1993 Code)
1-6A-2: DUTIES:
   A.   Generally: In all cases where the duty is not expressly charged to any
other department or office, the City Clerk shall have supervision, control and
responsibility of all of the records of the Municipality. He shall serve as
Clerk of the governing body and perform such other duties of a like nature as
shall be required by that body.
   B.   Records: The City Clerk shall:
      1.   Be responsible for the recording, filing, indexing and safekeeping
of all proceedings of the governing body and shall have published all
proceedings, legal notices, ordinances and resolutions that are required to be
published by this Code or by State statute.
      2.   Record in full, uniformly and permanently, all ordinances and shall
authenticate the same.
      3.   Keep and maintain all election records and have custody of all
property used in connection with elections.
      4.   Furnish to any member of the governing body a certified copy of any
record or document in his custody, and he may furnish such a copy to any other
person upon payment of a fee to be determined by the governing body.
      5.   Keep a complete record of all outstanding bonds of the Municipality
and report such record regularly to the governing body.
      6.   In all cases where the duty is not expressly charged to any other
department or office, the Clerk shall issue all licenses in accordance with the
provisions of this Code. A record of all licenses issued, including the name of
the person to whom issued, the amount of the license fee and the purpose of the
license shall be kept by the Clerk.
   C.   Notify of Term Expirations: The Clerk shall notify the appointing
authority of the impending expiration of the term of office of a member of any
board or commission at least thirty (30) days before the expiration of the
term.
   D.   Custodian of Official Seal: The Clerk shall be the custodian of the
Official Seal of the Municipality.
   E.   Collections to Treasurer: Within ten (10) days after the first day of
each month, the Clerk shall turn over to the Treasurer all funds collected by
him during the preceding month. (1993 Code)
1-6A-3: CLAIMS:
All claims against the Municipality must be filed, in writing, with the City
Clerk. (1993 Code)
ARTICLE B. CITY TREASURER
SECTION:
1-6B-1: Appointment; Term Of Office
1-6B-2: Duties
1-6B-1: APPOINTMENT; TERM OF OFFICE:
The city treasurer shall be appointed by the mayor subject to the approval of
the city council. He shall hold office for the duration of his appointment
unless sooner removed. (Ord. 437, 5-12-2016)
1-6B-2: DUTIES:
   A.   Generally: In all cases where the duty is not expressly charged to any
other department or office, the city treasurer shall act to promote, secure and
preserve the financial and property interests of the municipality.
   B.   Accounts And Funds: The city treasurer shall:
      1.   Keep in proper books a full and accurate account of all the monies
received and disbursed by him in behalf of the municipality, specifying the
time of receipt and disbursement, from whom received and to whom disbursed, on
what account received and disbursed and how paid.
      2.   Receive and have custody of all monies paid to the municipality and
shall disburse monies upon the official warrant of the municipality when so
ordered by the governing body.
      3.   Demand and receive all monies and fees owing to the municipality
whenever any person is indebted to the municipality in any manner, and the
means of collection of such debt is not otherwise provided for by law. When any
claim shall not be collectible by other methods, he shall report the same to
the city attorney for prosecution.
   C.   Reports:
      1.   Monthly Report: The treasurer shall make a detailed report to the
governing body during the first meeting of each month showing the business of
his office during the month preceding, showing the balance on hand to the
credit of different funds, the amounts received during the month and on what
account, together with such information as may be required by the governing
body.
      2.   Quarterly Report: The treasurer shall cause to be published, for at
least one insertion in a newspaper of general circulation in the municipality,
a full statement of the receipts and expenditures of the municipality showing
sources of revenue and disposition of funds. This quarterly report shall be
published January 31, April 30, July 31 and for the final quarter, thirty (30)
days from completion of the annual audit.
   D.   Budget/Finance: The treasurer shall direct the annual budget
preparation and submittal to the city council. The treasurer shall monitor the
city's financial condition by regularly evaluating revenue/expenditure trends
and authorizing special studies, recommending to the city council changes in
service levels or in user fees, utility rates and taxes as necessary to
maintain a sound financial condition. The treasurer shall plan and prepare data
for grants and funded programs. The treasurer shall research and pursue new
funding/revenue sources for the city.
   E.   Deliver Records To Successor: The treasurer shall deliver to his
successor in office all material, records and resources of the office. (Ord.
437, 5-12-2016)
ARTICLE C. CITY ATTORNEY
SECTION:
1-6C-1: Appointment; Term of Office
1-6C-2: Duties
1-6C-1: APPOINTMENT; TERM OF OFFICE:
The City Attorney shall be appointed by the Mayor subject to the approval of
the Council. He shall hold office for the duration of his appointment unless
sooner removed. (1993 Code)
1-6C-2: DUTIES:
   A.   Legal Advisor: The City Attorney shall be the legal advisor of the
Municipality and shall render advice on all legal questions affecting the
Municipality whenever requested to do so by any Municipal official. Upon
request by the Mayor or by the Council, he shall reduce any such opinion to
writing.
   B.   Special Assessments and Condemnation Proceedings: It shall be the duty
of the City Attorney to see to the completion of all special assessment
proceedings and condemnation proceedings.
   C.   Ordinance and Document Preparation: It shall be the duty of the City
Attorney to draft or supervise the phraseology of any contract, lease or other
documents or instruments to which the Municipality may be a party and, upon
request of the City Council, to draft ordinances covering any subjects within
the power of the Municipality.
   D.   Suits and Actions: The City Attorney shall defend all suits at law or
equity to which the Municipality may be a party or in which it may be
interested or which may be brought against or by any officer of the
Municipality on behalf of the Municipality or in the capacity of such person as
an officer of the Municipality. (1993 Code)
ARTICLE D. CHIEF OF POLICE
SECTION:
1-6D-1: Appointment
1-6D-2: Rank
1-6D-3: Duties Of Chief
1-6D-4: Stolen Property
1-6D-1: APPOINTMENT:
The chief of police shall be appointed by the mayor subject to the approval of
the council. He shall hold office for the duration of his appointment unless
sooner removed by the mayor with a concurrence of the council. (Ord. 437, 5-12-
2016)
1-6D-2: RANK:
The chief of police shall be the head of the department and have supervision
over all the officers and members thereof. The chief of police may, with the
approval of the mayor, appoint such special police as may be required from time
to time; however, such appointment may not be for a period of longer than ten
(10) days and special police shall not be reappointed following the specified
ten (10) days without the consent of the council. (Ord. 437, 5-12-2016)
1-6D-3: DUTIES OF CHIEF:
   A.   The chief of police shall keep such records and make such reports
concerning the activities of his department as may be required by statute or by
the mayor. He shall be responsible for the performance of the police department
and of its functions and all persons who are members of the police department
shall serve subject to his orders.
   B.   It shall be the duty of the chief of police to see to the enforcement
of all provisions of this code, of all applicable statutes and to preserve
order and prevent infractions of the law and arrest violators thereof. He shall
have authority to call upon any citizen or bystander to assist him in the
execution of his duty. He shall serve all processes issued to him and enforce
all orders and judgments of the court. (Ord. 437, 5-12-2016)
1-6D-4: STOLEN PROPERTY:
The chief of police shall have the custody of all lost, abandoned or stolen
property recovered within the municipality. (Ord. 437, 5-12-2016)
ARTICLE E. SUPERINTENDENT OF PUBLIC WORKS
SECTION:
1-6E-1: Appointment
1-6E-2: Duties
1-6E-1: APPOINTMENT:
The Mayor may appoint, with the approval of the Council, a Superintendent of
Public Works, who shall hold office for the duration of his appointment, unless
sooner removed by the Mayor with the concurrence of the Council. (Ord. 459, 9-
12-2019)
1-6E-2: DUTIES:
The Superintendent of Public Works shall have the following duties:
   A.   Water: He shall supervise the installation and maintenance of all water
mains and water services.
   B.   Sewer: He shall supervise the installation and maintenance of all sewer
lines of the City and installation, maintenance and operation of sewage
disposal facilities of the City.
   C.   Electric: He shall supervise the installation and maintenance of all
electrical service and distribution lines.
   D.   Streets And Alleys: He shall supervise the grading, surfacing, repairs
and maintenance of all streets and alleys.
   E.   Parks: He shall have supervision over all public parks and playgrounds
within the City.
   F.   Equipment: He shall supervise the repair, upkeep and maintenance of all
equipment placed under his control.
   G.   Supervision: He may supervise such help as is needed to carry on the
work of the City.
   H.   Other Duties: The Superintendent of Public Works shall be responsible
for the accomplishment of such other work of the City which the Mayor and
Council may, from time to time, assign to him.
   I.   Reports: The Superintendent shall present to the Council, at its
regular meeting each month, a written or oral report of the public work
accomplished the preceding month, and also, as far as can be foreseen, public
work planned for the current month. (Ord. 459, 9-12-2019)
CHAPTER 7
MUNICIPAL ELECTIONS
SECTION:
1-7-1: Conduct Of Elections; Precinct
1-7-2: Initiative And Referendum; State Law Applicable
1-7-3: Polling Hours
1-7-1: CONDUCT OF ELECTIONS; PRECINCT:
   A.   Conduct Of Elections: All Municipal general or special elections shall
be conducted in accordance with and in conformity with the Election Code for
the State 1 .
   B.   Precinct: All of the area comprising the City limits shall be
considered one precinct for the above election purposes. (1993 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. I.C. title 34 and §50-401 et seq.
1-7-2: INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM; STATE LAW APPLICABLE:
Petitions for initiative or referendum shall conform with the requirements for
signature, verification of validity, printing of petitions and time limits,
except as expressly modified to meet the purposes of initiative and referendum
to be as nearly as practicable as provided in Idaho Code section 34-801 et seq.
(1993 Code)
1-7-3: POLLING HOURS:
At all general and special City elections, the polls shall be opened at twelve
o'clock (12:00) noon and shall be closed at eight o'clock (8:00) P.M. (Ord.
332, 9-11-1997)
TITLE 2
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL LICENSE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
2-1-1: Applications
2-1-2: Persons Subject to License
2-1-3: Forms
2-1-4: Signatures
2-1-5: Investigations
2-1-6: Termination of License
2-1-7: Building and Premises
2-1-8: Change of Location
2-1-9: Nuisances
2-1-10: Inspections
2-1-11: Revocation; Hearing
2-1-12: Posting of License
2-1-13: Policy of Enforcement
2-1-1: APPLICATIONS:
Applications for all licenses and permits required by this Code shall be made
in writing to the Clerk, unless otherwise specifically provided by law. Each
application shall state the name of the applicant, the permit or license
desired, the location to be used, if any, the time covered and the fee to be
paid; and each application shall contain such additional information as may be
required by the issuing official. (1993 Code)
2-1-2: PERSONS SUBJECT TO LICENSE:
Whenever in this Code a license is required for the maintenance, operation or
conduct of any business or establishment or for doing business or engaging in
any activity or occupation, any person or corporation shall be subject to the
requirement if by himself or through an agent, employee or partner, he holds
himself forth as being engaged in the business or occupation; or solicits
patronage therefor, actively or passively; or performs or attempts to perform
any part of such business or occupation in the City. (1993 Code)
2-1-3: FORMS:
Forms for all licenses and permits and applications therefor shall be prepared
and kept on file by the Clerk. (1993 Code)
2-1-4: SIGNATURES:
Each license or permit issued shall bear the signatures of the Mayor and the
Clerk in absence of any provision to the contrary. (1993 Code)
2-1-5: INVESTIGATIONS:
Upon the receipt of an application for a license or permit where laws of the
City necessitate an inspection or investigation before the issuance of such
permit or license, the Clerk shall refer such application to the proper officer
for making such investigation within forty eight (48) hours of the time of such
receipt. The officer charged with the duty of making the investigation or
inspection shall make a report thereon, favorable or otherwise, within ten (10)
days after receiving the application or a copy thereof. For the protection of
health, the Building Inspector shall make or cause to be made any such
inspections relative to the construction of buildings or other structures. All
other investigations, except where otherwise provided, shall be made by the
Chief of Police or by some other officer designated by the Mayor. (1993 Code)
2-1-6: TERMINATION OF LICENSE:
   A.   All annual licenses shall terminate on the last day of the calendar
year of the City where no provision to the contrary is made.
   B.   The Clerk shall mail all licensees of the City a statement of the time
of expiration of the license held by the licensee, if an annual, three (3)
weeks prior to the date of such expiration. Provided, that failure to send out
such notice or failure of the licensee to receive it shall not excuse the
licensee from failure to obtain a new license or a renewal thereof, nor shall
it be a defense in an action for operation without a license. (1993 Code)
2-1-7: BUILDING AND PREMISES:
No license shall be issued for the conduct of any business and no permit shall
be issued for any thing or act if the premises and building to be used for the
purpose do not fully comply with the requirements of the City. (1993 Code)
2-1-8: CHANGE OF LOCATION:
In the absence of any provision to the contrary, the location of any licensed
business or occupation or of any permitted act may be changed, provided ten
(10) days' notice thereof is given to the Clerk; provided, the building
requirements of this Code are complied with. (1993 Code)
2-1-9: NUISANCES:
No business, licensed or not, shall be conducted or operated as to amount to a
nuisance in fact. (1993 Code)
2-1-10: INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Whenever inspections of the premises used for or in connection with the
operation of a licensed business or occupation are provided for or required by
this Code, or are reasonably necessary to secure compliance with any Code
provision or to detect violations thereof, it shall be the duty of the
licensee, or the person in charge of the premises to be inspected, to admit
thereto for the purpose of making the inspection, any officer or employee of
the City who is authorized or directed to make such inspection at any
reasonable time that admission is requested.
   B.   Whenever an analysis of any commodity or material is reasonably
necessary to secure conformance with any Code provision or to detect violations
thereof, it shall be the duty of the licensee of the City whose business is
governed by such provision to give to any authorized officer or employee of the
City requesting the same sufficient samples of such material or commodity for
such analysis upon request.
   C.   In addition to any other penalty which may be provided, the Mayor may
revoke the license of any licensed proprietor of any licensed business in the
City who refuses to permit any such officer or employee who is authorized to
make such inspection or take such sample to make the inspection, or take an
adequate sample of the said commodity, or who interferes with such officer or
employee while in the performance of his duty and in making such inspection.
Provided, that no license shall be revoked for such cause unless written demand
is made upon the licensee or person in charge of the premises, in the name of
the City, stating that such inspection or sample is desired at the time it
sought to make the inspection or obtain the sample. (1993 Code)
2-1-11: REVOCATION; HEARING:
Any license, permit or business regulation certificate for a limited time may
be revoked by the Mayor and City Council during the life of such license,
permit or business regulation certificate for the violation by the licensee,
permittee or business certificate holder of any provision relating to the
license, permit or business regulation certificate, the subject of the license,
permit or business regulation certificate, or the premises occupied; such
revocation may be in addition to any fine imposed. The Mayor and the City
Council shall be authorized to summarily order the cessation of the licensed
portion of the business and the suspension of any business regulation
certificate, license or permit not to exceed fifteen (15) days.
   A.   Hearing: Within ten (10) days after the City officials have so acted,
the Mayor shall call a hearing for the purpose of determining whether or not
the business regulation certificate, license or permit should be revoked.
   B.   Notice of Hearing: Notice of hearing for revocation of a business
regulation certificate, license or permit shall be given in writing setting
forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time and place of
hearing. Such notice shall be sent to the certificate holder or permittee by
certified mail at his last known address or personally served at least five (5)
days prior to the date of the hearing.
   C.   Hearing Procedures: At the hearing, the certificate holder, licensee or
permittee shall be permitted counsel and shall have the right to submit
evidence and cross-examine witnesses. The Mayor shall preside and shall render
the decision and recommendation.
   D.   Causes for Revocation: Business regulation certificates, licenses and
permits issued under the ordinances of the City, unless otherwise provided, may
be revoked by the Mayor and City Council after notice and hearing as provided
in subsections B and C of this Section for any of the following causes:
      1.   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
application for the business regulation certificate, license or permit;
      2.   Any violation by the certificate holder, licensee or permittee of
ordinance provisions or State law relating to the business regulation
certificate, license or permit, the subject matter of the business regulation
certificate, license or permit, or the premises occupied;
      3.   Conviction of the certificate holder, licensee or permittee of any
felony or of a misdemeanor involving moral turpitude;
      4.   Failure of the certificate holder, licensee or permittee to pay any
fine or penalty owing to the City;
      5.   Refusal to permit an inspection or sampling or any interference with
a duly authorized City officer or employee while in the performance of his
duties in making such inspections, as provided in the City Code. (1993 Code)
2-1-12: POSTING OF LICENSE:
It shall be the duty of any person conducting a licensed business in the City
to keep his license posted in a prominent place on the premises used for such
business at all times. (1993 Code)
2-1-13: POLICY OF ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   In addition to any penalties and methods of enforcement otherwise
prescribed by law, ordinances or regulations respecting especially business and
commercial activities within the City, it shall be cause for the Mayor and City
Council to refuse to grant or renew licenses or permit applications or to
revoke any and all existing licenses or permits upon the failure of any
applicant to timely apply for and to pay any license or permit fee. In this
connection, it is hereby provided that the failure to apply for any such
license or permit and to pay the fee therefor, as required, shall be cause to
refuse to grant or renew or shall likewise be cause to revoke existing
licenses. This provision applies not only to the license or permit respecting
which the infraction involves, but any and all other licenses or permits
theretofore granted by the Council respecting any other licensed activities,
and in the event of any such violation, and should the City Council revoke any
such existing licenses or permits, the fee therefor previously paid shall be
forfeited to the City.
   B.   Should any delinquent applicant in good faith promptly pay to the City
the fee required for any activity which has been conducted in violation of this
Section and the further ordinances, regulations and laws respecting same, it
shall be cause for the Mayor and City Council to accept said payment and renew,
grant, reinstate and reissue licenses or permits upon such payment and full
compliance with this Section and other and further regulations and laws
aforesaid.
   C.   Persistent and unreasonable infractions of this Section and other and
further ordinances, regulations and laws referred to herein shall be reported
to the appropriate enforcement agencies of the State and the County whenever
deemed necessary by the Mayor and City Council.
   D.   This Section specifically applies to the conduct of activities
involving licenses and permits and license and permit fees required by the City
which are now due and owing the City and which shall become due and owing in
the future.
   E.   This Section does not affect the right of the Mayor and City Council to
at all times control by regulation, ordinance or otherwise, the form of
application, method and time and payment and to fix fees for licensed or
permitted activities within the City for which the Mayor and City Council may
require an application or fee or both. (Ord. 182, 12-21-51)
CHAPTER 2
LIQUOR CONTROL
SECTION:
2-2-1: License Required
2-2-2: Application For License
2-2-3: Requirements
2-2-4: Conditions Of License
2-2-5: License Revocation; Hearing
2-2-6: Access To Premises
2-2-7: Prohibited Sales And Conduct
2-2-8: Adoption Of State Laws
2-2-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be lawful to sell liquor by the drink as provided by the laws of this
state 1 , provided a license shall first be obtained as provided in this
chapter and the rules and regulations, and provisions concerning the licensing
and operation of a place of business for the sale of liquor are adhered to as
herein provided. (1993 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. IC §23-901 et seq.
2-2-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Before there shall be any lawful sale of liquor by the drink, an
application by the proposed licensee must be made for such license and filed
with the city clerk in form and manner herein provided. Such application shall
provide for the name of the applicant, the location of the proposed business
and such other information as may be prescribed and required by the mayor and
city council. At the time said application is filed, the applicant shall also
present a copy of an application for a state license and also the license
issued by the state for the sale of liquor by the drink at retail. No license
will be issued until a license is first obtained from the state.
   B.   All applications filed with the city clerk shall be referred to the
mayor and city council for final approval. The city clerk shall receive the
license fee hereinafter provided at the time of filing of the application, and
upon approval of the application by the mayor and city council, the license
will be issued and delivered to the applicant. (1993 Code)
2-2-3: REQUIREMENTS:
No license shall be issued for the sale of liquor by the drink to any person
not qualified for a license under state law nor upon any premises in any
neighborhood which is predominantly residential nor within three hundred feet
(300') of any school, church or other place of public worship. (1993 Code)
2-2-4: CONDITIONS OF LICENSE:
   A.   License Fee: The license fee required of any applicant for the sale of
liquor by the drink shall be as set by the council each year, not to exceed the
maximum allowed by state law, payable in advance. The payment shall be made
with said application for the balance of the year in which the license is
issued. (Ord. 173, 4-3-1950; amd. 1993 Code; Ord. 347, 12-13-2001)
   B.   Term Of License, Renewals: All licenses issued shall expire at twelve
o'clock (12:00) midnight on the last day of February of each year. Renewals may
be granted upon application if the record of the applicant is satisfactory to
the mayor and city council and in accordance with the provisions of the law and
this chapter and upon payment of the above mentioned fee for the ensuing year.
Any operation under an expired license shall constitute a violation of this
code, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed for each such day of
operation. (Ord. 347, 12-13-2001)
   C.   License Transferable: Licenses issued under the provisions of this
chapter may be transferred with the consent of the mayor and city council.
(1993 Code)
2-2-5: LICENSE REVOCATION; HEARING:
If any licensee or employee of a liquor by the drink establishment violates any
of the provisions of this chapter or is convicted of the violation of any of
the provisions of state law, the mayor and city council are hereby authorized
and empowered to revoke the license issued to said licensee. Provided, however,
that when it is brought to the attention of the Mayor and City Council that a
violation has taken place, before revoking such license, they shall cause
notice to be served upon the licensee setting forth in general terms the
violation or violations claimed to have been committed, and such notice shall
provide a time for hearing thereon by the Mayor and City Council, which date of
hearing shall be not less than five (5) days nor more than ten (10) days from
the date of the service of notice that the provisions of this Chapter or the
provisions of the laws of the State have been violated. The Mayor and City
Council shall revoke such license, and no refund of any unused portion of the
license fee shall be made to the licensee. Should the Director of the
Department of Law Enforcement of the State revoke any license issued by him,
said licensee shall automatically have the license issued by the City revoked
and no refund of any fee paid shall be made. (1993 Code)
2-2-6: ACCESS TO PREMISES:
All peace officers appointed by the State or the City or the County shall have
free access at all times to the licensed premises, and any information touching
the manner and method of the operation of said premises or the sale of liquor
may be submitted to the Mayor and City Council as a result of the investigation
made of said licensee. (1993 Code)
2-2-7: PROHIBITED SALES AND CONDUCT:
The following are declared as prohibited acts, and any violation of the
provisions of this Chapter shall be considered and shall likewise be grounds
for the cancellation and revocation of the license:
   A.   Underage, Intoxicated or Disorderly Persons: No sale of liquor shall be
made to:
      1.   Any person under the age of twenty one (21) years.
      2.   Any person actually, apparently or obviously intoxicated.
      3.   An habitual drunkard.
      4.   An interdicted person.
   B.   Gambling: No gambling of any kind or character shall be operated upon
said premises, and no gambling device shall be maintained thereon. (1993 Code)
2-2-8: ADOPTION OF STATE LAWS:
   A.   There are hereby adopted for the purpose of governing the licensing,
sale and use of alcoholic beverages within the City, the laws of the State,
being particularly title 23, Idaho Code, as presently in effect or as may
hereafter be amended by the Legislature. The same is hereby adopted and
incorporated as an ordinance of the City as fully as though set forth at length
herein.
   B.   Three (3) copies of the said statutes, together with all amendments
thereto, all duly certified by the City Clerk, shall be kept on file in the
office of the City Clerk for use and examination of and by the public. (1993
Code)
CHAPTER 3
BEER REGULATIONS 1
SECTION:
2-3-1: License Required
2-3-2: Application For License
2-3-3: License Classifications And Fees
2-3-4: Investigation Of Applicant
2-3-5: License Period; Grant Or Denial Of Application
2-3-6: Record Of Proceedings
2-3-7: Limitations And Conditions Of License
2-3-8: Hearings And Appeals On License Denials, Suspension Or Revocation
2-3-9: Violation And Penalty
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  2-2-8, "Adoption Of State Laws", of this title.
2-3-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell beer at retail within the city
without first obtaining a license therefor as herein provided. The license
requirement contained herein shall include the sale of draft beer, bottled or
canned beer to be consumed on the premises. (1993 Code)
2-3-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
All applications for licenses shall be in writing, filed with the city clerk
and accompanied by the affidavit of the applicant showing such applicant to be
qualified by this chapter and by the laws of the state to receive a license 1 .
Such application must state the place of business with respect to which the
license is to be issued and must be accompanied by the license fee. Provided,
however, that before a license shall be issued, the licensee must have procured
a license from the proper official of the state of Idaho and Benewah County,
Idaho. (1993 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. IC §23-1005.
2-3-3: LICENSE CLASSIFICATIONS AND FEES:
   A.   Fees: License fees shall be as set by the council each year, not to
exceed the maximum allowed by state law. (1993 Code; amd. Ord. 347, 12-13-2001)
   B.   Classifications Of Licenses: There are basically two (2) types of
licenses, one for bottled or canned beer, to be consumed on or off the
premises; and the other for bottled, canned and draught beer to be consumed on
the licensed premises only. (1993 Code)
2-3-4: INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT:
No license shall be granted hereunder until there has been an investigation of
all applicants. After investigation, the applications will be forwarded to the
mayor and city council with a recommendation from the chief of police. If the
chief of police recommends that an application be denied, he shall state, in
writing:
   A.   The statutes or ordinances and standards used in evaluating the
application.
   B.   The reason for the denial.
   C.   The action, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain the
license, transfer or renewal thereof. (1993 Code)
2-3-5: LICENSE PERIOD; GRANT OR DENIAL OF APPLICATION:
All licenses shall be granted by the mayor and city council for a period of one
year beginning March 1 and ending the last day of February. A full year's
license fee shall be collected after March 1. The city council shall grant or
deny the application within sixty (60) days of the time it is filed with the
city clerk. Whenever the mayor and city council deny an application, they shall
specify in writing: (Ord. 347, 12-13-2001)
   A.   The statutes, ordinances and standards used in evaluating the
application.
   B.   The reason for the denial.
   C.   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain the
license, transfer or renewal thereof.
All licenses shall be issued by the city clerk. (1993 Code)
2-3-6: RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   In all cases where the mayor and city council are considering
applications for licenses, transfers or renewals thereof, a transcribable,
verbatim record of the proceedings shall be kept for a period of not less than
six (6) months after a final decision on the matter. Upon written request and
within the time period provided for retention of the record, any person may
have the record transcribed at his expense.
   B.   The mayor and city council shall also provide for the keeping of the
minutes of the proceedings. Minutes shall be retained indefinitely or as
otherwise provided by law 1 . (1993 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. IC §50-907.
2-3-7: LIMITATIONS AND CONDITIONS OF LICENSE:
   A.   License For One Location Only: The license fee shall permit the sale of
such beer in but one place of business, such place of business to be designated
in the license issued.
   B.   Transfer Of License: Such license may be transferred with the consent
of the mayor and city council.
   C.   License To Be Posted: It shall be the duty of the licensee to keep such
license posted in a conspicuous place in the place of business for which the
license is granted.
   D.   Hours Of Sale: No person licensed by the city shall sell or serve any
beer during hours not allowed under the laws of the state 1 . (1993 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. IC §23-1012.
2-3-8: HEARINGS AND APPEALS ON LICENSE DENIALS, SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION:
Prior to any revocation or suspension of a license or upon the denial of a
license, the licensee shall be afforded a hearing according to Idaho Code
section 23-1016. If the decision is to revoke or suspend a license or to deny
an application, the licensee or applicant shall have the right to appeal in
accordance with Idaho Code section 23-1016. (1993 Code)
2-3-9: VIOLATION AND PENALTY:
Any violation hereof shall be declared a misdemeanor and shall subject the
offender to penalties in accordance with section
1–4–1 of this code. (1993 Code)
CHAPTER 4
WINE BY THE DRINK
SECTION:
2-4-1: License Issuance
2-4-2: License Fee And Term
2-4-3: Violation And Penalty
2-4-1: LICENSE ISSUANCE:
Any person holding a valid and subsisting city and state retail beer license
may procure from the city a license for the retail sale of wine, authorizing
wine to be sold by the drink in such premises during the same hours and under
the same ordinances, rules and regulations as govern the sale of beer in such
premises. (1993 Code)
2-4-2: LICENSE FEE AND TERM:
Such licenses shall run from March 1 to the last day of February of each year,
and the license fee therefor shall be as set by the council each year, not to
exceed the maximum allowed by state law. (Ord. 347, 12-13-2001)
2-4-3: VIOLATION AND PENALTY:
Any violation hereof shall be declared a misdemeanor and shall subject the
offender to penalties in accordance with section
1-4-1 of this code. (1993 Code)
CHAPTER 5
PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS, OPEN AIR MARKETS, TELEPHONE SOLICITORS AND CANVASSERS
SECTION:
2-5-1: Purpose
2-5-2: Definitions
2-5-3: License Required
2-5-4: License Application, Fees, Term And Limitations
2-5-5: License Application, Contents
2-5-6: Revocation
2-5-7: Notice
2-5-8: Appeal Procedure
2-5-9: Carrying License Required
2-5-10: Hours Of Operation
2-5-11: Exemptions
2-5-12: Unlawful Conduct
2-5-13: Violations And Penalties
2-5-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide the citizens and inhabitants of the
city with the information relating to persons who peddle, solicit, or canvass
within the city and to protect citizens from deceptive or dishonest practices.
(Ord. 322, 9-14-1995)
2-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
OPEN AIR MARKET: An organized grouping of sellers making goods available to the
public, who are assigned to a table, stall or other specified location within a
limited area for a limited period of time by one or more individuals,
organizing groups or agencies. Operations commonly referred to as farmers'
markets, craft fairs, and similar operations, shall be included within this
definition.
PEDDLER, SOLICITOR, OR CANVASSER: Any person either as a principal or agent,
who goes from place to place within the city or who, while not going from place
to place, sells off of the back of a motor vehicle or other temporary location,
and who:
   A.   Sells, takes orders for, or offers to sell, any goods, wares,
merchandise, or services, whether collecting in advance for such goods, wares,
merchandise, or services or not; or
   B.   Seeks contributions or donations in goods or legal tender.
PERSON: May be an individual, partnership, or corporation for purposes of
licensing.
TELEPHONE SOLICITOR: Any person who, by telephone, sells, takes orders for, or
offers to sell, any goods, wares, merchandise, or services, or who seeks
contributions or donations in goods or legal tender (see definition of Peddler,
Solicitor, Or Canvasser). (Ord. 322, 9-14-1995; amd. Ord. 369, 5-19-2005)
2-5-3: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to act as a peddler, solicitor, canvasser
or telephone solicitor within the city without first having obtained a license
issued pursuant to this chapter. Every person going door to door must have his
or her own license.
   B.   No person, group or agency shall organize, conduct, operate or present
to the public an open air market without having first obtained a license to
operate such market. (Ord. 369, 5-19-2005)
2-5-4: LICENSE APPLICATION, FEES, TERM AND LIMITATIONS:
   A.   Filing Of Application: Persons seeking a license under this chapter
shall file a written application for such license with the city clerk on the
form provided by the city. (Ord. 322, 9-14-1995)
   B.   Term Of License: Licenses provided for in this chapter shall be issued
for a period of ninety (90) days, and may be renewed upon application made
prior to the expiration of the license. (Ord. 356, 8-21-2003)
   C.   Fees: Applicants for licenses shall pay fees for the original or
renewal license in an amount which is established by the city council from time
to time by resolution.
   D.   Issuance: Licenses may be issued by the city clerk with the approval of
the mayor; or may be denied by the city clerk for cause, notice of which shall
be given in writing, which notice shall state therein the reasons for the
denial. (Ord. 322, 9-14-1995)
2-5-5: LICENSE APPLICATION, CONTENTS:
The application for license shall contain the following information:
   A.   Name, description, social security number, driver's license number and
date and place of birth of the applicant.
   B.   Permanent home address, telephone number, and local address and
telephone number for the applicant.
   C.   A brief description of the nature of the business and goods to be sold
or services to be performed.
   D.   If employed by another, the address and name of the employer.
   E.   The place of manufacture or production of goods to be offered for sale,
the present location of such goods and the proposed method of delivery.
   F.   A Polaroid picture of each applicant seeking a license to sell door to
door to residences, shall be taken by the city clerk at the time of application
and shall show the head and shoulders of the seller in a clear and
distinguishing manner.
   G.   The names of two (2) reliable persons residing in the state, as
references to the good character and business responsibility of the applicant
or, in lieu of said references, the means of obtaining evidence as to the
applicant's character and business responsibilities.
   H.   A statement as to any convictions of crimes, misdemeanors, or
violations of municipal ordinances, the date, the nature of the offense and the
penalty assessed therefor for the applicant and each employee going door to
door.
   I.   A statement that a license, if granted, will not be used or represented
as an endorsement by the city for solicitations thereunder. (Ord. 322, 9-14-
1995)
   J.   The application shall be sworn to by each applicant and shall be
accompanied by an application fee for each person to be covered by such
license. (Ord. 378, 5-11-2006)
   K.   As to telephone solicitors and open air markets, the foregoing
information shall be required only from the person, group or agency organizing
and managing such business operation. (Ord. 369, 5-19-2005)
   L.   The applicant's Idaho state sales tax certificate or temporary sales
tax permit.
   M.   If a vehicle is to be used, a description of the vehicle including the
license number.
   N.   When food or other products for human consumption are to be sold, a
certification by the applicable health agency shall be required prior to
issuance of the registration. (Ord. 356, 8-21-2003)
   O.   If the license is for the operation of an open air market, a copy of
the market regulations shall be attached to the application.
   P.   In the case of an open air market, the applicant shall maintain a list
of each and every seller and coseller offering goods for sale at the market,
and such other information as may be, from time to time, required by the city.
(Ord. 369, 5-19-2005; amd. Ord. 378, 5-11-2006)
2-5-6: REVOCATION:
A license issued under this chapter may be suspended or revoked or issuance may
be refused for any of the following causes:
   A.   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
application for license;
   B.   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in the course of
carrying on the business of being a peddler, solicitor, or canvasser; (Ord.
322, 9-14-1995)
   C.   Any violation of this chapter, any violation of the city ordinances, or
carrying on business in violation of any city, state or federal law; (Ord. 356,
8-21-2003)
   D.   Conviction of any felony or other crime involving moral turpitude, or
conducting the business of peddling, soliciting or canvassing in an unlawful
manner or in such manner as to constitute a breach of the peace or so as to
constitute a menace to the health, safety or welfare of the public. (Ord. 322,
9-14-1995)
2-5-7: NOTICE:
Notice of suspension or revocation of a license shall be in writing and mailed
to the licensee at the address of record on the original application. (Ord.
322, 9-14-1995)
2-5-8: APPEAL PROCEDURE:
Any person aggrieved by the action in denial of a license or in the suspension
or revocation of a license by the administrative authority shall have the right
of appeal to the city council. Such appeal shall be taken by filing with the
city clerk written notice thereof within five (5) days after the entry of the
order of suspension or revocation. The notice of appeal shall specify an
address at which the licensee may be given notice of hearing on the appeal. The
city council shall hear the appeal, or may refer the same to a committee or
hearing examiner for hearing. At the hearing, the licensee shall be entitled to
appear in person and offer evidence pertinent to the suspension or revocation
or may appear through legal counsel. The city clerk shall likewise be entitled
to be heard at the hearing and offer evidence in support of the order of
suspension or revocation. The city council shall determine in writing whether
the suspension or revocation shall be sustained and shall put its findings and
conclusions in writing. At the discretion of the city council or hearing
examiner, other evidence may be received and other witnesses may be heard. A
transcribable record shall be retained relating to any hearing conducted. (Ord.
322, 9-14-1995)
2-5-9: CARRYING LICENSE REQUIRED:
The license issued under this chapter shall be exhibited in a conspicuous place
if the applicant is using a vehicle or a building in his business or otherwise
carried at all times when peddling, soliciting or canvassing in the city and
shall be exhibited by said peddler, solicitor, or canvasser whenever requested
to do so by a peace officer, the mayor, the city clerk or any person solicited
or canvassed. (Ord. 356, 8-21-2003)
2-5-10: HOURS OF OPERATION:
   A.   Licensees who conduct their business by going door to door to
residences or telephoning residences may do so only between the hours of nine
o'clock (9:00) A.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) P.M. Monday through Saturday.
   B.   Licensees who conduct their business in a fixed roadside location or in
outdoor stands on private property may do so only between the hours of seven
o'clock (7:00) A.M. and nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. Monday through Sunday.
   C.   All roadside stands must be torn down and removed except during hours
of operation. Outdoor stands on private property must be closed and secured
except during hours of operation. (Ord. 356, 8-21-2003)
2-5-11: EXEMPTIONS:
The licensing requirements of this chapter shall not apply to:
   A.   Newspaper carriers, whether subscriptions are taken or not;
   B.   Any person licensed to do such business by the state;
   C.   Any person under the age of eighteen (18) years unless employed by
another person or organization;
   D.   Any candidate or representative of a registered political committee;
   E.   Representatives of any charitable or nonprofit organization when the
solicitation is managed and conducted solely by officers and members of said
organizations who are unpaid for such services;
   F.   Occasional sales or fundraising efforts by local schools, university
student groups or local service clubs;
   G.   Commercial salesmen selling or soliciting orders from wholesale
businesses, retail businesses, local governments and schools; (Ord. 322, 9-14-
1995)
   H.   The city, its agents and concessionaires;
   I.   Any bona fide auction sale;
   J.   Garage, yard or similar sales by individuals at their residence or
place of business not exceeding three (3) days in length nor exceeding four (4)
in one calendar year, which sale shall not include business inventory. (Ord.
356, 8-21-2003)
2-5-12: UNLAWFUL CONDUCT:
No licensee hereunder shall:
   A.   Make physical contact with the person being solicited unless that
person's permission is obtained;
   B.   Misrepresent the purpose of the solicitation;
   C.   Misrepresent the affiliation of those engaged in the solicitation;
   D.   Continue efforts to solicit from an individual once that individual
informs the solicitor that he does not wish to give anything or to buy anything
from that solicitor;
   E.   Represent the issuance of any license under this chapter as an
endorsement or recommendation of the solicitation;
   F.   Enter upon any premises when the same is posted with a sign stating "No
Peddlers Allowed" or "No Solicitation Allowed" or other words to such effect;
   G.   Knowingly make any false statement on an application for a license
hereunder;
   H.   Engage in any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement in the course
of carrying on the business. (Ord. 322, 9-14-1995)
2-5-13: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
Violations of any provision of this chapter shall be unlawful and shall be an
infraction punishable by a fine of up to three hundred dollars ($300.00). Each
calendar day that a violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 356, 8-21-2003)
TITLE 3
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
3-1-1: Short Title
3-1-2: Definitions
3-1-3: License Requirements For Dogs
3-1-4: Dogs At Large Prohibited
3-1-5: Impounding Dogs
3-1-6: Vicious Dogs
3-1-7: Penalties Relating To Dogs
3-1-8: Other Animals At Large
3-1-9: Prohibited Animals, Acts And Conditions
3-1-10: Cruelty To Animals
3-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be titled as the PLUMMER DOG AND ANIMAL
REGULATIONS. (Ord. 296, 10-22-1991; amd. 1993 Code)
3-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires, the following
words and terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section:
ABANDONMENT: It shall be unlawful for any owner of an animal or his agent to
abandon said animal within the city limits. Abandonment means the desertion of
said animal for more than thirty six (36) hours.
ANIMAL: Every domesticated and tame living creature, except members of the
human race.
AT LARGE: Off the property of the owner and off the leash, cord, chain or
effective control of a responsible person.
CONFINED: The dog is restricted to the property of the owner by leash, cord,
chain or fence barrier.
CRUELTY TO ANIMALS: It shall be unlawful for any person to allow fighting,
torturing, beating, starving or other mistreatment of any animal in his care or
charge, whether belonging to himself or any other person. Any animal so treated
may be impounded for its protection and disposition.
DOG: Both male and female over the age of three (3) months.
OWNER: Any person owning, keeping or harboring a dog or other animal.
VETERINARIAN: A graduate doctor of veterinary medicine licensed to practice in
the state of Idaho.
VICIOUS DOG: Any dog, which by temperament, disposition or action, is a threat
to the safety, welfare or well being of any person. Any dog which bites a
person shall be deemed vicious. (1993 Code)
3-1-3: LICENSE REQUIREMENTS FOR DOGS:
   A.   License Required: Every person owning, harboring, keeping or having in
his possession, or under his control, any dog within the corporate limits of
the city shall, immediately upon becoming the owner, harborer or keeper of any
dog, obtain from the city clerk a license for each dog so owned, harbored or
kept and subsequently before January 1 of each and every year thereafter. All
persons becoming the owner of or harboring a dog on or after January 1 of each
year must obtain a license for the dog within five (5) days after becoming the
owner, harborer or keeper of the dog. (Ord. 344, 10-11-2001)
   B.   Issuance Of Licenses; Prerequisite Requirements:
      1.   It shall be the duty of the city clerk to issue to the person
requesting such license, upon presentation of a certificate evidencing current
rabies and distemper vaccinations issued by a licensed veterinarian, together
with a fee as set by the city council annually before the start of each fiscal
year, a receipt which shall specify the date thereof, a description of the dog
for which said license is issued sufficient for identification, the name of
said dog, together with the name of the person obtaining said license and the
sex of the dog. The city clerk, at the time of issuing said receipt, shall
furnish and deliver to such party a license in the shape of a metal check,
bearing the words "City of Plummer" and the year for which the same is issued
stamped thereon. Dog license fees collected under these provisions shall be
used only for the administration of this chapter. (Ord. 296, 10-22-1991; amd.
1993 Code)
      2.   It shall be the further duty of the city clerk to keep a register of
each license issued, which shall contain a description of the dog covered by
said license, sufficient for identification, and shall state the sex of the
dog, its name and the name of the person obtaining said license, together with
the date and expiration of the license.
   C.   Responsibility For License Affixed To Dog Collar: The person to whom
said license is issued shall cause said check to be attached to a collar to be
worn by the dog for which said license was issued, during the time which said
license is valid.
   D.   Newborn Dogs And Dogs Brought Into City: Any newborn dog shall be
licensed within eight (8) weeks of birth in accordance with the above licensing
provisions, and any dog brought into the city subsequent to the license due
date shall be licensed within five (5) working days after being brought into
the city. (Ord. 296, 10-22-1991)
   E.   License Nontransferability And Expiration: All licenses and tags issued
under this chapter shall be nontransferable and shall expire on December 31 of
each year. (Ord. 344, 10-11-2001)
   F.   Replacement Of Lost Tags: A duplicate or replacement tag shall be
issued by the city clerk upon payment of two dollars ($2.00) for each tag so
issued to replace the original tag which was lost or destroyed.
   G.   Licenses To Be Attached To Dogs: Except as otherwise provided herein,
every owner shall be required to provide each dog with either a collar or
harness to which the license tag shall be attached and constantly worn by said
dog. No person shall remove or cause to be removed the collar or tag from any
licensed dog without the consent of the owner, keeper or harborer thereof.
(Ord. 296, 10-22-1991)
3-1-4: DOGS AT LARGE PROHIBITED:
   A.   No person owning, harboring, keeping or having in his possession or
under his control a dog shall permit such dog to run at large. "At large" shall
be intended to mean off the premises of the person owning, harboring, keeping
or having in his possession or under his control while not accompanied by a
person or under that person's immediate control either by leash, cord, chain or
otherwise. (Ord. 296, 10-22-1991; amd. 1993 Code)
   B.   Any person who, after notice by the tribal, BIA or city police officer,
wilfully or negligently permits any dog owned, possessed or harbored by him to
be or run at large, without a competent and responsible attendant or master,
within the limits of the city, or who wilfully and negligently fails and
refuses to keep such dog securely confined within the limits of his own
premises when not under the immediate care and control of a competent and
responsible attendant or master, shall be guilty of an infraction. Each
calendar day of violation shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 377, 4-13-
2006)
3-1-5: IMPOUNDING DOGS:
   A.   Impoundment: It shall be the duty of the tribal, BIA or city police
officer or the city animal control officer or any suitable person under their
direction to impound any dog running at large in violation of the provisions of
this chapter and immediately notify the owner of such dog that such dog has
been impounded and will not be held more than forty eight (48) hours before
destruction. The owner thereof may redeem said dog within twenty four (24)
hours of being notified by paying the city clerk the appropriate sum as set out
in subsection D of this section.
   B.   Notification Of Impoundment:
      1.   Not later than twenty four (24) hours after any licensed dog with a
tag has been apprehended or whose owner is otherwise known to the person taking
up such dog, the owner shall be notified, and said owner will take possession
of said dog after payment to the city clerk of the appropriate fee as set forth
in subsection D of this section. If said owner cannot be found, the dog shall
be impounded. Before any action is taken for the sale or destruction of such
dog, such notice shall be given, in writing, served personally on the owner, or
if personal service cannot be made, then such notice shall be sent to such
owner by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, to the then
known address of such owner, or if unknown, to the address given by such owner
on the license application form for the year immediately preceding impounding.
Such owner shall be deemed to have received actual notice four (4) days
following the day upon which such notice shall have been deposited in the mail,
as provided in this section.
      2.   If the apprehended dog does not have a tag displayed, and the owner
thereof is unknown, the dog shall be immediately destroyed in a humane manner
after reasonable efforts have been made to determine the owner.
   C.   Reclaiming Of Impounded Dog: The owner of any dog so impounded may
reclaim such dog upon the payment of all costs and charges incurred by the city
impounding and maintaining such dog, the payment of the appropriate fine as set
forth in this section and by signing an affidavit of ownership of said dog.
Such affidavit shall contain a full description of the dog to include breed,
sex, color, height and weight plus other information as shall be required by
the city clerk. (Ord. 296, 10-22-1991; amd. 1993 Code)
   D.   Impounding Fee: The fees to be charged in connection with the taking up
and impounding of dogs running at large shall be set from time to time by
resolution of the city council. (Ord. 329, 7-10-1997)
3-1-6: VICIOUS DOGS:
   A.   Keeping And Containing: Any person being the owner or keeper of any
vicious dog who shall permit the same to run at large within the limits of the
city shall be liable for a civil penalty as may be set by the district or
tribal court and in compliance with section
1-4-1 of this code, together with the cost of enforcement, and shall be
compelled to obtain a license on said dog for the current year.
   B.   Impounding And/Or Slaying Of Vicious Dogs: Any dog found running at
large contrary to the provisions of this chapter may be apprehended by any
designated tribal, BIA or city official and shall be impounded or delivered to
its owner if such owner is known; provided, however, that if any dangerous or
vicious dog so found at large cannot be safely taken up and impounded, such dog
may be slain forthwith. (Ord. 296, 10-22-1991; amd. 1993 Code)
3-1-7: PENALTIES RELATING TO DOGS:
Any person owning, harboring, keeping or having in his possession or under his
control any dog without having obtained for said dog a license from the city
for the current year or without having said metal check for the current year
attached to the collar worn by said dog or having failed to comply with any
other provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00)
nor more than one hundred dollars ($100.00), together with the cost of
prosecution, and shall be compelled to obtain a license for said dog for the
current year. Each act of noncompliance shall constitute a separate violation.
(Ord. 296, 10-22-1991)
3-1-8: OTHER ANIMALS AT LARGE:
   A.   Animals At Large Prohibited: No horses, mules, asses, cattle, swine,
sheep or goats shall be allowed to run at large upon any of the streets, alleys
or lanes within the corporate boundaries of the city at any time during the
night or day. All such animals found running at large may be taken up and
confined in the city pound by the designated animal control officer, and he
shall furnish all such animals proper food and care while so confined. (Ord.
103, 8-24-1931; amd. 1993 Code)
   B.   Notice Of Impoundment And Redemption:
      1.   In case any animal is taken up and confined in the city pound by the
city police, the police shall, if the owner is known, notify said owner, either
verbally or by written notice, that such animal has been taken up by said
police and confined in the pound, which said notice shall be given immediately
upon impounding such animal, and if said owner fails to pay such charges and
redeem such animal within two (2) days from the time of service of said notice,
then such animal may be sold by the city to the highest bidder for cash, after
giving five (5) days' notice of such sale and by posting notices thereof in
three (3) public places, stating the time, terms of sale and a description of
the property to be sold and the place of the sale.
      2.   In case the owner is unknown, the city police shall, upon impounding
any animal, post notices in three (3) public places of the city giving a
description of same and that the same are confined in the city pound and that
unless the owner appears and pays for the food, care, cost of impounding and
posting of notices, that said animal will be sold at public auction for cash to
the highest bidder, stating therein the time when, and the place where, such
sale will be made by said police, but, no sale, in this case, shall be made
until at least seven (7) days' notice shall be given by such posting, and a
copy of such notice shall be published in one issue of a newspaper of general
circulation in the city. (Ord. 56, 8-14-1920)
   C.   Impounding Fee: The fees shall be as determined by the council to cover
any costs in keeping and taking up the animal as well as other legal and
administrative costs as may be deemed necessary. (1993 Code)
   D.   Penalties: In addition to the penalties herein prescribed, any person
who allows any animal owned by him or under his care and charge to run at large
in violation of this section shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 56, 8-14-1920; amd. 1993 Code)
3-1-9: PROHIBITED ANIMALS, ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Nuisance Animals: It shall be unlawful and deemed a public nuisance for
any person to harbor within the city any animals or classes of animals which
create a noisome, offensive or insanitary condition including, but not limited
to, pigs, goats and sheep; the determination of whether such condition exists
shall be vested in the city council. When it is determined by said council that
any person comes within the purview of this section, thirty (30) days' notice,
in writing, shall be given to such person, and upon failure to abate the
nuisance created by such animals, the remaining provisions of this section
shall become immediately effective with respect to abatement of said nuisance
and penalty for violation of this section. (Ord. 226, 6-4-1970; amd. 1993 Code)
   B.   Dog Kennels: It shall be prohibited to have a dog kennel in residential
and commercial zoned areas within the city. A kennel shall be deemed any
premises or portion thereof, on which three (3) or more dogs, six (6) months or
older are maintained, harbored, possessed, boarded, bred or cared for.
   C.   1. Livestock: It shall be lawful to possess livestock not classed as
nuisance animals within the city limits, upon the following terms, conditions
and restrictions: All animals and poultry shall be kept under sanitary
conditions in accordance with the health department and humane society rules
and regulations. Particular emphasis shall be placed on maintaining adequate
control over odors and noises emitted and on adequate pest control. All poultry
and animals shall be kept in adequately fenced enclosures or buildings. Large
livestock shall be limited to one large animal per clear acre and shall be kept
in adequately fenced enclosures or buildings.
      2.   Large Livestock: The term "large livestock" shall include horses,
mules, burros, donkeys and asses, llamas, alpacas, cows, ostriches, emus, and
any other livestock of a similar nature or size.
      3.   Noise And Odor Control: "Adequate control over odors and noises
emitted" shall mean such controls as are necessary to prevent odors and animal
noises from being offensive to neighboring properties.
   D.   Penalties: Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be
guilty of an infraction and, on conviction thereof, shall be subject to penalty
as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 352, 10-10-2002)
3-1-10: CRUELTY TO ANIMALS:
Any person who shall cruelly beat, torture, misuse, deprive of food and water
or otherwise treat any animal with cruelty, within the corporate limits of the
city, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 4, 1-9-1911; amd. 1993 Code)
CHAPTER 2
MISDEMEANOR OFFENSES
SECTION:
3-2-1: Purpose
3-2-2: State Law Adopted
3-2-3: Weapons
3-2-4: Disturbing The Peace
3-2-5: Public Intoxication
3-2-6: Public Urination And Defecation
3-2-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter is enacted for the purpose of promoting the public safety and
health by reducing the hazards inherent to the discharge of firearms in
populated areas, including the nuisance created by the sounds and odors
associated with the discharge of firearms. (Ord. 339, 6-8-2000)
3-2-2: STATE LAW ADOPTED:
There is hereby adopted by the city, title 18, Idaho Code, crimes and
punishments, which regulations are adopted by reference as if fully set forth
at length herein. Three (3) copies of said regulations shall be and remain on
file in the office of the city clerk for public inspection. (Ord. 339, 6-8-
2000)
3-2-3: WEAPONS:
   A.   Discharge Of Firearms: Any person who shall fire or discharge any gun,
pistol, rifle or other firearm within the corporate limits of the city shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code; provided that, upon national holidays and other days of
public celebration, the mayor and city council may permit such regulations as
they deem best for the firing of other firearms. Provided further, that the
mayor and city council may issue permits for the running of shooting galleries
if they deem best for public interests.
      1.   Exception: The foregoing language notwithstanding, the mayor and
city council may, upon proper written application, grant to a person certified
as a gunsmith a permit to install and use a firearm test chamber, so long as
such chamber is safe, both with regard to proper trapping of projectiles and
with regard to suspended lead and gases; and so long as the chamber is
sufficiently acoustically insulated as to prevent noise from discharged weapons
being a nuisance to surrounding properties.
      2.   Firearm Defined: Whenever the term "firearm" is used in this
chapter, the term shall mean any instrument used in the propulsion of shot,
shells, bullets or other harmful objects by the action of gunpowder or other
material, including gases, being exploded within it or within a shell or
cartridge placed in the instrument.
   B.   Dangerous Weapons: Any person who shall draw any species of firearms or
any dirk, dagger, knife or other deadly or dangerous weapon in a threatening,
menacing or insolent manner with the intent of using the same upon the person
of another or threatening to so use said weapon or in a manner to cause any
person to fear that it may be used upon his person shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 339, 6-8-2000)
3-2-4: DISTURBING THE PEACE:
   A.   Every person who maliciously and wilfully disturbs the peace or quiet
of any neighborhood, family or person, by loud or unusual noise, or by
tumultuous or offensive conduct, or by threatening, traducing, quarreling,
challenging to fight or fighting, or fires any gun or pistol, or uses any
vulgar, profane or indecent language within the presence or hearing of
children, in a loud and boisterous manner, is guilty of an infraction.
   B.   Each observed violation of this section shall constitute a separate
violation.
   C.   Any person violating this section shall be punishable by a fine not to
exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00). (Ord. 354, 1-9-2003)
3-2-5: PUBLIC INTOXICATION:
   A.   Any person, who is in public and intoxicated, or simulating
intoxication, at a level that presents a danger to others or creates a
disturbance of the peace, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   B.   Each observed violation of this section shall constitute a separate
violation.
   C.   Any person violating this section shall be punishable by not more than
five (5) days in jail and a fine not to exceed three hundred dollars ($300.00),
or both. (Ord. 400, 11-18-2009)
3-2-6: PUBLIC URINATION AND DEFECATION:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to excrete human waste, including
urine or feces, upon the ground, into a body of water, or upon anything
attached or setting upon said surfaces within the city of Plummer, Benewah
County, state of Idaho, except for toilet facilities used as receptacles.
   B.   Each observed violation of this section shall constitute a separate
violation.
   C.   Any person violating this section shall be punishable by not more than
five (5) days in jail and a fine not to exceed three hundred dollars ($300.00),
or both. (Ord. 401, 11-18-2009)
CHAPTER 3
MINORS
SECTION:
3-3-1: Title
3-3-2: Definitions
3-3-3: Offenses
3-3-4: Defenses
3-3-5: Enforcement
3-3-6: Penalties
3-3-1: TITLE:
This Chapter shall be known and may be cited as the CITY OF PLUMMER CURFEW
ORDINANCE. (Ord. 324, 6-13-1996)
3-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
In this Chapter:
CURFEW HOURS: Eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. every day until six o'clock (6:00)
A.M. of the following day.
EMERGENCY: An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting state
that calls for immediate action. The term includes, but is not limited to, a
fire, a natural disaster, an automobile accident, or any situation requiring
immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss of life.
ESTABLISHMENT: Any privately-owned place of business operated for a profit to
which the public is invited, including, but not limited to, any place of
amusement or entertainment.
GUARDIAN: A person who, under court order, is the guardian of the person of a
minor.
MINOR: Any person under eighteen (18) years of age.
OPERATOR: Any individual, firm, association, partnership, or corporation
operating, managing, or conducting any establishment. The term includes the
members or partners of an association or partnership and the officers of a
corporation.
PARENT: A person who is:
   A.   A natural parent, adoptive parent, or stepparent of another person; or
   B.   At least twenty one (21) years of age and specifically authorized in
advance by a parent or guardian to have the care and custody of a minor.
PUBLIC PLACE: Any place to which the public, or a substantial group of the
public, has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets, highways, and
the common areas of schools, hospitals, apartment houses and office buildings.
REMAIN: Means to:
   A.   Linger or stay; or
   B.   Fail to leave premises when requested to do so by a peace officer or
the owner, operator, or other person in control of the premises.
SERIOUS BODILY INJURY: Bodily injury that creates a substantial risk of death
or that causes death, serious permanent disfigurement, or protracted loss or
impairment of the function of any bodily member or organ. (Ord. 324, 6-13-1996)
3-3-3: OFFENSES:
   A.   A minor commits an offense if he/she remains in any public place or on
the premises of any establishment within the City during curfew hours.
   B.   A parent or guardian of a minor commits an offense if he/she knowingly
permits, or by insufficient control allows, the minor to remain in any public
place or on the premises of any establishment within the City during curfew
hours.
   C.   The owner, operator or any employee of an establishment commits an
offense if he/she knowingly allows a minor to remain upon the premises of the
establishment during curfew hours.
   D.   A parent or guardian commits a separate offense if he/she fails to come
immediately to a location designated by a police officer to take custody of a
child after being notified to do so by a peace officer or his/her designated
agent. (Ord. 324, 6-13-1996)
3-3-4: DEFENSES:
   A.   It is a defense to prosecution under subsection
3-3-3A of this Chapter that the minor was:
      1.   Accompanied by the minor's parent or guardian;
      2.   On an errand at the direction of the minor's parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
      3.   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      4.   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
      5.   Involved in an emergency;
      6.   On the sidewalk abutting the minor's residence;
      7.   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by a government or civic
organization, or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the
minor, or going to or returning home from, without any detour or stop;
      8.   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
      9.   Married or had been married.
   B.   It is a defense to prosecution under subsection
3-3-3C of this Chapter that the owner, operator, or employee of an
establishment promptly notified the police department that a minor was present
on the premises of the establishment during curfew hours and refused to leave.
(Ord. 324, 6-13-1996)
3-3-5: ENFORCEMENT:
Before taking any enforcement action under this Section, a police officer shall
ask the apparent offender's age and reason for being in the public place. The
officer shall not issue a citation or make an arrest under this Section unless
the officer reasonably believes that an offense has occurred and that, based on
any response and other circumstances, no defense in Section
3-3-4 above is present. (Ord. 324, 6-13-1996)
3-3-6: PENALTIES:
   A.   A violation of subsections
3-3-3B, C, or D of this Chapter is a misdemeanor punishable by a fine up to
five hundred dollars ($500.00), or by incarceration up to six (6) months, or
both.
   B.   A violation of subsection
3-3-3A of this Chapter may form the basis for a petition or proceedings against
the minor pursuant to the Juvenile Correction Act, Idaho Code section 20-501.
The Court may utilize any of the dispositional alternatives provided by Idaho
law for the violation of a status offense.
   C.   The Court may order restitution to the City or other appropriate
agencies, for any costs reasonably incurred by the City, or other appropriate
agencies, in caring for the child, including, but not limited to, wages of
police officers, law enforcement officials, transportation and attendant care
charges, which resulted from a violation of subsections
3-3-3A, B, or D of this Chapter. (Ord. 324, 6-13-1996)
CHAPTER 4
NUISANCES 1
SECTION:
3-4-1: Title And Purpose
3-4-2: Declaration Of Nuisance; Acts Prohibited
3-4-3: Exceptions
3-4-4: Enforcement
3-4-5: Abatement
3-4-6: Request For Hearing
 
Notes
1 1. See also chapter 5 of this title.
3-4-1: TITLE AND PURPOSE:
This chapter shall be known and referred to as the NUISANCE AND NUISANCE
ABATEMENT ORDINANCE. The purpose of this chapter is to assure that public
nuisance will be eliminated and abated promptly. (Ord. 422, 11-8-2012)
3-4-2: DECLARATION OF NUISANCE; ACTS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any "responsible party(ies)" (defined as any person or
persons, corporation or other legal entity, tenant or lessee, landlord or
lessor using or occupying a premises) to cause, allow, maintain or permit the
existence of any nuisance on any property within the city of Plummer. Any, or
all, responsible parties may be held accountable.
   A.   Keeping or permitting another to keep upon any premises deleterious or
septic material unless such material is retained in containers or vessels which
deny access to humans, flies, insects, rodents or other animals. Such materials
shall not be retained upon the premises for longer than twenty four (24) hours,
nor may such materials be regularly stored upon the premises even if exchanged
regularly with a new supply.
   B.   Permitting any premises to become a fire menace by allowing any dry or
dead grass, shrubs or other matter to grow, accumulate or otherwise occupy and
remain on such premises.
   C.   Permitting pools of water to accumulate and remain upon any premises
thereby becoming stagnant and foul.
   D.   Keeping or permitting another to keep upon any premises an accumulation
of trash, rubbish, garbage or other materials that attract or harbor
mosquitoes, flies, insects, rodents or other animals.
   E.   Keeping or permitting another to keep upon any premises an accumulation
of trash, rubbish, garbage or other materials, whether in containers or not,
which are fermenting, putrefying or odoriferous.
   F.   Keeping or permitting another to keep upon any premises an accumulation
of new or used appliances, new or used furniture not meant for outdoor use, or
other items that constitute an unsightly combination.
   G.   Keeping or permitting another to keep upon any premises an accumulation
of building materials that may attract children, rodents, or other animals.
Building materials being stored and used during construction upon the premises
shall be kept in a safe and secure manner and shall be removed from the
premises upon completion of construction.
   H.   Keeping or permitting another to keep upon any premises an accumulation
of automobile tires, wheels, parts or other items which may accumulate and
store stagnant water, or may attract insects, rodents, or other animals.
   I.   Any act constituting a violation of section
4-2-3 et seq., of this code.
   J.   Any other use of property which is specifically declared by resolution
of the council to be a nuisance after compliance with the notice requirements
of this chapter.
   K.   Any partially destroyed or damaged house, building, trailer or other
structure or improvement to real property; and any partially constructed or
deconstructed house, building or other structure or real property improvement
upon which regular and daily progress is not being made to complete the
construction or deconstruction thereof; which constitutes a menace, threat or
hazard to the general health or safety of the community, including being an
attractive nuisance to minors.
   L.   Any house, building, trailer, structure or improvement to real
property, or any portion thereof, which, because of the condition thereof, is
found or permitted to be or remain a danger to the health, safety, life, limb
or property of any person entering into or around the same.
   M.   Any building, trailer, structure or improvement to real property,
setup, erected, constructed, altered, enlarged, converted, moved, parked or
maintained contrary to the building codes or zoning ordinances of the city.
   N.   Any use of land, buildings or premises in violation of the zoning or
subdivision ordinances of the city.
   O.   The existence of any fence or other structure or item on private
property abutting any public street, sidewalk or place, which is in a sagging,
leaning, fallen, decayed, dilapidated or unsafe condition.
   P.   Any unguarded or abandoned excavation, pit or hole which would endanger
the safety of passersby.
   Q.   Anything which unreasonably, or unlawfully interferes with, obstructs
or tends to obstruct, or renders dangerous for passage, any public or private
street, highway, sidewalk, stream, ditch, or drainageway.
   R.   Any condition or use of property which is detrimental to the health or
safety of persons or the property of others or which is declared to be a
nuisance by any Idaho state law, federal laws or other provisions within this
code. (Ord. 422, 11-8-2012)
3-4-3: EXCEPTIONS:
The following are exceptions to the prohibition against nuisances:
   A.   Materials and things described in the foregoing section may be retained
within a building or a fence at least six feet (6') high which prevents the
view (or smell) of these things from the street or from other public or private
property. The fence must be constructed of wood, masonry, or be a chainlink
fence with sight occluding slats, or be constructed of other materials approved
by the building official. However, the fence may not be constructed within the
required front setback and shall comply with all applicable fence requirements.
(Ord. 422, 11-8-2012)
3-4-4: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Appointment: The mayor, with the consent of the city council, shall
appoint a duly authorized representative who shall be responsible for the
enforcement of this chapter. If no such "code officer" is formally appointed,
any city of Plummer police officer may serve as such authorized representative.
   B.   Notice Of Violation: Written notice of a violation of this chapter
shall be served upon any adult occupying the real property upon which the
nuisance is located; or upon a responsible party; or upon the owner of such
real property, if known. If no occupant or other responsible party can be
located, then a written notice shall be affixed to any building on the subject
real property or posted to a place conspicuous on the property so as to be
reasonably discovered by anyone coming upon the real property. In the event
responsible parties are known, but have not been personally served a notice, in
addition to posting notice, the parties may be served by certified mail to
their last known mailing address. Any such notice shall constitute notice to
the owner and/or occupant of the real property.
   C.   Contents Of Notice: The notice of nuisance shall contain the following:
      1.   The physical address of the property where nuisance is located.
      2.   A general description of the nuisance.
      3.   The date of sending/posting the notice and if the nuisance remains
on the property longer than three (3) days, it shall be an infraction and
punishable as set forth in the general penalty section (section
1-4-1 of this code). If the nuisance remains for more than ten (10) days it
will be a misdemeanor and punishable as set forth in section
1-4-1 of this code. In the event the nuisance remains for more than fifteen
(15) days it will be a separate misdemeanor violation for every day thereafter.
(Ord. 422, 11-8-2012)
3-4-5: ABATEMENT:
   A.   Notice Of Abatement: The city may take action to have any such nuisance
abated. In such instance the notice of nuisance violation set forth in
subsection 3-4-4B of this chapter shall include a notice of abatement and such
notice shall include a provision that the expense of such abatement if not
performed on the property by the owner and/or the responsible party shall be
assessed against the real property involved pursuant to Idaho Code sections 50-
334 and 50-1008. The notice shall also provide the responsible party and/or
owner that they may petition the city council for hearing on the issue of
abatement within five (5) days of the posting/service of the notice.
   B.   Tolling Of Time Period: From the date a petition for hearing is filed
until five (5) days after a posthearing decision by the city council the time
limit set forth in section
3-4-4 of this chapter shall be tolled.
   C.   Authority To Employ Labor: The mayor is hereby given the power and
authority to employ such labor as is necessary to carry out the provisions of
this chapter. Any bills, costs or expenses incurred by the city (including
hourly wages of city employees), shall be assessed to the real property
pursuant to Idaho Code sections 50-334 and 50-1008. (Ord. 422, 11-8-2012)
3-4-6: REQUEST FOR HEARING:
   A.   Request: Any person ordered to abate a nuisance may have a hearing with
the city council as to whether a nuisance exists. A request for hearing must be
made in writing and delivered to the office of the city clerk within five (5)
days of the service or posting of the notice, or it will be conclusively
presumed that a nuisance exists and it must be abated as ordered.
   B.   City Council Decision: At the conclusion of the hearing, the city
council shall render an oral decision to be memorialized in a written order as
to whether a nuisance exists. If it finds that a nuisance exists, it must be
ordered to be abated within additional time which must be reasonable under the
circumstances. Notice of the abatement order will be considered entered and
delivered as of the date of the city council's oral pronouncement even though
written order is not signed by the mayor until a later date. (Ord. 422, 11-8-
2012)
CHAPTER 5
GARBAGE AND REFUSE
SECTION:
3-5-1: City Sanitary Service Created
3-5-2: Mandatory Service Required
3-5-3: Collection And Disposal Rates
3-5-4: License To Collect
3-5-5: Collection And Disposal Rules And Regulations
3-5-6: Receptacle Requirements
3-5-7: Disposal Procedures
3-5-8: Nuisance Conditions Prohibited
3-5-9: Penalty
3-5-1: CITY SANITARY SERVICE CREATED:
There is hereby created within the city a garbage and refuse department to
function as and be operated as the city sanitary service, and a special account
is hereby created to be known as the refuse collection account. All expenses of
the city in connection with the operation of said sanitary collection and
disposal system shall be paid out of said account, and any surpluses remaining
therein at the end of each fiscal year may be transferred by the city council
to the general fund of the city. (Ord. 230, 12-14-1971; amd. 1993 Code)
3-5-2: MANDATORY SERVICE REQUIRED:
Every owner and occupant of premises within the prescribed limits of the city
must use the refuse collection and disposal system herein provided and must pay
to the city the required fees therefor, which will be charged along with the
utility bill as provided herein 1 . (Ord. 230, 12-14-1971; amd. 1993 Code)
 
Notes
  1. See section
1 6-1-2 of this code for rates and title 6, chapter 4 of this code for billing
  procedures.
3-5-3: COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL RATES:
A schedule of fees shall be adopted by the mayor and city council for the
collection and disposal of garbage and refuse 1 , which schedule shall be filed
with the city clerk and may be amended from time to time. With respect to
collection of such fees, the same shall be carried with the utility bill of the
owners and occupants of premises, and the same shall be paid with the utility
bill, said charges to become delinquent as provided for water charges and shall
be subject to the same penalties provided for in the case of utility
collections 2 . For failure to pay said garbage and refuse collection charges,
the city may levy a special assessment against the premises involved in such
amount and in such manner as other special assessments are levied and may
foreclose the same in the manner provided for the foreclosure and collection of
other special assessments. (Ord. 230, 12-14-1971; amd. Ord. 298, 6-13-1991;
1993 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. See section
  6-1-2 of this code.
2 1. See section
  6-4-8 of this code.
3-5-4: LICENSE TO COLLECT:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of
collection, transporting, hauling or conveying any refuse over the streets or
alleys or to dump or dispose of the same unless and until such person has a
license therefor or has a contract therefor as an authorized representative of
the city. (Ord. 230, 12-14-1971)
   B.   The mayor and city council shall be the sole authority to license,
contract or perform all services pertaining to sanitary collection and disposal
and to establish reasonable fees for licenses and is hereby authorized to enter
into contract with one or more contractors and establish reasonable rules and
regulations governing the conduct and operation of such licensees or
contractors. The city council may require of any such collector or contractor a
bond in reasonable amount, the condition of which shall be the satisfactory
performance of the contract, or the city council may require a cash deposit in
lieu of such bond. (Ord. 230, 12-14-1971)
3-5-5: COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The city council may make and prescribe such rules and regulations as it shall
deem advisable, and said rules may be made by ordinance or resolution; said
rules and regulations may cover charges for service for periods of less than
one month, applications for exemptions from charges, exemptions from charges
when house or building is unoccupied when water service is not furnished and
methods of establishing rates for all multiple residence, business, commercial
and manufacturing buildings. (Ord. 230, 12-14-1971)
3-5-6: RECEPTACLE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   No owner or occupant of any public or private premises shall permit to
accumulate upon his premises any garbage, refuse or trash, except in automated
collection receptacles furnished by and through the city contractor. Any
articles that cannot be fit into the automated receptacles will be removed from
the premises by the city or contractor so long as they are fastened, tied or
secured in bundles, not to exceed five feet (5') and not to exceed sixty (60)
pounds in weight, excepting articles on special hauls arranged between the
owner or occupant and the city or its contractor. Any articles which cannot fit
into the automated collection receptacles, or are removed on special hauls,
shall be assessed an overage charge, as shall be adopted by the mayor and city
council, to be paid with the utility bill of the owners or occupants of the
premises in accordance with section
3-5-3 of this chapter.
   B.   Automated collection receptacles shall be furnished by and through the
city contractor to the owner or occupant of the premises, which shall be the
sole source of garbage and refuse disposal, except for bundled articles, and
those removed on special hauls, as referred to in subsection A of this section.
Automated collection receptacles, when filled, shall not exceed the rated
capacity for volume or weight, as specified by rule or regulation of the city
council, in accordance with section
3-5-4 of this chapter. Any automated collection receptacle which exceeds the
specified rate of capacity for volume or weight at the time of pick up shall be
assessed an overage charge, as shall be adopted by the mayor and city council,
to be paid with the utility bill of the owner or occupant of the premises in
accordance with section
3-5-3 of this chapter.
   C.   All owners or occupants shall see to it that the contents of the
automated collection receptacles are not frozen or stuck and will dump out
readily when such receptacle is inverted for disposal.
   D.   Automated collection receptacles shall be properly placed for pick up
in accordance with rule or regulation of the city council, in accordance with
section
3-5-4 of this chapter. During periods of snow, automated collection receptacles
must be placed on the road side of snow berms.
   E.   No automated collection receptacle shall be placed within six feet (6')
of any stationary object or vehicle. Alleys and streets within the city may be
designated for pick up on one side of the street or alley, as specified by rule
or regulation of the city council, in accordance with section
3-5-4 of this chapter.
   F.   Automated collection receptacles shall be assessed for damage or theft
on a regular basis. All theft and any damages, beyond reasonable wear and tear,
shall be assessed a surcharge, as shall be adopted by the mayor and city
council, to be paid with the utility bill of the owner and occupant of the
premises, in accordance with section
3-5-3 of this chapter. (Ord. 427, 11-14-2013)
3-5-7: DISPOSAL PROCEDURES:
The disposal of garbage or refuse by any householder or establishment in any
place, private or public, within the city limits is prohibited except as
regulated by this section. (Ord. 227, 7-2-1970)
   A.   All disposal of garbage or refuse shall be by the method(s) prescribed
by the city council by ordinance or resolution from time to time, as needed.
(1993 Code)
   B.   All sites shall be approved by the city council and county and state
health departments and shall not create a fire hazard or breeding ground for
rodents or vermin and shall in no way endanger the safety and welfare of any
person. No garbage or refuse shall be kept or allowed to accumulate in such a
manner as to cause a nuisance or inconvenience to adjoining property owners or
tenants and shall in no way endanger the safety and welfare of the public.
(Ord. 227, 7-2-1970)
3-5-8: NUISANCE CONDITIONS PROHIBITED 1 :
   A.   No garbage or refuse shall be collected from any premises where the
owner or lessee is in arrears for a period of longer than one month.
Fermenting, putrefying or odoriferous garbage in containers uncollected or
dumped in the open due to failure to pay garbage fees is hereby declared to be
a nuisance. (Ord. 359, 4-8-2004)
   B.   No person shall permit or suffer to accumulate in or upon any yard or
premises, lot or place within the corporate limits of the city or upon any
street or sidewalk adjacent to or abutting upon any lot, block, place or
premises occupied by him or for which he may be an agent, within the city
limits, any stagnant or impure water, refuse, vegetables, decayed or decaying
substances, garbage or filth of any kind nor suffer such yard, lot or premises
to be or become, cause or create a public nuisance. (Ord. 227, 7-2-1970)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 3-4-4 of this title.
3-5-9: PENALTY:
Any violation of this chapter shall be an infraction, punishable as set forth
in subsection 1-4-1B of this code. (Ord. 359, 4-8-2004)
CHAPTER 6
WEEDS
SECTION:
3-6-1: Destruction Required
3-6-2: Destruction by City, Charges
3-6-3: Authority to Employ Labor
3-6-4: Penalty
3-6-1: DESTRUCTION REQUIRED:
   A.   Every person, either as owner, tenant, lessee or merely as occupant of
any lot, land or premises within the corporate limits of the City, shall, at
all times and continuously during the time and dates hereinafter stated,
destroy, cut down, weed out and obliterate all weeds, noxious weeds, grasses
and growths growing or starting to grow on any such lot, land or premises and
exceeding a height of six inches (6"). Every person, during the time
hereinafter stated, shall keep continuously cut down, weeded out, destroyed and
obliterated all weeds, noxious weeds, grasses and growths from and off all that
part or portion of land or premises herein last referred to being the sidewalk
around, as well as the parking ground fronting, adjacent or contiguous to any
such lots, lands or premises.
   B.   All such weeds and noxious weeds, grasses and growths exceeding a
height of six inches (6") which are deleterious, unsightly and injurious to the
public or to the residents or owners of adjacent property within the City
shall, at all times, continuously be kept weeded out, cut down, obliterated and
destroyed between May 31 and October 1 of each and every year. (1993 Code)
3-6-2: DESTRUCTION BY CITY, CHARGES:
   A.   Every person owning or occupying any lots, lands or premises situated
within the corporate limits of the City shall, within the time fixed by Section
3–6–1 hereof, keep continuously destroyed, weeded out, cut down and obliterated
all such deleterious, unsightly and injurious weeds and noxious weeds, grasses
and growths exceeding a height of six inches (6") in or on any and all such
lots, lands or premises so owned or occupied by such person in the manner
prescribed by and in accordance with the provisions of Section
3–6–1 hereof, and in the event that such deleterious, unsightly and injurious
weeds and noxious weeds, grasses and growths are not so continuously destroyed,
weeded out, cut down and obliterated, the Mayor and City Council shall cause,
through its duly authorized personnel, such deleterious, unsightly and
injurious weeds and noxious weeds, grasses and growths to be cut down, weeded
out and destroyed, and the costs and expenses of such destruction in cutting
down, weeding out and obliterating the same shall be assessed against such
property, as general taxes, and collectable as other general State, County and
Municipal taxes.
   B.   Before the costs and expenses of such destruction shall become a lien
against the property, the City Clerk is authorized and empowered to notify, in
writing, the owner of any such lot, place or area within the City, or the agent
of said owner, to cut, destroy and/or remove any such weeds, grasses or
deleterious, unhealthful growth or other noxious matter found growing, lying or
located on such property. The procedure set out in subsection
3-4-4B of this Title concerning abatement of nuisances shall be applicable to
this Chapter. (1993 Code)
3-6-3: AUTHORITY TO EMPLOY LABOR:
The Mayor and City Council are hereby given the power and authority to employ
such labor as is necessary to carry out the provisions of this Chapter. (1993
Code)
3-6-4: PENALTY:
Any person owning or occupying any lots, lands or premises within such
incorporated limits of the City who shall fail, refuse or neglect to
continuously keep weeded out, cut down, obliterated or destroyed all such
deleterious, unsightly and injurious weeds and noxious weeds, grasses and
growth abovenamed in the manner prescribed and according to the provisions of
this Chapter during the time provided for in Section
3–6–1 hereof shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. Each and every day any
such person shall fail, refuse or neglect to comply with the provisions of this
Chapter shall constitute a separate and distinct offense against the provisions
of this Chapter, and each of such separate offenses shall be punishable as
provided in Section
1–4–1 of this Code. (1993 Code)
TITLE 4
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
SECTION:
4-1-1: Idaho Motor Vehicle Code Adopted
4-1-2: Speed Limits
4-1-3: Parking
4-1-4: Air Compression Brakes
4-1-5: Temporary Closure Of Streets
4-1-6: Winter Street Policy
4-1-1: IDAHO MOTOR VEHICLE CODE ADOPTED:
Pursuant to Idaho Code section 49-209, the provisions of title 49 of the Idaho
Code, being the Idaho motor vehicle code, as presently enacted and as hereafter
amended relating to regulations and control of traffic and related matters, are
hereby declared to be in full force and effect throughout the city and are
incorporated into and made a part of this chapter with the same effect as
though set forth in full herein. Three (3) copies of said Idaho motor vehicle
code shall be available for public use and examination in the office of the
city clerk. (Ord. 258, 12-4-1980; amd. 1993 Code)
4-1-2: SPEED LIMITS:
   A.   No person shall drive or operate a motor vehicle on any street within
the corporate limits of the city at a rate of speed greater than twenty five
(25) miles per hour or on any alley within the corporate limits of the city at
a rate of speed greater than ten (10) miles per hour, unless otherwise posted
for different speed pursuant to resolution and order of the city council and
mayor, or as set forth below.
   B.   The speed limits for all vehicles on various segments of U.S. Highway
95 that are within the city limits of the city of Plummer shall be set and
posted by the Idaho transportation department, division of highways.
   C.   The speed limits for all vehicles on various segments of State Highway
5 that are within the city limits of the city of Plummer shall be set and
posted by the Idaho transportation department, division of highways.
   D.   Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be deemed
guilty of an infraction and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 436, 4-28-2016)
4-1-3: PARKING:
   A.   It shall be unlawful to park or leave unattended any vehicle at any
time in or upon any alley of the city or at any street, road, lane or alley
where official signs indicate parking to be prohibited.
   B.   The stopping, standing, or parking of any motor vehicle, as defined by
chapter 1, title 49, Idaho Code, on either side of U.S. Highway 95 within the
city of Plummer, between milepost 395.350 and 396.020, is prohibited.
   C.   Along State Highway 5 within the city limits of the city of Plummer
from milepost 0.610 to the intersection of U.S. Highway 95, no parking shall be
permitted except parking parallel to the highway and in the direction of
travel. Any designated parking area shall so specify and be marked accordingly.
Double parking or parking more than one vehicle deep, even though parallel to
the highway, shall not be permitted.
   D.   It shall be unlawful to park on that portion of 11th Street lying east
of the Lakeside High School, between E Street and D Street between the hours of
seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and three o'clock (3:00) P.M., Monday through Friday
when school is in session.
   E.   Parking on the north and south sides of E Street and adjacent to the
Lakeside High School lying between 11th Street and 12th Street shall not exceed
two (2) hours between the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. to three o'clock
(3:00) P.M., Monday through Friday when school is in session.
   F.   It shall be unlawful to park on that portion of E Street lying between
13th Street and 15th Street between the hours of seven thirty o'clock (7:30)
A.M. and eight thirty o'clock (8:30) A.M.; and two thirty o'clock (2:30) P.M.
to three thirty o'clock (3:30) P.M., Monday through Friday, when school is in
session. However, official school transportation vehicles and inhabitants of
private residences in this area are exempted from this restriction.
   G.   Any person who violates any provision of this section shall be deemed
guilty of an infraction and punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 417, 2-23-2012)
4-1-4: AIR COMPRESSION BRAKES:
   A.   The use of air compression brakes, also known as "jake brakes", by
vehicles or trucks as defined in Idaho Code title 49, chapter 1, within the
city limits of the city of Plummer, is hereby prohibited and shall be unlawful,
except under emergency circumstances where the use of air compression brakes is
necessary to prevent an accident or injury to persons or property.
   B.   Any person who violates any provision of this section shall be deemed
guilty of an infraction and punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 372, 8-11-2005)
4-1-5: TEMPORARY CLOSURE OF STREETS:
   A.   Street Closure: That portion of E Street located between 1150 E Street
and the intersection of 14th Street and E Street shall be closed to all traffic
between the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and four o'clock (4:00) P.M. on
weekdays, excepting therefrom that traffic involved with the operations of the
Plummer/Worley joint school district 44, or for property owners traveling to or
from private residences within the closed area.
   B.   Penalty: Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be
deemed guilty of an infraction and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject
to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 432, 7-9-2015)
4-1-6: WINTER STREET POLICY:
   A.   Parking:
      1.   It shall be illegal for any vehicle to be parked in such a manner so
as to impede snow removal operations. Any vehicle left in the street or right
of way may be subject to citation and/or removal, at the owner's expense.
Owners may return vehicles to "on street" parking following the completion of
the plowing operations.
      2.   Vehicles left in the right of way are left there at the owners risk
and could be struck by a snowplow during plowing operations. In the event there
is damage to a snowplow or other city equipment caused by vehicles left in the
right of way, owners of said vehicle could be subject to reimbursing the City
the cost of the damage. The City is not liable for damage to any privately
owned vehicles, boats, trailers, etc. when parked in the city right of way.
   B.   Right of Way Encroachments: Mailboxes, newspaper boxes, fences, and
other personal property located in the street right of way are the
responsibility of the owner. Damage to personal property located in the city
right of way resulting from plowing operations is not a reimbursable expense.
Owners of personal property located in the City right of way could be subject
to reimbursing the City should damage occur to City equipment during plowing
operations.
   C.   Accumulations from private property: It is unlawful for any person to
deposit or cause to be deposited, throw upon, or move onto any public street,
sidewalk, thoroughfare or other public property including right of way, any
snow, ice, dirt, soil, rock, or debris that has accumulated on any private
property.
   D.   Sidewalks: Owners and occupants of privately owned premises shall be
responsible for keeping their sidewalks and any areas adjacent to their
business or premises or any portion of their real property, including corners,
free and clear of snow and ice.
   E.   Penalty: Violation of this ordinance or any part thereof shall be an
infraction subject to punishment to the maximum allowed by Idaho Code. (Ord.
462, 10-8-2020)
CHAPTER 2
ABANDONED, WRECKED, DISMANTLED AND INOPERATIVE MOTOR VEHICLES
SECTION:
4-2-1: Title
4-2-2: Definitions
4-2-3: Storing, Parking Or Leaving Vehicles Prohibited; Nuisance; Exceptions
4-2-4: Investigation Of Premises
4-2-5: Notice Of Removal
4-2-6: Responsibility For Removal
4-2-7: Notice Procedures
4-2-8: Request For Hearing
4-2-9: Removal Of Vehicle From Property
4-2-10: Disposition Of Vehicles
4-2-11: Redemption Of Impounded Vehicles
4-2-12: Immunity From Damages
4-2-13: Liability Of Owner Or Occupant
4-2-14: Penalty
4-2-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the ABANDONED, WRECKED,
DISMANTLED OR INOPERATIVE MOTOR VEHICLE ORDINANCE OF THE CITY. (Ord. 293, 8-9-
1990)
4-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words and their
derivations shall have the meanings given herein. When not inconsistent with
the context, words used in the present tense include the future, words in the
plural number include the singular number, and words in the singular number
include the plural number. The word "shall" is always mandatory and not merely
directory.
CITY: The city of Plummer, county of Benewah, state of Idaho.
JUNKED VEHICLE: Any "vehicle", as defined herein, which does not have lawfully
affixed thereto both an unexpired license plate or plates and a current safety
inspection certificate if such is required by law and the condition of which is
wrecked, dismantled, partially dismantled, inoperative, abandoned or discarded.
PERSON: Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
PRIVATE PROPERTY: Any real property within the city which is privately owned
and which is not "public property" as defined in this section.
PUBLIC PROPERTY: Any street, which shall include the entire width between the
boundary lines of every way publicly maintained for the purposes of vehicular
travel, and shall also mean any other publicly owned property or facility.
VEHICLE: Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a street or highway and shall include, but not be
limited to, automobiles, buses, motorbikes, motorcycles, motor scooters,
trucks, tractors, go-carts, golf carts, campers and trailers, and railroad
engines, rolling stock, cabooses and utility cars. (Ord. 293, 8-9-1990)
4-2-3: STORING, PARKING OR LEAVING VEHICLES PROHIBITED; NUISANCE; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   No person shall park, store, leave or permit the parking, storing or
leaving of any vehicle of any kind which is in an abandoned, wrecked,
dismantled, inoperative, rusted, junked or partially dismantled condition,
whether attended or not, upon any public property within the city for a period
of time in excess of seventy two (72) hours. The presence of an abandoned,
wrecked, dismantled, inoperative, rusted, junked or partially dismantled
vehicle or parts thereof on public property is hereby declared a public
nuisance, and violation shall constitute an infraction, punishable as set forth
in subsection
1-4-1B of this code.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person owning or having custody of any
abandoned, wrecked, dismantled, inoperative, rusted, junked or partially
dismantled vehicle to store or permit any such vehicle or accessories to remain
on any private property within the city for a period of more than thirty (30)
days after the receipt of a notice requiring such removal, and it shall be
further unlawful for any person owning any private property within the city to
store or to permit to remain any such vehicle or accessories on his property
for more than a like period. Such storage is declared to be a public nuisance,
and violation shall constitute an infraction, punishable as set forth in
subsection
1-4-1B of this code. (Ord. 359, 4-8-2004)
   C.   This section shall not apply to any vehicle or vehicle accessories
stored within an enclosed building or enclosed behind a privacy fence where
such vehicles or accessories are not visible from any public property or
adjacent private property or on the premises of a business enterprise operated
in a lawful place and manner when necessary to the operation of such business
enterprise, in a storage place or depository maintained in a lawful place and
manner, or seasonal use vehicles such as snowmobiles, motorcycles, motor
scooters and nonmotorized campers, or to any motor vehicle in operable
condition specifically adapted or designed for operation on drag strips or
raceways or any vehicle retained by the owner for antique collection purposes.
Such business enterprises shall include auto junk yards, auto repair and
autobody shops but shall not include automobile service stations or tire,
battery and accessory sales stores. (Ord. 293, 8-9-1990)
4-2-4: INVESTIGATION OF PREMISES:
Any city police officer or the Benewah County sheriff or one of his duly
constituted deputies and/or any authorized city employee or agent on routine
inspection or upon receipt of a complaint may investigate a suspected
abandoned, wrecked, dismantled, inoperative, rusted, junked or partially
dismantled vehicle or vehicle accessories and record the make, model, style and
identification numbers and its situation. (Ord. 293, 8-9-1990; amd. 1993 Code)
4-2-5: NOTICE OF REMOVAL:
   A.   Whenever it comes to the attention of the city that any nuisance, as
defined in section
4-2-2 of this chapter, exists in the city, a notice, in writing, shall be
served upon the occupant of the land where the nuisance exists or, in case
there is no such occupant, then upon the owner of the property or his agent,
notifying them of the existence of the nuisance and requesting its removal in
the time specified in this chapter.
   B.   In the case of vehicles in violation of section
4-2-3 of this chapter, such notice shall be affixed to the vehicle in a
conspicuous place and manner. (Ord. 293, 8-9-1990)
4-2-6: RESPONSIBILITY FOR REMOVAL:
Upon proper notice and opportunity to be heard, the owner of the abandoned,
wrecked, dismantled or inoperative vehicle and the owner or occupant of the
private property on which the same is located, either or all of them, shall be
responsible for its removal. In the event of removal and disposition by the
city, the owner or occupant of the private property where the same is located
shall be liable for the expenses incurred. (Ord. 293, 8-9-1990)
4-2-7: NOTICE PROCEDURES:
   A.   Action On Violation:
      1.   If action is to be taken for a violation of subsection
4-2-3B of this chapter, the city shall give notice of removal to the owner or
occupant of the private property where it is located at least thirty (30) days
before the time compliance is required. It shall constitute sufficient notice
when a copy of same is posted in a conspicuous place upon the private property
on which the vehicle is located, and duplicate copies are sent by registered or
certified mail to the owner or occupant of the private property at his last
known address.
      2.   If action is to be taken for a violation of subsection
4-2-3A of this chapter, removal of the violating vehicle shall not occur until
after the end of the third full working day after notice has been posted upon
the offending vehicle.
   B.   Contents Of Notice: The notice shall contain a request for removal
within the time specified in this chapter, and the notice shall advise that
upon failure to comply with the notice to remove, the City or its designee
shall undertake such removal with the cost of removal to be levied against the
owner or occupant of the property. (Ord. 293, 8-9-90)
4-2-8: REQUEST FOR HEARING:
The persons to whom the notices are directed, or their duly authorized agents,
may file a written request for hearing before the Mayor and City Council within
the thirty (30) day period of compliance prescribed in subsection
4-2-3B of this Chapter for the purpose of defending the charges by the City.
(Ord. 293, 8-9-90)
4-2-9: REMOVAL OF VEHICLE FROM PROPERTY:
   A.   If the violation of subsection
4-2-3B of this Chapter described in the notice has not been remedied within the
thirty (30) day period of compliance, or in the event a notice requesting a
hearing is timely filed, a hearing is had and the existence of the violation is
affirmed by the Mayor and City Council, the City police or the Sheriff of
Benewah County or his designee shall have the right to take possession of the
targeted vehicle and remove it from the premises. It shall be unlawful for any
person to interfere with, hinder or refuse to allow such person or persons to
enter upon private property for the purpose of removing a vehicle under the
provisions of this Chapter.
   B.   Within forty eight (48) hours of the removal of any vehicle pursuant to
the provisions above, the City shall give notice to the registered owner of the
vehicle, if known, and also to the owner or occupant of the private property
from which the vehicle was removed that said vehicle has been impounded and
stored for violation of this Chapter. This notice shall give the location of
where the vehicle is stored and the costs incurred by the City for removal.
(Ord. 293, 8-9-90)
4-2-10: DISPOSITION OF VEHICLES:
Upon removing a vehicle under the provisions of this Chapter, the City shall
cause the vehicle to be disposed of in accordance with the provisions of
chapter 18, title 49 of the Idaho Code entitled "Abandoned Motor Vehicles".
(Ord. 293, 8-9-90)
4-2-11: REDEMPTION OF IMPOUNDED VEHICLES:
The owner of any vehicle seized under the provisions of this Chapter may redeem
such vehicle at any time after its removal but prior to sale or destruction
thereof on proof of ownership and payment to the City of such sum as the City
may determine and fix for the actual and reasonable cost of removal and storage
and any preliminary sale advertisement expenses, plus ten dollars ($10.00) a
day for administrative expenses. (Ord. 293, 8-9-90)
4-2-12: IMMUNITY FROM DAMAGES:
The Sheriff, deputy sheriff and any police officer, towing service owner,
operator or employee shall not be held to answer or be liable for damage in any
action brought by the registered owner or his legal representative or any
person legally entitled to the possession of a vehicle removed and impounded,
when the vehicle was processed and sold or disposed of as provided by this
Chapter. (Ord. 293, 8-9-90)
4-2-13: LIABILITY OF OWNER OR OCCUPANT:
Upon the failure of the owner or occupant of property from which vehicles have
been removed pursuant to this Chapter to pay the unrecovered expenses incurred
in such removal, a lien shall be placed upon the property for the unrecovered
amount of such expense. Such lien shall be placed by the recording of a notice
of lien in the office of the County Recorder of Benewah County, with a copy of
the notice of lien to be mailed to the property owner at his last known
address. (Ord. 293, 8-9-90)
4-2-14: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this Chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be subject to a penalty as provided in
Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 293, 8-9-90; 1993 Code)
CHAPTER 3
SNOWMOBILES
SECTION:
4-3-1: Operation of Snowmobiles Restricted
4-3-2: Penalty
4-3-1: OPERATION OF SNOWMOBILES RESTRICTED:
It shall be unlawful for any owner or operator of any snow vehicle, commonly
known as a snowmobile, to operate the same along or upon any City street
excepting under the following conditions:
   A.   Snowmobiles may be used on the City streets only for the limited
purpose of transporting the same from one section of the City to another or to
a field or other designated area where the same may be operated, and said
transportation must be along the shortest feasible route. Such vehicles are not
to be used for pleasure or for general operation on said City streets at any
time.
   B.   No snowmobile may be operated upon or along any City street after nine
o'clock (9:00) P.M., with the exception that such operation may be permitted
after the nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. curfew for the sole and limited purpose of
transporting such vehicle directly to the home of the owner or operator thereof
and for no other purpose.
   C.   All snowmobiles operating on the City streets must travel single file,
there must be not less than a fifty foot (50') interval between two (2) or more
vehicles so operating on said streets, and the speed limit shall not exceed ten
(10) miles per hour.
   D.   All vehicles operating on the authority of this Chapter upon such City
streets must stop at all intersections.
   E.   All vehicles operating on the City streets for the limited purposes
herein permitted shall have qualified and properly functioning mufflers and
must be properly lighted.
   F.   No snowmobiles may be operated on State Highway No. 5 or No. 95 within
the corporate limits of the City, these being highways as opposed to City
streets.
   G.   In addition to the foregoing, any operation of snowmobiles upon or
along the City streets shall be done in a careful and prudent manner and with
due caution and circumspection at all times and must, in all respects, be
operated as provided by the laws and regulations of the State 1 . (Ord. 231, 1-
6-72)
 
Notes
1 1. I.C. §67-7101 et seq.
4-3-2: PENALTY:
Any person violating the provisions of this Chapter shall be deemed guilty of
an infraction and subject to penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. Any such person in violation hereof shall also be
accountable to remedy and pay the costs for any property damage occasioned by
such violation. (Ord. 231, 1-6-72; 1993 Code)
TITLE 5
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
SIDEWALKS
SECTION:
5-1-1: Damage to Sidewalks Prohibited
5-1-1: DAMAGE TO SIDEWALKS PROHIBITED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to wilfully injure or destroy any
of the sidewalks constructed or which are hereafter constructed in front of any
premises in the City or to place obstructions thereon or to tear up or remove
any portion of the same without first having obtained permission of the Mayor
and City Council.
   B.   Any person violating these provisions shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to penalty as
provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 6, 1-9-11; 1993 Code)
CHAPTER 2
EXCAVATIONS
SECTION:
5-2-1: Permit Requirements
5-2-2: Manner of Excavating
5-2-3: Barricades and Lights
5-2-4: Inspections
5-2-5: Exemptions from Provisions
5-2-6: Penalty
5-2-1: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to tunnel under or
to make any excavation in any street, alley or other public place in the City
without having obtained a permit therefor as is herein required or without
complying with the provisions of this Chapter or in violation of or variance
from the terms of any such permits.
   B.   Application for Permit; Issuance:
      1.   Applications for such permits shall be made to the City Council and
shall describe the location of the intended excavation or tunnel, the size
thereof, the purpose therefor, the person doing the actual excavating work and
the name of the person for whom or which the work is being done and shall
contain an agreement that the applicant will comply with all ordinances
relating to the work to be done.
      2.   No such permit shall be issued except on order of the City Council.
   C.   Fees: The fees for such permits shall be such as may be prescribed from
time to time by the City Council.
   D.   Deposit:
      1.   No such permit, except as provided herein, shall be issued unless
and until the applicant therefor has deposited with the Clerk a cash deposit in
the sum of two hundred dollars ($200.00) if no pavement is involved, and five
hundred dollars ($500.00) if the excavation is in a paved area, to insure the
proper restoration of the ground and laying of the pavement, if any. From this
deposit shall be deducted the expense to the City of relaying the surface of
the ground or pavement and of making the refill if this is done by the City or
at its expense, and the balance shall be returned to the applicant without
interest after the tunnel or excavation is completely refilled and the surface
or pavement is restored.
      2.   The contractor shall pay any additional cost if the deposit is not
sufficient to cover the actual cost of refill and restoration.
      3.   Companies acting as the City's agent and public utilities franchised
by the City shall not be required to make the cash deposits called for herein.
(1993 Code)
5-2-2: MANNER OF EXCAVATING:
   A.   Generally:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to make any such excavation or tunnel in any
way contrary to or at variance with the terms of the permit therefor. Proper
bracing shall be maintained to prevent the collapse of adjoining ground, and in
excavations, the excavation shall not have anywhere below the surface any
portion which extends beyond the opening at the surface.
      2.   No injury shall be done to any pipes, cables or conduits or to the
City department officer charged with the care thereof, which are or may be
endangered or affected by the making of any such excavation or tunnel before
such pipes, cables or conduits shall be disturbed.
      3.   No unnecessary damage or injury shall be done to any tree or shrub
or the roots thereof.
   B.   Sidewalks: If any sidewalk is blocked by any such work, a temporary
sidewalk shall be constructed or provided which shall be safe for travel and
convenient for users.
   C.   Time Limit: Each application for a permit shall state the length of
time that will elapse from the commencement of the work until it is restored.
It shall be unlawful to fail to comply with this time limitation unless
permission for an extension of time is granted by the City Council. (1993 Code)
   D.   Restoration of Excavated Area:
      1.   Any person making any excavation or tunnel in or under any public
street, alley or public place in the City shall restore the surface thereof to
its original condition or better. Refills shall be properly tamped down, and
any bracing in such tunnel or excavation shall be left in the ground.
      2.   Any opening in a paved or improved portion of a street shall be
repaired and the surface relaid by the applicant in compliance with the
ordinance and subject to the supervision of the Superintendent of Public Works
or his authorized representative, or if such work is not done within ten (10)
days after restoration is possible, the City may restore the surface and charge
the cost thereof to the permittee.
      3.   Any person making an excavation in a landscaped area of the right of
way which is damaged or disturbed shall restore said landscaped area to its
original condition. All grassed areas shall be replaced with sod. (1993 Code)
5-2-3: BARRICADES AND LIGHTS:
Any person making or maintaining any excavation in any street or alley shall
keep the same adequately guarded by barricades and lights to protect persons
and property from injury. (1993 Code)
5-2-4: INSPECTIONS:
The Superintendent of Public Works or his authorized representative shall, from
time to time, inspect all excavations and tunnels being made in or under any
public street, alley or other public place in the City to see to the
enforcement of the provisions of this Chapter. Notice shall be given to him at
least twenty four (24) hours before the work of refilling any such excavation
or tunnel commences. (1993 Code)
5-2-5: EXEMPTIONS FROM PROVISIONS:
The provisions of this Chapter relative to securing permits shall not apply to
officers or employees of the City engaged in doing work for the City nor to
persons or corporations which are operating under a franchise or grant from the
City if such franchise provides for the making of excavations and tunnels
without securing a permit therefor. (1993 Code)
5-2-6: PENALTY:
Any person violating the provisions of this Chapter shall be subject to the
penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (1993 Code)
CHAPTER 3
PUBLIC PARKS
SECTION:
5-3-1: Park Property
5-3-2: Traffic
5-3-3: Recreational Activities
5-3-4: Behavior
5-3-5: Merchandising, Advertising and Signs
5-3-6: Park Operating Policy; Hours
5-3-7: Enforcement
5-3-8: Penalties
5-3-1: PARK PROPERTY:
No person in any park shall:
   A.   Buildings and Other Property:
      1.   Disfiguration and Removal: Wilfully mark, deface, disfigure, injure,
tamper with or displace or remove any building, bridges, tables, benches,
fireplaces, railings, paving or paving material, water lines or other public
utilities or parts or appurtenances thereof, signs, notices or placards whether
temporary or permanent, monuments, stakes, posts or other boundary markers or
other structures or equipment, facilities or park property or appurtenances
whatsoever, either real or personal, or have in his possession any of the
foregoing things or objects or any part thereof.
      2.   Restrooms and Washrooms: Fail to cooperate in maintaining restrooms
and washrooms in a neat and sanitary condition. No person over the age of five
(5) years shall use the restroom and washrooms designated for the opposite sex.
      3.   Erection of Structures: Construct or erect any building or structure
of whatever kind, whether permanent or temporary in character or run or string
any public service utility into, upon or across such lands, except on special
written permit issued hereunder.
   B.   Trees, Shrubbery and Lawns; Injury and Removal: Damage, cut, carve,
transplant or remove any tree or plant or injure the bark or pick the flowers
or seeds of any tree or plant. Nor shall any person attach any rope, wire or
other contrivance to any tree or plant. A person shall not dig in or otherwise
disturb grass areas or in any other way injure or impair the natural beauty or
usefulness of any area. (1993 Code)
5-3-2: TRAFFIC:
No person in any park shall:
   A.   Motor Vehicle Laws: Fail to comply with all applicable provisions of
the Idaho State Traffic Code relating to the operation of motor vehicles and as
contained in this and other ordinances.
   B.   Enforcement of Traffic Regulations: Fail to obey all police officers
being hereby authorized and instructed to direct traffic whenever and wherever
needed in the parks.
   C.   Obey Traffic Signs: Fail to observe carefully all traffic signs
indicating speed, direction, caution, stopping or parking and all others posted
for proper control of traffic and to safeguard life and property.
   D.   Operation Confined to Roads: Drive any vehicle on any area except the
parking areas or such other areas as may on occasion be specifically designated
as temporary parking areas.
   E.   Parking:
      1.   Designated Areas: Park a vehicle in other than an established or
designated parking area, and such use shall be in accordance with the posted
directions.
      2.   Night Parking: Leave a vehicle standing or parked after closing
hours of the park.
      3.   Double-Parking: Double-park any vehicle on any road or parkway
unless directed by a police officer. (1993 Code)
5-3-3: RECREATIONAL ACTIVITIES:
No person in any park shall:
   A.   Picnic and Park Area and Use:
      1.   Availability: Violate the regulation that use of the individual
fireplaces together with places with tables and benches follows generally the
rules or "first come, first served". Picnickers shall be required to furnish
their own firewood, charcoal and other equipment. Fires are only allowed in
designated fire pits or fireplaces.
      2.   Nonexclusive: Use any portion of the picnic areas or of any of the
buildings or structures therein for the purpose of holding picnics to the
exclusion of other persons nor shall any person use such area and facilities
for an unreasonable time if the facilities are crowded.
      3.   Duty of Picnicker: Leave a picnic area before the fire is completely
extinguished and before all trash in the nature of boxes, papers, cans,
bottles, garbage and other refuse is placed in disposal receptacles where
provided. If no such trash receptacles are available, then refuse and trash
shall be carried away from the park area by the picnicker to be properly
disposed of elsewhere.
   B.   Camping: Set up tents, shacks or any other shelter for the purpose of
camping nor shall any person leave in a park after closing hours any movable
structure or special vehicle to be used or that could be used for such purpose,
such as a house trailer, camp trailer, camp wagon or the like.
   C.   Games: Take part in or abet the playing of any games involving thrown
or otherwise propelled dangerous objects such as stones, arrows or javelins
except in areas set apart for such forms of recreation. Golfing or driving golf
balls is prohibited except where specific facilities have been provided.
   D.   Tennis Courts: Tennis courts shall be used on a "first come, first
served" basis.
   E.   Community Center Use:
      1.   Use the Community Center without prior written permission from the
City Council or a duly authorized representative designated by it. Application
for the use of the Community Center must be made at least three (3) days in
advance of the date requested upon forms furnished by the City Clerk or the
duly authorized representative. The following types of fees, in amounts as
determined from time to time by the City Council, shall be paid at the time of
application for use:
   Auditorium use
   Kitchen use
   Cleaning/damage deposit
      2.   Fail to observe and comply with rules and regulations for the use of
the Community Center approved by the City Council and duly posted.
   F.   Vehicles on Park Grass: No vehicle shall be permitted in or upon any
park grass except:
      1.   Those vehicles employed by the City; and
      2.   Those vehicles making deliveries within a park. (1993 Code)
5-3-4: BEHAVIOR:
No person in any park shall:
   A.   Consume or possess any alcoholic beverage, unless proper permits have
been obtained from the City, in any park or consume or possess beer in those
areas of the City parks being used for a public school function.
   B.   Be under the influence of intoxicating liquor, narcotics or drugs to
the degree that he may endanger himself or other persons or property or annoy
or disturb persons in his vicinity.
   C.   Permit or suffer a dog or other domestic animal to enter or remain in a
park except on a leash or carried by the person owning or having the care,
custody and control of such dog or domestic animal.
   D.   Endanger the safety or health of any person by any conduct or act.
   E.   Prevent any person from using any part or any of its facilities or
interfere with such use in compliance with this Chapter and the rules and
regulations applicable to such use.
   F.   Violate any rules and regulations for the use of a park or any of its
facilities, approved by the Council of the City or its duly authorized
representative.
   G.   Solicit or accost other persons for the purpose of begging or
soliciting alms.
   H.   Operate or aid in the operation of private radios, stereophonic or
sound-amplification devices at a level creating a nuisance to the general
public. (1993 Code)
5-3-5: MERCHANDISING, ADVERTISING AND SIGNS:
No person in any park shall:
   A.   Vending and Peddling: Expose or offer for sale any article or thing,
nor shall he station or place any stand, cart or vehicle for the
transportation, sale or display of any such article or thing. Exception is
hereby made as to any regularly licensed concessionaire acting by and under the
authority and regulation of the City Council or any authorized representative.
   B.   Advertising: Distribute, leave or throw any advertising material, such
as dodgers, handbills, circulars or like matter or give away or otherwise
distribute for advertising purposes any goods or wares.
   C.   Signs: Paste, glue, tack or otherwise post any signs, plaques,
advertisements or inscriptions whatever, except plaques, tablets or signs of a
size, design and location approved by the City Council or duly authorized
representative, recognizing or acknowledging donations or contributions to any
City park or public facilities therein. (1993 Code)
5-3-6: PARK OPERATING POLICY; HOURS:
Except for unusual and unforeseen emergencies, parks shall be open to the
public every day of the year from six o'clock (6:00) A.M. to twelve o'clock
(12:00) midnight. Thereafter, visitors and vehicles shall be excluded during
the hours of closure except for transit through a park. (1993 Code)
5-3-7: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Enforcement Officials: Officials, police officers or duly authorized
representatives of the City Council shall enforce the provisions of this
Chapter.
   B.   Ejectment: A police officer or a duly authorized representative of the
City Council shall have the authority to eject from the park any person acting
in violation of this Chapter.
   C.   Seizure of Property: A police officer shall have the authority to seize
and confiscate any property, thing or device in the park used in violation of
this Chapter. (1993 Code)
5-3-8: PENALTIES:
Any person found to be violating any provision of this Chapter shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to penalties
provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (1993 Code)
CHAPTER 4
TREES AND SHRUBS
SECTION:
5-4-1: Title
5-4-2: Purpose
5-4-3: Definitions
5-4-4: Establishment Of Plummer Tree Committee
5-4-5: Authority And Control Over Trees
5-4-6: Removal Of Public Trees And Shrubs
5-4-7: Planting Of Public Trees And Shrubs
5-4-8: Permit Required
5-4-9: Appeal Procedures
5-4-10: Damaging, Destroying Or Topping Of Public Trees Or Shrubs
5-4-11: Care Of Trees Within City
5-4-12: Public Nuisances
5-4-13: Penalty
5-4-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be titled as the PLUMMER TREE ORDINANCE.
(Ord. 358, 1-8-2004)
5-4-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to protect trees and shrubs planted and growing
within the public rights of way, city parks, and within or on all other
property owned or otherwise under the control of the city; to establish and
maintain species variety and age diversity of trees on public lands in the
city; to maintain city trees in a healthy and nonhazardous condition through
standard arboricultural practices. (Ord. 358, 1-8-2004)
5-4-3: DEFINITIONS:
COMMUNITY FOREST: Trees and shrubs on public and private property within the
community.
DAMAGES: Injury or harm that impairs the health, vigor, value, or usefulness of
a tree, as determined by the Plummer tree committee.
OWNER: The person (the legal owner, tenant, occupant or lessee) who exercises
care, custody or control of private real property that abuts a right of way
upon which a public tree or shrub is located.
PARK TREE: Any tree within the boundaries of a designated city park.
PARKWAY: That portion of a street between a roadway and sidewalk.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, copartnership, association, corporation, or group
acting as a unit.
PUBLIC PROPERTY: Property owned by the city of Plummer either in fee simple
absolute, or implied, or expressly dedicated to the public for present or
future use for purposes of vehicular or pedestrian traffic, or for public
easements.
PUBLIC TREE OR SHRUB: Any tree or shrub that is situated in such a manner that
fifty one percent (51%) or more of the tree trunk or shrub base at ground level
is on public property or public right of way.
ROADWAY: The portion of a street improved, designed or ordinarily used by the
public for vehicular travel.
SHRUB: A multiple stemmed, woody plant whose height at maturity is between two
feet (2') and fifteen feet (15').
SIDEWALK: That portion of a street improved, designed or ordinarily used by the
public for pedestrian travel.
STREET: The entire width between the boundary lines of a public right of way
dedicated or deeded to the city for use of the public for purposes of vehicular
travel, whether or not maintained by the city and whether or not open for
vehicular traffic.
STREET TREE: Any tree, shrub or other woody vegetation on lands within any city
right of way.
TOPPING: The severe cutting back of limbs within a tree crown to such a degree
that only stubs remain or the removal of the top part (trunk and limbs) of a
coniferous tree, thereby removing a significant portion of the normal crown.
TREE: A woody perennial plant with one main stem or trunk. (Ord. 358, 1-8-2004)
5-4-4: ESTABLISHMENT OF PLUMMER TREE COMMITTEE:
   A.   Plummer Tree Committee: There is hereby created a Plummer tree
committee. The Plummer tree committee shall consist of a minimum of five (5)
volunteer members who are residents of this community, including a chairperson.
City council members and city employees may be appointed as committee members.
Members of the committee shall be appointed by the mayor with the approval of
the city council to serve three (3) year appointments, without compensation,
with staggered terms to provide continuity and transition within the committee.
A city council member shall be appointed to serve as council liaison.
   B.   Duties And Responsibilities Of Committee Members: It shall be the
responsibility of the Plummer tree committee to:
      1.   Study, investigate, develop and update a written plan for the
selection, care, preservation, pruning, planting, replanting, removal or
disposition of trees and shrubs in the public streets and all other public
property or rights of way. Such plan will be presented to the city council and
upon their acceptance and approval, shall constitute the official comprehensive
city tree plan for the city of Plummer.
      2.   Distribute guidelines for the pruning of trees located on all city
properties and within city rights of way.
      3.   Distribute a tree list consisting of acceptable varieties of trees,
acceptable size of trees, proper planting and spacing instructions for trees
located within the rights of way.
      4.   Assist the city in providing information to the public through
published materials, workshops, on site consultations, and other educational
opportunities.
      5.   Identify landscaping projects that improve the community forest.
      6.   Assist the city in planning and implementing Arbor Day celebrations
and activities.
      7.   Review tree permit applications for planting and removal of public
trees.
      8.   Approve or deny tree permit applications for planting and removal of
public trees by issuance of a written permit or denial in writing.
      9.   Oversee planting, pruning, spraying, preserving and removal of trees
on all public properties and rights of way.
      10.   Review the city tree program budget and make recommendations to the
city council.
      11.   Encourage and solicit donations and other funding for the city tree
program.
      12.   Conduct regular monthly meetings, or as needed, to review permit
applications, plan city tree activities, and otherwise implement the provisions
of this chapter.
   C.   Duties And Responsibilities Of Committee Chairperson: It shall be the
responsibility of the Plummer tree committee chairperson to:
      1.   Preside over Plummer tree committee meetings and report activities
to the council liaison.
      2.   Organize materials for public education and distribution.
      3.   Accept applications for tree permits for review by the committee.
      4.   Keep an accurate record of permit applications and the disposition
of each. (Ord. 358, 1-8-2004)
5-4-5: AUTHORITY AND CONTROL OVER TREES:
The mayor and city council have complete authority and control over all trees
on or within the city properties. The city, with advice from the Plummer tree
committee may remove or cause the removal of public or private trees or
branches which create a hazard to public health and safety or public trees
which should be removed to implement community forestry objectives. (Ord. 358,
1-8-2004)
5-4-6: REMOVAL OF PUBLIC TREES AND SHRUBS:
It is the policy of the city of Plummer that public trees and shrubs shall not
be removed without a written permit from the Plummer tree committee. Permits
will be granted pursuant to the criteria specified below:
   A.   The tree or shrub is sufficiently diseased or is an alternate host of a
significant disease.
   B.   The tree or shrub is harboring injurious insects or pathogens and may
cause significant potential danger to the community forest.
   C.   The tree or shrub is dead or near dead and/or constitutes a public
safety hazard.
   D.   The tree interferes with overhead utility lines and creates a public
safety hazard.
   E.   The tree or shrub causes sight obstruction that cannot be resolved in a
more moderate manner.
   F.   The replacement plan for removed trees and shrubs.
   G.   Any other criteria deemed appropriate by the Plummer tree committee.
(Ord. 358, 1-8-2004)
5-4-7: PLANTING OF PUBLIC TREES AND SHRUBS:
It is the policy of the city of Plummer that public trees and shrubs shall not
be planted without a written permit from the Plummer tree committee. Permits
will be granted pursuant to the criteria specified below:
   A.   The location of the proposed planting in relation to existing or future
utility lines.
   B.   The species of the proposed planting, its expected height, and its root
system in relation to existing or future utility lines.
   C.   The location and species in relation to the line of sight for traffic.
   D.   Any other criteria deemed appropriate by the Plummer tree committee.
(Ord. 358, 1-8-2004)
5-4-8: PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to plant or remove any trees or shrubs on
or within the public properties without first procuring a permit from the tree
committee. In situations where imminent public danger would result from the
delay entailed in obtaining a permit or where such delay would place life, limb
or property in jeopardy, the city may waive the permit requirement.
   B.   Any person desiring a permit to plant or remove a tree or shrub on or
within the city properties shall file with the city clerk or tree committee
chairperson an application to do so.
   C.   Permits shall be provided at no cost.
   D.   Applications to plant a tree or shrub must identify the proposed tree
or shrub. Selection and location of required replacement trees and shrubs shall
be subject to the approval of the Plummer tree committee.
   E.   Upon the filing of such application, the tree committee shall
investigate the proposed work and, if in their judgment it is desirable and
should be done, shall issue a written permit. Denial of a permit shall be
issued in writing.
   F.   In addition to a permit, a temporary street closure approval from the
city is required whenever such tree work will impair the free and full use of
any sidewalk, street or alley as determined by the city public works foreman.
   G.   If a permit for removal is justified, the tree committee shall issue a
removal permit. Work may be supervised and inspected by the committee
chairperson or his or her agent. All costs of the removal shall be at the
expense of the applicant. Whenever a public tree or shrub is removed, as a
condition of issuance of a permit for removal, the applicant shall replace the
tree or shrub removed, unless such requirement is waived by the Plummer tree
committee for good cause showing. Selection and location of required
replacement trees and shrubs shall be subject to the approval of the Plummer
tree committee. (Ord. 358, 1-8-2004)
5-4-9: APPEAL PROCEDURES:
   A.   Any applicant may appeal the decision of the Plummer tree committee in
the denial of a permit under this chapter to the Plummer city council. A
request for an appeal hearing shall be in writing and submitted to the city
clerk. An appeal of a decision of the Plummer tree committee must be filed
within fourteen (14) days from the date of the adverse decision. The hearing
before the council shall take place within thirty (30) days from the filing of
the appeal.
   B.   When the hearing is conducted the applicant may be in attendance and/or
he or she may be represented. The hearing will be informal. The hearing will be
open to the public. The evidence presented by either party may consist of
relevant physical evidence and testimony, but the rules of evidence shall not
apply. Upon completion of the hearing, the council shall take under advisement
all evidence presented and shall notify the applicant in writing within
fourteen (14) days from the hearing of its findings and ruling, which shall
affirm, overturn or modify the action of the tree committee. (Ord. 358, 1-8-
2004)
5-4-10: DAMAGING, DESTROYING OR TOPPING OF PUBLIC TREES OR SHRUBS:
It is unlawful for any person to:
   A.   Damage, mutilate or destroy any public tree or shrub of the city.
   B.   Store or place, or cause to be stored or placed: oil, gasoline,
chemicals and other materials that are harmful to trees and shrubs, around or
near public trees and shrubs.
   C.   Spill or dump substances, whether liquid or solid, which are toxic to
trees and shrubs, on the soil between the base of the public tree and the
extent of its root system.
   D.   Attach a potentially harmful device or structure (i.e., tree houses,
signs, etc.) to or on public trees unless otherwise authorized by the city.
   E.   Make excavations in the soil near roots of public trees or shrubs
unless appropriate measures are taken to prevent exposed soil from drying out.
   F.   Damage roots of a public tree or shrub by compacting or filling on or
around the base of the tree.
   G.   Damage a public tree or shrub by the practice of "topping", except
under special circumstances. Trees severely damaged by storms or other causes,
or certain trees under utility wires or other obstructions where other pruning
practices are impractical may be exempted from this section at the
determination of the Plummer tree committee, based upon good cause therefor.
   H.   Any violation shall be deemed an infraction as set forth in section
5-4-13 of this chapter. (Ord. 358, 1-8-2004)
5-4-11: CARE OF TREES WITHIN CITY:
   A.   City Responsibilities: The city shall be responsible for the following:
      1.   Care and maintenance of park trees and shrubs.
      2.   Removal of dead, diseased or hazardous park trees, limbs, and
shrubs.
      3.   Controlling insects and diseases of park trees and shrubs.
      4.   Managing insect and disease management programs for all trees in the
city.
   B.   Private Owner Responsibilities: Every owner shall be responsible for
the following:
      1.   Meeting all the requirements and obtaining all the permits necessary
for work done on adjacent public trees as described in this chapter.
      2.   Care and maintenance of public trees and shrubs located on the right
of way adjacent to the owner's private real property, including the following:
         a.   Removal and replacement of public trees or removal of those
portions of public trees declared to be a public nuisance when they are located
on the right of way adjacent to the owner's private real property.
         b.   Pruning of public trees and shrubs located on the right of way
adjacent to the owner's private real property. Branches of trees that overhang
sidewalks must be pruned to provide eight feet (8') of vertical clearance and
branches that overhang the street must be pruned to provide twelve feet (12')
of vertical clearance.
         c.   Control of injurious pests for public trees and limbs located on
the right of way adjacent to the owner's private real property.
         d.   Repairing damage done to the sidewalks and surrounding areas by
the roots of private trees or shrubs, or public trees and shrubs located on the
right of way adjacent to the owner's private real property.
         e.   Removal of private trees and shrubs located on the owner's
private real property that have been declared to be a public nuisance.
      3.   Control of significant pests for private trees and shrubs on the
owner's private property.
      4.   Removal of all tree or shrub work debris from the street and
sidewalk, by sunset of the day on which the work is done unless street closure
is authorized. (Ord. 358, 1-8-2004)
5-4-12: PUBLIC NUISANCES:
   A.   The following are hereby declared public nuisances under this chapter:
      1.   Any dead tree or shrub located on city owned property, including the
public right of way.
      2.   Any tree or shrub on public or private property that harbors
pathogens or injurious insects which reasonably may be expected to injure or
harm other trees or shrubs.
      3.   Any tree or shrub which obstructs the free passage of pedestrian or
vehicular traffic or which obstructs a streetlight or traffic control device.
      4.   Any tree or shrub, or portion thereby, which obstructs the view in
the "visibility triangle" as defined by Idaho Code.
      5.   Any tree or shrub which, by reason of location or condition,
constitutes an imminent danger to the health, safety or welfare of the general
public.
   B.   In the event any nuisance specified above shall be allowed to occur,
the city shall give notice of such nuisance to the property owner or person
occupying such premises. Such notice shall be delivered either by personal
service or by the mail of the same addressed to the property owner or occupant
of such premises and deposited postage prepaid in the United States mail. Such
notice shall be effective upon delivery if served personally or upon mailing if
delivered by mail. Such notice shall give ten (10) days from the date of
delivery or of mailing, as the case may be, within which the nuisance must be
abated.
   C.   If the nuisance shall not be abated by the time specified in the
notice, the allowance of the nuisance to continue is hereby deemed an
infraction. Each day of occurrence thereafter shall constitute a new offense.
(Ord. 358, 1-8-2004)
5-4-13: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter is guilty of an
infraction and is subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 358, 1-8-2004)
CHAPTER 5
CEMETERY
SECTION:
5-5-1: City Cemetery Designated
5-5-2: Definitions
5-5-3: Establishment Of Regulations
5-5-3-1: Fees
5-5-4: Administration And Care
5-5-5: Records
5-5-6: Ownership
5-5-7: Compliance With Applicable Laws
5-5-8: Rights Of City Reserved
5-5-9: Sale Of Burial Spaces; Certificates Of Ownership
5-5-10: Installment Purchases
5-5-11: Rights Of Certificate Owners
5-5-12: Transfer Of Ownership
5-5-13: Buy Back
5-5-14: Authorization For Interment
5-5-15: Liability Of City; Interment
5-5-16: Interments
5-5-17: Burial Of Indigent Persons
5-5-18: Disinterments
5-5-19: Number Of Burials In Site
5-5-20: Monuments And Markers
5-5-21: Fences, Grade, And Maintenance Of Lots
5-5-22: Trees, Flowers, And Shrubs
5-5-23: Rules Of Conduct
5-5-24: Penalty For Violation
5-5-1: CITY CEMETERY DESIGNATED:
Evergreen cemetery, located at 833 Fairfield Road, has since its purchase in
1926 been designated as, and shall continue to be, a city cemetery. This
cemetery shall be maintained by the city for the burial of the human dead.
(Ord. 367, 2-10-2005)
5-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
BLOCK: Portion of a cemetery which is usually defined by roads or other
boundaries around its perimeter and which is divided into lots and spaces.
BURIAL: The permanent disposition of human remains by burial, inurnment or
dispersal of cremains.
BURIAL RIGHT: The right to inter in a burial space; this is not title to land,
but merely a right to be buried in a described space.
BURIAL SPACE: A grave space, cremation garden space or niche, used or intended
to be used for the burial of human remains.
CEMETERY: A place of burial for earth interments, columbarium for cinerary
interments, or a combination of these.
CERTIFICATE OF OWNERSHIP: A written document issued by the city to a purchaser
of a grave space, which document evidences ownership of a right to be buried in
the specific grave space.
COLUMBARIUM: An aboveground structure containing niches for the inurnment of
cremated human remains.
CREMAINS: Cremated human remains.
CREMATION GARDEN: An outdoor area dedicated to the deposit of cremains.
FAMILY: Those persons related by blood, marriage or law, or descended from a
common ancestor.
FEES: City council establishes fees to be assessed for cemetery services.
GRAVE SPACE: A space of ground sufficient in size for burial of the remains of
one casket, as specified by the cemetery plat.
INTERMENT: The permanent disposition of human remains by burial, inurnment or
dispersal. (See definition of Burial.)
LOTS: A unit of purchase which may contain either one, four (4), or eight (8)
burial spaces as specified for the particular block.
MARKER: One piece stones which are customarily used to mark individual graves.
MEMORIAL: A generic term which includes a marker, monument, niche, plate or
other physical object used to identify the occupant of the grave space. A
memorial stone or plaque may also refer to a marker, monument or plaque
memorializing someone that is not actually interred in the lot.
MONUMENT: Memorials of more than one piece.
NEXT OF KIN: Relatives of a deceased person according to the Idaho laws of
intestacy. (Ord. 367, 2-10-2005)
5-5-3: ESTABLISHMENT OF REGULATIONS:
The city council is authorized to establish regulations for the operation of
the city cemeteries, without limitation by enumeration; procedures concerning
interment, disinterment or removal; use of cemetery lots; charges for specific
services; provision of grave liners; standards for grave marking and fencing;
monument and marker restrictions; restrictions on planting flowers and shrubs;
and such other regulations as may be necessary for orderly and efficient
cemetery maintenance and improvement. (Ord. 367, 2-10-2005)
5-5-3-1: FEES:
The city council shall establish fees for all grave spaces, opening and closing
graves, burial of ashes, disinterment and other related services provided by
the city. The city council may add, fix and change the charges from time to
time as necessary. All fees charged are to be paid to the city clerk prior to
the use of a grave for interment or other allowed activity or for any other
service being provided. (Ord. 367, 2-10-2005)
5-5-4: ADMINISTRATION AND CARE:
The city cemeteries shall be managed and maintained by the city superintendent,
subject to budget and policy decisions made by the mayor and city council. All
grading, landscape work, improvements of any kind, care of burial spaces, all
burial space opening and closing, interments, disinterment, and removals shall
only be conducted under the supervision of the city superintendent. The city
superintendent is authorized to expend funds for cemetery activities as
appropriated in the city's annual budget. (Ord. 367, 2-10-2005)
5-5-5: RECORDS:
The city clerk shall keep the official records of all cemetery plats,
certificates of ownership, certificate transfers, installment purchases,
consents to bury, permits, burials and any other related information. The city
clerk shall maintain a record of all sales of lots and receive all money for
the sale of lots, interment, and other services provided. (Ord. 367, 2-10-2005)
5-5-6: OWNERSHIP:
The city retains full and complete control and management of the lands,
buildings, improvements, roads, walks, utilities, development, books, and
records of the cemeteries. The city also retains full and complete authority,
rights, and privileges to make, change, administer and enforce all cemetery
ordinances, rules, regulations, and restrictions. Purchase of a burial right in
the city cemetery does not transfer real estate title to the owner. (Ord. 367,
2-10-2005)
5-5-7: COMPLIANCE WITH APPLICABLE LAWS:
All interments, disinterments, and removals are subject to cemetery rules and
regulations, and all city, state, and federal laws, rules and regulations.
(Ord. 367, 2-10-2005)
5-5-8: RIGHTS OF CITY RESERVED:
   A.   Improve: The city reserves the right to improve the cemetery.
Improvements may include enlarging, replatting, reducing, or changing the
boundaries, establishing columbaria, or other activity deemed necessary by the
city council for the betterment of the cemetery.
   B.   Designate Uses: The city reserves the right to designate appropriate
areas for columbaria, cremation gardens, mausoleums, and other aboveground
structures.
   C.   Install And Change Drainage: The city reserves the right to lay,
maintain, and operate, or to alter or change pipelines or ditches for
irrigation systems, drainage or any other watercourses in any part of the
cemetery.
   D.   Restore: The city reserves the right, at the city's sole option and
expense, to restore, repair, or reset any grave marker or memorial placed upon
any lot or grave space, to include any marble, granite, bronze, concrete, or
stone work in any section, or to repair or rebuild any damaged structure,
building or utility.
   E.   Dispose Of Buy Back Spaces: The city reserves the right to buy back
spaces in a manner best serving the interest of the cemetery.
   F.   Ingress And Egress: The city reserves a perpetual right to enter and to
leave over any burial space for passage to and from other spaces. This right
extends to those lawfully within the cemetery. (Ord. 367, 2-10-2005)
5-5-9: SALE OF BURIAL SPACES; CERTIFICATES OF OWNERSHIP:
   A.   The city clerk shall keep accurate record of all burial spaces sold in
the city cemetery. The price for the right to use each type of burial space
shall be established by the city council.
   B.   The city clerk shall issue a certificate of ownership to the purchaser
of a right to use a burial space for the burial of human dead, which shall
contain the following information:
      1.   The name and address of the space owner, a description of the burial
space location and the purchase price paid.
      2.   A statement that the certificate of ownership represents only a
right to be buried in the described space and does not convey any interest or
title to the property upon which the space is located.
      3.   The signature of the mayor and city clerk. (Ord. 367, 2-10-2005)
5-5-10: INSTALLMENT PURCHASES:
   A.   Purchasers of certificates of ownership of burial spaces may pay the
appropriate purchase price in installments.
   B.   The written installment purchase contract shall:
      1.   Not include interest.
      2.   Require, at the time of contract execution, cash payment of at least
ten percent (10%) of the purchase price which shall be deducted from the amount
to be paid in installments.
      3.   Limit the term not to extend over a period of more than twelve (12)
months.
      4.   Include an acknowledgement that failure to pay any installment
within six (6) months of the installment due date shall terminate the contract,
together with any legal interest the purchaser may have in the installment
contract or burial space. Installment payment made pursuant to a contract
terminated in accord with this section shall be forfeited to the city.
   C.   In the case of such failure to pay, the city shall give the purchaser
written notice of termination for failure to pay any installment within four
(4) months of the installment due date, allowing the purchaser sixty (60) days
to make payment before actual termination, sent to the purchaser's last known
address via first class U.S. mail.
   D.   The city clerk shall not issue any certificate or permit burial in any
space covered by an installment contract until the purchaser has fulfilled the
contractual obligations and paid the space purchase price in full. (Ord. 367,
2-10-2005)
5-5-11: RIGHTS OF CERTIFICATE OWNERS:
   A.   Interment: Any burial space conveyed by a certificate of ownership
shall be considered a grant of the right to burial or interment in the space
described on the certificate.
   B.   Consent To Bury: A certificate owner may consent to the burial of any
deceased person in the burial space described on the certificate. Consent for a
nonfamily member shall be given by the certificate owner in writing and
submitted to the city clerk. Consent to bury shall not act as a transfer of
ownership of the burial space.
   C.   Disinterment Or Removal: No disinterment or removal of remains interred
pursuant to a consent to bury shall be undertaken without permission of the
next of kin or legal representative of the deceased. In the event of
disinterment, the consent to bury shall be void and the interment or burial
rights shall revert to the certificate owner.
   D.   Right Of Descent: Upon the death of the certificate owner, any unused
burial spaces shall pass as provided in the owner's last will and testament.
Any unused burial spaces not effectively disposed of by the owner's last will
and testament shall pass to the owner's heirs as prescribed in the Idaho
probate code.
   E.   No Transfer Without Approval: No burial spaces shall be transferable,
except with the consent of the city in accord with this code.
   F.   Change Of Address: It shall be the duty of every burial space owner to
keep the city clerk fully informed of the owner's mailing address, and to
notify the city clerk of any changes. Written notice sent to any certificate
owner at the last registered address on file shall be considered sufficient and
proper legal notice. (Ord. 367, 2-10-2005)
5-5-12: TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP:
   A.   Authorized: The transfer of a certificate of the right to use a burial
space may be made with the consent of the city. All lots transferred shall be
subject to the rules and regulations now in force or which may hereinafter be
adopted, and shall be used for no purpose than for the burial of the human
dead.
   B.   Method: The transfer of a certificate of ownership of any burial space
may be made:
      1.   During the certificate owner's lifetime through the act of sale or
give to another party made in writing with the owner's full intent to
relinquish any right to occupy or use the burial space.
      2.   By the certificate owner's last will and testament; or
      3.   By the applicable laws of intestacy.
   C.   Approval: No transfer of a certificate of ownership shall be effective
until approved by the city. Prior to approval, the city clerk shall require the
following:
      1.   The original certificate of ownership.
      2.   The bill of sale or other documentation transferring the right for
burial.
      3.   Any other information required by the cemetery rules and
regulations.
      4.   Payment of any indebtedness or installment payment due on the burial
space.
   D.   City Approval: The city shall give approval by issuing a new
certificate of ownership to the party of transference and shall record the
transfer in the cemetery records. (Ord. 367, 2-10-2005)
5-5-13: BUY BACK:
   A.   The city may repurchase or buy back any certificate of ownership for
any unused or unoccupied burial space under the following conditions:
      1.   Ownership of the burial space is clear and evidenced by a valid
certificate of ownership;
      2.   The city verifies:
         a.   The space is unused and unoccupied;
         b.   No markers or monuments are erected on the space;
         c.   Sufficient funds for buy back are budgeted and appropriated; and
      3.   The certificate owner completes a buy back application.
   B.   If the burial space is eligible for buy back, the city clerk may pay
the certificate owner one-half (1/2) of the current burial space purchase
price. (Ord. 367, 2-10-2005)
5-5-14: AUTHORIZATION FOR INTERMENT:
   A.   The city reserves the right to refuse burial in any burial space unless
the city receives proper authorization by the burial space owner of record.
   B.   The city reserves the right to make an interment of any member of the
immediate family of the burial space owner upon authorization by a member of
the immediate family of the burial space owner.
   C.   The city will accept authorization for interment through a funeral
home.
   D.   The burial space owner may consent to the burial of any deceased person
by giving written authorization to the city clerk for said interment.
   E.   The city may permit telephone authorization for immediate burial.
However, the city shall not be held responsible for any order given by
telephone, or for any mistake occurring from the want of precise and proper
telephonic instructions as to the particular space, size and location of a
burial space where interment is desired. Any changes, adjustments, or
correction necessitated by mistakes shall be at the expense of the burial space
owner or owner's agent. (Ord. 367, 2-10-2005)
5-5-15: LIABILITY OF CITY; INTERMENT:
   A.   Delay From Protest: The city shall in no way be liable for any delay in
interment of a body where a protest to the interment has been made or where the
cemetery rules and regulations have been violated. The city shall be under no
duty to recognize any protest of interment.
   B.   Not Responsible For Identity: The city shall not be liable for the
truth or correctness of the information contained in the interment permit, nor
for the identity of the person sought to be interred or disinterred.
   C.   Errors May Be Corrected: The city shall not be liable for and reserves
the right to correct any errors that may have been made by it. Correction may
include substitution of a similar burial space.
   D.   Location Of Interment Space: When the instructions regarding the
location of a burial space cannot be opened where specified, the city shall
contact the funeral home, agent or family to make suitable arrangements. The
city shall not be liable in damages for any error made.
   E.   Removal: The city shall exercise the utmost care in making a removal,
but it shall assume no liability for damage incurred to any casket or burial
case or urn in making the removal. (Ord. 367, 2-10-2005)
5-5-16: INTERMENTS:
   A.   No interment will be permitted, nor shall any body be received for
burial, unless a proper certificate and burial transit permit for the deceased
is received by the city.
   B.   A minimum of forty eight (48) hours' notice is required to be given to
the city before any interment. Such notice shall comply with the authorization
for interment and shall include the size of the case used and the location of
the grave. Less notice may be permitted in the case of a health related
emergency.
   C.   Only one interment of a casket shall be made in a single grave. The
addition of one cremain in a grave with a casket is permissible. Two (2)
cremains may be interred in one grave. Other arrangements may be granted by the
city.
   D.   The city will endeavor to conduct interments on the date and at the
time requested by the family. The city reserves the right to refuse
unreasonable requests.
   E.   The city will endeavor to accommodate graveside services. An alternate
area may be made available due to weather constraints or any safety concern.
   F.   Burial vaults shall be required for all burials at the city cemetery.
Vaults made of heavy noncorrosive metal, fiberglass or other materials which
meet or exceed the performance standards and specifications of concrete liners
will be permitted. All cremains are to be placed in a nonperishable container
prior to interment in the ground.
   G.   All graves must be opened and closed by the city, and will be subjected
to the charges as described herein, which shall be paid in advance to the city
clerk. Special permission may be granted to allow family members to hand dig a
grave and/or perform closing by hand. Such activity shall be under the
supervision of the city and will still be subject to charges. (Ord. 367, 2-10-
2005)
5-5-17: BURIAL OF INDIGENT PERSONS:
The city council may from time to time designate lots to be reserved for the
burial of indigent persons. (Ord. 367, 2-10-2005)
5-5-18: DISINTERMENTS:
   A.   Disinterments shall only be conducted during normal work hours and on
regularly scheduled workdays.
   B.   Before disinterment or removal, each of the following shall be provided
by the city clerk:
      1.   Submittal of a death certificate by the next of kin or legal
representative of the deceased.
      2.   Submittal of the name of the funeral home and director conducting
the initial burial.
      3.   Submittal of court order, if appropriate.
      4.   If the body or cremains are to be moved out of the cemetery to
another location, submittal of an authorization permit from the state, by the
next of kin, legal representative of the deceased or the funeral home.
   C.   The city reserves the right to verify all documents submitted for a
disinterment, to refuse to conduct a disinterment if the necessary forms and
information are not submitted, and to refuse to permit or conduct a
disinterment if removal would present a health hazard to cemetery staff or the
public. (Ord. 367, 2-10-2005)
5-5-19: NUMBER OF BURIALS IN SITE:
There will be allowed one casket burial, or two (2) cremains burials, or one
casket and one cremains urn burial in one grave space. Other arrangements may
be granted by the city. (Ord. 367, 2-10-2005)
5-5-20: MONUMENTS AND MARKERS:
   A.   No person owning a burial right in the city cemetery or any person or
firm selling markers to persons owning lots in the city cemetery shall set any
monument or marker of any kind without the permission of the city. The city
shall approve the location of any monument or marker prior to being set.
Requests to locate graves and/or to mark or approve locations for monuments or
markers should be made at least twenty four (24) hours in advance.
   B.   All monuments and gravestones shall be placed upon foundations built of
solid masonry, which shall not be less in size than the lower base of the
structure, and which shall be of sufficient depth, in the opinion of the city
superintendent, to support the monument. There shall be constructed a collar of
concrete four inches (4") wide around the base at the bottom of each monument,
or granite may be used as the foundation for the gravestone and must also have
a four inch (4") wide collar around the base of the monument. The monument must
be glued and doweled securely to the granite. The top of the concrete collar or
granite collar must be flush with the surrounding ground level.
   C.   All stones of sufficient thickness to stand alone shall be properly
doweled or secured to their base. The base of all monuments shall be cut so as
to set fairly level on foundations.
   D.   All monuments and markers shall not encroach upon the alleys, street,
or walkways, nor shall they encroach upon any adjoining grave space.
   E.   The city shall not be liable for any damage or injury to raised
letterings, carving, or ornaments on any memorial or other structure on any
lot.
   F.   Memorial stones or plaques, memorializing someone that is not actually
interred in the lot, may be added to a grave space.
   G.   The number of monuments, stones, or markers shall be limited to two (2)
per gravesite. Special permission may be granted by the city on a case by case
basis for one additional marker or stone beyond that number. (Ord. 367, 2-10-
2005)
5-5-21: FENCES, GRADE, AND MAINTENANCE OF LOTS:
   A.   No enclosure of any nature, such as fences, copings, hedges, or
ditches, shall be allowed upon or around any plots, lots, or blocks without
prior approval from the city.
   B.   No bricks, rocks, or other materials shall be allowed to cover any
plots, lots, or block without prior approval from the city.
   C.   The city may mark individual lots or blocks by an iron pin or pipe at
each corner set level with the ground.
   D.   The grade of all lots shall be determined by city. Grave mounds shall
not be permitted, nor shall lots be raised above the established grade.
   E.   The graves shall receive the same general care as other parts of the
lawn. The grass is to be cut and leaves and debris raked off at the same time
that the remainder of the lawn is cleaned. (Ord. 367, 2-10-2005)
5-5-22: TREES, FLOWERS, AND SHRUBS:
   A.   No trees, shrubs, or plants shall be planted, pruned, or removed
without the consent of the city. The city shall have full authority to prune,
remove, or transplant any trees, shrubs, or plants when it is considered for
the best interest of the cemetery, or it is advisable to do so. No trees shall
be removed from the city cemetery without specific approval of the city
council.
   B.   Pot hangers should be placed next to the collar of the headstone.
Flowers and other items left on a grave shall not interfere with the
maintenance of the cemetery.
   C.   The city is not liable for the safety of any flower or other item left
on a grave, and reserves the right to remove dead flowers, broken vases, and
other items in a broken or deteriorated state. Items interfering with the
maintenance of the cemetery may also be removed by the city. (Ord. 367, 2-10-
2005)
5-5-23: RULES OF CONDUCT:
   A.   All persons are prohibited from gathering or taking away any flowers,
wild or cultivated, or breaking, damaging, or destroying any shrub, plant, or
tree upon the cemetery grounds.
   B.   All persons are prohibited from writing upon, or in any manner marring,
defacing, or injuring any monument in the cemetery; from injuring, defacing, or
removing from any grave any monument, marker, ornament, or any other property;
from cutting, disfiguring, or injuring the fence, gate or other enclosures
around or within the cemetery.
   C.   All persons are prohibited from playing any games, disturbing the
quiet, peace, and good order of the cemetery by loud noise or improper conduct,
or any other activities unrelated to the proper use, good order, and decorum of
the cemetery.
   D.   Driving on lots, backing over graves, cutting corners, or speeding in
the cemetery is prohibited.
   E.   It shall be unlawful for any person to dig, or attempt to dig, any
grave in the cemetery, or exhume, or remove any corpse from any grave therein
without the permission of the city. (Ord. 367, 2-10-2005)
5-5-24: PENALTY FOR VIOLATION:
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter is guilty of an
infraction, and is subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 367, 2-10-2005)
CHAPTER 6
STREET APPROACHES
SECTION:
5-6-1: Permit Required
5-6-2: Definitions
5-6-3: General Rules For Approaches
5-6-4: Application For Permit
5-6-5: Traffic Study Requirements
5-6-6: Fees
5-6-7: Deposit
5-6-8: Issuance Of Permit
5-6-9: Appeal
5-6-10: Substandard Approaches
5-6-11: Unapproved Approaches
5-6-12: Inspection
5-6-13: Final Approval
5-6-14: Maintenance Responsibility
5-6-15: Penalty
5-6-1: PERMIT REQUIRED:
No work of any nature shall be performed on public right of way until an
approved permit has been issued, including the construction of temporary or
permanent approaches, and the revision of or addition to existing approaches.
(Ord. 391, 9-25-2008)
5-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
APPLICANT: Any person, persons, corporation, partnership, or other singular or
plural individuals making application for an approach.
APPROACH: The section of the public right of way between the outside edge of
the roadway shoulder and the public right of way line which is designed as an
approved roadway for the movement of vehicles between the public roadway and
the abutting property.
CONSTRUCTION PERMIT: The authorization issued to an applicant to construct an
approach.
HIGHWAY: The entire width between the boundary lines of every way publicly
maintained when any part is open to the use of the public for vehicular travel,
with jurisdiction extending to the adjacent property line, including sidewalks,
shoulders, berms, and rights of way not intended for motorized traffic. The
terms "public street" and "public right of way" are interchangeable with
highway.
FINAL PERMIT: The formal approval of an approach issued to the permittee.
PERMITTEE: The person, persons, corporation, partnership, or other singular or
plural individuals approved for an approach through the application process.
PRIVATE APPROACH: An approach used for access to a private residential
property.
PUBLIC APPROACH: An approach used by the public for access to a public,
commercial or industrial facility.
PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY: A right of way open to the public and under the city's
jurisdiction, where the city has no obligation to construct or maintain said
right of way for vehicular traffic. A term used to define a specific space.
ROADSIDE: A general term denoting the area adjoining the outer edge of the
shoulder.
ROADWAY: That portion of a highway improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel, exclusive of sidewalks, shoulders, berms and right of way.
STREET: See definition of Highway.
TEMPORARY APPROACH: An approach which is permitted for a specified time not to
exceed a six (6) month period. Temporary approaches require a permit.
TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES: A collective term for barricades, cones, signs,
flagging personnel and other items used to stop, direct, or change the flow of
traffic for a temporary period of time. Traffic control devices are used to
accommodate the safety of vehicles, pedestrians and workers.
TRAVELED WAY: The portion of the roadway for the movement of vehicles. (Ord.
391, 9-25-2008)
5-6-3: GENERAL RULES FOR APPROACHES:
   A.   Approaches shall be for the bona fide purpose of securing access.
   B.   The location, design, construction, and operation of all approaches
shall comply with the design principles and geometric restrictions established
in the "City Of Plummer Approach Manual" as adopted by the city council. The
approach should be designed for the actual and future property access
requirements. Approaches shall not interfere with the drainage of the roadway.
   C.   The city reserves the right to require the permittee, its successors or
assigns, to make any changes, additions, repairs or relocations to any approach
or its appurtenances within the public right of way for necessary relocation,
reconstruction, or widening of the highway and/or to provide proper protection
of life and property on, or adjacent to, the roadway.
   D.   Generally, no part of the public right of way shall be used for:
      1.   The parking of vehicles except in authorized parking areas.
      2.   The servicing, refueling, repairing of vehicles except for
emergencies.
      3.   Displays, sales, exhibits, business signs, etc.
   E.   The safe, efficient passage and protection of vehicles and pedestrians
during any work within public right of way covered by permit is very important
and shall be the responsibility of the permittee. Barricades, signs and other
traffic control devices shall be erected and maintained by the permittee in
conformance with the current "Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices" during
any work within public right of way.
   F.   Permittee shall furnish all material, labor and equipment involved in
the construction of the approach. This shall include furnishing drainage pipe
and other requirements that may be specified on the permit. Materials and
workmanship shall be in good quality and are subject to inspection and
approval. (Ord. 391, 9-25-2008)
5-6-4: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
   A.   Application for an approach permit shall be made on the form provided
by the city clerk's office and shall be signed by the owner of the abutting
real property or his authorized representative.
   B.   The application form shall be accompanied by a sketch showing the
location of the highway, existing and proposed approach changes, location of
other proposed work to be done within the public right of way, highway signs in
the area of the approach, and a list of all materials to be used. The cost of
relocating any highway signs shall be borne by the permittee.
   C.   Applications for temporary approaches shall also include a statement
explaining how the applicant proposes to remove the approach and restore the
right of way.
   D.   Permit applications for approaches which will generate over fifty (50)
cars per hour during the peak hour, may be required by the city council to
include a traffic impact study. (Ord. 391, 9-25-2008)
5-6-5: TRAFFIC STUDY REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Proposed approaches, generating over fifty (50) cars per hour during
the peak hour, may be required by the city council to include a traffic impact
study with the application. All costs of said study shall be borne by the
applicant.
   B.   The study shall include data on the following:
      1.   Existing peak hour traffic volumes and conditions.
      2.   Directional distribution estimates of added traffic.
      3.   Projections of added traffic volumes for all appropriate critical
hours.
      4.   Determination of needed improvements, traffic controls, approach
locations and their design and the impact on nearby traffic control.
      5.   Identification of any additional highway right of way which might be
required.
   C.   The results of the impact study should enable the city council to:
      1.   Verify the need for capacity improvements along access streets and
critical intersections.
      2.   Consider the effects on the local transportation system.
      3.   Enable the city to check access design.
      4.   Determine a fair and equitable means of cost sharing between the
developer and the city for needed intersection or access improvements,
including added traffic lanes and traffic control devices. (Ord. 391, 9-25-
2008)
5-6-6: FEES:
   A.   A nonrefundable application fee for the issuance and inspection of an
approach permit shall be set by the city council and may be changed from time
to time. A fee schedule shall be set for new approach permits, temporary
approach permits, alteration or improvement permits for existing approaches,
and for special traffic study reviews.
   B.   Application fees will be waived for improvement permits when the
approach width is changed on an approach which is already constructed to
standards, provided that safety and drainage are not adversely affected. (Ord.
391, 9-25-2008)
5-6-7: DEPOSIT:
   A.   A deposit will be required for all new approaches. Said deposit shall
be returned to applicant if proper construction is completed within one hundred
eighty (180) days of the issuance of the construction permit.
   B.   In the case of a temporary approach, the deposit shall be returned
after the approach has been removed, inspected and the restoration of the right
of way approved within one hundred eighty (180) days of the issuance of the
construction permit.
   C.   The deposit is considered to be forfeited in full if the permittee has
not complied with the construction permit and received a final permit within
the time allowed. No interest shall be paid on deposits. (Ord. 391, 9-25-2008)
5-6-8: ISSUANCE OF PERMIT:
   A.   Construction permits shall not be issued for permanent or temporary
approaches until a complete application is received with the appropriate fee
and deposit. Permits shall be issued by the city clerk's office.
   B.   Final approach approval shall be issued only after final inspection and
approval of the superintendent of public works. (Ord. 391, 9-25-2008)
5-6-9: APPEAL:
   A.   Any applicant who has made application for a permit under the
provisions of this chapter and who has been denied a construction permit or
final approach permit, or had a permit revoked shall have the right to an
appeal before the Plummer city council by filing a written appeal with the city
clerk within fifteen (15) days following the date of the action or decision
giving rise to the appeal.
   B.   The hearing on this matter shall be held before the city council of the
city at its next available special or regularly scheduled meeting. (Ord. 391,
9-25-2008)
5-6-10: SUBSTANDARD APPROACHES:
   A.   If a substandard approach is constructed, the permittee shall be given
notice to upgrade the approach to the prescribed standards on the permit or
have a plan of action approved by the superintendent of public works with a
completion date.
   B.   Notice of a substandard approach shall be provided by posting the right
of way with the substandard approach and a copy mailed to the landowner of
record by U.S. postal mail. Such notice shall provide ten (10) days to take
corrective measures unless a hazardous situation is created by the permittee or
party and immediate corrective work is ordered by the city.
   C.   Permits shall be revoked for approaches which are not upgraded to the
prescribed standards and action taken to remove the approaches. (Ord. 391, 9-
25-2008)
5-6-11: UNAPPROVED APPROACHES:
   A.   Approaches under construction without an approved construction permit
shall be given notice to stop work immediately and obtain the proper permit.
   B.   Notice of a substandard or unapproved approach shall be provided by
posting the right of way with the substandard or unapproved approach and a copy
mailed to the landowner of record by U.S. postal mail. Such notice shall
provide ten (10) days to take corrective measures unless a hazardous situation
is created by the permittee or party and immediate corrective work is ordered
by the city.
   C.   Unapproved approaches shall be removed by the city at the end of that
time and legal action initiated to collect the removal cost. (Ord. 391, 9-25-
2008)
5-6-12: INSPECTION:
Approaches are subject to inspection during and after the construction of an
approach. Inspections shall be performed by authorized city personnel. (Ord.
391, 9-25-2008)
5-6-13: FINAL APPROVAL:
Approaches which have been completed to the city's standards and passed
inspection shall receive final approval issued to the permittee. (Ord. 391, 9-
25-2008)
5-6-14: MAINTENANCE RESPONSIBILITY:
Once the approach has been constructed and approved, the city will maintain the
drainage including ditches and culverts that may have been required. The
permittee is responsible for the general maintenance of the approach including
surfacing, gravel, snow removal, etc., to allow their use of the approach.
(Ord. 391, 9-25-2008)
5-6-15: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the sections or provisions of this chapter shall be
deemed guilty of an infraction and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject
to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 391, 9-25-2008)
CHAPTER 7
PARADE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
5-7-1: Purpose
5-7-2: Definitions
5-7-3: Permit Required
5-7-4: Parade Requirements And Restrictions
5-7-5: Exemptions
5-7-6: Permit Application
5-7-7: Contents Of Permit Application
5-7-8: Application Fee
5-7-9: Denial
5-7-10: Revocation
5-7-11: Appeal Procedure
5-7-12: Interference Prohibited
5-7-13: Penalties
5-7-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of these regulations is to set forth the standards of issuance for
a parade permit. It is further the purpose of these regulations to:
   A.   Assure that emergency services such as police, fire, and ambulance
services are available for a parade taking place within the city.
   B.   Assure that emergency services such as police, fire, and ambulance
services are not unreasonably inhibited in their ability to travel on and to
cross public streets used by parades.
   C.   Assure that private business activities are not unreasonably impacted
by parades.
   D.   Assure that traffic on public streets is not unreasonably disturbed or
disrupted by parades.
   E.   Assure that public safety can be maintained.
   F.   Assure that public property can be protected from harm. (Ord. 389, 5-8-
2008)
5-7-2: DEFINITIONS:
APPLICANT: Any person applying for a "permit" as defined herein. The true
applicant for any such permit shall be the sponsoring entity whether such
sponsoring entity is an individual person, corporation, a partnership or other
legal entity of any type.
PARADE: Any march, marathon, procession, or like activity consisting of people,
animals, or vehicles, or any combination thereof, within the city with the
intent of attracting public attention or achieving some other expressive
purpose which might interfere with, or has the potential to interfere with, the
normal flow or regulation of traffic upon the streets.
PERMIT: The permit as required by this chapter for a "parade" as defined
herein. An approved application will serve as a permit. (Ord. 389, 5-8-2008)
5-7-3: PERMIT REQUIRED:
No person shall engage in, participate in, or conduct any "parade" as defined
in this chapter unless a permit has been issued by the city clerk for the date
and location involved. (Ord. 389, 5-8-2008)
5-7-4: PARADE REQUIREMENTS AND RESTRICTIONS:
The following prohibitions and regulations shall apply to activities requiring
a permit:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person in charge of, or responsible for
the conduct of, a duly permitted activity requiring a permit to knowingly fail
to comply with any condition of the permit.
   B.   No permit shall be issued for a parade to commence before seven o'clock
(7:00) A.M. All parades shall terminate prior to eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M.
   C.   No parade requiring a permit shall exceed two (2) hours in length.
   D.   All parade participants shall assemble for the parade at the time and
location designated in the parade permit and shall disperse from public
property after the conclusion of the parade in order that regular traffic
patterns might be restored.
   E.   Parade organizers shall assure to the satisfaction of the chief of
police that they do not intend to engage in violence or other unlawful conduct
and do not intend to incite others to do so.
   F.   Only one parade permit will be granted for the same calendar day unless
absolute assurance can be provided that the permitted events will not conflict
and that public service obligations will not exceed the fiscal and operational
limits of city personnel. If two (2) or more permit applications are filed for
the same date, the application which is first accepted shall have priority for
a permit.
   G.   The permit may limit or condition the number of participants, the
length of the event, the time and location of the event, or the manner of the
event where necessary to prevent violence, to avoid serious inconvenience to
those needing access to commercial or public services, to avoid interference
with the movement of police or other emergency vehicles where such limitations
or conditions provide ample opportunity for exercise of constitutionally
protected rights.
   H.   There shall be no discrimination in granting, denying, or conditionally
granting permits under this chapter based upon statutorily protected or
constitutionally guaranteed individual rights.
   I.   If the parade is to be held, either in part or in its entirety, upon
Highways 5 or 95, or either of them, a state permit must be obtained and a copy
of the permit provided to the Plummer city clerk not later than forty eight
(48) hours prior to the scheduled beginning of the parade. Any permit issued by
the city shall not be effective until the clerk has received a copy of the
state permit. (Ord. 389, 5-8-2008)
5-7-5: EXEMPTIONS:
The following shall be exempt from obtaining a parade permit:
   A.   Funeral processions.
   B.   City sponsored parades.
   C.   Military parades of an immediate celebratory nature.
   D.   Unanticipated events as approved by the city council on a case by case
basis. (Ord. 389, 5-8-2008)
5-7-6: PERMIT APPLICATION:
   A.   The completed application form must be received by the city clerk with
the appropriate fee at least sixty (60) days prior to the date of the parade.
The time frame set forth herein may be waived in the discretion of the city
council upon a finding that such a waiver would not compromise the ability of
the city to prepare for the activity for which the permit is requested. No
application shall be deemed received until such time as the entire application
and all of the information required therein shall have been delivered to the
city clerk.
   B.   Prior to issuance of the permit, the chief of police must determine
from the information contained in the application, information developed from
other sources, and knowledge of the police department that:
      1.   The route, timing and nature of the parade will not substantially
interrupt the safe and orderly movement of traffic contiguous to its route or
elsewhere in the community.
      2.   The route, timing and nature of the parade will not require more
police officers than can reasonably be provided, while still providing normal
protection to the city.
      3.   The route, timing and nature of the parade will not unduly interfere
with the proper fire, ambulance, police or other public services to areas
contiguous to the parade or elsewhere in the community.
      4.   The parade is not likely to cause injury to persons or property or
to create disorderly conduct or create a disturbance. If the chief of police is
unable to conclude this, he shall meet and confer with the applicant to
determine what steps, if any, the applicant could take to avoid disorder or to
minimize the possibility of a public disturbance.
      5.   The person seeking the issuance of a parade permit has agreed to
furnish qualified road guards as needed to assist the police department or has
provided evidence of contractual arrangement to provide the same. (Ord. 389, 5-
8-2008)
5-7-7: CONTENTS OF PERMIT APPLICATION:
Each permit application shall state at least the following, and the applicant
shall adhere to and be bound by any commitments made in an application
submittal:
   A.   The full name, street address, mailing address, telephone number, e-
mail address, and facsimile number, if any, of the person or organization
sponsoring the parade.
   B.   The name, mailing address, telephone number, e-mail address, and
facsimile number, if any, of the person in charge of the parade.
   C.   The date when the parade is to be conducted.
   D.   The name of the parade, if any.
   E.   The time the parade will begin to form, and the time the parade will
begin movement.
   F.   The place the parade will form, the route on the parade, and the place
the parade will disband along with the attachment of a map showing these
locations.
   G.   The approximate number of participants.
   H.   A documented plan for controlling disorderly or violent conduct if such
might reasonably be expected, a plan for maintaining traffic flow to commercial
and other establishments, a plan for sanitary and medical facilities, and for
cleanup.
   I.   A certificate of liability insurance for the event shall be attached to
the application showing the city as an additional insured, and evidencing that
the applicant has liability insurance in the amount of five hundred thousand
dollars ($500,000.00) for any damages to persons or property caused as a result
of the event.
   J.   Any other information required by the city clerk or chief of police to
enable them to understand the impacts of the proposed parade shall be provided.
   K.   A statement that the applicant shall comply with all permit conditions
and with all federal, state and local laws. (Ord. 389, 5-8-2008)
5-7-8: APPLICATION FEE:
   A.   A nonrefundable application fee to cover the expenses incident to
processing the application for the parade permit shall be paid to the city
clerk at the time of filing the application.
   B.   The parade application fee shall be such as may be prescribed from time
to time by the city council. (Ord. 389, 5-8-2008)
5-7-9: DENIAL:
   A.   A permit may be denied if:
      1.   The applicant has made on prior occasions material
misrepresentations regarding the nature or scope of a parade; or
      2.   The applicant has violated the terms of prior permits issued to or
on behalf of the applicant; or
      3.   The applicant has on prior occasions damaged city property and not
paid in full for such damages; or
      4.   There is clear and convincing evidence that the applicant, not
opponents of the applicant, intends to engage in violence or disorderly
conduct; or
      5.   The application is not complete with all required attachments and
fees.
   B.   In the event of denial, the reasons will be provided in writing and the
applicant notified that an appeal may be brought before the city council as set
forth below. (Ord. 389, 5-8-2008)
5-7-10: REVOCATION:
   A.   A previously approved permit may be revoked if:
      1.   It is found that the applicant has made material misrepresentations
regarding the nature or scope of a parade; or
      2.   There is clear and convincing evidence that the applicant, not
opponents of the applicant, intends to engage in violence or disorderly
conduct.
   B.   Any such cancellation shall be communicated to the applicant as soon as
possible after such determination has been made.
   C.   In the event an emergency occurs in relation to weather conditions,
civil disturbances or any other condition that imperils persons or property in
the area of the parade route, the city may revoke a permit previously granted.
In such case, the city shall give the applicant an opportunity to reschedule
the parade for a time when such emergency no longer exists. (Ord. 389, 5-8-
2008)
5-7-11: APPEAL PROCEDURE:
   A.   Any applicant shall have the right to appeal the denial of a permit or
imposition of conditions to the city council. The denied applicant must make
any appeal within seven (7) business days after transmittal of the denial or
conditional approval from the city clerk by filing written notice of appeal
with the city clerk setting out the reasons therefor in writing.
   B.   The city council will hear the appeal at a regular or special meeting
and reach a determination prior to the planned date and time of the parade.
Such decision shall be final and shall be communicated to the applicant in
writing. (Ord. 389, 5-8-2008)
5-7-12: INTERFERENCE PROHIBITED:
   A.   No person shall knowingly join in or participate in any parade without
the consent of the permit applicant, nor over his objections.
   B.   No person shall in any manner interfere with the progress or orderly
conduct of a permitted parade. (Ord. 389, 5-8-2008)
5-7-13: PENALTIES:
Any person found to be in violation of any provision of this chapter shall be
guilty of an infraction and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to
penalties provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 389, 5-8-2008)
CHAPTER 8
ROAD NAMES AND ADDRESSES
SECTION:
5-8-1: General Provisions
5-8-2: Implementation And Responsibilities
5-8-3: Performance Standards
5-8-4: Signing
5-8-5: Enforcement
5-8-1: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Authority: This chapter is authorized under the provisions of Idaho
constitution article 12, section 2, and by Idaho Code title 50, chapter 13, and
title 67, chapter 65, as amended or subsequently codified.
   B.   Purpose: This chapter further implements portions of the City of
Plummer comprehensive plan and supplements the City of Plummer ordinances. Its
purpose is to provide the residents of the City of Plummer with a uniform and
standardized system of road naming and addressing to:
      1.   Minimize future road name and addressing conflicts.
      2.   Provide a database for city and county records and enhanced 911
service.
      3.   Expedite property identification by emergency services.
      4.   Comply with addressing guidelines issued by the National Emergency
Number Association (NENA), the U.S Postal Service (USPS), and emergency
communication providers.
   C.   Applicability: This chapter shall apply to all property and to all
public and private roads in the City of Plummer. (Ord. 474, 12-19-2024)
5-8-2: IMPLEMENTATION AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
   A.   The city code administrator shall have the responsibility of
implementing, enforcing and maintaining the addressing and road naming
standards as defined by this chapter.
   B.   Property owners are responsible for placing alphanumeric identification
and for erecting private road signs in accordance with the detailed performance
standards in section
5-8-4  of this chapter. Posting of addresses and road names must be done within
a six (6) month time frame after effective date hereof and all new developments
shall be issued addresses at the time of permit approval.
   C.   In the event that violations of this chapter are not connected by the
date required herein, the city may perform the work and bill the property owner
for work completed. (Ord. 474, 12-19-2024)
5-8-3: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
   A.   Road Designations: Designation of roads within the City of Plummer
shall be in accordance with the following guidelines, except in the case of
existing and recorded road designations:
      1.   All named roads that extend from incorporated areas into
unincorporated areas shall retain the same name except in the case of
duplication or noncompliance with this chapter.
      2.   Roads which have a definite north-south directional course shall be
designated as a "street". Roads which have a definite east-west directional
course shall be designated an "avenue".
      3.   Roads which do not have a definite directional course shall be
designated as a "road", "drive", "trail", "way" or "lane".
      4.   A dead end road or cul-de-sac less than one thousand feet (1,000')
in length, when not an extension of an existing road or a continuation of a
proposed road, shall be called a "court".
      5.   A road that has its ingress and egress on the same road shall be
designated a "loop".
      6.   A road that circles back upon itself shall be designated as a
"circle".
      7.   Special scenic routes or park drives may be designated "parkway".
      8.   A newly established road, which has less than a one hundred twenty
five foot (125') centerline alignment offset from an existing road, shall
continue the same road name. A newly established road, which has more than a
one hundred twenty five foot (125') centerline alignment offset from an
existing road, shall adopt a new name.
      9.   Duplicate road names are prohibited. Existing duplicated names shall
be corrected in accordance with these performance standards.
      10.   Both "L" shaped and "T" shaped streets or private roads should
carry the same name if either leg is one hundred feet (100') or less in length.
"L" shaped and "T" shaped streets or private roads over 100 feet in length each
should carry a different name on each leg of the "L" or the "T".
      11.   When a road name within the incorporated area of the City of
Plummer is duplicated by a road name within the county and such duplication
causes conflict, the City of Plummer and the county should work together to
decide which road should be renamed. Roads shall be renamed in accordance with
the procedures outlined in this chapter.
   B.   Addressing Along Roads:
      1.   Address numbers will run consecutively to the north, south, east and
west from the point of beginning.
      2.   From the point of beginning, one thousand six hundred (1,600)
address numbers will be added as each section line is crossed (approximately
1,600 per mile).
      3.   All addresses shall be defined with a direction letter (N, S, E, W)
following the address number.
      4.   Even numbers shall appear on the south and east side of roads, and
odd numbers on the north and west sides.
      5.   If a building or mobile home park has a number of entrances each
serving a separate occupant(s), then each entrance shall be assigned an
address. If whole numbers are exhausted, half numbers shall be utilized.
      6.   Mobile home parks and multi-family dwelling structures with one main
entrance shall be assigned one number with the owner of the park or structure
responsible for the individual numbering of each unit. Addressing of the
individual apartments or mobile homes within the structure shall be based upon
the postal addressing standards, publication 28, dated October 2023.
      7.   Circle and loop road direction designations shall be determined by
the road's predominate direction. Numbering shall start either at its north
intersection point with a north-south primary road, or at its west intersection
point with an east-west primary road and shall continue, according to the grid,
in a clockwise direction, as if the road were straight.
      8.   Properties with structure(s) which are accessed by a driveway shall
be assigned an address at the point where the driveway intersects a road.
      9.   If three (3) or more properties use one road as access, it shall be
assigned a road name and the structures shall be addressed in accordance with
these standards.
      10.   Properties accessed by a common right of way or easement with two
(2) or fewer living units or business structures shall be assigned an address
at the point where the right of way or easement intersects a public or private
road.
   C.   Road Naming Policy: "Roads" are defined as all vehicle paths of travel
serving three (3) or more properties, residences or businesses. Driveways or
other vehicle paths of travel serving less than three (3) properties,
residences or businesses shall not be named, to reduce administrative costs and
potential confusion for emergency service providers. In selecting road names,
consideration shall be given to the following:
      1.   Centerline alignment road name standards of subsection A8 of this
section shall be observed for noncontinuous roads, unless there is no
possibility for extension of the road to make it a continuous through road.
      2.   There shall be no duplication of existing names. Benewah County
shall assemble, update and maintain an official list of all road names
throughout the county for use by all jurisdictions.
      3.   Names of similar pronunciation and/or spelling shall be prohibited
(example: Briar Lane, Brier Lane).
      4.   Variations of the same name with a different road designation shall
be prohibited within the first word of the two (2) word title or in the road
extension (example: Pine Road, Pine Drive, Pine Lane).
      5.   No road name shall consist of more than two (2) words or contain
more than fourteen (14) letters, excluding the road direction (N, S, E, W) and
extension (street, lane, court, etc.).
      6.   No road shall have more than one name.
      7.   No road name shall contain the words north, south, east or west, or
any combination thereof, within the road name.
   D.   Naming Of New Roads Or Naming Of Existing Unnamed Roads: Any new road
to be established within the City of Plummer, public or private, or any
existing unnamed road, public or private, shall require a road name approved by
the mayor and city council.
      1.   In the case of plats, road names shall be specified on the final
plat map.
      2.   In the case of other new roads or naming of unnamed roads, the mayor
and city council will assign a road name in accordance with these standards.
Recommendations made by residents of the road and community at large may be
given considerable weight.
   E.   Renaming Of Existing Duplicated Road Names: Where duplicate names
exist, roads shall be immediately renamed by the mayor and city council to
eliminate the duplication. The mayor and city council will decide which roads
shall be renamed with consideration to the following criteria:
      1.   When the road was originally named.
      2.   The number of improved properties served by the road.
      3.   Other factors as deemed appropriate by the city council. When a road
name is duplicated by a road outside the city, the city shall work with the
county to decide which road shall be renamed.
      4.   Whether the road contains the name or is referencing a figure or
individual of importance to the City of Plummer.
   F.   Renaming Of Roads: In cases where property owners request to change the
name of a road which has an existing city approved name, the property owners
may petition the City of Plummer to change such road name, subject to a fee as
set by the city council by resolution.
The petition must be presented no later than fifteen (15) days prior to the
regularly scheduled city council hearing, and contain the signatures of at
least fifty one percent (51%) of the property owners abutting the road under
consideration. Changing road names is deemed an administrative function, and
therefore, does not require a public hearing. Road names shall not be changed
more frequently than once every five (5) years. (Ord. 474, 12-19-2024)
5-8-4: SIGNING:
   A.   Physical Address Numbers: Physical address numbers shall be clearly
readable from the roadway, and shall contrast with background color pursuant to
the international fire code, as adopted by the City of Plummer. If a structure
is more than seventy-five feet (75') from the road, or is otherwise not clearly
visible from the road, its address shall be posted at the intersection of its
access road and public or private road. The address sign shall be no less than
four feet (4') nor more than six feet (6') above the ground on a substantial,
maintained support structure. The view of the address from the road must be
unobstructed and maintained.
   B.   Road Signs: Road signs shall be placed between six (6) and eight feet
(8') above the roadway, clearly visible at intersections. All primary letters,
numbers and symbols shall be a minimum of four inches (4") in height, with a
one-half inch (1/2") stroke, and shall be reflectorized and contrasting with
the background color of the sign in accordance with the manual of uniform
traffic control devices. Public road signs shall be green with white lettering.
Private road signs shall be blue, with white letters. All public and private
road signs shall be constructed and installed to the standards of the City of
Plummer and shall include the road name and address number derived from the
grid.
   C.   Road Sign Installation Standards: Standards for installation of road
signs is guided by the manual for uniform traffic control devices; however,
some additional criteria are needed to define specific circumstances:
      1.   Sign visibility requirements are set at a height of five feet (5')
minimum in rural areas and seven feet (7') in urban areas above the pavement.
      2.   Road signs placed for public roads shall be set by the City of
Plummer and shall meet the requirements of these standards.
      3.   Road signs may be mounted on the stop or yield sign posts with an
approved bracket and after receiving approval from the City of Plummer or Idaho
Transportation Department. (Ord. 474, 12-19-2024)
5-8-5: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Violations: It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      1.   Erect or install a street name sign not in accordance with this
chapter;
      2.   Remove, alter, change, or deface a street name sign or address
identification erected or installed as provided herein;
      3.   Place or post addresses not approved by this chapter;
      4.   Fail to place an address visible from the street.
   B.   Penalties: Any person who violates or fails to comply with any of the
provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of an infraction punishable by a
fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00). In the event that violations of this
chapter are not corrected within fifteen (15) days of written notice, the City
of Plummer may perform the work and bill the property owners in accordance with
the laws of the State of Idaho. (Ord. 474, 12-19-2024)
TITLE 6
MUNICIPAL UTILITIES
CHAPTER 1
MUNICIPAL UTILITIES RATES
SECTION:
6-1-0: Municipal Utilities; Authority
6-1-1: Electrical Service Rates
6-1-2: Garbage Collection Rates
6-1-3: Water Service Rates
6-1-4: Sewer Use Rates
6-1-5: Hookup Fees
6-1-6: Electric Security Lights
6-1-0: MUNICIPAL UTILITIES; AUTHORITY:
The city of Plummer, county of Benewah, state of Idaho, hereby exercises its
lawful authority to establish and operate utility systems intended for the
delivery of water and electricity; for the collection and treatment of sewage
effluent; and for the collection and disposal of garbage and trash within the
city. No private individual, organization or agency may provide any such
services or utilities within the city limits of said city except by contract
with, or the prior written consent of, the Plummer city council, the city
retaining the authority to contract with individuals, agencies or organizations
to provide such services under the authority of the city. The use of such
services within the city limits of the city of Plummer is exclusive and
mandatory. (Ord. 368, 3-16-2005)
6-1-1: ELECTRICAL SERVICE RATES 1 :
   A.   The rates charged for electric energy hereafter supplied by the city to
its customers shall be reviewed annually by the city council and changed from
time to time by council resolution. The rate classifications shall be as
follows:
      1.   Residential rates.
      2.   Commercial and industrial rates.
      3.   Contract rates, which are negotiated and agreed upon by contract
between the two (2) parties.
      4.   Demand rate (not all commercial has a demand).
   B.   Service rates and rate classifications shall be included in a "rate
book" which shall be and remain on file in the office of the city clerk, which
book shall be available for public inspection. (1993 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 2 of this title for electrical service and additional fees.
6-1-2: GARBAGE COLLECTION RATES 1 :
The garbage collection rates shall be reviewed annually by the city council and
changed from time to time by council resolution. There are hereby established
the following types of collection rates:
   A.   Residential rates shall be based upon the number of automated
collection receptacles used for collection.
   B.   Commercial rates, with the following classifications:
      1.   Collection once or twice a week and number of automated collection
receptacles.
      2.   Collection once or twice a week and size of dumpster.
   C.   All bundled items and special hauls, as defined in section
3-5-6 of this code shall be assessed an overage charge. Any damage to or theft
of automated collection receptacles shall be assessed a repair or replacement
fee. (Ord. 427, 11-14-2013)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 3, chapter 5 of this code for garbage and refuse regulations.
6-1-3: WATER SERVICE RATES 1 :
The water service rates shall be reviewed annually by the city council and
changed from time to time by council resolution. The water service rate
classifications shall be residential, multi-unit residential, commercial and
industrial. (Ord. 383, 11-9-2006)
 
Notes
1 2. See chapter 4 of this title for billing procedures and chapter 5 of this
  title for water use regulations.
6-1-4: SEWER USE RATES 1 :
The sewer use rates shall be reviewed annually by the city council and changed
from time to time by council resolution.
The sewer use rate classifications shall be residential and commercial with the
commercial rates being based on average water usage. (Ord. 342, 5-10-2001)
 
Notes
1 3. See chapter 4 of this title for billing procedures and chapter 7 of this
  title for sewer use regulations.
6-1-5: HOOKUP FEES:
Hookup fees for residential electric, water and sewer services shall be as
determined annually by the city council. Commercial hookup fees shall be
determined based upon the need and availability of services. (1993 Code)
6-1-6: ELECTRIC SECURITY LIGHTS:
Electric security lights shall be available from the city, with the requirement
that the customer pay for the light upon installation and also pay a monthly
fee for the power and service expense. If repairs are needed, the customer
shall pay only for the parts needed and the city shall supply the labor without
a charge to the customer. (1993 Code)
CHAPTER 2
MUNICIPAL ELECTRICAL SERVICE 1
SECTION:
6-2-1: Definitions
6-2-2: Authority To Provide Service
6-2-3: Electrical Rates
6-2-4: Application For Connection And Continuation Of Service
6-2-5: Service Connection Requirements
6-2-6: Billing Deposit (Rep. by Ord. 471, 10-12-2023)
6-2-7: Maintenance Of Deposits (Rep. by Ord. 471, 10-12-2023)
6-2-8: Billing Procedures
6-2-9: Delinquent Accounts
6-2-10: Connection Of Rental Units
6-2-11: Temporary Discontinuance Of Service, Charges
6-2-12: Prohibited Acts
 
Notes
1 1. See also chapter 3 of this title.
6-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
 
CITY:                            The City of Plummer, in the County of Benewah,
                                 State of Idaho.
GENDER:                          Where the masculine gender is used in this
                                 chapter, it shall include the feminine.
METER:                           A watt hour meter or similar meter installed
                                 for the purpose of measuring electrical usage.
                                 The owner of the real property to which
                                 electrical power is provided or requested to
                                 be provided, who has paid all of his personal
                                 city utility billings (including electrical,
PROPERTY OWNER IN GOOD STANDING: water, sewer and garbage collection charges
                                 and fees) in a timely manner for the preceding
                                 twelve (12) months and who has not, within the
                                 past five (5) years, caused the city to suffer
                                 a loss as a result of the discharge of any
                                 city bill in bankruptcy proceedings.
                                 A house or land which is occupied by one who
                                 does not own both the house and the land and
                                 shall include, within its definition, all
RENTAL UNIT:                     mobile homes which are not affixed to a
                                 permanent foundation, without regard to
                                 ownership or title to the land or mobile home.
                                 (Ord. 443, 2-9-2017; amd. Ord. 463, 12-10-
                                 2020)
 
6-2-2: AUTHORITY TO PROVIDE SERVICE:
   A.   The city may construct, reconstruct, enlarge, repair, alter and improve
its electric system or any part thereof and may supply the municipality and the
inhabitants thereof with light and/or power and charge therefor. Every lot or
building to which electric service is provided shall be subject to billing for
the service.
   B.   The city may supply electric power to persons (including municipal and
private corporations) outside the limits of the municipality and charge
therefor. Every lot or building to which electric service is provided shall be
subject to billing for the service.
   C.   The city shall use diligence to give continuance and uninterrupted
service, but in no case shall the city be liable to any customer, user or any
person or corporation because of any interruption in service.
   D.   Multiple Rental Units: Service charges for electrical service provided
to multiple rental units attached to a single meter shall be billed directly to
the landlord or property owner. (Ord. 443, 2-9-2017; amd. Ord. 463, 12-10-2020)
6-2-3: ELECTRICAL RATES:
Electrical rates within the city shall be as determined from time to time by
the city 1 . (Ord. 443, 2-9-2017; amd. Ord. 463, 12-10-2020)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  6-1-1 of this title.
6-2-4: APPLICATION FOR CONNECTION AND CONTINUATION OF SERVICE:
   A.   Application for the use of electrical energy shall be made to the city
clerk, on approved forms. The applicant is responsible for the payment of all
charges, including the installation, connection, use and disconnect of any
electrical service.
   B.   All applications must also be signed by the owner of the real property
to be supplied with electrical service. By signing said application, the owner
of the real property agrees and consents to, and is responsible for, payment of
any and all charges for electrical service, including, but not limited to,
installation, connection, monthly use and disconnect charges.
   C.   Electrical power shall not be provided to any property except through a
watt hour meter installed by the city.
   D.   Electric services shall be connected and continued so long as there are
no arrearages owing for any utilities provided to the property, including
electric, water, sewer and garbage collection services. (Ord. 443, 2-9-2017;
amd. Ord. 463, 12-10-2020)
6-2-5: SERVICE CONNECTION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Users must pay for all service connections, and additional lines shall
be built, and connections made only under such terms and conditions as the
mayor and city council may prescribe. All installations must be made under the
supervision of the city's electrical service provider., and all wiring must be
in accordance with the city's construction standards for electrical
connections, and national and state electrical codes and the national and state
electrical safety codes 1 .
   B.   If connection is requested by a property owner in good standing, a
meter installation charge of twenty five dollars ($25.00) will be collected to
connect a meter during normal business hours; and a reconnection charge of
fifty dollars ($50.00) will be collected for any meter installed outside of
normal business hours shall be charged and will be due and owing Immediately.
   C.   When a meter is disconnected, whether by customer request or for reason
of nonpayment, there shall be a disconnection charge of thirty-five dollars
($35.00) collected to cover the cost of disconnecting the meter. Meters will be
disconnected only during normal business hours.
   D.   No connection, reconnection or reinstatement of electric services shall
be made unless and until all prior unpaid utility service charges (including
electrical, water, sewer and garbage collection charges and fees) have been
paid in full. (Ord. 443, 2-9-2017; amd. Ord. 463, 12-10-2020)
 
Notes
1 1. IC §39-4109.
6-2-6: BILLING DEPOSIT:
(Rep. by Ord. 471, 10-12-2023)
6-2-7: MAINTENANCE OF DEPOSITS:
(Rep. by Ord. 471, 10-12-2023)
6-2-8: BILLING PROCEDURES:
   A.   Due Date; Past Due Account: All billing for electrical service shall be
due on the tenth (10) day of the month and shall be considered past due after
that date.
   B.   Notification to Property Owners: In the event a past due account is in
the name of another who is not the owner of the real property being serviced,
the city may notify the owner of the real property of the delinquency.
   C.   Separate Billings: Charges for each month of electrical service shall
constitute a separate sale of a commodity (electrical power), shall constitute
a separate billable item, and two (2) or more unpaid charges, if allowed to
accumulate, shall not be deemed an "open account." (Ord. 443, 2-9-2017; amd.
Ord. 463, 12-10-2020)
6-2-9: DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS:
   A.   Past Due Accounts: Electrical service shall be terminated at twelve
o'clock (12:00) noon on the twenty-third day of any month for any property for
which the billing for electrical service is past due on such date. At the time
that the service is terminated, the meter at the service site shall be removed
by the city.
   B.   Late Fees: All accounts that have a balance of ten dollars ($10.00) and
are thirty (30) days past due shall be charged a late fee of one percent (1%)
per month with a minimum of ten dollars ($10.00) per month.
   C.   Returned Check Fee: A returned check fee shall be added to all accounts
for which a check is returned from the bank for any reason not the fault of the
city. The fee shall be set by resolution of the Plummer City Council, and such
fee shall apply separately to each check which is returned from the bank. The
city can refuse to accept future personal checks from customers whose check has
been returned by the bank for any reason not the fault of the city. (Ord. 443,
2-9-2017; amd. Ord. 463, 12-10-2020)
6-2-10: CONNECTION OF RENTAL UNITS:
   A.   Except for multiple rentals units connected to a single meter, which
shall only be connected or disconnected at the property owner's request,
electrical service shall not be connected to a rental unit until both the
tenant and the property owner have signed the application form as provided for
in section
6-2-3 of this chapter.
   B.   When a tenant requests a final power reading, the meter will be
disconnected, except as provided for in subsection C of this section. Anyone
wishing to have service reconnected, including the landlord or the property
owner, will have to apply as provided in this chapter.
   C.   A landlord or property owner may, in writing, request that the city
allow electrical services to continue unabated even when his rental units are
unoccupied. In such case, it will be the responsibility of the property owner
to notify the city clerk, in writing when a new tenant moves in so that a
proper application for service can be required of the new tenant. The landlord
or property owner shall be responsible for all service between the time of the
final reading for the departing tenant and completion of proper application by,
acceptance of, the new tenant by the city, including the payment by the new
tenant of all necessary deposits, fees and charges.
   D.   The landlord and/or property owner shall be liable for any unpaid
charges or fees on any rental unit owned by the property owner. (Ord. 443, 2-9-
2017; amd. Ord. 463, 12-10-2020)
6-2-11: TEMPORARY DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE, CHARGES 1 :
   A.   In the event that any customer or user of electrical power provided by
the city shall desire a temporary discontinuation of said service, and shall
desire that the city discontinue the same, he shall pay a fee of thirty five
dollars ($35.00) for disconnection of service and twenty five dollars ($25.00)
when the service is reestablished. During the period of disconnection, the
customer shall be responsible for paying the base rate for the service provided
or available for use.
   B.   A service charge of twenty-five ($25.00) shall be made for restoring
electrical service when said service has been disconnected for any reason.
(Ord. 443, 2-9-2017; amd. Ord. 463, 12-10-2020)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 6-3-8 of this title.
6-2-12: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   Tampering With Meters 1 : If any user of electrical energy or any other
person, in any manner, tampers with any meter in such manner that such meter
does not measure or report the full amount of electric energy supplied to a
customer, he shall guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof, shall
be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
   B.   Resale of Electric Energy: No electric energy sold to any user may be
resold.
   C.   Interference with Service: If any user uses electric energy in any
manner that causes fluctuations that interfere with the normal use of
electricity by other users, such user shall be required to install equipment to
remedy such fluctuations at his own expense, and upon his failure to do so, the
service may be discontinued to such user.
   D.   Damage to Property: Anyone who shall, in any manner, injure any poles,
wires, insulators or transformers or, in any manner, tamper with or injure any
of the equipment or apparatus of the electric light system of the city shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 443, 2-9-2017; amd. Ord. 463, 12-10-2020)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 6-3-5D of this title.
CHAPTER 3
ELECTRIC USE REGULATIONS 1
SECTION:
6-3-1: Compliance Required
6-3-2: Application For Electric Use
6-3-3: Use Of Electricity Restricted
6-3-4: Connections To System; General Metering Requirements
6-3-5: Electric Meters Supplied By City
6-3-6: Electric Rates
6-3-7: Right Of Entry For Inspection Purposes
6-3-8: Disconnection Of Service
6-3-9: Penalty
 
Notes
1 1. See also chapter 2 of this title.
6-3-1: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
The provisions of this chapter must be strictly complied with in every
instance, and electric service must be paid for by all owners of premises
supplied according to the schedule of electric rates 1 . Employees of the city
are not permitted to make any exceptions whatever. (1993 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. See section
  6-2-3 of this title.
6-3-2: APPLICATION FOR ELECTRIC USE:
Applications for the use of and connection for new electrical service must be
made on printed forms to be furnished by the city at city hall. The applicant
must state fully and truly for what purpose the electricity is required, the
amp service that is being serviced and whether service will be overhead or
underground. In all cases, the owner of the property to which the power is
supplied will be held responsible for payment of all charges and rentals for
the use of same. (1993 Code)
6-3-3: USE OF ELECTRICITY RESTRICTED:
No person supplied with electricity from the city will be entitled to the use
of electricity for any other purpose than those stated in his application or to
apply in any way to other persons, families or places. (1993 Code)
6-3-4: CONNECTIONS TO SYSTEM; GENERAL METERING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Breaking Of Meter Seals:
      1.   The purpose of seals placed on meters by the city is for the safety
and/or prevention of tampering.
      2.   Under normal circumstances, only Plummer personnel shall remove the
seals. It is the customer's responsibility to notify the city prior to the
removal of meter seals for any reason. Seals may be removed only in an
emergency. The city must be notified as soon as possible thereafter. Seals must
not be cut.
      3.   Caution: With some types of meter bases, removal of the meter does
not deenergize the service. On instrument transformer metering, secondary
current leads may develop high potential with meter removed and transformer not
shorted.
      4.   Any person who cuts utility seals and/or wrongfully obtains electric
service by bypassing, tampering with or modifying a meter may be convicted of a
crime.
      5.   No jumpering of meter sockets by electricians or customers is
allowed for any reason.
   B.   Meeting The Requirements:
      1.   Whenever any changes, alterations or additions are made to any
electrical service, all the metering must meet current city standards. This
will include location and equipment.
      2.   All commercial and industrial accounts must have manual circuit
closing sockets.
      3.   All temporary power used by contractors must be metered.
Single meters shall be installed between five feet (5') and six feet (6') to
the top of the meter above the floor or finished grade. Exceptions will be
meter modules and pedestal meters which shall be positioned for ease of
reading.
      4.   Meters and transformer enclosures shall be installed outdoors except
by special permission from the utility. If permission is granted for inside
metering, the requirements are:
         a.   Exterior door with direct access to meters.
         b.   If locked, a key and lock box mounting space must be provided.
         c.   Area must be well lit and not used for storage.
         d.   Meters must be installed.
         e.   Meters must be installed at the service equipment and not
separated by walls or partitions.
         f.   Access during business hours.
         g.   Access during all hours depending on utility.
      5.   No metering equipment shall be installed at a serviced switch
located in an inaccessible place such as a manhole or in a vault.
      6.   When meter modules are installed, the maximum height will be six
feet (6') and the minimum height will be two feet (2').
      7.   Multiple meters in one building, with several tenants, shall be
grouped in only one accessible location; one meter space, each with its own
disconnect.
      8.   Metered and nonmetered circuits shall not be run in the same raceway
or conduit. (The city may permit the aforesaid with prior approval.)
      9.   Meters must be protected from ice or snow sliding off metal roofs by
extending eaves, gutter or other means. Meters must also be protected from
physical damage.
      10.   All enclosures provided by the customer shall be approved by the
city.
      11.   Meter equipment shall be located on the lineside of the main
disconnect.
      12.   Exception: When there are more than six (6) meters, they shall be
located on the loadside of the main disconnect, if a main disconnect is
required, (which shall be sealable) and on the lineside of the individual
service switches.
      13.   Customers or contractors are not authorized to relocate any meter
belonging to the city or interfere with the meter or its connections without
prior city approval.
   C.   Identification:
      1.   When more than one meter is installed at one location, the installer
shall clearly mark each socket and unit in suitable, acceptable, permanent
lettering with the correct address or number of the building area served by
that meter.
      2.   The building owner shall be responsible for proper identification.
      3.   Service will not be established until marking is complete.
      4.   All cabinets, gutters, sockets and associated devices on the
lineside of the meter must have provision for sealing or locking by the city
and shall remain sealed at all times.
      5.   Whenever additions, alterations or changes are made on systems
having meter installations not in accordance with this section, the customer
shall properly relocate the metering equipment.
      6.   Ample workspace shall be provided for the metering and kept clear at
all times. Minimum space shall be thirty inches (30") wide with the meter
centered. Minimal frontal and overhead clearances shall be per national
electrical code.
   D.   Meter Mounting:
      1.   Meter sockets and/or enclosures must be plumb and level and securely
mounted to a rigid surface. All conductors must be securely fastened and shall
not interfere with the operation of the meter or circuit closing device.
      2.   The customer shall provide space for metering, convenient to the
city, readily accessible, free from vibration, corrosive atmosphere, abnormal
temperatures and well lit. If, in the opinion of the City, a meter is made
inaccessible, such as by the installation of a fence or enclosure, the customer
shall, at his expense, move the meter socket to an accessible location. The
City, at its option, may install a remote reading register or a pole meter to
alleviate an accessibility problem, at the customer's expense, in accordance
with the City's schedule of charges.
   E.   Disconnects: Outside disconnects will be required on the loadside of
the meter, unless given prior approval from the utility.
   F.   Services: All services will be installed per the National Electrical
Code and will be inspected by the Idaho State Electrical Inspector.
   G.   Residential, Single-Family Dwellings:
      1.   The City will accept most UL listed meter bases up to 200 amp
capacity.
      2.   320/400 amp meter sockets will be accepted on most 400 amp
residential services.
      3.   The City should be contacted for specific requirements.
      4.   Refer to subsections A through F of this Section for requirements
such as location, heights, etc.
   H.   Residential, Multi-Family Dwellings:
      1.   The City may require a house meter for common use facilities such as
hall lights, laundry rooms, etc.
      2.   The City may require manual circuit-closing meter bases on the house
meter.
      3.   Refer to subsections A through F of this Section for requirements on
locations, identification, etc.
   I.   Commercial (Up to 200 Amp), Single-Phase or Three-Phase:
      1.   Manual circuit-closing meter bases are required on all commercial
accounts.
      2.   Manual circuit-closing sockets are not required on 200 amp single-
phase temporary service.
      3.   Gang type or module type meter banks must have manual circuit
closing by-pass.
      4.   Refer to subsections A through F of this Section for requirements on
locations.
   J.   Temporary Services:
      1.   Single-phase manual circuit closing (MCC) is not required.
      2.   All temporary services must be metered.
      3.   Three-phase services require manual circuit closing.
      4.   Single-phase 12/208 wye temporary socket must have five (5)
terminals.
   K.   Commercial Over 200 Amps, Single-Phase and Three-Phase:
      1.   CT metering required if greater than 200 amp commercial.
      2.   Above 20 amp, three-phase, CT meter will be required.
      3.   All metering equipment will be mounted by the customer. This
includes sockets, CT enclosures and metering conduit, unless otherwise
specified.
      4.   The City may allow CTs to be mounted inside underground (URD)
distribution transformers.
      5.   Meters must be located within thirty feet (30') of the CTs as
measured by wire length, or by special permission of the City.
      6.   Meter conduit must be one inch (1") and run directly from
transformers to the meter socket or enclosure.
      7.   On underground (URD) services a CT enclosure may also become the
point of connection by the City.
      8.   Metering must be located as close to the City's distribution as
possible.
      9.   All instrument metering wire shall be copper, preferably solid,
color coded the entire length and shall run without splice or fuse. Colored
phase tape will not be accepted.
      10.   If meter wire is to be provided, it shall extend at least five feet
(5') from the weather head and at least four feet (4') into the meter socket or
enclosure.
      11.   On overhead (OH) services, CTs may be mounted on or adjacent to the
mast head or in a CT enclosure and usually are mounted by the city.
      12.   The meter instrument transformers are provided by the city.
      13.   The customer must provide space for metering that is convenient to
the city. Consideration must be given to the meter readers, service
technicians, etc.
      14.   On large inductive loads KVAR metering may be required. Check with
the city. (1993 Code)
6-3-5: ELECTRIC METERS SUPPLIED BY CITY:
   A.   Electric meters will be installed by the city upon application therefor
as hereinafter provided.
   B.   Meters will be supplied by the city and remain the property of the
city.
   C.   When a meter is installed on any property, meters shall only be removed
by the city.
   D.   Any person found guilty of tampering with meters 1  shall be subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1993 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 6-2-12A of this title.
6-3-6: ELECTRIC RATES:
See section
6-2-3 of this title for electrical rates. (1993 Code)
6-3-7: RIGHT OF ENTRY FOR INSPECTION PURPOSES:
   A.   Inspection Of Lines And Meters: The city shall have access, at all
reasonable times and hours, to all parts of any building or premises in which
electric service is supplied, for the purpose of inspecting the city lines to
the meter and the meter itself.
   B.   Reading Meters: The city shall have access to the meter for the purpose
of reading said meter for billing purposes each month, and the owner or
occupant is responsible for keeping said access open at all times for the meter
reader. Meters shall be so placed for easy access and readability, with no
obstructions or deterrents such as locked gates. The owner of the premises
shall also be responsible for keeping dogs confined a safe distance from the
meter, for protection of the meter reader. (1993 Code)
6-3-8: DISCONNECTION OF SERVICE 1 :
Any customer or user of electrical power provided by the city who wishes to
permanently disconnect service may do so upon two (2) days' written notice in
writing to city hall and payment of a fee for removal of the drop lines to the
meter base. (1993 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 6-2-11 of this title for temporary disconnection.
6-3-9: PENALTY:
Any person who shall violate any provision of this chapter shall be subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1993 Code)
CHAPTER 4
WATER, SEWER AND GARBAGE UTILITIES 1
SECTION:
6-4-1: Definitions
6-4-2: Authority To Provide Service
6-4-3: Water, Sewer And Garbage Collection Rates
6-4-4: Application For, Connection And Continuation Of Water, Sewer And Garbage
Collection Services
6-4-5: Billing Deposit (Rep. by Ord. 471, 10-12-2023)
6-4-6: Maintenance Of Deposits (Rep. by Ord. 471, 10-12-2023)
6-4-7: Billing Procedures
6-4-8: Delinquent Accounts
6-4-9: Connection Of Rental Units
 
Notes
1 1. See chapters 5 and 7 of this title.
6-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
CITY: The city of Plummer, in the county of Benewah, state of Idaho.
GENDER: Where the masculine gender is used in this chapter, it shall include
the feminine.
METER: A gallon per day meter or similar meter installed for the purpose of
measuring water usage.
PROPERTY OWNER IN GOOD STANDING: The owner of the real property to which water,
sewer and garbage collection services are provided or requested to be provided,
who has paid all of his personal city utility billings (including electrical,
water, sewer and garbage collection charges and fees) in a timely manner for
the preceding twelve (12) months and who has not, within the past five (5)
years, caused the city to suffer a loss as a result of the discharge of any
city bill in bankruptcy proceedings.
RENTAL UNIT: A house or land which is occupied by one who does not own both the
house and the land and shall include, within its definition, all mobile homes
which are not affixed to a permanent foundation, without regard to ownership or
title to the land or mobile home. (Ord. 442, 2-9-2017)
6-4-2: AUTHORITY TO PROVIDE SERVICE:
   A.   Coverage: Every lot or building to which water, sewer and garbage
collection services are available shall be subject to billing for the service
and for the availability of the service.
   B.   Multiple Rental Units: Service charges for water, sewer and garbage
collection services provided to multiple rental units attached to a single
meter shall be billed directly to the landlord or property owner. (Ord. 442, 2-
9-2017)
6-4-3: WATER, SEWER AND GARBAGE COLLECTION RATES:
Water, sewer and garbage collection rates within the city shall be as
determined, from time to time, by the city council 1 . (Ord. 442, 2-9-2017)
 
Notes
  1. See sections
1 6-1-2,
  6-1-3 and
  6-1-4 of this title.
6-4-4: APPLICATION FOR, CONNECTION AND CONTINUATION OF WATER, SEWER AND GARBAGE
COLLECTION SERVICES:
   A.   Applications for the use of water, sewer and garbage collection
services shall be made to the city clerk on approved forms. The applicant is
responsible for all charges.
   B.   All applications must be signed by the owner of the real property to be
supplied with water, sewer and garbage collection services. By signing said
application, the owner of the real property agrees and consents to, and is
responsible for, payment of any and all charges for water, sewer and garbage
collection services, including, but not limited to, meter installation and
monthly charges.
   C.   Water shall not be provided to any property except through a gallons
per day meter installed by the city.
   D.   If connection is requested by a property owner in good standing, a
meter installation charge shall be charged. Applications shall be subject to a
billing deposit, as described in this chapter.
   E.   No connection, reconnection or reinstatement of water or sewer
services, or provision of garbage services, shall be made unless and until all
prior unpaid utility service charges (including electrical, water, sewer and
garbage charges and fees) have been paid in full.
   F.   Water, sewer and garbage services shall be continued so long as there
are no arrearages owing for any utilities provided to the property, including
electrical, water, sewer and garbage collection services. (Ord. 442, 2-9-2017)
6-4-5: BILLING DEPOSIT:
(Rep. by Ord. 471, 10-12-2023)
6-4-6: MAINTENANCE OF DEPOSITS:
(Rep. by Ord. 471, 10-12-2023)
6-4-7: BILLING PROCEDURES:
   A.   Due Date; Past Due Account: All billings for water, sewer and garbage
collection service shall be due on the tenth day of the month and shall be
considered past due after that date.
   B.   Separate Billings: Charges for each month of water service, sewer
service or garbage collection service or availability of such services shall
constitute separate sales of services and shall constitute separate billable
items, and two (2) or more unpaid charges, if allowed to accumulate, shall not
be deemed an "open account".
   C.   Notification To Property Owners: In the event a past due account is in
the name of another who is not the owner of the real property being serviced,
the city may notify the owner of the real property of the delinquency. (Ord.
442, 2-9-2017)
6-4-8: DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS:
   A.   Past Due Accounts: Water, sewer and garbage services shall be
terminated at twelve o'clock (12:00) noon three (3) days after the electric
services is disconnected for any property for which the billing for such
services is past due. Water may be disconnected if a sewer leak is detected on
the property owner's sewer system.
   B.   Late Fee: All accounts thirty (30) days past due shall be charged a
late fee of one percent (1%) per month with a minimum of ten dollars ($10.00)
per month.
   C.   Returned Check Fee: A returned check fee shall be added to all accounts
for which a check is returned from the bank for any reason not the fault of the
city. The fee shall be set by resolution of the Plummer city council, and such
fee shall apply separately to each check which is returned from the bank. The
city can refuse to accept future personal checks from customers whose check has
been returned by the bank for any reason not the fault of the city. (Ord. 442,
2-9-2017)
6-4-9: CONNECTION OF RENTAL UNITS:
   A.   Excepting multiple rental units connected to a single meter, which
shall only be commenced or terminated at the property owner's request, water,
sewer and garbage collection services shall not be commenced to a rental unit
until both the tenant and property owner have signed an application form and
submitted said application form to the city clerk.
   B.   No water service or garbage collection service will be connected,
reconnected or reinstated, unless and until all prior unpaid utility service
charges for the property owner and the tenant (including electrical, water,
sewer and garbage collection charges and fees) have been paid in full. (Ord.
442, 2-9-2017)
CHAPTER 5
WATER USE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-5-1: Compliance Required
6-5-2: Application for Water Use
6-5-3: Use of Water Restricted
6-5-4: Connections to System
6-5-5: Water Meters
6-5-6: Water Rates
6-5-7: Right of Entry for Inspection Purposes
6-5-8: Disconnection of Service
6-5-9: Use of Water for Sprinkling Purposes
6-5-10: Prohibited Acts and Conditions
6-5-11: Penalty
6-5-1: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
The provisions of this Chapter must be strictly complied with in every
instance, and water must be paid for by all owners of premises supplied
according to the schedule of water rates 1 . Employees of the City are not
permitted to make any exceptions whatever. (Ord. 21, 1-20-13)
 
Notes
1 1. See Section 6–1–3 of this Title.
6-5-2: APPLICATION FOR WATER USE:
Applications for the use of water must be made on printed forms to be furnished
by the City at the office of the City Hall. The applicant must state fully and
truly for what purpose the water is required. In all cases, the owner of the
property to which water is supplied will be held responsible for payment of all
charges and rentals for the use of same. (Ord. 21, 1-20-13; 1993 Code)
6-5-3: USE OF WATER RESTRICTED:
No person supplied with water from the City main will be entitled to the use of
water for any other purposes than those stated in his application or to apply
in any way to other persons, families or places. (Ord. 21, 1-20-13)
6-5-4: CONNECTIONS TO SYSTEM:
   A.   All service pipes must be so arranged that the supply to each separate
house or premises may be controlled by a separate stopcock placed within and
near the line of the street curb, and one person must pay for all water used
through said service pipe for his own use only. (Ord. 21, 1-20-13)
   B.   Water will not be furnished where there are defective pipes or
appurtenant equipment or where there are valves or tanks without self-acting
float valves and stop waste valves at each hydrant and house connection. When
such may be discovered, the water shall be shut off from such premises after
seventy two (72) hours' notice except under emergency situations when no notice
shall be necessary, and not turned on again until the owner or occupant has
made the necessary repairs.
   C.   When a permit has been granted for the installation of water, a
corporation cock or trap will be inserted in the main. The tap shall be of such
size as the City may consider proper for the supply of water needed. (Ord. 21,
1-20-13; 1993 Code)
   D.   The tap shall be inserted by the City and the hookup fee which had been
paid in advance shall cover the installation of the tap, the service line to
the property line up to but not exceeding forty feet (40'), a meter, meter
housing, meter corp and backflow prevention device. This fee also covers the
labor to install the aforementioned items. Any additional footage or
extenuating circumstances will be additional charges and the City will not be
responsible to extend the line onto the property.
   E.   If a main line does not exist on an already annexed and developed
street, the City will extend the water main at its expense. However, if the
property is part of a new development, the expense of the main line extension
will be of the developer or property owner.
   F.   No plumber or any other person will be allowed to make connections with
the City mains or to make alterations in conduit, pipe or other fixtures
connected therewith, to connect pipes when they have been disconnected or to
turn water on or off on any premises without permission from the City. (1993
Code)
6-5-5: WATER METERS:
   A.   Remote water meters will be installed by the City with location of the
remote to be accessible to the meter reader upon application therefor as
hereinafter provided.
   B.   Meters will be supplied by the City, the cost of which is part of the
hookup fee.
   C.   When installed on any property, meters shall only be removed by the
City. For the violation of this provision, the water shall be turned off and a
fine imposed as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. Said fine must be paid before the water is again turned on.
   D.   When a meter or indicator gets out of order or fails to register
correctly, the charge shall be according to the average quantity of water used
daily as shown by the meter when in order. (Ord. 21, 1-20-13; 1993 Code)
6-5-6: WATER RATES:
   A.   Water rates shall be as established in Section 6–1–3 of this Title.
   B.   The rates prescribed shall apply to all structures, homes and buildings
or other units wherein an independent water connection is in use. If multiple
users are on one meter, the account shall be the responsibility of the property
owner or landlord.
   C.   The water rates established shall be paid as billed and required by the
City, as provided in Chapter 4 of this Title, and the City retains authority to
make any amendments to or additions or corrections to the rates by Council
action or by resolution and specifically retains the right to enter into
contract or agreement with respect to revised water rates with any water users,
water district, individuals or corporations outside the City. (Ord. 290, 9-14-
89; 1993 Code)
6-5-7: RIGHT OF ENTRY FOR INSPECTION PURPOSES:
The City shall have access, at all reasonable times and hours, to all parts of
any building or premises in which water is being delivered from the water
mains, for the purpose of inspecting the condition of the pipes and fixtures
and the manner in which the water is used. (Ord. 21, 1-20-13)
6-5-8: DISCONNECTION OF SERVICE:
   A.   Should it be desired to discontinue the use of water supplied to the
premises, not less than two (2) days' notice, in writing, must be given to the
City, unless shutoff is for an emergency.
   B.   The water may, at any time, be shut off from the mains, without notice,
for repairs or for any other necessary purpose, and the City will not be
responsible or liable for any subsequent damage. In all cases where
practicable, the City shall give the consumers notice before the water is shut
off from the mains; provided, however, that when a fire alarm is sounded or
turned on, all persons using water for sprinkling shall at once turn the water
off.
   C.   After the water has been shut off at the stopcock, it shall not be
turned on again by any person, except by direction of the City and until the
charge is paid for the expense of shutting off the water and turning it on
again. (Ord. 21, 1-20-13; 1993 Code)
6-5-9: USE OF WATER FOR SPRINKLING PURPOSES:
Any and all persons using a meter has a right, at any and all times, to use
water for sprinkling purposes. However, the Mayor and City Council reserve the
right to stop all sprinkling in case of shortage of water. Sprinkling streets,
under any circumstances, is forbidden, except by the City. (Ord. 21, 1-20-13;
1993 Code)
6-5-10: PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   No person shall place upon or cover any hydrants, water gate, stopcock
or meter connected with the water pipes of the City with any building material
or other substance so as to prevent the free access to the same at all times.
   B.   No person shall meddle with or use or disturb any of the property,
tools, machinery or other appliances belonging or appertaining to the Water
Department or to use or remove any fire plug or meter or turn water through the
same.
   C.   No person shall have a meter to use water from the City mains or from
any probate service pipe without applying to and getting assistance from the
City. (Ord. 21, 1-20-13; 1993 Code)
6-5-11: PENALTY:
Any person violating this Chapter in any particular or causing damage to the
water system shall be debarred from making connections with the City mains and
shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 21, 1-20-13; 1993 Code)
CHAPTER 6
CROSS CONNECTIONS
SECTION:
6-6-1: Purpose and Scope
6-6-2: Definitions
6-6-3: Protection of Water Supply
6-6-4: Use of Backflow Prevention Devices
6-6-5: Cross Connection Inspections
6-6-6: Installation Permits
6-6-7: Additional Remedies
6-6-8: Violations and Penalties
6-6-1: PURPOSE AND SCOPE:
The purpose of this Chapter is to protect the public health of water consumers
by the control of actual and/or potential cross connections. (1993 Code)
6-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Chapter, unless the context otherwise requires, the following
words and terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this Section:
BACKFLOW: The flow, other than the intended direction of flow, of any foreign
liquids, gases or substances into the distribution system of a public water
supply.
BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE: A device to counteract back pressure or prevent
back siphonage.
CONTAMINATION: The entry into or presence in a public water supply of any
substances which may be deleterious to health and/or quality of the water.
CROSS CONNECTION: Any physical arrangement whereby a public water supply is
connected, directly or indirectly, with any other water supply system, sewer,
drain, conduit, pool, storage reservoir, plumbing fixture or other device which
contains or may contain contaminated water, sewage or other waste or liquids of
unknown or unsafe quality which may be capable of imparting contamination to
the public water supply as a result of backflow.
DIRECTOR: The Director of the Department of Health and Welfare of the State of
Idaho or his authorized agent.
ENGINEER: The engineer under contract with the City who shall be a registered
professional engineer in the State of Idaho.
HEALTH OFFICER: The State of Idaho Department of Health and Welfare Health
Officer or other authorized agent.
PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY: Any system of water supply intended or used for human
consumption or other domestic uses, including source, treatment, storage,
transmission and distribution facilities, where water is furnished to any
collection or number of individuals or is made available to the public for
human consumption or domestic use.
PURVEYOR: The City of Plummer or its authorized agent.
REGULATIONS: The Idaho Regulations for Public Drinking Water Systems, November
1977, Division of Environment, Department of Health and Welfare, State of
Idaho, and as may be subsequently amended or modified.
SUPERINTENDENT: The Superintendent of Public Works of the City of Plummer or
his authorized agent. (1993 Code)
6-6-3: PROTECTION OF WATER SUPPLY:
No water service connection to any premises shall be installed or continued in
use by the purveyor unless the water supply is protected by backflow prevention
devices whenever required by this Chapter. The installation or maintenance of a
cross connection which will endanger the water quality of the potable water
supply of the City shall be unlawful and is prohibited and shall be penalized
as hereinafter provided. Any such cross connection now existing or hereafter
installed is hereby declared to be a public nuisance, and the same shall be
abated as provided by law for any public nuisance 1 . The control or
elimination of the cross connections shall be in accordance with this Chapter
and the Regulations, together with the latest edition of appropriate manuals of
standard practice pertaining to cross connection control, approved by the
Superintendent. The engineer shall have the authority to establish requirements
more stringent than State regulations if he deems that the conditions so
dictate. Such requirements shall be published and available to the public at
the City Hall. The purveyor shall adopt and publish rules and regulations as
necessary to carry out the provisions of this Chapter and shall have such rules
and regulations available in published form to the public. (1993 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. I.C. §§52-205 and 52-206; see also Section 3–4–4 of this Code.
6-6-4: USE OF BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES:
   A.   Backflow prevention devices shall be installed at the ties on the
premises or the material used in connection with service connections or within
any premises where, in the judgment of the purveyor or the Health Officer, the
nature and extent of the activities or the materials stored on the premises
would present an immediate and dangerous hazard to health and/or be deleterious
to the quality of the water should a cross connection occur, even though such
cross connection does not exist at the time the backflow prevention device
shall be installed under circumstances including, but not limited to, the
following:
      1.   Premises having an auxiliary water supply, unless the quality of the
auxiliary supply is in compliance with the Regulations and is acceptable to the
purveyor.
      2.   Premises having internal cross connections that are not correctable,
or intricate plumbing arrangements which make it impracticable to ascertain
whether or not cross connections exist.
      3.   Premises where entry is restricted so that inspections for cross
connections cannot be made with sufficient frequency or at sufficiently short
notice to assure that cross connections do not exist.
      4.   Premises having a repeated history of cross connections being
established or re-established.
      5.   Premises on which any substance is handled under pressure so as to
permit entry into the public water supply or where a cross connection could
reasonably be expected to occur. This shall include the handling of process
waters and cooling waters.
      6.   Premises where materials of a toxic or hazardous nature are handled
in such a manner that if back siphonage should occur, a serious health hazard
might result.
      7.   The following types of facilities will fall into one of the above
categories where a backflow prevention device is required to protect the public
water supply. A backflow prevention device shall be installed at these
facilities unless the purveyor and the Superintendent determine that no hazard
exists:
         Hospitals, mortuaries, clinics
         Laboratories
         Metal plating industries
         Sewage treatment plants
         Food or beverage processing plants
         Chemical plants using a water process
         Petroleum processing or storage plants
         Radioactive material processing plants
         Others specified by the Superintendent
      8.   Other premises, as specified by the engineer, Superintendent or
Health Officer, where backflow prevention devices are required to protect the
public water supply.
   B.   The type of protective device required shall depend on the degree of
hazard which exists:
      1.   An air-gap separation or a reduced pressure principle backflow
prevention device shall be installed where the public water supply may be
contaminated with sewage, industrial waste of a toxic nature or other
contaminant which could cause a health or system hazard.
      2.   In the case of a substance which may be objectionable but not
hazardous to health, a double check valve assembly, air-gap separation or a
reduced pressure principle backflow prevention device shall be installed.
   C.   Backflow prevention devices required by this Chapter shall be installed
at the meter, at the property line of the premises when meters are not used or
at a location designated by the purveyor. The device shall be located so as to
be readily accessible for maintenance and testing and, furthermore, where no
part of the device will be submerged.
   D.   Backflow prevention devices required by this Chapter shall be installed
under the supervision of and with the approval of the purveyor.
   E.   Any protective device required by this Chapter shall be a model
approved by the engineer. A double check valve assembly or a reduced pressure
principle backflow prevention device will be approved if it has successfully
passed performance tests of the University of Southern California Engineering
Center or other testing laboratories satisfactory to the Superintendent and the
engineer. These devices shall be furnished and installed by and at the expense
of the customer.
   F.   Backflow prevention devices installed pursuant to this Chapter, except
atmospheric vacuum breakers, shall be inspected and tested annually or more
often if necessary. Inspections, tests and maintenance shall be at the
customer's expense. Whenever the devices are found to be defective, they shall
be repaired, overhauled or replaced at the customer's expense. Inspections,
tests, repairs and records thereof shall be accomplished under the purveyor's
supervision by certified testers.
   G.   No underground sprinkling device will be installed without adequate
backflow prevention devices at the point from which the water for irrigation is
taken from the public water supply.
   H.   Failure of the customer to cooperate in the installation, maintenance,
testing or inspection of backflow prevention devices required by this Chapter
and the Regulations shall be grounds for termination of water service to the
premises or, in the alternative, the installation of an air-gap separation at
the customer's expense. (1993 Code)
6-6-5: CROSS CONNECTION INSPECTIONS:
   A.   No water shall be delivered to any structure hereafter built within the
City or within areas served by the City water until the same shall have been
inspected by the purveyor for possible cross connections and have been approved
as being free of the same.
   B.   Any construction for industrial or other purposes which is classified
as hazardous facilities pursuant to subsection
6–6–4A7 hereof, where it is reasonable to anticipate intermittent cross
connections, or as determined by the Superintendent, shall be protected by the
installation of one or more backflow prevention devices at the point of service
from the public water supply or any other location designated by the purveyor.
   C.   Inspections shall be made periodically of all buildings, structures or
improvements of any nature now receiving water through the City's system for
the purpose of ascertaining whether cross connections exist. Such inspections
shall be made by the purveyor. (1993 Code)
6-6-6: INSTALLATION PERMITS:
If cross connection control devices are found to be necessary, the owner of the
property served must apply to the purveyor for a specific installation permit.
(1993 Code)
6-6-7: ADDITIONAL REMEDIES:
In the event an improper cross connection is not corrected within the time
limit set by the Superintendent, or in the event the purveyor is refused access
to any property for the purpose of determining whether or not cross connections
exist, delivery of water to the property shall cease until the deficiency is
corrected to the purveyor's satisfaction. In addition, the purveyor may effect
the necessary repairs or modifications at the expense of the property owner and
refuse delivery of water to the property until the cost thereof shall have been
paid. (1993 Code)
6-6-8: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply with or
resists the enforcement of any of the provisions of this Chapter or the Rules
and Regulations as adopted by this Chapter shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall, for each offense, be punished
by a fine as provided in Section
1–4–1 of this Code. (1993 Code)
CHAPTER 7
SEWER USE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-7-1: Definitions
6-7-2: Use Of Public Sewers Required
6-7-3: Private Sewage Disposal
6-7-4: Sewer Use Rates
6-7-5: Building Sewers And Connections
6-7-6: Use Of The Public Sewers
6-7-7: Grease, Oil Or Sediment Separators
6-7-8: Powers And Authority Of Inspectors
6-7-9: Penalties
6-7-10: Protection From Damage
6-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meanings of terms used
in this chapter shall be as follows:
BOD (Denoting Biochemical Oxygen Demand): The quantity of oxygen utilized in
the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory
procedures in five (5) days at twenty degrees centigrade (20°C), expressed in
milligrams per liter.
BUILDING DRAIN: That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage system
which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes inside
the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer, beginning five
feet (5') outside the inner face of the building wall.
BUILDING SEWER: The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
COMBINED SEWER: A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
GARBAGE: Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
INDUSTRIAL WASTES: The liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing processes,
trades or businesses as distinct from sanitary sewage.
NATURAL OUTLET: Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body
of surface or ground water.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group.
pH: The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams per
liter of solution.
PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE: The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1/2") in any dimension.
PUBLIC SEWER: A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights, and is controlled by a public authority.
SANITARY SEWER: A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface and
ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
SEWAGE: A combination of the water carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions and industrial establishments, together with such
ground, surface and storm waters as may be present.
SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT: Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
SEWAGE WORKS: All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing of
sewage.
SEWER: A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
SHALL; MAY: Shall is mandatory; may is permissive.
STORM DRAIN (Sometimes Termed STORM SEWER): A sewer which carries storm and
surface waters and drainage but excludes sewage and industrial wastes, other
than unpolluted cooling water.
SUPERINTENDENT: The superintendent of public works of the city of Plummer or
his authorized deputy, agent or representative.
SUSPENDED SOLIDS: Solids that either float on the surface of or are in
suspension in water, sewage or other liquids and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
WATERCOURSE: A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously or
intermittently. (Ord. 407, 9-9-2010)
6-7-2: USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any human or animal
excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste, in violation of Title 3,
Chapter 1, Section 9 (Prohibited Animals, Acts and Conditions) or Title 3,
Chapter 4, Section 2 Declaration of Nuisance; Acts Prohibited).
   B.   It is unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the city, or
in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any sewage or other polluted
waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with
the subsequent provisions of this chapter.
   C.   It is unlawful to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic
tank, cesspool, or other facility intended or used for the disposal of sewage
on public or private property within the city, or in any area under the
jurisdiction of the city.
   D.   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the city
and abutting on any street, alley or right of way in which there is now located
or may in the future be located a public sewer of the city, is hereby required,
at his expense, to install suitable toilet facilities therein and to connect
such facilities directly with the proper public sewer in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 407, 9-9-2010; amd. Ord. 453, 9-12-2019)
6-7-3: PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL:
   A.   Availability Of Public Sewers:
      1.   At such time as the public sewer becomes available to a property
served by a private sewage disposal system, as provided in section
6-7-2D of this title, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in
compliance with this chapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar
private sewage disposal facilities all be abandoned and filled with suitable
material by the property owner within fourteen (14) days of the completion of
the connection of the property to the public sewer system.
      2.   When a public sewer becomes available, the building sewer shall be
connected to said sewer within ninety (90) days, and the private sewage
disposal system shall be cleaned of sludge and filled with clean bank run
gravel or dirt by the property owner within fourteen (14) days of the
completion of the connection of the property to the public sewer system.
   B.   Maintenance In Sanitary Manner: The owner shall operate and maintain
the private sewage disposal facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no
expense to the city.
   C.   Extension Of Sewer Main: Upon request and approval by the Mayor and
City Council, the city will extend a sewer main to newly annexed and/or
developed areas, provided that the party or parties making such request pay for
the cost of such extension. (Ord. 407, 9-9-2010; amd. Ord. 453, 9-12-2019)
6-7-4: SEWER USE RATES 1 :
   A.   Sewer use and debt retirement rates shall be as set out in section
6-1-4 of this title.
   B.   No sewer service shall be provided to any structure, home, building or
other unit until such time as the owner thereof shall make application to the
city therefor. (Ord. 407, 9-9-2010)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 4 of this title.
6-7-5: BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS:
   A.   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connection with or
opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the superintendent.
   B.   A hook up and capitalization fee shall be required during application
and prior to sewer connection. This shall cover the connection to the sewer
main and up to the property line. The application must include plans,
specifications or other information considered pertinent in the judgment of the
superintendent. The hookup and capitalization fee shall be in addition to any
cost associated with extending the sewer main to newly annexed and/or developed
areas, as provided for in section
6-7-3C of this title.
   C.   All costs and expense incident to the installation and connection of
the building sewer from the property line to the building shall be borne by the
owner. The owner shall indemnify the city from any loss or damage that may
directly or indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
   D.   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building.
   E.   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and test by the superintendent, to meet all
requirements of this chapter. Such examination shall only be made after
application and payment of an inspection fee to the city.
   F.   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing and backfilling the trench shall all conform to the requirements of the
building and plumbing codes or other applicable rules and regulations of the
city. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the ASTM
and "WPCF Manual Of Practice No. 9" shall apply.
   G.   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary
sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer at the owner's expense or grade restrictions
may be imposed upon the construction design of the building.
   H.   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior foundation
drains, cellar drains, sump pumps, areaway drains or other sources of surface
runoff or groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is
connected directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   I.   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing codes or other
applicable rules and regulations of the city or the procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the ASTM and the "WPCF Manual Of Practice No. 9".
All such connections shall be made gastight and watertight. Any deviation from
the prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the superintendent
before installation.
   J.   Provisions for the connection of manufactured homes, or any other
mobile units to the public sewer system may be made by a pipe connected to the
sanitary sewer system in compliance with this section. When not connected to a
mobile unit such system must be sealed with a cap, sealing plug or comparable
device in such manner as to stop any substance or gas from entering or leaving
the sanitary sewer system.
   K.   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the
superintendent when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection
to the public sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the
superintendent or his representative.
   L.   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
   M.   No person shall disconnect or abandon any sewage connection without
first notifying the superintendent. After such notification, the connection may
be disconnected and sealed in such a manner so as to prevent the passage of any
substance, gas or odor into or out of said sewage line. Said patch or sealing
shall not in any way impede the flow of sewage within the sewage line and shall
be of sufficient thickness, strength and design to equal the sewage line. The
superintendent shall be notified upon completion of sealing and any excavation
for such a sealing shall be left open for sufficient time for the
superintendent to inspect the same. (Ord. 407, 9-9-2010; amd. Ord. 453, 9-12-
2019)
6-7-6: USE OF THE PUBLIC SEWERS:
   A.   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any stormwater,
surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated
cooling water or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
   B.   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
      1.   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive solid or gas.
      2.   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids
or gases of sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant including, but not limited
to, cyanides in excess of two milligrams per liter (2 mg/l) as CN in the wastes
as discharged to the public sewer.
      3.   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment
and personnel of the sewage works.
      4.   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers or other interference with the proper
operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes, cinders,
sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar, plastics, wood,
unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and fleshings, entrails and
paper dishes, cups, milk containers, etc., either whole or ground by garbage
grinders.
      5.   Floatable oils, fats, or grease.
   C.   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any substances,
materials, waters or wastes if it appears likely, in the opinion of the
superintendent, that such wastes can harm either the sewers, sewage treatment
process or equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving stream or can
otherwise endanger life, limb, public property or constitute a nuisance. In
forming his opinion as to the acceptability of these wastes, the superintendent
will give consideration to such factors as to quantities of subject wastes in
relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of construction of
the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment process, capacity of the sewage
treatment plant, degree of treatability of wastes in the sewage treatment plant
and other pertinent factors. The substances prohibited are:
      1.   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than one hundred
fifty degrees Fahrenheit (150ºF) (65ºC);
      2.   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease or oils, emulsified
or not, in excess of one hundred (100) mg/l or containing substances which may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between thirty two degrees
Fahrenheit (32ºF) and one hundred fifty degrees Fahrenheit (150ºF) (0º and
65ºC);
      3.   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder with a motor three-fourths (¾) horsepower
or greater shall be subject to review and approval of the superintendent;
      4.   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling wastes or
concentrated plating solutions, whether neutralized or not;
      5.   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc, and
similar objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the superintendent for such material;
      6.   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste producing or
odor producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the superintendent as necessary, after treatment of the
composite sewage, to meet the requirements of the state, federal or other
public agencies or jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters;
      7.   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentrations as may exceed limits established by the superintendent in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
      8.   Any waters or wastes having pH in excess of nine and five-tenths
(9.5);
      9.   Materials which exert or cause:
         a.   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids, such as, but
not limited to, fullers earth, lime slurries, and lime residues, or of
dissolved, such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride or sodium sulfate;
         b.   Excessive discoloration, such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions;
         c.   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand, or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works;
         d.   Unusual volume of flow or concentrations of wastes constituting
"slugs" as defined in section
8-1-2 of this title;
      10.   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amendable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters.
   D.   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be discharged
to the public sewers which, in the judgment of the superintendent, may have a
deleterious effect upon the sewage works, processes, equipment or receiving
waters or which otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a public
nuisance, the superintendent may:
      1.   Reject the wastes.
      2.   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to the
public sewers.
      3.   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge.
      4.   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating the
wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charge under the provision of
subsection G of this section.
   If the superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of water
flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be subject
to the review and approval of the superintendent and subject to the
requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances and laws.
   E.   Control Manhole: When required by the superintendent, the owner of any
property serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install
a suitable control manhole together with such necessary meters and other
appurtenances in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and
measurement of the wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and
safely located, and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by
the superintendent. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his expense,
and shall be maintained by him so as to be safe an accessible at all times.
   F.   Measurements, Tests And Analysis: All measurements, tests and analyses
of the characteristics of waters and wastes to which reference is made in this
chapter shall be determined in accordance with the latest edition of "Standard
Methods For The Examination Of Water and Wastewater," published by the American
Public Health Association, and shall be determined at the control manhole
provided, or upon suitable samples taken at said control manhole. In the event
that no special manhole has been required, the control manhole shall be
considered to be the nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer to the
point at which the building sewer is connected. Sampling shall be carried out
by customarily accepted methods to reflect the effect of constituents upon the
sewage works and to determine the existence of hazards to life, limb and
property. The particular analyses involved will determine whether a 24-hour
composite of all outfalls of a premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample
or samples should be taken. Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids
analyses are obtained from 24-hour composites of all outfalls whereas pHs are
determine from periodic grab samples.)
   G.   Special Agreement: No statement contained in this section shall be
construed as preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the city
and any industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or
character may be accepted by the city for treatment, subject to payment
therefor, by the industrial concern. (Ord. 407, 9-9-2010; amd. Ord. 453, 9-12-
2019)
6-7-7: GREASE, OIL OR SEDIMENT SEPARATORS:
   A.   Separators Required: Grease, oil or sediment separators shall be
provided as part of the building sewer when required by the international
building or international plumbing code, or in the opinion of the
superintendent they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes
containing floatable oils, fat, flammable wastes, sand or other harmful
ingredients as restricted herein; except that such separators shall not be
required under named circumstances.
   B.   Type And Location: All separators shall be of a type and capacity
approved by the superintendent and shall be located as to be readily and easily
accessible for cleaning and inspection.
   C.   Maintenance Of Separators; Records Of Disposal: In the maintaining of
these separators, the owner shall be responsible for the proper removal and
disposal by appropriate means of the captivated material and shall maintain
records of the dates and means of disposal which are subject to review by the
superintendent. Any removal and hauling of the collected materials not
performed by the owner's personnel must be performed by currently licensed
disposal firms.
   D.   Establishments Requiring Separators: Establishments requiring these
separators include, but are not limited to, restaurants, cafeterias, taverns,
extended care facilities, automotive repair shops, service stations and car
washes. Where pretreatment of flow equalizing facilities is required for any
grease, oil or sediment separators, waters or wastes, they shall be constructed
and maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation by and at
the expense of the sewer user.
   E.   Observation, Sampling And Measurement Of Waste: When required by the
superintendent, an industrial discharger shall install a suitable structure
together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the building
sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of the wastes. Such
structures, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located and shall be
constructed in accordance with plans approved by the superintendent. The
structure shall be installed by the discharger at its expense, shall be
maintained by the discharger at its expense and shall be maintained by the
discharger so as to be safe and accessible at all times. (Ord. 407, 9-9-2010)
6-7-8: POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS:
   A.   The superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the city
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling
and testing in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. The
superintendent or his representatives shall have no authority to inquire into
any processes, including metallurgical, chemical, oil, refining, ceramic, paper
or other industries, beyond that point having a direct bearing on the kind and
source of discharge to the sewers or waterways or facilities for waste
treatment.
   B.   The superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the city
bearing proper credentials and identification may require a user to provide
information needed to determine compliance with this chapter. These
requirements may include:
      1.   Wastewater discharge peak rate and volume over a specified time
period.
      2.   Chemical analyses of wastewaters.
      3.   Information on raw materials, processes and products affecting
wastewater volume and quality.
      4.   Quantity and disposition of specific liquid sludge, oil, solvent or
other materials important to sewer use control.
      5.   A plot plan of sewers on the user's property showing sewer and
pretreatment facility location.
      6.   Details of wastewater pretreatment facilities.
      7.   Details of systems to prevent and control the losses of materials
through spills to the public sewer.
   C.   The superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the city
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
private properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated easement for
the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement,
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved. (Ord. 407, 9-9-2010; amd. Ord.
453, 9-12-2019)
6-7-9: PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter shall be
served by the city with written notice stating the nature of the violation and
providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof. The
offender shall, within the period of time stated in such notice, permanently
cease all violations. In the event that a violation consists of a discharge of
any sewage, including ground, surface or storm water, either directly or
indirectly, into the public sewer system, or of a failure to permit inspection
by the superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the city in
relation thereto, then a fine of One Hundred Dollars ($100.00), per day, shall
be assessed to the owner or occupant of the property, until such correction is
made. The fine provided for herein shall be assessed to the owner or occupant
of the property on the sewer bill, in addition to any other fees for sewer
services.
   B.   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in subsection A of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
and, on conviction thereof, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day in which such violation continues after conviction
shall constitute a separate offense.
   C.   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall become
liable to the city for any expense, loss or damage occasioned the city by
reason of such violation. (Ord. 407, 9-9-2010; amd. Ord. 453, 9-12-2019)
6-7-10: PROTECTION FROM DAMAGE:
No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is a part of the sewage works. Any person violating this
provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly
conduct. (Ord. 453, 9-12-2019)
TITLE 7
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODES
SECTION:
7-1-1: Adoption Of Codes By Reference
7-1-2: Administration Of Codes
7-1-3: Compliance Required
7-1-4: Appeal From Administrative Rulings
7-1-5: Penalty
7-1-1: ADOPTION OF CODES BY REFERENCE:
   A.   Codes Adopted: The City Council of the City of Plummer, Idaho, hereby
adopts and enacts by reference, the following codes:
      1.   International Building Code, 2018 edition, with Idaho amendments,
collectively named the Building Code 2018 of Idaho, as adopted and amended by
the State of Idaho or by the Idaho Building Code Board, made through the
negotiated rulemaking process.
      2.   International Residential Code, 2018 edition, with Idaho amendments,
collectively named the Idaho Residential Code (2020 edition), as adopted and
amended by the State of Idaho or by the Idaho Building Code Board, made through
the negotiated rulemaking process, including appendices thereto.
      3.   International Existing Building Code, 2018 edition, with Idaho
amendments, collectively named the Existing Building Code 2018 of Idaho, as
adopted and amended by the State of Idaho or by the Idaho Building Code Board,
made through the negotiated rulemaking process.
      4.   International Energy Conservation Code, 2018 edition, with Idaho
amendments, collectively named the Idaho Residential Code (2020 edition), as
adopted and amended by the State of Idaho or by the Idaho Building Code Board,
made through the negotiated rulemaking process.
      5.   International Mechanical Code, 2018 edition, as prepared by the
International Code Council, and as adopted and amended by the State of Idaho or
by the Idaho Building Code Board, made through the negotiated rulemaking
process.
      6.   International Fuel and Gas Code, 2018 edition, as prepared by the
International Code Council, and as adopted and amended by the State of Idaho or
by the Idaho Building Code Board, made through the negotiated rulemaking
process.
      7.   International Fire Code, 2018 edition, as adopted and amended by the
Idaho State Fire Marshal, made through the negotiated rulemaking process.
      8.   National Electric Code, 2017 edition, as adopted and amended by the
State of Idaho or by the Idaho Building Code Board, made through the negotiated
rulemaking process.
      9.   Idaho (Uniform) Plumbing Code, 2017 edition, as adopted and amended
by the State of Idaho or by the Idaho Building Code Board, made through the
negotiated rulemaking process.
      10.   ANSI/ASME, Safety Code for Elevators and Escalators, as adopted and
amended by the State of Idaho or by the Idaho Building Code Board, made through
the negotiated rulemaking process.
   B.   Copies On File: One copy of said codes, as adopted in subsection A of
this section, or such additional number as may be required by Idaho State law,
shall be and remain on file in the Office of the City Clerk for use and
examination by the public.
   C.   Effective Date And Exemptions:
      1.   Effective Date: The adopted versions of the foregoing codes shall be
effective January 1, 2023. The foregoing codes shall be deemed superseded by
successive versions of such codes as they are adopted or approved by the State
of Idaho or by the Idaho Building Code Board, made through the negotiated
rulemaking process, effective January 1 of the year following adoption.
      2.   Exemptions: Agricultural buildings are exempt from the Building
Codes adopted herein but shall remain subject to placement requirements
established by zoning regulations. A building shall be deemed an agricultural
building under this section if it is used solely for growing, raising or
producing plants, animals or crops.
   D.   Exceptions: The codes set forth above notwithstanding, the following
parameters shall be exceptions from, and shall supersede, the parameters set
forth therein.
      1.   If the slope in the immediate vicinity of the construction site is
greater than fifteen percent (15%), the building official or his designee may
require a detailed site plan and/or a foundation plan prepared by a State of
Idaho licensed design professional. These plans may be in addition to any
stormwater management or erosion control plans required by other ordinances or
code requirements and may require complete soils evaluation by an Idaho
licensed civil or geological engineer having sufficient education and
experience to prove competency in the field of geotechnical engineering.
   E.   Amendments To International Residential Code:
Table R301.2(1) Climatic and Geographic Design Criteria:
Wind speed (mph)                 75 mph fastest mile
                                90 mph 3 second gust
Air freezing index               1,500
Seismic design category          C
Weathering                       Severe
Frost line depth                 24 inches
Termite                          Slight
Decay                            Slight
Ice shield underlayment required Yes
Roof snow load1                  60
 
      1.   The ground snow loads used in determining the design snow loads
shall be determined by using the factors and methodology contained in the
publication “Ground Roof And Snow Loads For Idaho” and the accompanying map
“Normalized Ground Snow Loads For Idaho” by the University of Idaho, Moscow,
ID, 1986. Methodology for determining design snow loads shall be as required in
international building code (IBC) section 1608.(Ord. 452, 9-13-2018; amd.
Ord.469, 6-8-2023)
7-1-2: ADMINISTRATION OF CODES:
   A.   Administration And Enforcement: The administration and enforcement of
the codes adopted in subsection
7-1-1A of this chapter, shall be vested in the person or persons having
authority over the subject matter covered by each of said codes. Building
permits shall be issued by the person or persons responsible for overall
enforcement of the Building Codes (the building official). Such administration
and enforcement may, at the option of the City Council, be contracted out to a
qualified second party or governmental entity.
   B.   Interdepartmental And Interagency Coordination: To ensure effective
coordination with other departments, agencies and organizations with
jurisdiction, the building official may request comment and/or require approval
from affected agencies prior to issuance of permits. Applications for permits
shall meet the following requirements:
      1.   Demonstrate the proposal meets the requirements of this chapter, the
codes adopted by this chapter, and the requirements of all other applicable
City ordinances. With the application, the applicant shall provide orders of
decision approving any associated applications, such as those for variances,
conditional use permits, temporary hardship permits, final subdivision plats,
planned unit developments, or zone changes.
      2.   Demonstrate the proposal has received required utility permits and
approvals from the City of Plummer.
      3.   Demonstrate the proposal has received required access, approach, or
encroachment permits or approvals from the City of Plummer, the highway
district, Idaho Department of Transportation, and the fire district, as
applicable.
      4.   For mobile or manufactured home setting permits, provide
verification from the Benewah County Assessor's appraisal Division, that
applicable taxes have been paid.
      5.   For encroachments into surface water or wetlands, demonstrate the
proposal has received required encroachment permits from the Idaho Department
of Lands, Idaho Department of Water Resources, or the U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers.
      6.   Demonstrate the proposal has received approval for all relevant
requirements from the fire district as applicable.
      7.   Demonstrate the proposal has received approval for all relevant
requirements from the Idaho State electrical inspector as applicable.
      8.   Demonstrate the proposal has received approval for all relevant
requirements from the Idaho State plumbing inspector as applicable.
   C.   Effective Standards: Permits shall be governed by the laws and
regulations in effect at the time a complete permit application is received.
   D.   Access To Property: The property owner or authorized agent's signature
on a permit application shall constitute approval for the building official or
other person authorized to enforce the codes to enter onto and inspect the
property and structures associated with a permit application.
   E.   Withholding Of Permits: The building official may withhold permits,
including building permits, on lots or parcels of land with violations of city
ordinances. The building official may also withhold or suspend issuance of
permits, including building permits, to applicants who have demonstrated a
record of unresolved noncompliance with city ordinances.
   F.   Noncompliance; Appeal: If a permit is withheld or issuance thereof
suspended, the building official shall set forth the nature of noncompliance in
writing. The applicant may submit a written response to the compliance issues
raised by the building official. Upon consideration of the response and the
full record of performance, the building official shall issue a final ruling in
the case, which may include a list of conditions which must be met before any
additional permits may be issued. The decision of the building official may be
appealed to the city council in accordance with section
7-1-4 of this chapter. Such appeals must be filed within thirty (30) days of
the date of the building official's final decision.
   G.   Permit Fees: Applicants shall pay permit fees in amounts to be
determined by resolution of the city of Plummer. All permits required under
this chapter require fees to be paid prior to a permit being issued, unless
specified otherwise herein. (Ord. 430, 12-11-2014)
7-1-3: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
   A.   Prohibited: No person shall erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair,
improve, remove, convert or demolish any building or structure, nor do any
other thing, within the city of Plummer, in violation of the codes adopted
herein.
   B.   Use And Occupancy:
      1.   No building or structure shall be used or occupied, and no change in
the existing occupancy classification of a building or structure or portion
thereof shall be made, until the building official has issued a certificate of
occupancy or certificate of completion therefor as provided herein. Issuance of
a certificate of occupancy or certificate of completion shall not be construed
as an approval of a violation of the provisions of this code or other
ordinances of the jurisdiction.
      2.   Prior to issuance of a certificate of occupancy or certificate of
completion, the applicant shall provide final approval from all agencies with
jurisdiction, including, but not limited to, the highway district, Idaho
department of transportation, fire district, the Benewah County assessor's
appraisal division, Idaho department of lands, Idaho department of water
resources, U.S. army corps of engineers, Idaho state electrical inspector and
the Idaho state plumbing inspector.
      3.   After the building official inspects the building or structure and
finds no violations of the provisions of this code or other laws that are
enforced by the city of Plummer building and planning department, the building
official shall issue a certificate of occupancy for a structure which is
intended for human occupancy or a certificate of completion for a structure
which is not intended for human occupancy.
   C.   Correction Of Existing Violations: Applications for permits authorized
by this chapter may not be accepted until all violations of city ordinances are
corrected. Under certain circumstances where compliance would require the
granting of permits to cure existing violations, this requirement may be
waived.
   D.   Notice Of Building Ordinance Violation: If a permit expires prior to
the final inspection, or if the applicant fails to obtain a certificate of
occupancy or certificate of completion as required by this chapter, or if the
building official determines that an applicant has failed to comply with the
provisions of this chapter, the codes adopted by this chapter, or other city
ordinances, the building official may issue a notice of building ordinance
violation, subject to the following provisions:
      1.   The building official shall prepare and mail, via certified mail, a
notice of building ordinance violation. The notification shall include:
         a.   The property owner and the legal description of the parcel.
         b.   The nature of the violation.
         c.   The remedial action that must be undertaken to resolve the
violation.
         d.   The length of time allotted to resolve the violation.
      2.   The property owner shall have sixty (60) days from the date the
notice is mailed to resolve the violation. If resolution does not occur within
those sixty (60) days, the notice of building ordinance violation shall be
filed in the county recorder's office and a copy mailed to the owner, via
certified mail, return receipt.
      3.   The notice of building ordinance violation shall also advise the
owner of the appeal process. The city may consider a written appeal, submitted
by the property owner, and received no later than thirty (30) days after the
notice of building violation was mailed. The appeal shall be heard by the city
of Plummer council on a date specified by city council. If the appeal is
denied, the council shall specify an exact number of days to gain compliance
with the ordinance before the notice of building violation is recorded. If the
appeal is approved, the city will specify actions to be taken by the building
official to release the violation. The city may elect to add or remove
conditions of remedial action.
      4.   If and when the building ordinance violation is resolved, the owner
shall pay the fee specified in the current adopted fee schedule and the
building official shall file in the office of the county recorder a release of
notice of building ordinance violation. The release shall contain all of the
information contained in the notice of building ordinance violation, as well as
the corrective action taken to resolve the violation. A copy of the release
shall be mailed to the owner, via certified mail, return receipt.
   E.   Compliance Agreements: The building official may enter into compliance
agreements on a case by case basis, subject to the following provisions or
conditions:
      1.   The building official finds that the violations that are the subject
of the compliance agreement do not pose an imminent threat to people or
property.
      2.   The party responsible for compliance agrees to remedy the violation
(s) in an expeditious manner by a certain date.
      3.   The party responsible for compliance agrees to hold the building
official and the city of Plummer harmless and to defend against any claims
arising through operation of the compliance agreement. The responsible party
shall provide evidence of general liability insurance coverage for personal
injury and property damage for the premises subject to the compliance
agreement, with the city of Plummer named as an additional insured. The
compliance agreement shall immediately terminate upon the cancellation, lapse
or other termination of the insurance specified herein.
      4.   The responsible party shall pay any costs and/or attorney fees
incurred to enforce a compliance agreement. (Ord. 430, 12-11-2014)
7-1-4: APPEAL FROM ADMINISTRATIVE RULINGS:
   A.   Any affected person, agency or organization may appeal a decision made
by the building official by submitting, within thirty (30) days of the
decision, a written request for a public hearing before the city of Plummer
council, setting forth with specificity an explanation of the grounds for the
appeal. An "affected person" is defined as one having a lawful interest in real
property which may be affected by the decision. The final decision on the
appeal shall be made by the city of Plummer council.
   B.   Decisions that may be appealed include, but are not limited to, the
denial of a permit or certificate of occupancy due to the refusal of a
jurisdiction, other than city of Plummer, to approve the permit or certificate.
   C.   The application for appeal shall be based on a claim that the true
intent of this code or the rules legally adopted thereunder has been
incorrectly interpreted, the provisions of this code do not fully apply or an
equally good or better form of construction is proposed. The city of Plummer
council shall have no authority to waive requirements of the codes as adopted
in this chapter. (Ord. 430, 12-11-2014)
7-1-5: PENALTY:
Unless otherwise prescribed, violations of this chapter or of the codes herein
adopted constitute a misdemeanor and shall be punishable by a fine not
exceeding three hundred dollars ($300.00) or imprisonment for a term not
exceeding ninety (90) days, or both such fine and imprisonment. Each day a
violation occurs shall be deemed a separate offense; provided that the maximum
punishment for each violation shall be limited in amount and duration of
imprisonment as provided for in section
1-4-1 of this code. In addition to such criminal penalties or in lieu thereof
at the election of the city, any or all utility services, including
electricity, water, sewage, and garbage disposal, may be denied or terminated
to any structure found to be in violation of any of the codes adopted herein.
Nothing contained herein shall prevent the city from taking any additional
lawful action as is necessary to restrain or prevent any violation of this
chapter. (Ord. 430, 12-11-2014)
CHAPTER 2
BUILDING STANDARDS
SECTION:
7-2-1: Location Of Buildings On Property
7-2-2: Services To Be Provided
7-2-3: Penalty
7-2-4: Contractor Registration Requirements
7-2-1: LOCATION OF BUILDINGS ON PROPERTY:
All persons constructing or locating dwellings or buildings within the city
shall place or cause the same to be placed upon a lot in accordance with the
residential building setback requirements as set forth in sections
8-4-7,
8-5-6,
8-6-6 and
8-7-6 of this code; the commercial building setback requirements as set forth
in sections
8-8-6,
8-9-7 and
8-10-6 of this code; and the industrial building setback requirements as set
forth in section
8-11-6 of this code. (Ord. 342, 5-10-2001; amd. Ord. 456, 7-11-2019)
7-2-2: SERVICES TO BE PROVIDED 1 :
All residential housing, buildings or structures intended for human occupancy
hereafter constructed, located or placed within the city shall be equipped with
electricity properly and safely installed and wired and shall further be
equipped with sewer and sanitary facilities meeting at least the minimum
requirements of the Idaho health and sanitation board. (Ord. 220, 10-5-1967)
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 6 of this code.
7-2-3: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the sections or provisions of this chapter shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject
to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Further, any structure constructed, located or placed upon
any lot within the city which does not conform to the minimum requirements
specified herein shall be subject to abatement as a nuisance under the
ordinances of the city or statutes of the state relating to abatement and
removal of nuisances 1 , 2 . (Ord. 220, 10-5-1967; amd. 1993 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. See title 3, chapter 4 of this code.
2 3. IC §§52-205, 52-206.
7-2-4: CONTRACTOR REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS:
No building permit will be issued without the contractor's registration number
being presented by the contractor, except when the permit applicant provides
evidence to the satisfaction of the building official that the applicant is
exempt from registration requirements pursuant to title 54, chapter 52 of the
Idaho Code. (Ord. 375, 2-9-2006)
CHAPTER 3
FIRE PROTECTION
SECTION:
7-3-1: Inspection Of Premises
7-3-2: Prohibited Conditions
7-3-3: Penalty
7-3-1: INSPECTION OF PREMISES:
The city shall have an appointed fire inspector who may inspect property within
the corporate boundaries of the city to determine fire hazards and report such
hazards to the city council. The fire inspector may also do other fire
inspections as deemed necessary. (1993 Code)
7-3-2: PROHIBITED CONDITIONS:
Within the corporate boundaries of the city, it shall be unlawful to allow any
debris or rubbish of any kind to accumulate on any premises, so as to
constitute a fire hazard. (Ord. 359, 4-8-2004)
7-3-3: PENALTY:
Violation of any section of this chapter shall be deemed an infraction
punishable as set forth in subsection
1-4-1B of this code. (Ord. 359, 4-8-2004)
CHAPTER 4
MOBILE AND MANUFACTURED HOMES, TINY HOMES, MODULAR BUILDINGS, COMMERCIAL
COACHES AND PARK MODEL RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
SECTION:
7-4-1: Definitions
7-4-2: Publications Adopted By Reference
7-4-3: Mobile And Manufactured Homes, Tiny Homes And Modular Buildings
7-4-4: Commercial Coaches And Park Model Recreational Vehicles
7-4-5: Physical Requirements For Manufactured Homes, Tiny Homes And Modular
Buildings; Permit
7-4-6: Park Permit Required
7-4-7: Minimum Acreage For Manufactured Home Park Or Area
7-4-8: Responsibilities Of Developer
7-4-9: Manufactured Home Park Requirements
7-4-10: Inspection Of Manufactured Home Parks
7-4-11: Refuse Handling And Insect And Rodent Control In Manufactured Home
Parks
7-4-12: Responsibilities Of Park Management
7-4-13: Penalty
7-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
BUILDING INSPECTOR: The official building inspector of the city of Plummer.
CITY: The city of Plummer, Benewah County, Idaho.
COMMERCIAL COACH: A modular building equipped with the necessary service
connections and made to be readily movable as a unit on its own running gear,
and originally designed to be used without a permanent foundation, including
travel trailers, campers, fifth wheel trailers, and motor homes.
DEVELOPER: Any individual person, firm, trust, partnership or private
association or corporation undertaking the venture of improving and/or building
a structure upon a lot.
HUD 3280: The code of federal regulations, house and urban development part
3280, manufactured home construction and safety standard.
LOT: For the purpose of this chapter, a parcel of land at least sufficient in
size to meet the minimum zoning requirements for use, coverage and area, and to
provide such yards, setback and other open spaces as herein required. Such lots
shall have frontage on an improved street or thoroughfare and may consist of:
   A.   A single lot of record.
   B.   A portion of a lot of record.
   C.   A combination of complete contiguous lots of record and portions of
lots of record, and/or of contiguous portions of lots of record under one
owner.
   D.   A parcel of land described by metes and bounds; provided, that in no
case of division or combination shall any residual lot or parcel be created
which does not meet the requirements of this chapter.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure constructed after June 15, 1976, in accordance
with HUD manufactured home construction and safety standards, and is
transportable in one (1) or more sections, which, in the traveling mode, is
eight (8) body feet or more in width or is forty (40) body feet or more in
length, or when erected on site, is three hundred twenty (320) or more square
feet, and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a
dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required
utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning and electrical
systems contained within. Except, that such term shall include any structure
which meets all the requirements of this section except the size requirements
and with respect to which the manufacturer voluntarily files a certification
required by the secretary of housing and urban development and complies with
the standards established under 42 USC 5401 et seq.
MANUFACTURED HOME AREA: An area of definite dimensions which has been planned
and improved for the placement of manufactured homes exclusively and within
which the individual lots comprising it are offered for sale.
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK: Any lot or tract of land or contiguous lots under
single ownership, upon which two (2) or more manufactured home habitations are
parked, either free of charge or for revenue purposes; including any roadway,
building, structure, vehicle or enclosure used as part of the facilities of
such park.
MOBILE HOME: A factory assembled structure or structures generally constructed
prior to June 15, 1976, and equipped with the necessary service connections and
made so as to be readily movable as a unit or units on their own running gear,
and designed to be used as a dwelling unit or units with or without a permanent
foundation.
MODULAR BUILDING: Any building or building component, other than a manufactured
or mobile home, which is of closed construction and is either entirely or
substantially prefabricated or assembled at a place other than the building
site.
PARK MODEL RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A recreational vehicle that is designed to
provide temporary accommodations for recreational, camping or seasonal use, is
built on a single chassis, was originally mounted on wheels, has a gross
trailer area not exceeding four hundred (400) square feet in the set-up mode
and is certified by its manufacturer as complying with the American National
Standards Institute (ANSI) A119.5 Standard for Recreational Park Trailers. A
Park Model Recreational Vehicle may not be used as a dwelling or secondary
residence.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, trust, partnership or public or private
association or corporation.
SECONDARY RESIDENCE: A tiny home, defined herein, which may be used as a second
residence in those zones where it is permitted, or permitted by special use
permit, so long as it can be constructed within the minimum lot size, site area
and building setback requirements for the respective zone. Only one (1)
secondary residence may be constructed on a parcel of land or lot of whatever
size in common ownership, within the zone in question.
SITE AREA: Applies to the applicable zone.
TINY HOME: A residential structure, four hundred (400) square feet or less in
floor area excluding lofts, which may be site built or a modular building as
defined by Idaho Code §39-4301, which bears the insignia of the Idaho division
of building safety, used as a single family dwelling or secondary residence,
located on a foundation, and in compliance with City building, electrical,
plumbing water, sewer and zoning regulations. A 'tiny home' on a trailer
chassis, with axles and wheels, or otherwise not permanently attached to a
foundation, does not meet this definition. A Tiny Home may be used as a single
family dwelling or secondary residence. (Ord. 396, 2-12-2009; amd. Ord. 456, 7-
11-2019)
7-4-2: PUBLICATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE:
   A.   Adoption: The "Idaho Manufactured Home Installation Standard" and the
requirements for Tiny Houses, Manufactured Homes, Modular Buildings and
Recreational Vehicles published by the state of Idaho divisions of building and
safety, are hereby adopted by reference. At any point in time, the current
edition of each of the uniform codes herein adopted, together with all
amendments, appendices and supplements thereto, including related fee
schedules, shall be the code in effect within the city limits of the city of
Plummer.
   B.   Effective Dates: The adopted versions of the foregoing codes shall be
deemed superseded by successive versions of such codes as they are adopted or
approved by the Idaho building code board effective on the date any such codes
are made effective by the Idaho building code board.
   C.   Copies On File: One copy of said codes, as adopted in subsection A of
this section, or such additional number as may be required by Idaho state law,
shall be and remain on file in the office of the city clerk for use and
examination by the public. (Ord. 396, 2-12-2009; amd. Ord. 456, 7-11-2019)
7-4-3: MOBILE AND MANUFACTURED HOMES, TINY HOMES AND MODULAR BUILDINGS:
   A.   The installation, erection, and/or assembly of mobile or manufactured
homes, tiny homes and modular buildings shall be governed by the requirements
of the most current edition of the "Idaho Manufactured Home Installation
Standard" and requirements for Tiny Houses, Manufactured Homes, Modular
Buildings and Recreational Vehicles published by the state of Idaho divisions
of building and safety. Systems not covered by the standard shall be governed
by the conditions of approval of the state of Idaho. Permanent foundation
systems not specifically covered in the standard shall be designed by a
professional engineer, licensed by the state of Idaho.
   B.   No mobile, manufactured home, tiny home or modular building shall be
installed on a building site unless it is approved and bears the insignia of
approval of the Idaho division of building safety, except as provided in this
paragraph. Any such building bearing an insignia of approval shall be deemed to
comply with codes, laws or rules enacted by the state of Idaho governing the
manufacture and construction of such building. No such building which has been
approved by the state of Idaho division of building and safety shall be in any
way modified prior to its initial occupancy, unless approval of that
modification is first made by the division. A tiny home which is site built
must comply with all requirements found in the most recent version of the Idaho
Residential Code applicable to such tiny homes as adopted by the city.
   C.   Any mobile or manufactured home, tiny home or modular building newly
set in the incorporated area of the city of Plummer, including within mobile
home parks, must be documented as meeting no less than a sixty (60) pounds per
square foot roof snow load for newly constructed mobile or manufactured homes.
Any mobile or manufactured or mobile home, tiny home or modular building that
is not listed as meeting the minimum roof snow requirements of this chapter may
satisfy these requirements by one of the following methods:
      1.   A self-supporting ramada (roof cover) is erected over the
manufactured or mobile home. Such a cover must meet the appropriate snow load
requirements as required in this chapter and the adopted codes specific to its
proposed location. A separate building permit shall be obtained for the ramada
prior to or at the same time as the setting permit.
      2.   An engineering report, with supporting calculations, shall be
prepared by a state of Idaho licensed professional engineer which documents
that the mobile or manufactured home is capable of resisting the snow loads
specific to its proposed location, pursuant to this chapter and the adopted
codes.
      3.   The mobile or manufactured home, tiny home or modular building is
altered so that It is capable of resisting the snow loads specific to its
proposed location. The submittal documents for such an alteration shall contain
supporting design calculations and be the design prepared by a state of Idaho
licensed professional engineer. (Ord. 396, 2-12-2009; amd. Ord. 456, 7-11-2019;
Ord. 474, 12-19-2024)
7-4-4: COMMERCIAL COACHES AND PARK MODEL RECREATIONAL VEHICLES:
   A.   Occupancy Prohibited: Except as otherwise provided in this section, a
commercial coach or park model recreational vehicle shall not be occupied for
dwelling purposes.
   B.   Connection To Utilities Prohibited: Except as otherwise provided in
this section, a commercial coach or park model recreational vehicle shall not
be connected in any way to external sources of electricity or water, nor shall
it be connected in any manner to an external septic or other sewage storage or
disposal system, nor shall waste solids or liquids of any type be allowed to
drain from such a dwelling into or onto the ground.
   C.   Occupancy During Construction; Permit And Fee: A person desiring to
occupy a commercial coach or park model recreational vehicle on a temporary
basis while constructing an on site built home or tiny home, or installing an
approved manufactured home, may apply to city hall for a special permit to do
so. The city shall issue such a permit, subject to the following conditions:
      1.   Such a special permit shall be issued only concurrently with a
regular building permit to construct or install an approved type, permanent
dwelling on that same site. Such special permit shall expire one hundred twenty
(120) days from its date of issuance.
      2.   There shall be an administrative fee charged for such a special
permit, which shall be credited to the city's general fund. Such fee shall be
set by the city council and may be adjusted periodically.
      3.   As a condition of occupancy, the commercial coach or park model
recreational vehicle shall be connected to electric, water and sewage disposal
systems during occupancy, and shall be disconnected from such systems upon the
expiration of the special permit. It shall be then removed from the premises or
situated upon the premises in compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
   D.   Occupancy And Connection To Utilities: A commercial coach or park model
recreational vehicle may occupy space in an approved manufactured home park,
and may be occupied as a dwelling and shall be connected to suitable water,
electric and sewage disposal systems.
   E.   Occupancy Restricted: A commercial coach or park model recreational
vehicle may be occupied and connected to suitable water, electric and sewage
disposal systems when such a dwelling is situated within a city approved
campground providing such facilities. Such occupancy shall not be allowed
during the months of December through March.
   F.   Accessory Building: A commercial coach or park model recreational
vehicle may be utilized as an accessory or outbuilding to a main, approved
dwelling on that same property. However, cooking, laundering or bathing shall
not be performed within such a commercial coach or park model recreational
vehicle, nor shall it be connected in any manner to an outside water supply or
sewage storage or disposal system, nor shall it be situated upon a property in
a manner not in accordance with the provision of this code, nor shall it be
situated upon any public right of way or other city property.
   G.   Visitors/Guests; Permit: A visitor/guest desiring to occupy a self-
contained commercial coach or park model recreational vehicle while visiting a
resident may connect to electricity, water and a proper sewage disposal system
if available at the residence being visited, such connections to take place
only upon the lot being visited. The commercial coach or park model
recreational vehicle shall not be stationed upon any public right of way or
other city owned property.
      1.   As a condition of occupancy, the homeowner/resident must notify city
hall. After seven (7) days, the homeowner/resident must obtain a permit for
temporary occupancy from city hall.
      2.   Such a permit shall be issued for eight (8) days to thirty (30) days
and shall have an administrative fee to be set by resolution of the city
council, which is nonrefundable. The permit will have the commercial coach's
license or serial number and legal description. (Ord. 396, 2-12-2009; amd. Ord.
456, 7-11-2019)
7-4-5: PHYSICAL REQUIREMENTS FOR MANUFACTURED HOMES, TINY HOMES AND MODULAR
BUILDINGS; PERMIT:
Manufactured homes, tiny homes and modular buildings, wherever they may be
situated, shall require a city permit prior to installation on site and they
shall not be occupied for dwelling purposes if they do not meet the following
requirements:
   A.   They shall be provided with, and connected to, water, electric and
sanitary sewage disposal services at least equal to those required of
conventional on site constructed dwellings.
   B.   They shall be sited upon their lots in accordance with all applicable
city building and zoning regulations, including setback requirements.
   C.   Where required they shall be set on an excavated and backfilled
permanent foundation such that the structure is located not more than twelve
inches (12") above grade, except when placed on a basement foundation. The
structure shall have a pitched roof and exterior siding and roofing which in
color, material and appearance is similar to the exterior siding and roofing
material commonly used on residential dwellings.
   D.   Those manufactured homes, mobile homes, commercial coaches park model
recreational vehicles, which occupy space in manufactured home parks, shall
have permanent skirting installed of a material and color that blends
harmoniously with the rest of the exterior of the dwelling, to enclose all
areas between the lower edge of the outside walls and the finished grade. Such
skirting shall be installed within sixty (60) days of installation of the
dwelling on site. They shall have a minimum twenty four inch (24") crawl space
under the entire unit. Such crawl space shall be ventilated and shall have
access doors. They shall have permanent steps affixed to all exits. They shall
have the tongue removed.
   E.   All tiny homes used as a secondary residence are required to have
separate water, electric and sanitary sewage disposal services. (Ord. 396, 2-
12-2009; amd. Ord. 456, 7-11-2019)
7-4-6: PARK PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   Park Permit Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to construct,
alter or extend any manufactured home park within the limits of the city unless
he holds a valid permit issued by the city in the name of such person for the
specific construction, alteration or extension proposed.
   B.   Application For Permit: All applications for permits shall be made to
the city and shall contain the following:
      1.   Name and address of applicant.
      2.   Interest of the applicant in the manufactured home park/area.
      3.   Location and legal description of the manufactured home park/area.
      4.   Complete engineering plans and specifications of the proposed park
showing the following:
         a.   The area and dimensions of the tract of land.
         b.   The number, location and size of all manufactured home lots.
         c.   The location and width of roadways and walkways.
         d.   The location of service buildings and any other proposed
structures.
         e.   The location of water and sewer lines and riser pipes.
         f.   Plans and specifications of the water supply and refuse and
sewage disposal facilities.
         g.   Plans and specifications of all buildings constructed, or to be
constructed, within the manufactured home park/area.
         h.   The location and details of lighting and electrical systems.
   C.   Review Of Application: Each application for a building permit shall be
reviewed by the building inspector and the city council and shall be approved
by each before it shall become valid.
   D.   Revocation Of Permit; Forfeiture Of Fee: Should a building permit be
revoked for any fraud or other reason, which is the fault of the property owner
or contractor, the application process must be reinitiated and the previously
paid fee is forfeited.
   E.   Fee Schedules: Fee schedules shall be as set by the city council. (Ord.
396, 2-12-2009)
7-4-7: MINIMUM ACREAGE FOR MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR AREA:
A manufactured home park or manufactured home area shall have a total area of
not less than one acre. (Ord. 396, 2-12-2009)
7-4-8: RESPONSIBILITIES OF DEVELOPER:
   A.   Park Development Requirements: The developer of each manufactured home
park or manufactured home area shall be responsible for accomplishing any and
all of the following which may be required in the development of a manufactured
home park or area: opening and extending streets, alleys, drainage culverts,
purchase of all materials, extending water and sewer mains including any
required engineering, labor, pipes, manholes, cleanouts, shutoff valves, fire
hydrants, sewage lift stations, meters and any other required materials or
services, and extending electrical, gas, telephone, cable television or any
other services to and into the manufactured home park or area.
   B.   Utility Lines: The developer shall provide water, sewer and electric
stubs to the property line of each lot within a manufactured home area. Such
water and sewer stubs shall be connected to active city water and sewer mains.
   C.   Costs Borne By Developer: All costs whatsoever incurred in the
development of a manufactured home park or manufactured home area shall be
borne entirely by the developer of such a project and the city shall be
responsible for none of such costs unless the city council shall, by a majority
roll call vote of the full council, direct that the city shall participate to
some, specific, given extent in sharing certain costs with the developer.
   D.   Sight Obscuring Fence: The developer may be responsible for
installation of a permanent sight obscuring fence around the manufactured home
park, and suitable landscaping outside of that fence.
   E.   Playground Area: The developer shall provide for playground area within
the development boundaries if the manufactured home park has more than eight
(8) spaces and is intended for use by families with children under age fifteen
(15). This is to preclude the necessity of small children crossing roads to
gain access to play areas. (Ord. 396, 2-12-2009)
7-4-9: MANUFACTURED HOME PARK REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Compliance With Regulations: Manufactured home parks shall be
constructed and operated in accordance with this chapter and any other
applicable city ordinance, and with parts 2 through 10 (excluding the
definitions of manufactured home and manufactured home park) and with the
appendix figure A-2 of the publication NFPA 501A.
   B.   Parking Accommodations: Each individual home site must provide for
parking to accommodate two (2) vehicles off the street, drive, roadway or
walkways. (Ord. 396, 2-12-2009)
7-4-10: INSPECTION OF MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS:
   A.   The building inspector is hereby authorized and directed to make such
inspections as are necessary to determine satisfactory compliance with this
chapter and regulations issued hereunder.
   B.   The building inspector shall have the power to enter at reasonable
times upon any private or public property for the purpose of inspecting and
investigating conditions relating to the enforcement of this chapter and
regulations issued hereunder.
   C.   The building inspector shall have the power to inspect the register
containing a record of all residents of the manufactured home park.
   D.   It shall be the duty of the owners or occupants of the manufactured
home parks, and manufactured homes contained therein, or of the person in
charge thereof, to give the building inspector free access to such premises at
reasonable times for the purpose of inspection.
   E.   It shall be the duty of every occupant of a manufactured home park to
give the owner thereof, or his agent or employee, access to any part of such
manufactured home park or its premises at reasonable times for the purpose of
making such repairs or alterations as are necessary to effect compliance with
this chapter and regulations issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 396, 2-12-2009)
7-4-11: REFUSE HANDLING AND INSECT AND RODENT CONTROL IN MANUFACTURED HOME
PARKS:
   A.   The storage, collection and disposal of refuse in the manufactured home
park shall be so conducted as to create no health hazard, rodent harboring,
insect breeding areas, accident or fire hazards or air pollution.
   B.   All refuse shall be stored in flytight, watertight, rodentproof
containers, which shall be located not more than one hundred fifty feet (150')
from any manufactured home lot.
   C.   Containers shall be provided in sufficient number and capacity to
properly store all refuse.
   D.   Refuse collection stands shall be provided for all refuse containers.
Such container stands shall be so designed as to prevent containers from being
tipped, to minimize spillage and container deterioration and to facilitate
cleaning around them.
   E.   All refuse containing garbage shall be collected at least once weekly.
Where suitable collection service is not available from municipal or private
agencies, the manufactured home park operator shall provide this service. All
refuse shall be collected and transported in covered vehicles or covered
containers.
   F.   Grounds, buildings and structures shall be maintained free of insect
and rodent harboring and infestation. Extermination methods and other measures
to control insects and rodents shall conform with the requirements of the
health authority.
   G.   Parks shall be maintained free of accumulations of debris that may
provide rodent harboring or breeding places for flies, mosquitoes and other
pests.
   H.   Storage areas shall be so maintained as to prevent rodent harboring.
Lumber, pipe and other building materials shall be stored at least one foot
(1') aboveground.
   I.   Where the potential for insect and rodent infestation exists, all
exterior openings in or beneath any structure shall be appropriately screened
with wire mesh or other suitable materials.
   J.   The growth of brush, weeds and grass shall be controlled to prevent
harboring of ticks, chiggers and other noxious insects. Parks shall be so
maintained as to prevent the growth of ragweed, poison ivy, poison oak, poison
sumac and other noxious weeds considered detrimental to health. Open areas
shall be maintained free of heavy undergrowth of any description. (Ord. 396, 2-
12-2009)
7-4-12: RESPONSIBILITIES OF PARK MANAGEMENT:
   A.   Park Management: Park management shall be responsible for the
following:
      1.   Ensure that the manufactured home park is operated in compliance
with this chapter and provide adequate supervision to maintain the park, its
facilities and equipment in good repair and in a clean and sanitary condition.
      2.   Notify park occupants of all applicable provisions of this chapter
and inform them of their duties and responsibilities under this chapter.
      3.   Supervise the placement of each manufactured home on its
manufactured home pad or stand, which includes securing its stability and
installing all utility connections.
      4.   Maintain a register containing the names of all park occupants. Such
a register shall be available to any law enforcement officer and to any
authorized city employee or inspector.
      5.   Be liable for charges for calls for law enforcement assistance in
excess of two (2) per month per each residence. (Ord. 396, 2-12-2009)
7-4-13: PENALTY:
Each person in violation of any provision of this chapter shall have committed
an infraction offense, and each day that each violation continues shall
constitute a separate infraction offense. The penalty for each violation shall
be that prescribed by subsection
1-4-1B of this code establishing the penalty for infraction offenses. (Ord.
396, 2-12-2009)
TITLE 8
ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
PURPOSE AND INTERPRETATION
SECTION:
8-1-1: Purpose Of Zoning Title
8-1-2: Interpretation
8-1-1: PURPOSE OF ZONING TITLE:
The Zoning regulations and districts as herein established have been made in
accordance with a Comprehensive Plan for the purpose of promoting the health,
safety, morals and general welfare of the City. They have been designed to
lessen the congestion in the streets; to secure safety from fire, panic and
other dangers; to provide adequate light and air; to prevent the overcrowding
of land; to avoid undue concentration of population; to facilitate the adequate
provisions of transportation, water, sewage, schools, parks and other public
requirements. They have been made with reasonable consideration, among other
things, for the character of the district and its peculiar suitability for
particular uses, and with a view of conserving the value of buildings and
encouraging the most appropriate use of the land throughout the incorporated
area of the City. (Ord. 320, 9-14-95)
8-1-2: INTERPRETATION:
   A.   In the interpretation and application of the provisions of this Title
the requirements will be held to be minimum requirements. This Title is adopted
in compliance with the Idaho Code for the purpose of promoting the health,
safety, and general welfare of the citizens of the City and the State.
   B.   When this Title imposes a greater restriction upon the use of buildings
or premises or requires larger spaces than are imposed by other codes,
resolutions, rules and regulations, or covenants the provisions of this Title
shall control. The provisions of this Title shall be so interpreted as shown on
the City Comprehensive Plan. (Ord. 320, 9-14-95)
CHAPTER 2
ZONING DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
8-2-1: Rules Of Construction
8-2-2: Definitions
8-2-1: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION:
The rules and definitions contained in this Chapter shall be observed and
applied, except when the content clearly indicates otherwise:
   A.   Words used in the present tense shall include the future and words used
in the singular number shall include the plural number and the plural the
singular.
   B.   The word "shall" shall be mandatory and not discretionary. The word
"may" is permissive.
   C.   The word "lot" shall include the word "piece" and "parcel"; the word
"building" includes all other structures of every kind regardless of similarity
to buildings and the phrase "used for" shall include the phrases "arranged
for", "designed for", "maintained for", and "occupied for". (Ord. 320, 9-14-95)
8-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
ACCESSORY BUILDING OR USE: Is one which:
   A.   Is subordinate to and serves a principal building or principal uses;
and
   B.   Is subordinate in area, extent, or purpose to the principal building,
or principal use served; and
   C.   Contributes to the comfort, convenience or necessity of occupants of
the principal building use served; and
   D.   Is located on the same zoning lot as the principal building or
principal use served with the single exception of such accessory off- street
parking facilities as are permitted to be located elsewhere that on the same
zoning lot with the building or use served.
   Except as provided for in section
7-4-4 of this code, an Accessory Building may not be connected to City
utilities, and may not be used as a dwelling or secondary residence.
ACREAGE: Any tract or parcel of land which has not been subdivided or platted,
in common ownership having an area of one acre or more.
AGRICULTURE: The tilling of soil, horticulture, floriculture, forestry,
viticulture, raising crops, livestock, farming, dairying and animal husbandry
including all uses customarily accessory and incidental thereto; but excluding
slaughterhouses, fertilizer works, bone yards and commercial feed lots.
ALLEY: A public right of way not over thirty feet (30') wide providing a
secondary means of access to abutting of property and not intended for general
use.
ALTERATIONS, STRUCTURAL: Any change, other than incidental repairs, which
should prolong the life of the supporting members of a building or structure,
such as bearing walls, columns, beams and girders.
AMENDMENT: A change in the wording context or substance of this Title, or
change of the zone of this Title when adopted by resolution, passed by the City
Council in the manner prescribed herein.
APARTMENT BUILDING: Any building or portion thereof which is designed and
built, rented, leased, let or hired out to be occupied or which is occupied as
the home or residence of five (5) or more families living independently of each
other and doing their own cooking in said building and shall include flats,
apartments and townhouses and condominiums.
AREA:
   Area Buildable: The space within the setback lines remaining on a lot after
the minimum open space requirements of this Title have been complied with.
   Area, Gross Floor:
   A.   Applying to floor area ratio is the sum of the gross horizontal areas
of the several floors inside the exterior walls of a building or a portion
thereof.
   B.   Applying to parking ratio is the entire square foot area of floor space
of a building which is enclosed and subject to heating and/or air conditioning,
less:
      1.   Any space used and occupied by central mechanical and/or electrical
equipment, elevator, escalator, conveyors, dumb-units, lifts, chutes, trash
disposal units, and fuel storage spaces;and
      2.   Public right of way and other similar enclosed spaces open to the
public.
   Area, Private Parking: An open graded surfaced or nonsurfaced area, other
than a street or public way, designed, arranged and made available for storage
of private passenger automobiles of occupants of the building or buildings for
which the parking area is developed.
   Area, Public Parking: An open area, other than a street or alley, used for
the temporary parking of vehicles and available for public use whether free,
for compensation or as an accommodation for clients or customers.
   Area, Setback: The space on a lot required to be left open and unoccupied by
buildings or structures, either by the front, side, or rear yard requirements
or the this Title or by delineation on a record subdivision map.
AUTO WRECKING YARD JUNK YARD: An outdoor space where junk, waste, discarded or
salvaged materials are stored or handled, including automobile wrecking yards,
and yards for used building materials, and places, or yards for storage of
salvaged building and structural steel materials and equipment, including used
machinery, trailers or construction equipment or parts thereof, excluding yards
or establishments for the sale, purchase or storage of used cars for machinery
in operable condition, and the processing of used, discarded or salvaged
materials as a part of a permitted manufacturing operation on the same
premises. An auto wrecking yard and junk yard are further defined as any use of
premises, excluding fully enclosed buildings, on which two (2) or more motor
vehicles not in operating condition are standing more than thirty (30) days, or
on which used motor vehicles, or parts thereof, are dismantled or stored.
BASEMENT: That portion of a building between floor and ceiling, which is partly
below and partly above grade, but so located that the vertical distance from
grade to ceiling is no more than six feet (6').
BUILDING: Any structure built for support, shelter or enclosure of persons,
animals, chattel, or movable property of any kind and which is permanently
fixed to the land.
   Building, Accessory: A building which is subordinate to, and the use of
which is incidental to that of the principal building or use on the same lot;
but not including any building containing a "dwelling unit" as hereinafter
defined.
   Building, Completely Enclosed: A building separated on all sides from the
adjacent open space or from other buildings or other structures by a permanent
roof and by exterior walls or party walls pierced only by windows and normal
entrance or exit doors.
   Building, Detached: A building surrounded by an open space on the same lot.
   Building, Existing: A building erected prior to the effective date of this
Title or one for which a legal building permit has been issued.
   Building, Government: A building owned or used by the Federal, State, County
or City government, or any political subdivision, agency or instrumentality
thereof or tribal government.
   Building, Height: The vertical distance measured from the average elevation
of the proposed finished grade at the front of the building to the highest
point of the roof for flat roof, to the deck line of a mansard roof or the
average height of the highest gable of a pitch or hip roof.
   Building, Line: A line established by this Title to govern the placement of
buildings with respect to highways, streets and alleys. The front line shall be
the front line as shown upon official plats of the property in all subdivisions
platted.
   Building, Nonconforming: Any building which does not conform to the
requirements of this Title.
   Building, Principal: A building in which is conducted the principal use of
the lot upon which it is situated.
CARPORT: A structure open on at least two (2) sides used to house or protect
motor vehicles which are owned or operated by the occupants of the principal
building.
CENTER, DAY CARE: See Nursery.
CENTER, MEDICAL HEALTH: See Clinic.
CERTIFICATE, ZONING: A notation attached to a building permit, occupancy permit
or business license, or issued separately by the City to certify that the
building, structure use, or occupancy specified thereon is in conformity with
all the provisions of this Title.
CITY: The City of Plummer, Idaho.
CLERK, CITY: The City Clerk of the City of Plummer, Idaho.
CLINIC: A building, other than a "hospital" as herein defined, used by two (2)
or more licensed physicians for the purpose of providing medical, dental, or
psychiatric services for outpatients only.
CLUB, FRATERNAL: The social use of a building of any premises by a nonprofit
association, where such use is restricted to enrolled members and their guests.
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: A plan, or any portion thereof adopted by the City Council
including such things as the general location and extent of present and
proposed housing, commercial uses, transportation, parks and other community
facilities.
CONDOMINIUM: A form of ownership of real property characterized by title
(created by statute) to a unit in a project together with an undivided real
estate interest in the common elements which are part of the project in
accordance with State law. The common elements generally are maintained by, but
not owned by, the owner's association. The common elements typically include
the land, roofs, floors, lobbies, and community space and facilities.
CONVALESCENT HOME: See Nursing Home.
DECIBEL: A unit of measurement of the intensity (loudness) of sound. Sound
level meters which are employed to measure the intensity of sound are
calibrated in "decibels".
DENSITY: A unit of measurements, the number of dwelling units per acre of land.
   Density, Gross: The number of dwelling units per acre of total land to be
developed including public right of way.
   Density, Net: The number of dwelling units per acre of land when the acreage
involved includes only the land devoted to residential uses, excluding public
right of way.
   Density Provisions: At the requirements for each land use district to
encourage, protect and preserve the health, safety and general welfare of the
area through standards which include yards, height, bulk, lot area, lot
coverage and occupancy limitation.
DISTRICT OF ZONE: A section or district of the City within which the standards
governing the use of buildings and premises are uniform.
DWELLING: A building, or portion thereof, containing one or more dwelling
units. The term does not include any "mobile home", “park model recreational
vehicle”, "motel" or "hotel", as defined herein.
   Dwelling, Multi-Family: A building, or a portion thereof containing at least
three (3) but not more than four (4) dwelling units.
   Dwelling, Single-Family: A building designed for use and occupancy by no
more than one family.
   Dwelling, Two-Family: A building designed for use and occupancy by no more
than two (2) families.
   Dwelling Unit: One or more rooms designed for, or used as a residence for
not more than one family, including all necessary household employees of such
family, and constituting a separate and independent housekeeping unit, with a
single kitchen permanently installed. The term does not imply or include such
type of occupancy as a club, sorority, fraternity or hotel.
ENGINEER, CITY: The engineer for the City of Plummer.
FAMILY: An individual doing his own cooking and living upon the premises as a
separate housekeeping unit, or a collective body of persons doing their own
cooking and living together upon the premises as a separate housekeeping unit
in a domestic relationship related by birth, marriage or other domestic bond as
distinguished from group occupying a boarding house, lodging house, club,
fraternity or hotel.
FARMING: See Agriculture.
FLOOD: A temporary rise in a stream, river or lake that results in water
overtopping its bank and inundating adjacent areas.
FLOOD PLAIN: A land adjacent to a body of water which has been or may be
hereafter covered by flood.
FOSTER HOME; GROUP HOME; INSTITUTION FOR MINOR CHILDREN: A place, home,
building, or location providing care of six (6) or more unrelated children as a
member of the household for the purpose of providing substitute parental care.
GARAGE, PRIVATE: A building or portion thereof, except a public garbage, used
or designed to be used for the storage of motor vehicles (see Repair, Motor
Vehicles).
GARAGE, PUBLIC: A building or portion thereof, except a private garage, unused
or designed to be used for the storage of motor vehicles (see Repair, Motor
Vehicle).
GRADE: The lowest point of elevation of the finished surface of the ground,
paving or sidewalk within the area between the building and a line six feet
(6') from the building.
GROUP HOME: See Foster Home.
HALF-WAY HOUSE: A facility operated by a person or persons, with or without
compensation, for the care of people who could be considered juvenile runaways
or underprivileged individuals. Occupancy of a half-way house may be on a
temporary basis. Those cared for in this type of facility shall not include the
mentally ill, drug addicts, or alcoholics in the literal sense of the term.
HEALTH DISTRICT: The Panhandle Health District (Region I).
HOME FOR THE AGED: See Nursing Home.
HOME OCCUPATION: Any gainful occupation including handicrafts, dressmaking,
millinery, laundering, preserving, office of a clergy, teaching music, dancing
and other instruction when limited to attendance of one pupil at a time and
other like occupations which meet all of the following conditions:
   A.   The use is clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the dwelling
for dwelling purposes.
   B.   The use is conducted entirely within a dwelling and is carried on by
the inhabitants thereof.
   C.   No article shall be sold or offered for sale on the premises, except
such as is produced by the occupants on the premises.
   D.   The use does not change the character of the dwelling or adversely
affect the uses permitted in the residential district.
   E.   The use creates no additional traffic and requires no additional
parking spaces.
   F.   No persons are employed other than those necessary for domestic
purposes.
   G.   Not more than one-fourth (1/4) the gross area of one floor of said
dwelling is used for such use.
   H.   The entrance to the space devoted to such use is from within the
building, except an occupation where State or Federal law requires a separate
entrance, and there shall be no major structural alterations or changes in the
dwelling.
   I.   In particular, a home occupation shall not include restaurant, grocery
stores, or any commercial manufacturing use specifically mentioned in some
other part of this Title.
   J.   Signs shall be limited to four (4) square feet and shall meet all
setback requirements of the specific zone.
HOSPITAL: An institution devoted primarily to the maintenance and operation of
facilities for the medical or surgical care of human patients for twenty four
(24) hours or more. The term hospital does not include clinic, convalescent,
nursing, or any institution operating solely for the treatment of mentally ill
person, drug addicts, alcoholics, or other types of cases necessitating
forcible confinement of patients.
HOSPITAL, ANIMAL: Any building or portion thereof designed or used for the care
or treatment of cats, dogs or other animals.
HOTEL: A building containing six (6) or more bedrooms where overnight lodging
without individuals cooking facilities is offered to the public for
compensation, primarily for the accommodation of transient guest.
INSTITUTION: A building housing any facility, however named, whether operated
for profit or not, operating for the treatment of mentally ill persons, drug
addicts, alcoholics or other types of cases necessitating forcible confinement
of patients.
INSTITUTION FOR MINOR CHILDREN: See Foster Home.
KENNEL, (DOG): Any premises or portion thereof, on which three (3) or more
dogs, six (6) months or older, are maintained, harbored, possessed, boarded,
bred or cared for.
KINDERGARTEN: A place, home, building, or location providing care, with
organized play and instruction, for more than five (5) children of preschool
age not residing on the same premises.
LABORATORY: A place devoted to experimental study such as, testing and
analyzing. Manufacturing of a product or products is not permitted.
LOT: For purposes of this Title, a lot is a parcel of land of at least
sufficient size to meet minimum zoning requirements for use, coverage, and
area, and to provide such yards and other open spaces as are herein required.
Such lot shall have frontage on a public or private street and may consist of:
   A.   A single lot of record;
   B.   A portion of a lot of record;
   C.   A combination of complete lots of record, of complete lots of record
and portions of lots of record, or of portions of lots of record;
   D.   A parcel of land described by meets and bounds, provided that in no
case of division or combination shall any residential lot or parcel be created
which does not meet the requirements of this Title.
   Lot, Corner: A lot which is bound on two (2) or more sides by street lines;
where the angle of intersection does not exceed one hundred thirty five degrees
(135°).
   Lot Coverage: The area of a lot occupied by the principal building or
buildings and accessory buildings.
   Lot, Interior: A lot other than a corner lot or reversed corner lot.
   Lot, Line: The boundary property line encompassing a lot. The front lot line
is the boundary line which abuts a public or private street. For a corner lot,
the owner may select either street line as the front lot line. The rear lot
line is the lot line along the alley, if there is an alley, or line most nearly
parallel to and most remote from the front property line, if no alley. All
other lot lines are side lot lines. An interior lot line is a side line in
common with another lot.
   Lot, Measurements:
   A.   Depth of a lot shall be considered to be the distance between the mid-
points of straight lines connecting the foremost points of the side lot lines
in front and the rearmost points of the side lot lines in the rear.
   B.   Width of a lot shall be considered to be the distance between straight
lines connecting front and rear lot lines at each side of the lot, measured
across the rear of the required front yard, provided, however, that width
between side lot lines in the foremost points (where they intersect with the
street line) shall not be less than eighty percent (80%) of the required lot
width, except in the case of lots on the turning circle of cul-de-sacs where
eighty percent (80%) requirements shall not apply, provided the width is no
less than twenty feet (20').
   Lot, Of Record: A lot which is part of a subdivision recorded in the office
of the County Recorder, or a lot or parcel described by meets and bounds, the
description of which has been so recorded.
   Lot, Outdoor Sales: Premises on which new or used passenger cars, trucks,
trailers, mobile homes, boats, farm machinery or other machinery or equipment
in operating condition are displayed in the open for sale or trade, and where
no repair or service work is done.
   Lot, Parking: An open, graded and surfaced area, other than a street or
public way, to be used for operable passenger automobiles and commercial
compensation, free or as an accommodation to clients or customers. Surfaced
area as used herein means hard surface including asphalt, concrete or similar
material.
   Lot, Reversed Corner: A corner lot, the rear of which abuts upon the side of
another lot, whether across an alley or not.
   Lot, Through: A lot other than a corner lot having frontage on two (2)
parallels or approximately parallel streets. On a through lot both street lines
shall be deemed front lot lines.
   Lot, Waterfront: A lot or parcel that adjoins or abuts the high water mark
of a lake, river or stream.
MANUFACTURED BUILDING: Any building or building's components, other than a
mobile home, which is constructed according to standards contained in the
city's building code as adopted or amendments thereto, which is of closed
construction and is either entirely or substantially prefabricated or assembled
at a place other than the building site.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure constructed after June 15, 1976, in accordance
with HUD manufactured home construction and safety standards, and is
transportable in one (1) or more sections, which, in the traveling mode, is
eight (8) body feet or more in width or is forty (40) body feet or more in
length, or when erected on site, is three hundred twenty (320) or more square
feet, and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a
dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required
utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning and electrical
systems contained within. Except, that such term shall include any structure
which meets all the requirements of this section except the size requirements
and with respect to which the manufacturer voluntarily files a certification
required by the secretary of housing and urban development and complies with
the standards established under 42 USC 5401 et seq.
MANUFACTURING, LIGHT: The processing, packaging treatment or fabrication of
goods and merchandise in a clean, quiet atmosphere, free of noise, odor, dust
and smoke.
MOBILE HOME: A factory assembled structure or structures generally constructed
prior to June 15, 1976, and equipped with the necessary service connections and
made so as to be readily movable as a unit or units on their own running gear,
and designed to be used as a dwelling unit or units with or without a permanent
foundation.
MODULAR BUILDING: Any building or building component, other than a manufactured
or mobile home, which is of closed construction and is either entirely or
substantially prefabricated or assembled at a place other than the building
site.
MOTEL: A building, or group of buildings on the same premises whether detached
or in connected rows, containing sleeping or dwelling units with garage space
or parking space located on the premises and designed for, or occupied by
travelers. The term includes, but is not limited to, any buildings or building
groups designated as auto courts, motor lodges, tourist courts or by any other
title or sign intended to identify them as providing lodging to motorist.
NONCONFORMING BUILDING: A building, or portion thereof, which was lawfully
erected or altered and maintained at the time this title was adopted, but which
because of the application of this title to it, it no longer conforms to the
use, height, or are regulations of the zone in which it is located.
NONCONFORMING USE: A use which was lawfully established and maintained at the
time this title was adopted, but which, because of the application of this
title to it, no longer conforms to the use regulations of the zone in which it
is located. A nonconforming building or nonconforming position of the building
shall be deemed to constitute a nonconforming use of the land on which it is
located.
NOXIOUS MATTER: A material which is capable of causing injury to living
organisms by chemical reaction or is capable of causing detrimental effects
upon the physical or economic well being of individuals.
NURSERY: A place, home, building, or location providing care, with or without
instruction, for more than five (5) children of preschool age, not residing on
the same premises.
NURSING HOME: A building, housing and facility, however named, whether operated
for profit or not, the purpose of which is to provide skilled nursing care and
related medical services for two (2) or more individuals suffering from
illness, disease, injury, deformity or requiring care because of old age.
OCTAVE BAND: A means of dividing the range of sound frequencies into octaves in
order to classify sound in pitch.
OCTAVE BAND FILTER: An electrical frequency analyzer designed according to
standards formulated by the American Standards association and used in
conjunction with a sound level meter to take measurements in specified octave
intervals.
OPEN SPACE: Any open area, including but not limited to the following: parks,
yards, playgrounds, beaches, waterways, parkways, and streets.
OUTDOOR ADVERTISING:
   Outdoor Advertising Display And Sign:
   A.   Any card, paper, cloth, metal, wooden or other display or device of any
kind or character, including but not limiting the same to any poster, bill,
printing, painting, or other advertisement of any kind whatsoever, including
statuary, placed for outdoor advertising purposes or on the ground or any tree,
wall, rock, fence, building structure or thing.
   B.   Outdoor advertising display and sign, does not include:
      1.   Official notices issued by any court or public body or officer.
      2.   Notices posted by any public officer in performance of a public duty
or by any person in giving legal notice.
      3.   Directional warning or information structures required by authorized
law or by Federal, State, County or City authority.
   C.   An outdoor advertising display or sign of any kind whatsoever, shall
not be placed on any public right of way, directional, information or control
structure not on any utility pole or structure.
   Outdoor Advertising Structure: A structure of any kind or character erected
or maintained for outdoor advertising purposes upon which any outdoor
advertising display may be placed.
PARCEL: A unit of land of contiguous quantity in the ownership of one person
and constituting a portion of a separate tract of land.
PARK, MOBILE HOME: Any lot or tract of land or contiguous lots under single
ownership, upon which two (2) or more manufactured home habitations are parked,
either free of charge or for revenue purposes; including any roadway, building,
structure, vehicle or enclosure used as part of the facilities of such park.
PARK MODEL RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A recreational vehicle that is designed to
provide temporary accommodations for recreational, camping or seasonal use, is
built on a single chassis, was originally mounted on wheels, has a gross
trailer area not exceeding four hundred (400) square feet in the set-up mode
and is certified by its manufacturer as complying with the American National
Standards Institute (ANSI) A119.5 Standard for Recreational Park Trailers. A
Park Model Recreational Vehicle may not be used as a dwelling or secondary
residence.
PARK, TRAVEL TRAILERS: Any tract, plot or site of land, of at least five (5)
acres in size, whereupon, two (2) or more travel trailers, recreational
vehicles, campers or motor homes are placed, located and maintained for
dwelling purposes.
PARKING SPACE: An off-street parking area for motor vehicles not less than nine
feet by twenty feet (9' x 20')in area having access to a public street, alley
or private driveway. In determining the gross area required for an off-street
parking lot requiring a specified number of parking spaces including driveways
and aisles, three hundred fifty (350) square feet per parking space shall be
used.
PRESCHOOL: See Nursery.
PUBLIC OFFICE BUILDING: A structure used as the office or for the purpose of
conducting official business by an agency of the Federal, State, County or City
government, or a political subdivision of the State of Idaho, or Coeur d'Alene
Indian tribal government.
PUBLIC UTILITY COMPLEX FACILITY: A public utility facility of major importance
involving construction of facilities of a complex nature including, but not
limited to: station houses or station grounds, pumping stations, power
substations, dam structures, fire station, telephone transmission stations,
telegraph stations, public libraries, railroad transportation lines or spurs,
railroad classification yards, high voltage or high pressure transmission
lines, or structures principally used in transmission of electricity, natural
gas or fuel.
PUBLIC UTILITY SERVICE: For the purpose of the regulations shall be defined to
include but no limited to: water, sewage, telephone, electricity, television,
and natural gas transmission lines and facilities, any public roads and
highways.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A motorized vehicle designed or used for human habitation
on a temporary basis for recreational or other related activities.
REPAIR: The reconstruction of renewal of any part of an existing building for
the purpose of its maintenance. The work "repair" or "repairs" shall not apply
to any other change in structure such as would be required by additions to or
remodeling of such structure.
REPAIR MOTOR VEHICLES:
   Repair, Major Motor Vehicle: General repair, engine rebuilding repair or
major reconditioning of worn or damaged motor vehicles or trailers, collision
service, including body, frame or fender straightening or repair; and the
overall painting of motor vehicles or trailers within an enclosed building.
   Repair, Minor Motor Vehicle: Incidental repairs, replacement of parts and
motor service to motor vehicles, but not including any operation specified
under "repair, major motor vehicle".
REST HOME: See Nursing Home.
RESTAURANT: Any land, building or part thereof, where meals are provided for
compensation, including among others, such uses as cafe, cafeteria, coffee
shop, lunch rooms, tea rooms and dining rooms.
SCHOOL PUBLIC OR PAROCHIAL: An institution conducting regular academic
instruction at elementary, secondary and college levels.
SCHOOL, TRADE OR INDUSTRIAL: An institution or facility conducting instruction
in technical, commercial or trade skills such as business, beauticians,
barbers, electronics, automotive and so forth.
SECONDARY RESIDENCE: A tiny home, defined herein, which may be used as a second
residence in those zones where it is permitted, or permitted by special use
permit, so long as it can be constructed within the minimum lot size, site area
and building setback requirements for the respective zone. Only one (1)
secondary residence may be constructed on a parcel of land or lot of whatever
size in common ownership, within the zone in question.
SIGN: A name identification, description display or illustration which is
affixed to or represented directly or indirectly upon a building, structure or
piece of land and which directs attention to an object, product, place,
activity, institution, organization or business. It does not include the flag,
pennant, or insignia of any nation, state, city or other political unit.
   Sign, Gross Area Of: The entire area within a single continuous perimeter
enclosing the extreme limits of such a sign and in no case passing through or
between adjacent elements of same, however, such perimeter shall not include
any structural elements lying outside the limits of such sign and not forming
an integral part of the display.
   Sign, Temporary: A sign other than one intended for permanent display.
SOUND LEVEL METER: An instrument standardized by the American Standards
Association for measurement of intensity of sound.
SPACE, OFF-STREET LOADING AND UNLOADING: Open off-street hard surfaced area of
land other than a street as public way, the principal use of which is for the
standing, loading and unloading of motor vehicles, tractors and trailers to
avoid undue interference with public streets and alleys.
STORY: That portion of a building included between the surface of any floor and
the upper surface of the floor next above, except that the topmost story shall
be that portion of a building included between the upper surface of the topmost
floor and the ceiling of roof above. If the finished floor level directly above
a basement, cellar or unused underfloor space is more than six feet (6') above
"grade" as defined herein for more than fifty percent (50%) of the total
perimeter or is more than twelve feet (12') above "grade" as defined herein at
any point, such basement, cellar or unused under-floor space shall be
considered as a story.
STORY, FIRST: The lowest story in a building which qualifies as a "story", as
defined herein, except that a floor level in a building having only one floor
level shall be classified as a first story, provided such floor level is not
more than four feet (4') below "grade", as defined herein, for more than fifty
percent (50%) of total perimeter, or more than eight feet (8') below "grade",
as defined herein, at any point.
STREET: A public right of way which provides vehicular and pedestrian access to
adjacent properties, the dedication of which has been officially accepted by
the City of Plummer. The term street; also includes the terms highway,
thoroughfare, parkway, road, avenue, boulevard, lane, place and other such
terms and is further defined as follows:
   Alley: A minor street providing secondary access at the back or side of a
property otherwise abutting a street.
   Arterial: A street designated in the Comprehensive Plan for the purpose of
carrying fast and/or heavy traffic into or out of the City with a minimum of
delay.
   Collector: A street designated in the Comprehensive Plan, for the purpose of
carrying traffic from minor or private streets to other collector streets and/
or arterial streets.
   Minor: A street which has the primary purpose of providing access to
abutting properties.
   Private: A street that is not accepted by the City of Plummer for
maintenance, but which provides vehicular and pedestrian access to abutting
properties. A private street may also be referred to as an "entrance",
"collector", "minor street", or "alley", in manufactured home parks.
STRUCTURAL ALTERATION: Any change, other than incidental repairs which would
prolong the life of the supporting members of the building, such as, bearing
walls, columns, beams, or girders.
STRUCTURE: An object constructed or erected which requires location on the
ground or is attached to something having a location on the ground, including
towers, smokestacks, overhead transmission lines, but not including fences or
walls used as fences less than eight feet (8') in height.
TAVERN: Building where alcoholic beverages are sold for consumption on the
premises, not including restaurants where the principal business is serving
food.
TINY HOME: A residential structure, four hundred (400) square feet or less in
floor area excluding lofts, which may be site built or a modular building as
defined by Idaho Code §39-4301, which bears the insignia of the Idaho division
of building safety, used as a single family dwelling or secondary residence,
located on a foundation, and in compliance with City building, electrical,
plumbing water, sewer and zoning regulations. A 'tiny home' on a trailer
chassis, with axles and wheels, or otherwise not permanently attached to a
foundation, does not meet this definition. A Tiny Home may be used as a single
family dwelling or secondary residence.
TOP SOIL: The darker colored, more friable upper portion of the soil, down to
such restrictions as claypans, hardpans, coarse sand and gravel or rock.
TOXIC MATERIALS: Those materials which are capable of causing injury to living
organisms by chemical means when present in relatively small amounts.
TRAILER, TRAVEL: A vehicular portable structure designed as a temporary
dwelling for travel, recreation and vacation use.
USE: The purpose for which land or a building thereon is designed, arranged or
intended or for which it is occupied, maintained or leased.
   Use, Principal: The main use of land or buildings as distinguished from a
subordinate or accessory use.
   Use, Prohibited: Prohibited use in specific zones are those uses not
specifically enumerated as permitted uses or special uses. Prohibited uses are
listed in this Title for purposes of clarity and emphasis only. Prohibited uses
mentioned include, but are not limited to, enumerated prohibited uses.
   Use, Special: A use listed among those classified in any given zone, but
permitted to locate only after review by the Council and the granting of a
"special use" permit imposing such performance standards as will make the use
compatible with other permitted uses in the same vicinity and zone and assure
against imposing excessive demands upon public utilities and facilities.
VARIANCE: A variance is the means by which an adjustment is made after review
by the Council in the application of the specific regulations of this Zoning
Title to a particular piece of property, which property, because of special
circumstances applicable to it, is deprived of privileges commonly enjoyed by
other properties in the vicinity and zone and which adjustment remedies
disparity in privileges.
YARD: An open space other than a court, on a lot, unoccupied and unobstructed
from the ground upward, except as otherwise provided in this Title.
   Yard, Front: A yard extending along the full length of the front lot line
between the side lot lines.
   Yard, Rear: A yard extending along the full length of the rear lot line
between the side lot lines.
   Yard, Side: A yard extending along a side lot from the front yard to the
rear yard.
ZONE OR DISTRICT: The words zone or district are interchangeable in this Title.
Zone or district means all land or water areas within a stated boundary. (Ord.
320, 9-14-95; amd. Ord. 456, 7-11-2019)
CHAPTER 3
ZONING DISTRICTS AND MAPS
SECTION:
8-3-1: Official Zoning District Map
8-3-2: Rules For Interpretation Of Zone Or District Boundaries
8-3-3: Application Of Zone District Regulations
8-3-1: OFFICIAL ZONING DISTRICT MAP:
   A.   Adoption: The city is hereby divided into zones or districts, as shown
on the official zoning map, which, together with all explanatory matter
therein, is hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this
title.
   B.   Attestation: The official zoning map shall be identified by the
signature of the mayor, attested by the city clerk:
      This is to verify that this is the Official Zoning District Map referred
to in Section 3 of this Ordinance No.            of the City of Plummer, Idaho.
   C.    Amendments:
      1. If, in accordance with the provisions of this title 1 , changes are
made in district or zone boundaries or other matter portrayed on the official
zoning district map, such changes shall be entered on the official zoning
district map promptly after the amendment has been approved by the council with
an entry on the official zoning district map as follows:
On (date) by official action of the Council, the following (change) (changes)
were made in the Official Zoning District Map: (brief description of nature of
change).
Which entry shall be signed by the mayor and attested by the city clerk. No
amendment to this title which involves matter portrayed on the official zoning
district map shall become effective until after such change and entry has been
made on said map.
      2.    No changes of any nature shall be made in the official zoning
district map or matter shown thereon except in conformity with the procedures
set forth in this title. Any unauthorized changes of whatever kind, by any
person or persons, shall be considered a violation of this title and punishable
as provided under section
8-18-7 of this title.
   D.    Final Authority: Regardless of the existence of purported copies of
the official zoning district map which may from time to time be made or
published, the official zoning district map which shall be located in the
office of the city clerk shall be final authority as to the current zoning
status of land and water area, buildings and other structures in the city.
   E.    Replacement Of Official Map:
      1.    In the event that the official zoning district map becomes damaged,
destroyed, lost or difficult to interpret, because of the nature or number of
changes and additions, the council shall by resolution adopt a new official
zoning district map which shall supersede the prior official zoning district
map. The new official zoning district map may correct drafting or other errors
or omissions in the prior official zoning district map, but no such corrections
shall have the effect of amending the original official zoning district map or
any subsequent amendment thereof. The new official zoning district map shall be
identified by the signature of the mayor attested by the city clerk:
         This is to verify that this Official Zoning District Map supersedes
and replaces the Official Zoning Map adopted (date of adoption of map being
replaced) as part of Ordinance No.            of the City of Plummer, Idaho.
      2.    Unless the prior official zoning district map has been lost, or has
been totally destroyed, the prior map or any significant parts thereof
remaining, shall be preserved, together with all available records pertaining
to its adoption or amendment. (Ord. 320, 9-14-1995)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 15 of this title.
8-3-2: RULES FOR INTERPRETATION OF ZONE OR DISTRICT BOUNDARIES:
When uncertainty exists as to the boundaries of zones or districts as shown of
the Official Zoning District Map, the following rules shall apply:
   A.    Boundaries indicated as approximately following the center line of
streets, highways or alleys shall be construed to follow such center lines;
   B.    Boundaries indicated as approximately following platted lot lines
shall be construed as following such lot lines;
   C.    Boundaries indicated as approximately following City limits shall be
construed as following such City limits;
   D.    Boundaries indicated as following railroad lines shall be construed to
be midway between the main tracks;
   E.   Boundaries indicated as following shorelines shall be construed to
follow such shorelines and legally established meander lines. In the event of
change in the shoreline, it shall be construed as moving with the actual
shoreline; boundaries indicated as approximately following center lines of
streams, rivers, canals, lakes, or other bodies of water shall be construed to
follow such center lines;
   F.    Boundaries indicated as following section or township lines shall be
construed as following such section of township lines;
   G.    Boundaries indicated as parallel to, extensions of features indicated
in subsections A through F above, be so construed. Distances not specifically
indicated on the Official Zoning District Map shall be determined by the scale
of the Map;
   H.    When physical or cultural features existing on the ground are at
variance with those shown on the Official Zoning District Map, or in the other
circumstances not covered in subsection A through G above, the Council shall
interpret the district or zone boundaries;
   I.    Where a district or zone boundary line divides a lot which was in
single ownership at the time of passage of this Title, the Council may permit,
as a special exception, the extension of the regulations for either portion of
the lot not to exceed fifty feet (50') beyond the district or zone into the
remaining portion of the lot. (Ord. 320, 9-14-95)
8-3-3: APPLICATION OF ZONE DISTRICT REGULATIONS:
The regulations set by this Title within each zone or district shall be minimum
regulations and shall apply uniformly to each class or kind of structure of
land use:
   A.    No building, structure, or land shall hereafter be used or occupied,
and no building or structure or part thereof shall hereafter be erected,
constructed, reconstructed, moved or structurally altered except in conformity
with all of the regulations herein specified for the zone or district in which
it is located.
   B.    No building or other structure shall hereafter be erected or altered
to:
      1.   Exceed the height regulations;
      2.    Accommodate or house a greater number of families;
      3.    Occupy a greater percentage of lot area;
      4.    Have narrower or smaller rear yards, front yards, side yards, or
other open space than herein required; or in other manner contrary to the
provisions of this Title.
   C.    No part of a yard, or other open space, or off-street parking or
loading space required about or in connection with any building for the purpose
of complying with this Title, shall be included as part of yard, open space, or
off-street parking or loading space similarly required for any other building,
unless otherwise provided for herein.
   D.    No yard or lot existing at the time of the passage of this Title shall
be reduced in dimension or area below the minimum requirements set forth
herein. Yards or lots created after the effective date of this Title shall meet
at least the minimum requirements. (Ord. 320, 9-14-95)
CHAPTER 4
A-1 AGRICULTURAL ZONE
SECTION:
8-4-1: Purpose
8-4-2: General Restrictions
8-4-3: Lot Size
8-4-4: Site Area
8-4-5: Uses Permitted
8-4-6: Uses Prohibited
8-4-7: Building Setback Requirements
8-4-8: Off Street Parking, Minimum Requirements
8-4-9: Sign Regulations
8-4-10: Special Uses
8-4-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the A-1 agricultural zone is to assure a proper economic and
physical environment for continued agricultural use of land; to maintain an
open rural character to viable agricultural areas; to assure compatible types
and densities of development on lands that are usable for agricultural
pursuits; and to minimize other land uses incompatible with farming. (Ord. 398,
8-14-2009)
8-4-2: GENERAL RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   The A-1 agricultural zone, is a land use classification suitable for
single- family dwelling units, tiny homes, manufactured homes, horticulture,
and animal husbandry.
   B.   In the A-1 zone, no building or premises shall be used, nor shall any
building or structure hereafter be erected or altered (unless provided in this
title) except for one or more of the uses in accordance with the following
standards of this chapter.
   C.   Persons and entities not engaged in agricultural pursuits in the
agricultural zone should be aware that the primary intention of the zone is to
permit usual acceptable farming and farming practices which may generate dust,
odor, smoke, noise, and vibration. During growing seasons machinery may be
operated at other than daylight hours; operations may involve the use and
spraying of herbicides or pesticides; and keeping animals may involve odors or
noises.
   D.   The agricultural zones are areas of the city where it is unlikely that
public water or sewer will be available. Accordingly, persons in the A-1 zone
should not expect such facilities to be provided.
   E.   No fence shall exceed five feet (5') in height in front of a dwelling
in the A-1 zone beginning at the farthest front corners of each side of the
house, or houses and attached garage or carport. Fences beginning at the
farthest front corner of each side of the house, or house and attached garage
or carport and extending rearward may be six feet (6') in height. Exceptions to
these heights may be considered as a special use permit.
   F.   Maximum height of buildings shall not exceed two (2) stories or thirty
feet (30'), except that structures may exceed this height by special use
permit. (Ord. 398, 8-14-2009; amd. Ord. 456, 7-11-2019)
8-4-3: LOT SIZE:
The minimum allowable lot size is five (5) acres with a minimum of one hundred
feet (100') of continuous frontage on a public or private street. (Ord. 398, 8-
14-2009)
8-4-4: SITE AREA:
The following site area requirements apply in the A-1 zone: On any parcel of
land or lot of whatever size a minimum of fifty percent (50%) of the area of
the site shall be left in open space free from all structures. (Ord. 398, 8-14-
2009)
8-4-5: USES PERMITTED:
On property meeting the minimum lot size requirement within the A-1 zone the
following uses are permitted:
   A roadside stand or other structure, not exceeding five hundred (500) square
feet of enclosed space for the display and sale of farm or nursery products
related to farming and as a seasonal convenience to the owner of the land. The
majority of the products sold at such stand shall be, or derived from, products
produced on the farm on which the roadside stand is located. Any such stand
shall be located a minimum of thirty feet (30') from the property line abutting
the street, in such a manner as to permit safe access and egress for
automobiles, and parking off of the street right of way.
   A single accessory dwelling on the same lot. Such accessory dwelling shall
not exceed one-half (1/2) of the ground floor footprint of the primary dwelling
or one thousand (1,000) square feet, whichever is greater.
   A tiny home, to be used as a single family dwelling or secondary residence,
limited to one per lot. Such tiny home shall not exceed one-half (½) of the
ground floor footprint of the primary dwelling or four hundred (400) square
feet in floor area, excluding lofts, whichever is lesser.
   Agricultural activity by the owner or tenant, including farming,
horticulture, viticulture, plant nursery, fish culture, animal and poultry
husbandry, and the necessary accessory uses for packing or storing the produce,
provided that the operation of the accessory use is clearly incidental to the
agricultural activity. The business of fur farms, the commercial slaughtering
of livestock or poultry, the processing of fish or meat is excluded.
   Forest management and other forest resource uses, including the harvesting
of timber in conformance with environmentally sound forest products.
   Garages, workshops, storage and other accessory buildings.
   Indoor or outdoor recreational facilities and parks.
   Kennel, coop, or other facility for the housing and caring for animals,
birds, or fish, whether for hire or otherwise, including an animal shelter,
wildlife refuge and fish farms.
   Livestock, as defined in section
8-2-2 of this title, shall be limited to one animal per clear acre devoted to
the animal and shall be kept within adequate fenced enclosures or buildings.
   Manufactured homes. It shall be set on an excavated and backfilled permanent
foundation such that the home is located not more than twelve inches (12")
above grade, except when placed on a basement foundation. The manufactured home
shall have a pitched roof and exterior siding and roofing which in color,
material and appearance is similar to the exterior siding and roofing material
commonly used on residential dwellings.
   Public utility facilities.
   Single-family dwelling, limited to one per lot.
   Small farm animals and poultry shall be kept under sanitary conditions with
particular emphasis placed on maintaining adequate control over odors emitted
and on adequate pest control. All animals and poultry shall be kept within
adequate fenced enclosures or buildings.
   Stables, barns, and other farm buildings and structures for housing
livestock, providing that they shall not be nearer than three hundred feet
(300') from any residence, except for the owner's residence.
   Temporary sales offices, construction trailers, or storage facilities for
subdivisions or building sites, during the period construction work is in
progress, but such temporary facilities shall be removed upon completion of the
construction work.
   The keeping of household pets in a dwelling unit or other location adjacent
to or accessory to a dwelling unit (e.g., outside doghouse, etc.). (Ord. 398,
8-14-2009; amd. Ord. 456, 7-11-2019)
8-4-6: USES PROHIBITED:
Auto wrecking and junk yards.
Concentrated animal feeding operations (CAFOs).
General commercial uses.
General manufacturing uses.
Mobile home parks.
Multi-family dwellings.
Slaughterhouses, rendering plants. (Ord. 398, 8-14-2009)
8-4-7: BUILDING SETBACK REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Residential structures:
 
Flanking street 20 feet
Front yard      20 feet
Rear yard       20 feet
Side yard       20 feet
 
   B.   Authorized accessory building or tiny home:
 
Flanking street 20 feet
Front yard      20 feet
Rear yard       20 feet
Side yard       20 feet
 
   C.   No accessory buildings or tiny home shall be erected within any
required setback or closer to any street than the primary residence unless
attached thereto. No separate accessory building or tiny home shall be erected
within five feet (5') of any other building, including structures exempted from
building permits due to size and/or use.
   D.   No separate dwelling shall be erected within ten feet (10') of any
other dwelling structure.
   E.   The following encroachments are permitted:
      1.   Balconies, decks and patios may encroach up to twenty five percent
(25%) of the depth of the setback.
      2.   Roof overhangs, eaves, and bay windows may encroach up to ten
percent (10%) of the depth of the setback.
   F.   Fences as allowed in section
8-4-2 of this chapter are permitted on the property line. (Ord. 398, 8-14-2009;
amd. Ord. 456, 7-11-2019)
8-4-8: OFF STREET PARKING, MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Each residence is required to have two (2) off street parking spaces
for vehicles located on the same lot as the use they are intended to serve.
Each tiny home shall have one (1) additional parking space for vehicles located
on the same lot as the use they are intended to serve.
   B.   All parking areas shall provide for proper drainage of on site surface
water.
   C.   No major recreational equipment shall be parked or stored on any street
or alley in a residential district to exceed twenty four (24) hours. For
purposes of these regulations, "major recreational equipment" is defined as
including boats and boat trailers, travel trailers, trailers, mobile homes,
park model recreational vehicles, pickup campers or coaches (designed to be
mounted on automotive vehicles), motorized dwellings, tent trailers, and the
like, and cases or boxes used for transporting recreational equipment, whether
occupied by such equipment or not.
   D.   Any use allowed by special use permit may be required to have a larger
number of off street parking spaces. (Ord. 398, 8-14-2009; amd. Ord. 456, 7-11-
2019))
8-4-9: SIGN REGULATIONS:
   A.   The purpose of this section is to establish standards for the
fabrication, erection, and use of signs, symbols, markings, and advertising
devices within the city. These standards are enacted to protect the public
health, safety and welfare of persons within the community. They are intended
to aid in the development and promotion of business and industry by providing
sign regulations which encourage aesthetic creativity, effectiveness and
flexibility of the design of such devices without creating detriment to the
general public. They are also intended to promote clear views of the natural
surroundings by minimizing visual clutter.
   B.   All signs must adhere to the following regulations:
      1.   No signs shall be placed in any public ROW except publicly owned
signs.
      2.   No sign imitating or resembling an official traffic or government
sign or signal shall be placed on property visible from any public right of
way.
      3.   No sign shall be constructed or erected so as to create a traffic
hazard. No sign shall emit audible sound, odor, smoke, steam, laser or hologram
lights.
      4.   It is the obligation of the owner of every sign within the city to
maintain the sign in a good state of repair at all times. A sign which, due to
structural weakness, design defect, or other reason, constitutes a threat to
the health, safety, and welfare of any person or property, must be repaired,
replaced or removed within thirty (30) days of notice from the city.
      5.   Signs located along Highway 95 shall also conform to Idaho state
transportation department regulations.
      6.   All signs shall be constructed in accordance with applicable
building and electrical codes.
      7.   Abandoned signs or any sign which identifies or advertises an
activity, business, service or event which is no longer produced, conducted,
performed or sold on the premises where the sign is located is prohibited and
must be removed within thirty (30) days of the use being vacated.
   C.   The following signs are allowed within the A-1 zone in conformance with
the size and setback standards set forth:
      1.   House number signs are required.
      2.   Real estate signs are permitted provided that they are no greater
than six (6) square feet in size. No real estate sign shall be posted on the
public right of way.
      3.   Nonilluminated signs for a permitted home occupation shall be
permitted, not to exceed sixteen (16) square feet in area and a maximum of four
feet (4') in height. Home occupation signs may be wall, freestyle or monument
signs and shall meet accessory building setback requirements in this chapter.
Signs with a closer setback may be allowed by special use permit.
      4.   Mobile signs and A-frame signs advertising services or goods for
sale shall be permitted on private property during hours of operation for a
permitted home occupation, not to exceed six (6) square feet per side.
      5.   Political signs provided that such signs shall not be posted in any
place or in any manner that is destructive to public property upon posting or
removal or creates a traffic hazard. No political sign shall be posted in a
public right of way nor shall any such sign be posted on a utility pole. All
candidates for public office, their campaign committees or other persons
responsible for the posting of campaign material shall remove such material
within two (2) weeks following election day.
      6.   Signs or bulletin boards for a church, school or any other public,
religious, or educational institution within residential districts shall not
exceed sixteen (16) square feet in size and may be erected not less than ten
feet (10') from the right of way line of any street or highway provided such
sign or bulletin board does not obstruct traffic visibility at street or
highway intersections. (Ord. 398, 8-14-2009)
8-4-10: SPECIAL USES:
On property meeting the minimum lot size requirement within the A-1 zone the
following uses may be permitted through the issuance of a special use permit
pursuant to chapter 16 of this title:
   Agri-related business.
   Bed and breakfast.
   Cemeteries and the buildings and structures incident thereto.
   Commercial boarding facilities.
   Commercial composting facility where the composting occurs for sale,
utilizing more than four hundred (400) square feet of land in which event the
following additional requirements shall apply:
   A.   The composting facility shall be located at least one hundred feet
(100') from the property line along any roadway.
   B.   The facility shall be located at least two hundred fifty feet (250')
from the property line adjoining any other property and shall have a buffer of
vegetation or fencing to screen the facility.
   C.   The facility shall be operated in a clean and orderly manner so that it
does not create a nuisance to any neighboring property.
   Communications antennas and towers up to forty five feet (45') in height
which are securely anchored. Antennas greater than forty five feet (45') in
height and tower mounted antennas shall require a statement from a registered
professional engineer regarding the structural integrity of the antenna and/or
tower.
   Farm retreat.
   Golf courses, driving ranges.
   Home occupations as defined in section
8-2-2 of this title.
   Institution of higher learning relating to agricultural pursuits.
   Nursing home; foster home; group home; and institution for minor children.
   Recreational vehicle parks and campgrounds with access from a collector
street and a maximum density of three thousand (3,000) square feet per
campsite.
   Research facilities dedicated to research in agriculture or animal
husbandry.
   Veterinary offices or hospitals. (Ord. 398, 8-14-2009)
CHAPTER 5
R-1 RURAL RESIDENTIAL ZONE
SECTION:
8-5-1: General Restrictions
8-5-2: Lot Size
8-5-3: Site Area
8-5-4: Uses Permitted
8-5-5: Uses Prohibited
8-5-6: Building Setback Requirements
8-5-7: Off Street Parking, Minimum Requirements
8-5-8: Sign Regulations
8-5-9: Special Uses
8-5-1: GENERAL RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   The R-1 rural residential zone, is a land use classification suitable
for single-family dwelling units, tiny homes, manufactured homes, and limited
agricultural uses.
   B.   In the R-1 zone, no building or premises shall be used, nor shall any
building or structure hereafter be erected or altered (unless provided in this
title) except for one or more of the uses in accordance with the following
standards of this chapter.
   C.   Maximum height of buildings shall not exceed two (2) stories or thirty
feet (30'), except that structures may exceed this height by special use
permit.
   D.   No fence shall exceed five feet (5') in height in front of a dwelling
in the R-1 zone beginning at the farthest front corners of each side of the
house, or houses and attached garage or carport. Fences beginning at the
farthest front corner of each side of the house, or house and attached garage
or carport and extending rearward may be six feet (6') in height. Exceptions to
these heights may be considered as a special use permit. (Ord. 398, 8-14-2009;
amd. Ord. 456, 7-11-2019)
8-5-2: LOT SIZE:
The minimum allowable lot size is one-half (1/2) acre (21,000 square feet) with
a minimum of one hundred feet (100') of continuous frontage on a public or
private street. (Ord. 398, 8-14-2009)
8-5-3: SITE AREA:
The following site area requirements apply in the R-1 zone: On any parcel of
land or lot of whatever size a minimum of fifty percent (50%) of the area of
the site shall be left in open space free from all structures. (Ord. 398, 8-14-
2009)
8-5-4: USES PERMITTED:
On property meeting the minimum lot size requirement within the R-1 zone the
following uses are permitted:
   A single accessory dwelling on the same lot. Such accessory dwelling shall
not exceed one-half (1/2) of the ground floor footprint of the primary dwelling
or one thousand (1,000) square feet, whichever is greater.
   A tiny home, to be used as a single family dwelling or secondary residence,
limited to one per lot. Such tiny home shall not exceed one-half (½) of the
ground floor footprint of the primary dwelling or four hundred (400) square
feet in floor area, excluding lofts, whichever is lesser.
   Garages, workshops, storage and other accessory buildings not to exceed one
thousand two hundred (1,200) square feet.
   Horticulture, viticulture, and nurseries, limited to those activities
suitable for the size of land and related conditions surrounding the property.
   Manufactured homes. It shall be set on an excavated and backfilled permanent
foundation such that the home is located not more than twelve inches (12")
above grade, except when placed on a basement foundation. The manufactured home
shall have a pitched roof and exterior siding and roofing which in color,
material and appearance is similar to the exterior siding and roofing material
commonly used on residential dwellings.
   Parks and recreational facilities controlled and maintained, either by the
city or a responsible homeowners' association approved by the city council.
   Single-family dwelling, limited to one per lot.
   Small farm animals and poultry shall be kept under sanitary conditions.
Particular emphasis shall be placed on maintaining an adequate control over
odors emitted and on adequate pest control. All poultry and animals shall be
kept within adequate fenced enclosures or buildings.
   Structures used to house and care for animals not to exceed one thousand
(1,000) square feet.
   Temporary sales offices, construction trailers, or storage facilities for
subdivisions or building sites, during the period construction work is in
progress, but such temporary facilities shall be removed upon completion of the
construction work. All temporary buildings shall be set back at least ten feet
(10') from all property lines. Continuation of such facilities beyond the
completion date of the project shall require a special use permit.
   The keeping of household pets in a dwelling unit or other location adjacent
to or accessory to a dwelling unit (e.g., outside doghouse, etc.) provided that
no more than three (3) household pets shall be kept outside of dwelling units
unless a greater number is authorized by special use permit. (Ord. 398, 8-14-
2009; amd. Ord. 456, 7-11-2019)
8-5-5: USES PROHIBITED:
Any use constituting a nuisance in fact.
Any use not reasonably compatible with the surrounding area.
Auto wrecking and junk yards.
General commercial uses.
General manufacturing uses.
Manufactured home parks.
Mining.
Multi-family dwellings.
Recreational vehicle parks, campgrounds.
Storage. No property in the R-1 zone shall be used as a storage area for any
purpose other than storage of material used in connection with the operation of
household and agricultural activities associated with the normal operation of
the uses permitted, except that property may be used for the storage of
materials used during the construction of the individual building on the
property. (Ord. 398, 8-14-2009)
8-5-6: BUILDING SETBACK REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Residential structures:
 
Flanking street 15 feet
Front yard      20 feet
Rear yard       20 feet
Side yard       15 feet
 
   B.   Authorized accessory building:
 
Flanking street 15 feet
Front yard      20 feet
Rear yard       10 feet
Side yard       10 feet
 
   C.   No accessory buildings or tiny home shall be erected within any
required setback or closer to any street than the primary residence unless
attached thereto. No separate accessory building or tiny home shall be erected
within five feet (5') of any other building, including structures exempted from
building permits due to size and/or use.
   D.   No separate dwelling shall be erected within ten feet (10') of any
other dwelling structure.
   E.   The following encroachments are permitted:
      1.   Balconies, decks and patios may encroach up to twenty five percent
(25%) of the depth of the setback.
      2.   Roof overhangs, eaves, and bay windows may encroach up to ten
percent (10%) of the depth of the setback.
   F.   Fences as allowed in section
8-5-1 are permitted on the property line. Fences containing poultry, pets, or
other animals shall be set back a minimum of five feet (5') from adjoining
property. (Ord. 398, 8-14-2009; amd. Ord. 456, 7-11-2019)
8-5-7: OFF STREET PARKING, MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Each residence is required to have two (2) off street parking spaces
for vehicles located on the same lot as the use they are intended to serve.
Each tiny home shall have one (1) additional parking space for vehicles located
on the same lot as the use they are intended to serve.
   B.   All parking areas shall provide for proper drainage of on site surface
water.
   C.   No major recreational equipment shall be parked or stored on any street
or alley in a residential district to exceed twenty four (24) hours. For
purposes of these regulations, "major recreational equipment" is defined as
including boats and boat trailers, travel trailers, trailers, mobile homes,
park model recreational vehicles, pickup campers or coaches (designed to be
mounted on automotive vehicles), motorized dwellings, tent trailers, and the
like, and cases or boxes used for transporting recreational equipment, whether
occupied by such equipment or not.
   D.   Any use allowed by special use permit may be required to have a larger
number of off street parking spaces. (Ord. 398, 8-14-2009; amd. Ord. 456, 7-11-
2019)
8-5-8: SIGN REGULATIONS:
   A.   The purpose of this section is to establish standards for the
fabrication, erection, and use of signs, symbols, markings, and advertising
devices within the city. These standards are enacted to protect the public
health, safety and welfare of persons within the community. They are intended
to aid in the development and promotion of business and industry by providing
sign regulations which encourage aesthetic creativity, effectiveness and
flexibility of the design of such devices without creating detriment to the
general public. They are also intended to promote clear views of the natural
surroundings by minimizing visual clutter.
   B.   All signs must adhere to the following regulations:
      1.   No signs shall be placed in any public right of way except publicly
owned signs.
      2.   No sign imitating or resembling an official traffic or government
sign or signal shall be placed on property visible from any public right of
way.
      3.   No sign shall be constructed or erected so as to create a traffic
hazard.
      4.   No sign shall emit audible sound, odor, smoke, steam, laser or
hologram lights.
      5.   It is the obligation of the owner of every sign within the city to
maintain the sign in a good state of repair at all times. A sign which, due to
structural weakness, design defect, or other reason, constitutes a threat to
the health, safety, and welfare of any person or property, must be repaired,
replaced or removed within thirty (30) days of notice from the city.
      6.   All signs shall be constructed in accordance with applicable
building and electrical codes.
      7.   Abandoned signs or any sign which identifies or advertises an
activity, business, service or event which is no longer produced, conducted,
performed or sold on the premises where the sign is located is prohibited and
must be removed within thirty (30) days of the use being vacated.
   C.   The following signs are allowed within the R-1 zone in conformance with
the size and setback standards set forth:
      1.   House number signs are required.
      2.   Real estate signs permitted provided they are no greater than six
(6) square feet in size. No real estate sign shall be posted in the public
right of way.
      3.   Nonilluminated signs for a permitted home occupation shall be
permitted, not to exceed sixteen (16) square feet in area and a maximum of four
feet (4') in height. Home occupation signs may be wall, freestyle or monument
signs and shall meet accessory building setback requirements for this chapter.
Signs with a closer setback may be allowed by special use permit.
      4.   Mobile signs and A-frame signs advertising services or goods for
sale shall be permitted on private property during hours of operation for a
permitted home occupation, not to exceed six (6) square feet per side.
      5.   Political signs provided that, such signs shall not be posted in any
place or in any manner that is destructive to public property upon posting or
removal or creates a traffic hazard. No political sign shall be posted in a
public right of way nor shall any such sign be posted on a utility pole. All
candidates for public office, their campaign committees or other persons
responsible for the posting of campaign material shall remove such material
within two (2) weeks following election day.
      6.   Signs or bulletin boards for a church, school or any other public or
religious or educational institution within residential districts shall not
exceed sixteen (16) square feet in size and may be erected not less than ten
feet (10') from the right of way line of any street or highway provided such
sign or bulletin board does not obstruct traffic visibility at street or
highway intersections.
      7.   Subdivision monument signs are permitted provided they do not exceed
thirty two (32) square feet in size, have a maximum height of four feet (4'),
and are landscaped around the base of the sign. (Ord. 398, 8-14-2009)
8-5-9: SPECIAL USES:
On property meeting the minimum lot size requirement within the R-1 zone the
following uses may be permitted through the issuance of a special use permit
pursuant to chapter 16 of this title:
   A roadside stand or other structure, not exceeding five hundred (500) square
feet of enclosed space for the display and sale of farm or nursery products
related to farming and as a seasonal convenience to the owner of the land. The
majority of the products sold at such stand shall be, or derived from, products
produced on the farm on which the roadside stand is located. Any such stand
shall be located a minimum of thirty feet (30') from the property line abutting
the street, in such a manner as to permit safe access and egress for
automobiles, and parking off of the street right of way.
   Accessory buildings in excess of one thousand two hundred (1,200) square
feet.
   Bed and breakfast.
   Churches.
   Communications antennas up to forty five feet (45') in height which are
securely anchored. Antennas greater than forty five feet (45') in height and
tower mounted antennas shall require a statement from a registered professional
engineer regarding the structural integrity of the antenna and/or tower.
   Dog kennel keeping greater than three (3) household pets outside of a
dwelling unit. Application must include plans for waste disposal, control of
odors, and control of noise.
   Forest management and other forest resource uses, including the harvesting
of timber in conformance with environmentally sound forest products. Wood waste
is required to be chipped, removed, or disposed of in a manner approved as part
of the special use permit.
   Foster home; group home; and institution for minor children.
   Government buildings of nonindustrial character, including emergency
services and offices.
   Home occupations as defined in section
8-2-2 of this title.
   Livestock not to exceed one large animal, as defined in section
8-2-2, per acre used solely for the purpose of keeping the livestock. Livestock
must be within a secure fence. An application for special use permit for
livestock must include plans for disposal of waste. Livestock which becomes a
nuisance must be removed from the R-1 zone.
   Nursing home.
   Public utilities facility, nonindustrial, noncommercial, and no storage.
   Temporary sales offices, construction trailers, or storage facilities for
subdivisions or building sites after the completion date of the project. All
temporary buildings shall be set back at least ten feet (10') from all property
lines. (Ord. 398, 8-14-2009)
CHAPTER 6
R-2 SUBURBAN RESIDENTIAL ZONE
SECTION:
8-6-1: General Restrictions
8-6-2: Lot Size
8-6-3: Site Area
8-6-4: Uses Permitted
8-6-5: Uses Prohibited
8-6-6: Building Setback Requirements
8-6-7: Off Street Parking, Minimum Requirements
8-6-8: Sign Regulations
8-6-9: Special Uses
8-6-1: GENERAL RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   The R-2 suburban residential zone, is a land use classification
suitable for single-family dwelling units, tiny homes, manufactured homes,
manufactured home parks, and multi-family dwelling units.
   B.   In the R-2 zone, no building or premises shall be used, nor shall any
building or structure hereafter be erected or altered (unless provided in this
title) except for one or more of the uses in accordance with the following
standards of this chapter.
   C.   Maximum height of buildings shall not exceed two (2) stories or thirty
feet (30'), except that structures may exceed this height by special use
permit.
   D.   No fence shall exceed four feet (4') in height in front of a dwelling
in the R-2 zone beginning at the farthest front corners of each side of the
house, or houses and attached garage or carport. Fences beginning at the
farthest front corner of each side of the house, or house and attached garage
or carport and extending rearward may be six feet (6') in height. Exceptions to
these heights may be considered as a special use permit. (Ord. 398, 8-14-2009;
amd. Ord. 456, 7-11-2019)
8-6-2: LOT SIZE:
The minimum allowable lot size is seven thousand five hundred (7,500) square
feet with a minimum of seventy five feet (75') of continuous frontage on a
public or private street. (Ord. 398, 8-14-2009)
8-6-3: SITE AREA:
The following site area requirements apply in the R-2 zone: On any parcel of
land or lot of whatever size a minimum of thirty percent (30%) of the area of
the site shall be left in open space free from all structures. (Ord. 398, 8-14-
2009)
8-6-4: USES PERMITTED:
On property meeting the minimum lot size requirement within the R-2 zone the
following uses are permitted:
   A single accessory dwelling on the same lot. Such accessory dwelling shall
not exceed one-half (½) of the ground floor footprint of the primary dwelling
or to one thousand (1,000) square feet, whichever is greater.
   A tiny home, to be used as a single family dwelling or secondary residence,
limited to one per lot. Such tiny home shall not exceed one-half (½) of the
ground floor footprint of the primary dwelling or four hundred (400) square
feet in floor area, excluding lofts, whichever is lesser.
   Duplex, triplex.
   Garages, workshops, storage and other accessory buildings not to exceed one
thousand two hundred (1,200) square feet.
   Manufactured homes. It shall be set on an excavated and backfilled permanent
foundation such that the home is located not more than twelve inches (12")
above grade, except when placed on a basement foundation. The manufactured home
shall have a pitched roof and exterior siding and roofing which in color,
material and appearance is similar to the exterior siding and roofing material
commonly used on residential dwellings.
   Parks and recreational facilities controlled and maintained, either by the
city or a responsible homeowners' association approved by the city council.
   Single-family dwelling.
   Small farm animals and poultry not to exceed six (6) in number. Particular
emphasis shall be placed on maintaining an adequate control over odors emitted
and on adequate pest control. All poultry and animals shall be kept within
adequate fenced enclosures or buildings under sanitary conditions. Fences and
structures must meet setbacks as required in section
8-6-6 of this chapter.
   Temporary sales offices, construction trailers, or storage facilities for
subdivisions or building sites, during the period construction work is in
progress, but such temporary facilities shall be removed upon completion of the
construction work. All temporary buildings shall be set back at least ten feet
(10') from all property lines. Continuation of such facilities beyond the
completion date of the project shall require a special use permit.
   The keeping of household pets in a dwelling unit or other location adjacent
to or accessory to a dwelling unit (e.g., outside doghouse, etc.) provided that
no more than three (3) household pets shall be kept outside of dwelling units.
(Ord. 398, 8-14-2009; amd. Ord. 456, 7-11-2019)
8-6-5: USES PROHIBITED:
Any use not reasonably compatible with the surrounding area.
Any use which creates a nuisance of fact.
Auto wrecking and junk yards.
General commercial uses.
General manufacturing uses.
Kennels.
Livestock.
Mining.
Outdoor advertising display signs or structures except temporary home
occupation signs.
Storage. No property in the R-2 zone shall be used as a storage area for any
purpose other than storage of material used in connection with the operation of
household and agricultural activities associated with the normal operation of
the uses permitted except that property may be used for the storage of
materials used during the construction of the individual building on the
property. (Ord. 398, 8-14-2009)
8-6-6: BUILDING SETBACK REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Residential structures:
 
Flanking street 10 feet
Front yard      15 feet
Rear yard       15 feet
Side yard       10 feet
 
   B.   Authorized accessory building or tiny home:
 
All sides 10 feet
 
   C.   No accessory buildings shall be erected within any required setback or
closer to any street than the primary residence unless attached thereto. No
separate accessory building or tiny home shall be erected within five feet (5')
of any other building, including structures exempted from building permits due
to size and/or use.
   D.   No separate dwelling shall be erected within ten feet (10') of any
other dwelling structure.
   E.   The following encroachments are permitted:
      1.   Balconies, decks and patios may encroach up to ten percent (10%) of
the depth of the setback.
      2.   Roof overhangs, eaves, and bay windows may encroach up to ten
percent (10%) of the depth of the setback.
   F.   Fences as allowed in section
8-6-1 of this chapter are permitted on the property line. Fences containing
poultry, pets, or other animals shall be set back a minimum of five feet (5')
from adjoining property. (Ord. 398, 8-14-2009; amd. Ord. 456, 7-11-2019)
8-6-7: OFF STREET PARKING, MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Each residence is required to have two (2) off street parking spaces
for vehicles located on the same lot as the use they are intended to serve.
Each tiny home shall have one (1) additional parking space for vehicles located
on the same lot as the use they are intended to serve.
   B.   Duplex or triplex is required to have two (2) off street parking spaces
per living unit located on the same lot as the use they are intended to serve.
   C.   Apartments, as allowed by special use permit, are required to have one
and one-half (11/2) parking spaces for each one bedroom unit, two (2) parking
spaces for each two (2) or more bedroom units located off street and not more
than three hundred feet (300') from the principal use.
   D.   Mobile home parks, as allowed by special use permit, are required to
have two (2) parking spaces per home site located not more than three hundred
feet (300') from the principal use.
   E.   All parking areas shall provide for proper drainage of on site surface
water.
   F.   No major recreational equipment shall be parked or stored on any street
or alley in a residential district to exceed twenty four (24) hours. For
purposes of these regulations, "major recreational equipment" is defined as
including boats and boat trailers, travel trailers, trailers, mobile homes,
park model recreational vehicles, pickup campers or coaches (designed to be
mounted on automotive vehicles), motorized dwellings, tent trailers, and the
like, and cases or boxes used for transporting recreational equipment, whether
occupied by such equipment or not.
   G.   Any use allowed by special use permit may be required to have a larger
number of off street parking spaces. (Ord. 398, 8-14-2009; amd. Ord. 456, 7-11-
2019)
8-6-8: SIGN REGULATIONS:
   A.   The purpose of this section is to establish standards for the
fabrication, erection, and use of signs, symbols, markings, and advertising
devices within the city. These standards are enacted to protect the public
health, safety and welfare of persons within the community. They are intended
to aid in the development and promotion of business and industry by providing
sign regulations which encourage aesthetic creativity, effectiveness and
flexibility of the design of such devices without creating detriment to the
general public. They are also intended to promote clear views of the natural
surroundings by minimizing visual clutter.
   B.   All signs must adhere to the following regulations:
      1.   No signs shall be placed in any public right of way except publicly
owned signs.
      2.   No sign imitating or resembling an official traffic or government
sign or signal shall be placed on property visible from any public right of
way.
      3.   No sign shall be constructed or erected so as to create a traffic
hazard.
      4.   No sign shall emit audible sound, odor, smoke, steam, laser or
hologram lights.
      5.   It is the obligation of the owner of every sign within the city to
maintain the sign in a good state of repair at all times. A sign which, due to
structural weakness, design defect, or other reason, constitutes a threat to
the health, safety, and welfare of any person or property, must be repaired,
replaced or removed within thirty (30) days of notice from the city.
      6.   All signs shall be constructed in accordance with applicable
building and electrical codes.
      7.   Abandoned signs or any sign which identifies or advertises an
activity, business, service or event which is no longer produced, conducted,
performed or sold on the premises where the sign is located is prohibited and
must be removed within thirty (30) days of the use being vacated.
   C.   The following signs are allowed within the R-2 zone in conformance with
the size and setback standards set forth:
      1.   House number signs are required.
      2.   A sign identifying apartment buildings, manufactured home parks and
other multi-family dwellings by name and address is permitted not to exceed
twelve (12) square feet in size. Freestanding or monument signs shall not be
more than four feet (4') in height and shall be set back a minimum of five feet
(5') from the property line and located within ten feet (10') of the entrance
to the premises. Wall signs shall be permitted on the main structure of office
building. A second sign, temporary or permanent, advertising the rental or
lease of units is also allowed provided it does not exceed the size of the
identifier sign. Directional signs and individual building signs within the
premises are allowed.
      3.   Real estate signs permitted provided they are no greater than six
(6) square feet in size. No real estate signs shall be posted in the public
right of way.
      4.   Nonilluminated signs for a permitted home occupation shall be
permitted, not to exceed sixteen (16) square feet in area and a maximum of four
feet (4') in height. Home occupation signs may be wall, freestyle or monument
signs and shall meet accessory building setback requirements for this chapter.
Signs with a closer setback may be allowed by special use permit.
      5.   Mobile signs and A-frame signs advertising services or goods for
sale shall be permitted on private property during hours of operation for a
permitted home occupation, not to exceed six (6) square feet per side.
      6.   Political signs provided that, such signs shall not be posted in any
place or in any manner that is destructive to public property upon posting or
removal or creates a traffic hazard. No political sign shall be posted in a
public right of way nor shall any such sign be posted on a utility pole. All
candidates for public office, their campaign committees or other persons
responsible for the posting of campaign material shall remove such material
within two (2) weeks following election day.
      7.   Signs or bulletin boards for a church, school or any other public or
religious or educational institution within residential districts shall not
exceed sixteen (16) square feet in size and may be erected not less than ten
feet (10') from the right of way line of any street or highway provided such
sign or bulletin board does not obstruct traffic visibility at street or
highway intersections.
      8.   Subdivision monument signs are permitted provided they do not exceed
thirty two (32) square feet in size, have a maximum height of four feet (4'),
and are landscaped around the base of the sign. (Ord. 398, 8-14-2009)
8-6-9: SPECIAL USES:
On property meeting the minimum lot size requirement within the R-2 zone the
following uses may be permitted through the issuance of a special use permit
pursuant to chapter 16 of this title:
   A single accessory dwelling on the same lot. Such accessory dwelling shall
not exceed one-half (1/2) of the ground floor footprint of the primary dwelling
or one thousand (1,000) square feet, whichever is greater.
   Accessory buildings in excess of one thousand two hundred (1,200) square
feet.
   Apartment buildings with four (4) or more living units. Separate structures
containing incidental uses such as an office, storage, laundry, and other
facilities to be used by occupants of the apartment.
   Bed and breakfast.
   Churches.
   Clubs, lodges, or fraternal organizations when not operated for profit.
   Communications antennas and towers no greater than forty five feet (45') in
height securely anchored.
   Foster home; group home; and institution for minor children.
   Government buildings of nonindustrial character, including emergency
services and offices.
   Home occupations as defined in section
8-2-2 of this title.
   Manufactured home parks as regulated by title 7, chapter 4 of this code.
   Ministorage.
   Neighborhood commercial businesses including eating establishments and
retail stores provided the property is accessed from a collector street.
   Nursery schools and daycare centers.
   Public schools, private schools, kindergartens.
   Public utilities facility, nonindustrial, noncommercial, and no storage.
   Temporary sales offices, construction trailers, or storage facilities for
subdivisions or building sites after the completion date of the project. All
temporary buildings shall be set back at least ten feet (10') from all property
lines. (Ord. 398, 8-14-2009)
CHAPTER 7
R-3 URBAN RESIDENTIAL ZONE
SECTION:
8-7-1: General Restrictions
8-7-2: Lot Size
8-7-3: Site Area
8-7-4: Uses Permitted
8-7-5: Uses Prohibited
8-7-6: Building Setback Requirements
8-7-7: Off Street Parking, Minimum Requirements
8-7-8: Sign Regulations
8-7-9: Special Uses
8-7-1: GENERAL RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   The R-3 urban residential zone, is a land use classification suitable
for single-family dwelling units, tiny homes, manufactured homes, manufactured
home parks, and multi-family dwelling units.
   B.   In the R-3 zone, no building or premises shall be used, nor shall any
building or structure hereafter be erected or altered (unless provided in this
title) except for one or more of the uses in accordance with the following
standards of this chapter.
   C.   Maximum height of buildings shall not exceed two (2) stories or thirty
feet (30'), except that structures may exceed this height by special use
permit.
   D.   No fence shall exceed four feet (4') in height in front of a dwelling
in the R-3 residential zone beginning at the farthest front corners of each
side of the house, or houses and attached garage or carport. Fences beginning
at the farthest front corner of each side of the house, or house and attached
garage or carport and extending rearward may be six feet (6') in height.
Exceptions to these heights may be considered as a special use permit. (Ord.
398, 8-14-2009; amd. Ord. 456, 7-11-2019)
8-7-2: LOT SIZE:
The minimum allowable lot size is seven thousand five hundred (7,500) square
feet with a minimum of seventy five feet (75') of continuous frontage on a
public or private street. (Ord. 398, 8-14-2009)
8-7-3: SITE AREA:
The following site area requirements apply in the R-2 zone: On any parcel of
land or lot of whatever size a minimum of thirty percent (30%) of the area of
the site shall be left in open space free from all structures. (Ord. 398, 8-14-
2009)
8-7-4: USES PERMITTED:
On property meeting the minimum lot size requirement within the R-3 zone the
following uses are permitted:
A single accessory dwelling on the same lot. Such accessory dwelling shall not
exceed one-half (1/2) of the ground floor footprint of the primary dwelling or
to one thousand (1,000) square feet, whichever is greater.
A tiny home, to be used as a single family dwelling or secondary residence,
limited to one per lot. Such tiny home shall not exceed one-half (½) of the
ground floor footprint of the primary dwelling or four hundred (400) square
feet in floor area, excluding lofts, whichever is lesser.
Apartment buildings with four (4) or more living units. Separate structures
containing incidental uses such as an office, storage, laundry, and other
facilities to be used by occupants of the apartment.
Duplex, triplex.
Garages, workshops, storage and other accessory buildings not to exceed one
thousand two hundred (1,200) square feet.
Government buildings of nonindustrial character, including emergency services
and offices.
Home occupations as defined in section
8-2-2 of this title.
Manufactured homes. It shall be set on an excavated and backfilled permanent
foundation such that the home is located not more than twelve inches (12")
above grade, except when placed on a basement foundation. The manufactured home
shall have a pitched roof and exterior siding and roofing which in color,
material and appearance is similar to the exterior siding and roofing material
commonly used on residential dwellings.
Parks and recreational facilities controlled and maintained, either by the city
or a responsible homeowners' association approved by the city council.
Public schools, private schools, kindergartens.
Single-family dwelling.
Temporary sales offices, construction trailers, or storage facilities for
subdivisions or building sites, during the period construction work is in
progress, but such temporary facilities shall be removed upon completion of the
construction work. All temporary buildings shall be set back at least ten feet
(10') from all property lines. Continuation of such facilities beyond the
completion date of the project shall require a special use permit.
The keeping of household pets in a dwelling unit or other location adjacent to
or accessory to a dwelling unit (e.g., outside doghouse, etc.) provided that no
more than three (3) household pets shall be kept outside of dwelling units.
(Ord. 398, 8-14-2009; amd. Ord. 456, 7-11-2019)
8-7-5: USES PROHIBITED:
Any use not reasonably compatible with the surrounding area or which creates a
nuisance of fact.
Accessory buildings in excess of one thousand two hundred (1,200) square feet.
Auto wrecking and junk yards.
General commercial uses.
General manufacturing uses.
Kennels.
Livestock, small farm animals and poultry.
Manufactured home parks.
Mining.
Storage. No property in the R-3 parks and recreational facilities controlled
and maintained, either by the city or a responsible homeowners' association
approved by the city council.
Zone shall be used as a storage area for any purpose other than storage of
material used in connection with the operation of household activities
associated with the normal operation of the uses permitted, except that
property may be used for the storage of materials used during the construction
of the individual building on the property. (Ord. 398, 8-14-2009)
8-7-6: BUILDING SETBACK REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Residential structures:
 
Flanking street 10 feet
Front yard      15 feet
Rear yard       15 feet
Side yard       10 feet
 
   B.   Authorized accessory building or tiny home:
 
All sides 10 feet
 
   C.   No accessory buildings or tiny home shall be erected within any
required setback or closer to any street than the primary residence unless
attached thereto. No separate accessory building or tiny home shall be erected
within five feet (5') of any other building, including structures exempted from
building permits due to size and/or use.
   D.   No separate dwelling shall be erected within ten feet (10') of any
other dwelling structure.
   E.   The following encroachments are permitted:
      1.   Balconies, decks and patios may encroach up to ten percent (10%) of
the depth of the setback.
      2.   Roof overhangs, eaves, and bay windows may encroach up to ten
percent (10%) of the depth of the setback.
   F.   Fences as allowed in section
8-7-1 of this chapter are permitted on the property line. (Ord. 398, 8-14-2009;
amd. Ord. 456, 7-11-2019)
8-7-7: OFF STREET PARKING, MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Each residence is required to have two (2) off street parking spaces
for vehicles located on the same lot as the use they are intended to serve.
Each tiny home shall have one (1) additional parking space for vehicles located
on the same lot as the use they are intended to serve.
   B.   Duplex or triplex is required to have two (2) off street parking spaces
per living unit located on the same lot as the use they are intended to serve.
   C.   Apartments are required to have one and one-half (11/2) parking spaces
for each one bedroom unit, two (2) parking spaces for each two (2) or more
bedroom units located off street and not more than three hundred feet (300')
from the principal use.
   D.   All parking areas shall provide for proper drainage of on site surface
water.
   E.   No major recreational equipment shall be parked or stored on any street
or alley in a residential district to exceed twenty four (24) hours. For
purposes of these regulations, "major recreational equipment" is defined as
including boats and boat trailers, travel trailers, trailers, mobile homes,
park model recreational vehicles, pickup campers or coaches (designed to be
mounted on automotive vehicles), motorized dwellings, tent trailers, and the
like, and cases or boxes used for transporting recreational equipment, whether
occupied by such equipment or not.
   F.   Any use allowed by special use permit may be required to have a larger
number of off street parking spaces. (Ord. 398, 8-14-2009; amd. Ord. 456, 7-11-
2019)
8-7-8: SIGN REGULATIONS:
   A.   The purpose of this section is to establish standards for the
fabrication, erection, and use of signs, symbols, markings, and advertising
devices within the city. These standards are enacted to protect the public
health, safety and welfare of persons within the community. They are intended
to aid in the development and promotion of business and industry by providing
sign regulations which encourage aesthetic creativity, effectiveness and
flexibility of the design of such devices without creating detriment to the
general public. They are also intended to promote clear views of the natural
surroundings by minimizing visual clutter.
   B.   All signs must adhere to the following regulations:
      1.   No signs shall be placed in any public ROW except publicly owned
signs.
      2.   No sign imitating or resembling an official traffic or government
sign or signal shall be placed on property visible from any public right of
way.
      3.   No sign shall be constructed or erected so as to create a traffic
hazard.
      4.   No sign shall emit audible sound, odor, smoke, steam, laser or
hologram lights.
      5.   It is the obligation of the owner of every sign within the city to
maintain the sign in a good state of repair at all times. A sign which, due to
structural weakness, design defect, or other reason, constitutes a threat to
the health, safety, and welfare of any person or property, must be repaired,
replaced or removed within thirty (30) days of notice from the city.
      6.   All signs shall be constructed in accordance with applicable
building and electrical codes.
      7.   Abandoned signs or any sign which identifies or advertises an
activity, business, service or event which is no longer produced, conducted,
performed or sold on the premises where the sign is located is prohibited and
must be removed within thirty (30) days of the use being vacated.
   C.   The following signs are allowed within the R-3 zone in conformance with
the size and setback standards set forth:
      1.   House number signs are required.
      2.   A sign identifying apartment buildings, and other multi-family
dwellings by name and address is permitted not to exceed twelve (12) square
feet in size. Freestanding or monument signs shall not be more than four feet
(4') in height and shall be set back a minimum of five feet (5') from the
property line and located within ten feet (10') of the entrance to the
premises. Wall signs shall be permitted on the main structure of office
building. A second sign, temporary or permanent, advertising the rental or
lease of units is also allowed provided it does not exceed the size of the
identifier sign. Directional signs and individual building signs within the
premises are allowed.
      3.   Real estate signs permitted provided they are no greater than six
(6) square feet in size. No real estate sign shall be posted on the public
right of way.
      4.   Nonilluminated signs for a permitted home occupation shall be
permitted, not to exceed sixteen (16) square feet in area and a maximum of four
feet (4') in height. Home occupation signs may be wall, freestyle or monument
signs and shall meet accessory building setback requirements for this chapter.
Signs with a closer setback may be allowed by special use permit.
      5.   Mobile signs and A-frame signs advertising services or goods for
sale shall be permitted on private property during hours of operation for a
permitted home occupation, not to exceed six (6) square feet per side.
      6.   Political signs provided that, such signs shall not be posted in any
place or in any manner that is destructive to public property upon posting or
removal or creates a traffic hazard. No political sign shall be posted in a
public right of way nor shall any such sign be posted on a utility pole. All
candidates for public office, their campaign committees or other persons
responsible for the posting of campaign material shall remove such material
within two (2) weeks following election day.
      7.   Signs or bulletin boards for a church, school or any other public or
religious or educational institution within residential districts shall not
exceed sixteen (16) square feet in size and may be erected not less than ten
feet (10') from the right of way line of any street or highway provided such
sign or bulletin board does not obstruct traffic visibility at street or
highway intersections.
      8.   Subdivision monument signs are permitted provided they do not exceed
thirty two (32) square feet in size, have a maximum height of four feet (4'),
and are landscaped around the base of the sign. (Ord. 398, 8-14-2009)
8-7-9: SPECIAL USES:
On property meeting the minimum lot size requirement within the R-3 zone the
following uses may be permitted through the issuance of a special use permit
pursuant to chapter 16 of this title:
   Bed and breakfast.
   Business, trade or industrial schools.
   Churches.
   Clubs, lodges, or fraternal organizations when not operated for profit.
   Foster home; group home; and institution for minor children.
   Home occupations as defined in section
8-2-2 of this title.
   Nursery schools and daycare.
   Public utilities facility, nonindustrial, noncommercial, and no storage.
(Ord. 398, 8-14-2009)
CHAPTER 8
C-1 GENERAL COMMERCIAL ZONE
SECTION:
8-8-1: Purpose And Intent
8-8-2: General Restrictions
8-8-3: Lot Size
8-8-4: Site Area
8-8-5: Uses Permitted
8-8-6: Uses Prohibited
8-8-7: Building Setback Requirements
8-8-8: Off Street Parking Requirements
8-8-9: Loading Space Requirements
8-8-10: Sign Requirements
8-8-11:    Fence Requirements
8-8-12:    Landscaping Requirements
8-8-13:    Special Requirements
8-8-14:    Special Use
8-8-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
   A.   The purpose of this chapter is to enact regulations that implement the
vision and goals of the comprehensive plan.
   B.   The Commercial district is intended to be the urban center of the city.
   C.   The code encourages the placement of buildings closer to each other as
well as closer to the street where pedestrian activity is expected to occur. As
sidewalks are a principal place of pedestrian movement and casual social
interaction, designs and uses should be complementary to that function. (Ord.
474, 12-19-2024)
8-8-2: GENERAL RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   The C-1 zone is a land use classification for a district suitable for
wholesale and retail sales, offices, service establishments and multi-family
housing.
   B.   In the C-1 zone, no building or premises shall be used, nor any
building or structure be hereafter erected or altered unless otherwise provided
in this title, except for one or more of the uses in accordance with the
following standards of this chapter.
   C.   All use types permitted in the C-1 zone shall be conducted entirely
within a building with the exception of vehicle/equipment rentals, vehicle/
equipment sales and parking lots. Retail outdoor storage may be approved by
special use permit. On outdoor sales and rental lots or premises, all new or
used passenger cars, trucks, trailers, mobile homes, boats, farm machinery or
other machinery or equipment, normally displayed for sales or rental purposes
on an open lot shall be in working order, if displayed in the open for public
view.
   D.   Maximum height of buildings shall not exceed two (2) stories or thirty
feet (35'), except that structures may exceed this height by special use
permit.
   E.   All refuse collection containers shall be maintained in a clean manner.
   F.   All commercial buildings must face a public street. All commercial
buildings must provide at least one customer entrance within fifty feet (50')
of an adjacent public sidewalk or within fifty feet (50') from the frontage
parcel boundary line where no sidewalk exists or will be constructed. Where
public sidewalk exists or is otherwise required to be constructed, pedestrian
access from the public sidewalk to the building entrance shall be provided and
must be protected from vehicular traffic and provide access for disabled
persons in a manner that complies with applicable state and federal law. This
standard does not apply to espresso stands or other small stands.
   G.   Commercial lots adjacent to residentially zoned properties shall have a
twenty foot (20') buffer along the abutting residentially zoned property.
Buffers shall not be used for the purpose of parking, loading, servicing or
other business activity.
   H.   Deliveries shall not be made off of US-95 or SH-5. All loading and
unloading of trucks shall be performed off of the traveled portion of side
streets and alleys.
   I.   Metal structures known as pole buildings and prefabricated structures
shall be sided on the front to give the general appearance of a stick built
structure.
   J.   If possible, voids between buildings should be removed to create a
continuous building line along the street. Building details should be simple
with an emphasis on shape, proportion, and texture rather than ornateness or
repetition. (Ord. 474, 12-19-2024)
8-8-3: LOT SIZE:
The minimum allowable lot size is seven thousand (7,000) square feet with a
minimum of fifty feet (50') of continuous frontage on a public street. (Ord.
474, 12-19-22024)
8-8-4: SITE AREA:
   A.   On a parcel of land or lot of whatever size in the C-1 zone a minimum
of twenty percent (20%) of the area of the site shall be left in open space
free from all structures.
   B.   Open space can be utilized for parking and landscaping as required in
section
8-8-12  of this chapter. (Ord. 474, 12-19-2024)
8-8-5: USES PERMITTED:
Assembly of products whose parts were manufactured elsewhere. Assembly, storage
of materials, and storage of finished products must be conducted within a
structure, providing the same takes place in a clean, quiet atmosphere, free of
noise, odor, dust and smoke.
Automobile service stations, convenience stores.
Automotive and/or equipment service, maintenance, repair, body and paint shops
provided that no more than two (2) inoperative vehicles or pieces of equipment
shall be stored outside of the building per bay. All storage of vehicles or
equipment must be on premises. Storage of additional vehicles awaiting work may
be allowed by special use permit.
Barbershops, beauty salons.
Beverage distribution facilities under fifteen thousand (15,000) square feet,
but not including bottling plants.
Clinics, dental offices.
Department, furniture, appliance stores, and lumberyards.
Drive-through facilities must have a stacking lane with a minimum of eighty
feet (80') in length for cars waiting to access a drive-through window. The
stacking lane must be contained entirely on private property between the public
right of way and the drive-through window. The stacking lane shall not
interfere with vehicle parking or circulation.
Eating or drinking establishments.
Espresso stands and other small standalone drive-up businesses under five
hundred (500) square feet. Drive-up stands shall be set back a minimum of
twenty feet (20') from all property lines and other buildings. A minimum of
forty five feet (45') in length shall be provided for cars waiting to access a
drive-through window. The stacking lane must be contained entirely on private
property between the public right of way and the drive-through window. The
stacking lane shall not interfere with vehicle parking or circulation.
Government buildings and offices, public buildings and offices, public
utilities installation.
Hotels, motels, or motor inns.
Indoor storage facilities, ministorage, self-storage units, garages for storage
of private passenger automobiles and recreational vehicles.
Indoor transfer, storage and warehouse facilities.
Laundromats, public laundry facilities.
Outdoor advertising display signs or structures shall be permitted in the
immediate use area only and in accordance with section
8-8-10  of this chapter.
Parks and recreational facilities controlled and maintained by the city or a
private landowner.
Pet shops and animal clinics when conducted wholly within an enclosed building.
Pharmacy.
Photographers, artist studios, galleries.
Professional or service offices, banks.
Public parking areas provided they comply with requirements in section
8-8-8  of this chapter.
Retail, service, or rental businesses. Businesses where over ten percent (10%)
of the goods offered for sale or rent are to be stored outdoors shall operate
under special use permit only.
Supermarkets, malls and other shopping facilities under fifteen thousand
(15,000) square feet. Public shopping facilities over fifteen thousand (15,000)
square feet may be allowed by special use permit.
Taverns
Temporary building or trailer for construction office purposes for a period not
to exceed the duration of such construction or six (6) months, whichever is the
lesser. Such structure shall not be used for human occupancy.
Temporary sales offices, construction trailers, or storage facilities for
subdivisions or building sites, during the period construction work is in
progress, but such temporary facilities shall be removed upon completion of the
construction work. All temporary buildings shall be set back at least ten feet
(10') from all property lines.
Theaters, libraries, museums, art galleries.
Vehicle, trailer and equipment sales and rental lots. All vehicles and
equipment stored outdoors shall be on a paved lot and in working order. (Ord.
474, 12-19-2024)
8-8-6: USES PROHIBITED:
Auto wrecking and junk yards.
Disposal of garbage or waste materials by sanitary landfill, fill and cover
method, composting, or incineration. Collection and/or storage of garbage or
waste materials for transfer to a disposal facility not within a structure.
Recycling Centers.
General manufacturing and processing uses unless they are part of the operation
of a business or service specifically permitted in the C-1 Zone.
Grain elevators.
Industrial uses.
Manufactured homes.
Mining, rock crushing or commercial excavation of building or constructing
materials.
Outdoor advertising display signs or structures on premises other than those
for which the principal use is intended.
Single-family dwellings, tiny homes, duplexes, and triplexes. Apartment
buildings may be allowed by special use permit.
Stockyards, kennels.
Vehicle, trailer or equipment sales or rental lots.
The preparation and processing of dust producing mineral product, including,
but not limited to, abrasive, cement, fertilizer, plaster, crushed stone,
mining, extraction of sand, gravel and/or topsoil. (Ord. 474, 12-19-2024)
8-8-7: BUILDING AND SETBACK REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   All buildings permitted in section
8-8-5  of this chapter, unless otherwise indicated:
 
Flanking street    10 feet, 20 feet maximum
Front yard         5 feet minimum, 20 feet maximum
Rear or side alley 10 feet
Side yard          0 feet minimum, 10 feet maximum
 
   B.   The following encroachments are permitted:
      1.   Awnings may encroach upon the public sidewalk without limit, but
shall provide a minimum height clearance of ten feet (10').
      2.   Balconies and bay windows may encroach up to twenty five percent
(25%) of the depth of the setback.
      3.   Roof overhangs and eaves may encroach up to ten percent (10%) of the
depth of the setback.
      4.   Patios may encroach one hundred percent (100%) of the depth of a
front setback.
      5.   Open porches may encroach fifty percent (50%) of the depth of a
front setback.
   C.    All freestanding signs as permitted in this chapter must be set back a
minimum of five feet (5') from all property lines.
   D.   Voids between buildings should be removed when possible to create a
continuous building line along the street. (Ord. 474, 12-19-2024)
8-8-8: OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   All off street parking areas with five (5) or more parking spaces shall
be paved. Off street parking areas with four (4) or fewer spaces may be
surfaced with gravel, or a similar stabilized surface. All parking areas,
regardless of the number of spaces, shall be maintained in good condition and
kept free of trash and other debris. Driveway approaches to off street parking
areas with five (5) or more parking spaces shall also be paved if the street it
is connecting to is paved.
   B.   Prior to development of any parking area in excess of two (2) spaces, a
detailed written report shall be submitted containing the following
information:
      1.   The proposed use of the land and/or structures.
      2.   Proposed plan for handling any parking or traffic flow problems that
may be generated by this use. The proposed use shall not cause congestion of
adjacent streets or alleyways.
      3.   Proposed plan for snow storage and removal. Pushing or stockpiling
of snow from private property into the public streets, highways, alleyways, or
rights-of-way is prohibited.
      4.   Stormwater drainage for all parking areas, service drives, and
approaches.
   C.   Groups of two (2) or more parking spaces shall be served by a service
drive so that no backward movement or other maneuvering of a vehicle within a
street will be required. Service drives shall be designed and constructed in
such a manner that any vehicle leaving or entering the parking area from or
onto a public or private street shall be traveling in a forward manner and
provide maximum safety for pedestrian and vehicular traffic on site. In no case
shall two-way and one-way driveways be less than twenty feet (20') and twelve
feet (12') wide, respectively. All parking areas will have specific points
designated as ingress or egress areas.
   D.   Parking facilities as required shall be used for vehicle parking only.
No automobile sales or storage, equipment or machinery sales or storage, dead
storage, outdoor sales, repair work, or dismantling of any kind shall be
permitted within the required parking spaces.
   E.   No parking area for more than ten (10) vehicles shall be closer than
twenty feet (20') to any dwelling unit, motel, school or hospital, or
institution for human care located on an adjoining lot, unless separated by a
screen consisting of a fence, wall, or planting not less than four feet (4')
nor more than six feet (6') in height and maintained in good condition.
   F.   In no case shall any part of a parking area by closer than four feet
(4') to any established road or alley right of way or adjoining property.
   G.   All uses in the C-1 zone shall have a minimum number of off street
parking spaces located not more than five hundred feet (500') from the
principal use as described below.
Apartment houses    1 space plus 1/2 space for every bedroom for each unit
Auto service garage 1 space for 2 fuel pumps plus 2 per service bay
Banks, financial institutions1 space for each 300 square feet gross floor area
Bowling alleys4 spaces for each alley or lane
Childcare centers1 space for every 10 children plus 1 for each employee
Church, auditorium, theater1 space for every 5 fixed seats or 1 per 100 square
feet if not fixed seats
Dance hall, skating rink, lodge hall1 space for each 100 square feet gross
floor area
Eating and drinking establishments1 space for each 100 square feet gross floor
area devoted to customer service and dining
Group housing1 space for each 3 units
Hospitals1 space per bed
Libraries, museums, art galleries1 space for each 400 square feet
Manufacturing1 space for every 2 employees plus 1 for each motor vehicle used
in the business
Medical and dental offices4 spaces for each doctor or 1 per 400 square feet
whichever is greater
Motel and hotels1 space for each unit plus 1 for every 2 employees
Nursing home1 space per 2 beds
Offices1 space for each 400 square feet gross floor area
Recreational facilities, pools1 space for each 5 persons in capacity
Retail stores1 space for each 300 square feet gross floor area
Retail stores of bulky merchandise1 space for each 600 square feet gross floor
area
Schools:
                   Business, technical, trade school1 space for every 2
                    students
                   Business trade or industrial schools1 space for each 3
                    classroom seats
                   Elementary, middle schools2 spaces per classroom
                   High schools1 space per 10 students plus 1 per teacher and
                    employee
                   Kindergarten, nursery school2 spaces for each classroom,
                    but not less than 6
Service establishments1 space for each 300 square feet gross floor area
 
Where the parking requirements for a use are not specifically defined in this
title, the parking requirements for such use shall be based upon the
requirements for the most comparable use specified in this title, or other
requirements based upon the best available information concerning the proposed
use.
   H.   Two (2) or more nonresidential uses may jointly provide and use parking
spaces when their hours of operation do not normally overlay, provided that a
written agreement shall be filed with the application for building permit.
Shared parking shall be no farther than five hundred feet (500') from the
building or use to be served.
   I.   ADA accessible parking spaces shall be provided in accordance with the
currently adopted building code and current ADA requirements.
   J.   All parking areas which are intended to be used during non-daylight
hours shall be properly illuminated to avoid accidents. Any lights used to
illuminate a parking lot shall be downward directed and shielded to minimize
glare on adjoining property.
   K.   All driveway approaches to State Highways shall be paved and meet Idaho
Transportation Department construction standards for approaches. All building
permit applications for properties with approaches to State Highways shall
provide a copy of the ITD approved approach permit to the City with the
building permit application.
   L.   On street parking spaces within five hundred feet (500') of the
business entrance shall be counted toward fulfilling the parking requirements
in this section.
All off street parking areas for property abutting SH-5 shall be accessed from
the alley side of the property. Access from a flanking street may be allowed by
special use permit. (Ord. 474, 12-19-2024)
8-8-9: LOADING SPACE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Loading space as hereinafter set forth shall be provided for all
permitted or special uses in the C-1 Zone off of public streets and not in the
front, provided however, that a greater number of spaces may be required in any
case where approval of a special use permit is involved.
   B.   On the same premises with every building hereafter erected which
contains more than five thousand (5,000) square feet and which is designed to
be occupied by any use requiring regular receipt or dispatch of merchandise by
truck, there shall be provided and maintained at least one loading space, not
less than thirty feet (30') in length and twelve feet (12') in width, exclusive
of access platform and maneuvering area.
   C.   In no case shall the required off street loading area be part of the
area used to satisfy the off street parking requirements. (Ord. 474. 12-19-
2024)
8-8-10: SIGN REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   The purpose of this section is to establish standards for the
fabrication, erection, and use of signs, symbols, markings, and advertising
devices within the city. These standards are enacted to protect the public
health, safety and welfare of persons within the community. They are intended
to aid in the development and promotion of business and industry by providing
sign regulations which encourage aesthetic creativity, effectiveness and
flexibility of the design of such devices without creating detriment to the
general public. They are also intended to promote clear views of the natural
surroundings by minimizing visual clutter.
   B.   All signs must adhere to the following regulations:
      1.   No signs shall be placed in any public right of way except publicly
owned signs.
      2.   No sign imitating or resembling an official traffic or government
sign or signal shall be placed on property visible from any public right of
way.
      3.   No sign shall be constructed or erected so as to create a traffic
hazard.
      4.   No sign shall emit audible sound, odor, smoke, steam, laser or
hologram lights.
      5.   It is the obligation of the owner of every sign within the city to
maintain the sign in a good state of repair at all times. A sign which, due to
structural weakness, design defect, or other reason, constitutes a threat to
the health, safety, and welfare of any person or property, must be repaired,
replaced or removed within thirty (30) days of notice from the city.
      6.   No lighted sign shall create a public nuisance or utilize an exposed
incandescent, metal halide, or fluorescent light bulb.
      7.   Lighting shall be designed, located, shielded, and directed to
prevent misdirected or excessive artificial light upon any adjacent public
right of way, surrounding property, residential property or in motorists'
vision.
      8.   Signs located along Highway 95 and State Highway 5 shall also
conform to Idaho state transportation department regulations.
      9.   The reduction or turning off of sign lighting during nonoperating
hours is encouraged.
      10.   All signs shall be constructed in accordance with applicable
building and electrical codes.
      11.   Abandoned signs or any sign which identifies or advertises an
activity, business, service or event which is no longer produced, conducted,
performed or sold on the premises where the sign is located is prohibited and
must be removed within thirty (30) days of the use being vacated.
   C.   The following signs are allowed within the C-1 zone in conformance with
the size and setback standards set forth:
      1.   Address numbers are required on the face of the building or sign
visible from the fronting street right of way for easy identification of the
property.
      2.   Hours of operation signs.
      3.   Signs located on private property, not oriented to the general
public, and intended to provide information or directions to those using the
facility.
      4.   Flags, symbols, or insignias.
      5.   Works of fine art displayed on private property within the setback
of a building.
      6.   Memorial signs or tablets, names of buildings and dates of erection,
when cut into or attached to the surface or facade of the building.
      7.   Religious symbols and seasonal decorations erected within the
appropriate holiday season.
      8.   One freestanding on premises sign no more than thirty feet (30') in
height, having a maximum total sign area of one hundred (100) square feet per
display area and located not closer than ten feet (10') to any street right of
way line and not closer than twenty feet (20') to any adjoining lot line may be
erected. There shall be only one freestanding sign for each building,
regardless of the number of businesses conducted in said building. Landscaping
is required around the base.
      9.   Wall mounted, on premises signs may have an area equivalent to one
and one-half (11/2) square feet of sign area for each linear foot of building
width occupied by such enterprise but shall not exceed a maximum area of one
hundred (100) square feet.
      10.   Signs painted directly on a wall shall not exceed fifteen percent
(15%) of the wall area.
      11.   Projecting signs may be placed on any building but shall not extend
more than three feet (3') from the surface to which it is attached. Signs
projecting over a public right of way must have at least ten feet (10') of
ground clearance.
      12.   Hanging signs may be placed on a building or underneath an awning
or colonnade, but may not project beyond the same. Signs hanging over a public
right of way must have at least eight feet (8') ground clearance.
      13.   Nonilluminated directional signs, not exceeding two (2) square feet
in size, may be placed at the vehicular entrances to a business set back a
minimum of five feet (5') from the street right of way.
      14.   Menu display boxes for drive-through facilities.
      15.   Manual changeable copy signs (reader boards) not to exceed sixteen
(16) square feet in size, with changeable copy limited to five (5) lines of
lettering and/or numbers not exceeding six inches (6") in height.
      16.   Portable signs and A-frame signs not to exceed six (6) square feet
per side are allowed within the setback area. Businesses must maintain a
minimum four foot (4') clearance around any sign located in the public
sidewalk.
      17.   Temporary signs not exceeding fifty (50) square feet in area
announcing the erection of a building, the architect, owner or contractor may
be erected for a period of sixty (60) days plus the construction period.
      18.   Real estate signs are permitted provided they are no greater than
twelve (12) square feet in size and set back a minimum of ten feet (10') from
the right of way line of any street or highway. Real estate signs no larger
than six (6) square feet in size can be set at the right of way line.
   D.   The following signs may be allowed within the C-1 zone by special use
permit:
      1.   Buildings over one hundred thousand (100,000) square feet may have
signs larger than those allowed above provided that a master sign plan is
submitted and approved as part of the special use permit process for the
facility.
      2.   Electronic message signs, signs with flashing lights, inflatable
signs or displays, and animated signs may be allowed by special use permit
provided that the council can determine that they will not create a nuisance to
the public or hazard for motorists. (Ord. 474, 12-19-2025)
8-8-11: FENCE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   When sight obscuring fences are required by this title to protect the
surrounding property owners, the use requiring the fence shall be the principal
party in erecting the fence at the time the use is started and they or future
owners shall be the principal party in maintaining the fence in a constant and
good state of repair to include painting, etc.
   B.   The council shall have the authority to require fencing or screening in
addition to what is specifically required elsewhere in this title. (Ord. 474,
12-19-2024)
8-8-12: LANDSCAPING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   A minimum of two percent (2%) of the total lot shall be beautified by
any of the following individual methods or any combination thereof:
      1.   Landscaped with trees, shrubbery, vines, ground covers, grass, or
any combination thereof, all of which should be drought tolerant.
      2.   Enhanced with pavers, concrete, or other beautified ground cover.
      3.   Enhanced with benches, planters, bicycle racks, garbage cans, or
other items for public use.
      4.   Beautified with public art approved by the City Council.
   B.   All landscaped areas shall be maintained in a healthy and thriving
condition free of weeds, trash and debris. All areas visible to the public
shall be maintained free of trash and debris.
   C.   Parking lots with more than twenty (20) parking spaces shall have a
minimum of one 15-gallon deciduous tree for every twenty (20) parking spaces.
Trees shall be evenly distributed throughout the parking area to provide shade
and visual relief.
   D.   Trees planted along a public street shall be done in compliance with
Plummer tree ordinance, title 5, chapter 4 of this code, and shall be
maintained in a manner to avoid interference with public utilities, sidewalks
and streets. (Ord. 474, 12-19-2024)
8-8-13: SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Sidewalks.
      1.   Sidewalks shall be required to be installed and maintained by the
property owner in the following circumstances:
         a.   Along the frontage of all State Highways in the C-1 General
Commercial zone;
         b.   Where sidewalks have been identified as necessary or desirable in
any transportation or sidewalk plan duly adopted by the City; or
         c.   Where adjacent parcels on two sides have existing sidewalks that
could be connected by a new sidewalk on the subject property.
      2.   Sidewalks so required shall be a minimum of six feet (6') in width
with curb cuts at each public street corner in accordance with ADA
accessibility standards.
      3.   Exception to sidewalk requirement: No sidewalk shall be required
when the site improvements and building costs are less than thirty thousand
dollars ($30,000.00), as determined by building permit valuation or from the
valid, signed contract to complete the work. If a footing and foundation only
building permit is issued, and a subsequent building permit is issued for the
structure that is to be placed on top of that same foundation, and the combined
valuation of both permits exceeds thirty thousand dollars ($30,000.00), then
for the purposes of this section both permits shall be considered as one permit
and sidewalks shall be required.
   B.   Flat roofs shall be enclosed by parapets a minimum of forty-two inches
(42") high, or as required to conceal mechanical equipment.
   C.   Any metal siding used shall be colored or painted to prevent glare.
   D.   Lighting placed upon the building shall be architecturally integrated,
downward directed and shielded, and shall not produce glare on public highways
and neighboring property. (Ord. 474, 12-19-2024)
8-8-14: SPECIAL USE:
On property meeting the minimum lot size requirement within the C-1 zone the
following uses may be permitted through the issuance of a special use permit
pursuant to chapter 16 of this title.
Animal clinic, veterinary office, or kennel with any animals to be kept
outdoors. Such facilities must be located at least three hundred feet (300')
from any residence including motels and hotels, except for owner's residences.
Apartment buildings with greater than four (4) living units. Apartment
buildings shall have a twenty foot (20') setback from streets, alleys and
adjoining property.
Beverage distribution facilities over fifteen thousand (15,000) square feet.
Bulk fuel storage, above or below ground bulk fuel or chemical storage other
than that required for a retail service station outlet. Such facilities shall
be located at least three hundred feet (300') from any residence and shall have
suitable loading and unloading spaces.
Call centers.
Church, and accessory buildings used for religious teaching.
Dry cleaners employing facilities for not more than one thousand (1,000) pounds
of dry goods per day and using carbon tetrachloride or other nonflammable
cleaning agents.
Foster home, group home, institution, nursery, kindergarten, halfway house, and
similar facility.
Hospitals or sanatoriums.
Manufactured home sales.
Mini-mall with individual storefronts not to exceed five thousand (5,000)
square feet of floor space.
Mortuary, undertaking establishments.
Multiuse building with residential units above or behind the commercial space.
Such residential use shall be secondary to the commercial use and its square
footage shall not exceed that of the commercial space. Each residential unit
shall have off street parking spaces as required for apartments and the
entrance to the living unit(s) shall be separate from that of the commercial
use.
Nursery schools and childcare centers. A fenced outdoor play area with a
minimum of one hundred (100) square feet per child to be cared for shall be
required.
Outdoor advertising display signs or structures other than for the immediate
use area.
Outdoor recreational facilities, sports arenas.
Outdoor storage of private passenger automobiles and recreational vehicles.
Radio, television or FM broadcasting stations which include aerials as an
integral part of the principal building. Communications antennas and towers
provided that antennas greater than forty five feet (45') in height and tower
mounted antennas shall require a statement from a registered professional
engineer regarding the structural integrity of the antenna and/or tower.
Recreational vehicle parks.
Retail, service, or rental businesses where more than ten percent (10%) of the
goods offered for sale or rent are to be stored outdoors.
Sale or rental facility where more than ten percent (10%) of the goods for sale
or rent are stored outdoors.
Schools, public, private, parochial, business, trade, or industrial.
Shopping facilities over fifteen thousand (15,000) square feet in size. A
traffic study may be required as part of the application if more than fifty
(50) vehicles per peak hour is anticipated.
Storage of vehicles and equipment awaiting repair work, bodywork, or painting.
Sight obscuring fencing may be required.
Transfer, storage and warehouse facilities using outside storage. Outside
storage must be within a minimum six foot (6') high sight obscuring fence or
equal in height to the stored material, whichever is greater.
Transit or trucking terminal.
No use shall be permitted, the nature or manner of operation of which shall be
determined by the city council to be unduly hazardous or injurious to other
properties in the vicinity or to the general public welfare by reason of the
emission or odor, dust, smoke, vibration, electrical or other disturbance.
(Ord. 474, 12-19-2024)
CHAPTER 9
C-2 MAIN STREET COMMERCIAL ZONE
(Rep. by Ord. 474, 12-19-2024)
 
CHAPTER 10
C-3 COMMERCIAL RESIDENTIAL MIX ZONE
SECTION:
8-10-1: General Restrictions
8-10-2: Lot Size
8-10-3: Site Area
8-10-4: Uses Permitted
8-10-5: Uses Prohibited
8-10-6: Building Setback Requirements
8-10-7: Off Street Parking, Minimum Requirements
8-10-8: Sign Requirements
8-10-9: Landscaping Requirements
8-10-10: Special Requirements
8-10-11: Special Uses
8-10-1: GENERAL RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   The C-3 commercial residential mix zone, is a land use classification
suitable for retail sales, offices, service establishments, single-family
dwelling units, tiny homes, manufactured homes, multi-family dwelling units,
and structures housing both commercial and residential uses.
   B.   In the C-3 zone, no building or premises shall be used, nor shall any
building or structure hereafter be erected or altered (unless provided in this
title) except for one or more of the uses in accordance with the following
standards of this chapter.
   C.   Maximum height of buildings shall not exceed two (2) stories or thirty
feet (30'), except that structures may exceed this height by special use
permit.
   D.   No fence shall exceed four feet (4') in height in front of a dwelling
in the C-3 zone beginning at the farthest front corners of each side of the
house, or house and attached garage or carport. Fences beginning at the
farthest front corner of each side of the house, or house and attached garage
or carport and extending rearward may be six feet (6') in height. Exceptions to
these heights may be considered as a special use permit. (Ord. 398, 8-14-2009;
amd. Ord. 456, 7-11-2019)
8-10-2: LOT SIZE:
The minimum allowable lot size is seven thousand (7,000) square feet with a
minimum of fifty feet (50') of continuous frontage on a public or private
street. (Ord. 398, 8-14-2009)
8-10-3: SITE AREA:
The following site area requirements apply in the C-3 zone: On any parcel of
land or lot of whatever size a minimum of thirty percent (30%) of the area of
the site shall be left in open space free from all structures. (Ord. 398, 8-14-
2009)
8-10-4: USES PERMITTED:
On property meeting the minimum lot size requirement the following uses are
permitted:
   A single accessory dwelling on the same lot. Such accessory dwelling shall
not exceed one-half (½) of the ground floor footprint of the primary dwelling
or to one thousand (1,000) square feet, whichever is greater.
   A tiny home, to be used as a single family dwelling or secondary residence,
limited to one per lot. Such tiny home shall not exceed one-half (½) of the
ground floor footprint of the primary dwelling or four hundred (400) square
feet in floor area, excluding lofts, whichever is lesser.
   Barbershops, beauty salons.
   Bed and breakfast.
   Commercial retail, service or office space with not more than three (3)
residential units above or behind the commercial space. Each residential unit
shall have a single off street parking space and an entrance to the living unit
(s) separate from that of the commercial use.
   Duplex or triplex.
   Eating or drinking establishments.
   Garages, workshops, storage and other accessory buildings not to exceed one
thousand two hundred (1,200) square feet.
   Government buildings and offices, public buildings and offices, public
utilities installation.
   Home occupations as defined in section
8-2-2 of this title.
   Manufactured homes. It shall be set on an excavated and backfilled permanent
foundation such that the home is located not more than twelve inches (12")
above grade, except when placed on a basement foundation. The manufactured home
shall have a pitched roof and exterior siding and roofing which in color,
material and appearance is similar to the exterior siding and roofing material
commonly used on residential dwellings.
   Outdoor advertising display signs or structures shall be permitted in the
immediate use area only and in accordance with section
8-10-8 of this chapter.
   Parks and recreational facilities controlled and maintained by the city or a
private landowner.
   Parks and recreational facilities controlled and maintained, either by the
city or a responsible homeowners' association approved by the city council.
   Photographers, artist studios.
   Private or public office buildings, banks.
   Retail, service, or rental businesses on a main floor, with the footprint
not to be in excess of five thousand (5,000) square feet. All of the goods
offered for sale or rent are to be stored indoors.
   Single-family dwelling.
   Temporary sales offices, construction trailers, or storage facilities for
building sites, during the period construction work is in progress, but such
temporary facilities shall be removed upon completion of the construction work.
All temporary buildings shall be set back at least ten feet (10') from all
property lines.
   The keeping of household pets in a dwelling unit or other location adjacent
to or accessory to a dwelling unit (e.g., outside doghouse, etc.) provided that
no more than three (3) household pets shall be kept outside of dwelling units.
(Ord. 398, 8-14-2009; amd. Ord. 456, 7-11-2019)
8-10-5: USES PROHIBITED:
Any use not reasonably compatible with the surrounding area.
Auto wrecking and junk yards.
Automobile service stations, automotive repair shops.
Disposal of garbage or waste materials by sanitary landfill or fill and cover
methods, or by composting or incineration. Collection of garbage or waste
materials for transfer to a disposal facility. Recycling centers.
Drive-through facilities.
General manufacturing and processing uses, industrial uses.
Outdoor advertising display signs or structures on premises other than those
for which the principal use is intended.
Small farm animals, poultry, and livestock.
Stockyards, kennels.
Storage of goods outdoors except for sales during business hours. (Ord. 398, 8-
14-2009)
8-10-6: BUILDING SETBACK REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Residential and commercial structures:
 
Flanking street 10 feet
Front yard      15 feet
Rear yard       15 feet
Side yard       10 feet
 
   B.   Authorized accessory building or tiny home:
 
All sides 10 feet
 
   C.   No accessory buildings or tiny home shall be erected within any
required setback or closer to any street than the primary residence unless
attached thereto. No separate accessory building or tiny home shall be erected
within five feet (5') of any other building, including structures exempted from
building permits due to size and/or use.
   D.   No separate dwelling structure shall be erected within ten feet (10')
of any other dwelling structure.
   E.   The following encroachments are permitted:
      1.   Balconies and bay windows may encroach up to twenty five percent
(25%) of the depth of the setback.
      2.   Roof overhangs and eaves may encroach up to ten percent (10%) of the
depth of the setback.
   F.   Fences as allowed in section
8-10-1 of this chapter are permitted on the property line. (Ord. 398, 8-14-
2009; amd. Ord. 456, 7-11-2019)
8-10-7: OFF STREET PARKING, MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   All off street parking areas and road approaches required for
commercial uses shall be paved.
   B.   Prior to development of any commercial parking area in excess of two
(2) spaces a detailed written report shall be submitted containing the
following information:
      1.   The proposed use of the land and/or structures.
      2.   Proposed plan for handling any parking or traffic flow problems that
may be generated by this use. The proposed use shall not cause congestion of
adjacent streets or alleyways.
      3.   Proposed plan for snow storage and removal. Pushing or stockpiling
of snow from private property into the public streets, highways, alleyways, or
rights of way is prohibited.
      4.   Stormwater drainage for all parking areas, service drives, and
approaches.
   C.   All commercial uses in the C-3 zone shall have a minimum number of off
street parking spaces as described below:
 
Eating and drinking establishments 1 space for each 100 square feet gross floor
                                   area
Offices                            1 space for each 400 square feet gross floor
                                   area
Retail stores                      1 space for each 300 square feet gross floor
                                   area
Service establishments             1 space for each 300 square feet gross floor
                                   area
 
   D.   Commercial uses not listed above shall have a minimum number of spaces
as required by special use permit.
   E.   No parking area for more than ten (10) vehicles shall be closer than
twenty feet (20') to any dwelling unit, motel, school or hospital, or
institution for human care located on an adjoining lot, unless separated by a
screen consisting of a fence, wall, or planting not less than four feet (4')
nor more than six feet (6') in height and maintained in good condition.
   F.   In no case shall any part of a parking area be closer than four feet
(4') to any established road or alley right of way or adjoining property.
   G.   All residential uses in the C-3 zone shall have a minimum number of off
street parking spaces as described below:
 
                       2 spaces, plus one (1) additional parking space for
Single-family dwelling vehicles located on the same lot as the use they are
                       intended to serve.
Duplex, triplex        2 spaces per living unit
Apartments             11/2 spaces for each 1 bedroom unit, 2 spaces for each 2
                       or more bedroom units
 
   H.   No major recreational equipment shall be parked or stored on any street
or alley in a residential district to exceed twenty four (24) hours. For
purposes of these regulations, "major recreational equipment" is defined as
including boats and boat trailers, travel trailers, trailers, mobile homes,
park model recreational vehicles, pickup campers or coaches (designed to be
mounted on automotive vehicles), motorized dwellings, tent trailers, and the
like, and cases or boxes used for transporting recreational equipment, whether
occupied by such equipment or not. (Ord. 398, 8-14-2009; amd. Ord. 456, 7-11-
2019)
8-10-8: SIGN REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   The purpose of this section is to establish standards for the
fabrication, erection, and use of signs, symbols, markings, and advertising
devices within the city. These standards are enacted to protect the public
health, safety and welfare of persons within the community. They are intended
to aid in the development and promotion of business and industry by providing
sign regulations which encourage aesthetic creativity, effectiveness and
flexibility of the design of such devices without creating detriment to the
general public. They are also intended to promote clear views of the natural
surroundings by minimizing visual clutter.
   B.   All signs must adhere to the following regulations:
      1.   No signs shall be placed in any public right of way except publicly
owned signs.
      2.   No sign imitating or resembling an official traffic or government
sign or signal shall be placed on property visible from any public right of
way.
      3.   No sign shall be constructed or erected so as to create a traffic
hazard.
      4.   No sign shall emit audible sound, odor, smoke, steam, laser or
hologram lights.
      5.   It is the obligation of the owner of every sign within the city to
maintain the sign in a good state of repair at all times. A sign which, due to
structural weakness, design defect, or other reason, constitutes a threat to
the health, safety, and welfare of any person or property, must be repaired,
replaced or removed within thirty (30) days of notice from the city.
      6.   No lighted sign shall create a public nuisance or utilize an exposed
incandescent, metal halide, or fluorescent light bulb.
      7.   Lighting shall be designed, located, shielded, and directed to
prevent misdirected or excessive artificial light upon any adjacent public
right of way, surrounding property, residential property or in motorists'
vision.
      8.   The reduction or turning off of sign lighting during nonoperating
hours is encouraged.
      9.   All signs shall be constructed in accordance with applicable
building and electrical codes.
      10.   Abandoned signs or any sign which identifies or advertises an
activity, business, service or event which is no longer produced, conducted,
performed or sold on the premises where the sign is located is prohibited and
must be removed within thirty (30) days of the use being vacated.
   C.   The following signs are allowed within the C-3 zone in conformance with
the size and setback standards set forth:
      1.   Address numbers are required on the face of the building or sign
visible from the fronting street right of way for easy identification of the
property.
      2.   Hours of operation signs.
      3.   Signs located on private property, not oriented to the general
public, and intended to provide information or direction to those using the
facility.
      4.   Flags, symbols, or insignias.
      5.   Works of fine art displayed on private property within the setback
of a building.
      6.   Memorial signs or tablets, names of buildings and dates of erection,
when cut into or attached to the surface or facade of the building.
      7.   Religious symbols and seasonal decorations erected within the
appropriate holiday season.
      8.   Freestanding, ground mounted, or monument signs no more than six
feet (6') in height and not exceeding twenty four (24) square feet in size may
be placed with a minimum setback of five feet (5') from the property line.
Landscaping is required around the base.
      9.   Wall mounted, on premises signs not to exceed a maximum area of
twenty four (24) square feet.
      10.   Signs painted directly on a wall shall not exceed fifteen percent
(15%) of the wall area, with a maximum size of twenty four (24) square feet.
      11.   Hanging signs may be placed on a building or underneath an awning
or colonnade, but may not project beyond the same. Signs hanging over a public
right of way must have at least ten feet (10') ground clearance.
      12.   Portable signs and A-frame signs not to exceed six (6) square feet
per side are allowed within the setback area, but not on the public sidewalk.
      13.   Temporary signs not exceeding fifty (50) square feet in area
announcing the erection of a building, the architect, owner, or contractor may
be erected for a period of sixty (60) days plus the construction period.
      14.   Real estate signs permitted provided that they are no greater than
twelve (12) square feet in size and set back a minimum of ten feet (10') from
the right of way line of any street or highway or property line. Real estate
signs no greater than six (6) square feet in size can be set back a minimum of
five feet (5') from the right of way or property line. (Ord. 398, 8-14-2009)
8-10-9: LANDSCAPING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   A minimum of two percent (2%) of the total lot shall be landscaped with
trees, shrubbery, vines, ground covers, grass, or any combination thereof, all
of which should be drought tolerant.
   B.   All landscaped areas shall be maintained in a healthy and thriving
condition free of weeds, trash and debris.
   C.   Trees planted along a public street shall be done in compliance with
Plummer tree ordinance, title 5, chapter 4 of this code, and shall be
maintained in a manner to avoid interference with public utilities, sidewalks
and streets. (Ord. 398, 8-14-2009)
8-10-10: SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Window and wall air conditioners, electrical utility meters, and air
conditioning compressors shall be located in rear or side yards.
   B.   Flat roofs shall be enclosed by parapets a minimum of forty two inches
(42") high, or as required to conceal mechanical equipment.
   C.   Lighting placed upon the building shall be architecturally integrated
and shall not produce glare on public highways and neighboring property. (Ord.
398, 8-14-2009)
8-10-11: SPECIAL USES:
On property meeting the minimum lot size requirement within the C-3 zone the
following uses may be permitted through the issuance of a special use permit
pursuant to chapter 16 of this title:
Accessory buildings in excess of one thousand two hundred (1,200) square feet.
Apartment buildings with four (4) or more living units. Office, storage,
laundry, and other facilities to be used by occupants of the apartment.
Churches.
Espresso stands and other small stand alone drive-up businesses.
Foster home; group home; and institution for minor children.
Government buildings, public utilities facility, nonindustrial, noncommercial,
and no storage.
Hotels, motels, motor inns.
Ministorage, indoor storage facilities.
Public schools, private schools, kindergartens. (Ord. 398, 8-14-2009)
CHAPTER 11
L-1 LIGHT INDUSTRIAL ZONE
SECTION:
8-11-1: General Restrictions
8-11-2: Lot Size
8-11-3: Site Area
8-11-4: Uses Permitted
8-11-5: Uses Prohibited
8-11-6: Building Setback Requirements
8-11-7: Off Street Parking Requirements
8-11-8: Loading Space Requirements
8-11-9: Sign Requirements
8-11-10: Fence Requirements
8-11-11: Landscaping Requirements
8-11-12: Special Requirements
8-11-13: Special Uses
8-11-1: GENERAL RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   The L-1 light industrial zone is a land use classification for a
district suitable for manufacturing and processing of a nonnuisance character.
The purpose of the L-1 light industrial zone is to encourage the development of
manufacturing and wholesale businesses that are clean, quiet, and free of
noise, odor, dust and smoke.
   B.   Light industrial uses are the uses of land and buildings for
manufacturing, processing, fabrication, assembly, freight handling, or similar
operations. In the L-1 zone, all industrial operations shall:
      1.   Be carried on in such a manner and with such precaution against fire
and explosive hazards.
      2.   Emit no obnoxious odors of any kind.
      3.   Exhaust no waste or dust created from industrial operation into the
air.
      4.   The discharge of all raw sewage and industrial waste shall comply
with the standards approved by the city of Plummer.
      5.   Carry on no operation that would produce heat or glare perceptible
from any property line of the lot on which the industrial operation is located.
      6.   Not emit harmful radioactivity at any point, or electrical
disturbance adversely affecting the operation of any equipment at any point
other than that of the creator of such disturbance.
      7.   No vibration shall be permitted which is discernible without
instruments on any adjoining property or lot.
      8.   Use any industrial and exterior lighting in a manner that produces
no glare on public highways and neighboring property.
   C.   In the L-1 zone, no building or premises shall be used nor any building
or structure be hereafter erected or altered unless otherwise provided in this
title, except for one or more of the following uses in accordance with this
chapter.
   D.   Maximum height of buildings shall not exceed two (2) stories or thirty
feet (30'), except that structures may exceed this height by special use
permit.
   E.   All refuse collection containers shall be maintained in a clean manner
and shall be within an enclosed fence or area not seen from any public street
or parking area.
   F.   Industrial lots adjacent to nonindustrial zoned properties shall have a
twenty foot (20') buffer along the abutting nonindustrial zoned property.
Buffers shall not be used for the purpose of parking, loading, servicing or
other industrial or business activity. (Ord. 398, 8-14-2009)
8-11-2: LOT SIZE:
The minimum allowable lot size is ten thousand (10,000) square feet with a
minimum of one hundred feet (100') of continuous frontage on a public street.
(Ord. 398, 8-14-2009)
8-11-3: SITE AREA:
   A.   On any parcel of land or lot of whatever size in the L-1 zone a minimum
of thirty percent (30%) of the area of the site shall be left in open space
free from all structures.
   B.   Open space can be utilized for parking and landscaping as required in
this chapter. (Ord. 398, 8-14-2009)
8-11-4: USES PERMITTED:
The city council may attach specific conditions to any permitted use in the L-
1 light industrial zone for the purpose of ensuring compliance with the intent
of this title and the protection of public health and safety.
Animal hospitals and commercial boarding kennels.
Automotive and equipment repair, body or paint shops.
Automotive and truck service and fueling stations with storage of petroleum
products not in excess of twenty thousand (20,000) gallons total.
Bottling and distribution plants.
Building equipment, building materials, lumber, sand and gravel yards, and
yards for contracting equipment.
Business center.
Cold storage, fruit packing, meat processing and packing, or similar uses.
Commercial laundry and dry cleaning establishments where the major portion of
the material is picked up or delivered by the establishment.
Government buildings and offices, public buildings and offices, public
utilities installation.
Light manufacturing, processing, packaging, treatment or fabrication of goods
and merchandise.
Lumber manufacturing, log processing, timber products manufacturing.
Machine shops and metal products manufacturing when not equipped with heavy
punch presses, deep forges, screw machines, or any other equipment which may
create vibrations or noise disturbing to adjacent property occupants.
Offices associated with manufacturing or industrial facilities.
Research and testing facilities.
Security office, guard shack.
Stone, marble and granite grinding and cutting.
Storage of materials and machinery.
Storage, sale, or rent of automobiles, trailers, farm implements and equipment
and other similar equipment on an open lot.
Temporary building or trailer for construction office and storage purposes not
to exceed the duration of such construction.
Transfer, storage and warehouse facilities. All storage shall be indoors or
within fenced enclosures.
Transit or trucking terminals, transportation centers.
Wholesale business. (Ord. 398, 8-14-2009)
8-11-5: USES PROHIBITED:
Asphalt or concrete ready mix plants.
Cemeteries.
Disposal of garbage or waste materials by sanitary landfill or fill and cover
methods, or by composting or incineration. Outdoor collection of garbage or
waste materials for transfer to a disposal facility.
Operation of a food canning plant, stockyard, slaughterhouse, fat rendering,
tannery, glue manufacture, paper manufacture, paint and varnish manufacture,
textile sizing, wool securing and cleaning, scouring, bleaching, dyeing, and
similar operations.
Outdoor advertising display signs or structures on premises other than those
for which the principal use is intended.
Public and parochial schools, general hospitals, sanatoriums, churches,
cemeteries, halfway houses and institutions for minor children.
Residential uses.
Stockyards, soap manufacturers, glue manufacturers, tanneries, paper
manufacturers, wood scoring, leaching, dyeing and similar uses, varnish
manufacture, creosote and related product manufacture.
The extraction, preparation and processing of dust producing mineral product,
including, but not limited to, abrasive, cement, fertilizer, plaster, crushed
stone, mining, extraction of sand, gravel and/or topsoil.
The manufacture and storage of explosive products, including, but not limited
to, dynamite, commercial explosives, TNT, military explosives and fireworks.
The production and processing of coal and coal tar, the processing of petroleum
and petroleum products, petroleum refining.
The production of corrosive and noxious chemicals, production of radioactive
waste, the manufacture and storage of explosive products.
The smelting and reduction of metallic ores, including, but not limited to,
blast furnaces, open hearth, and electric furnaces, bessemer converters, and
nonferrous metal smelters.
The use of hammer mills, ball mills, rolling or drop forges in any industrial
process, the testing or operation of jet engines. (Ord. 398, 8-14-2009)
8-11-6: BUILDING SETBACK REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   All buildings:
 
Flanking street 15 feet
Front yard      35 feet
Side yard       10 feet plus 5 feet per story
Rear yard       15 feet
 
   B.   Yard setback: Additional ten foot (10') buffer bordering nonindustrial
zone.
   C.   The following encroachments are permitted:
      1.   Balconies, bay windows, roof overhangs and eaves may encroach up to
ten percent (10%) of the depth of the setback.
   D.   All freestanding signs as permitted in this chapter must be set back a
minimum of five feet (5') from all property lines. (Ord. 398, 8-14-2009)
8-11-7: OFF STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   All parking lots shall have an all weather surface. Adequate provisions
for safe and convenient circulation, ingress, and egress shall be provided.
   B.   Prior to development of any parking area in excess of two (2) spaces a
detailed written report shall be submitted containing the following
information:
      1.   The proposed use of the land and/or structures.
      2.   Proposed plan for handling any parking or traffic flow problems that
may be generated by this use. The proposed use shall not cause congestion of
adjacent streets or alleyways.
      3.   Proposed plan for snow storage and removal. Pushing or stockpiling
of snow from private property into the public streets, highways, alleyways, or
rights of way is prohibited.
      4.   Stormwater drainage for all parking areas, service drives, and
approaches.
   C.   Groups of two (2) or more parking spaces shall be served by a service
drive so that no backward movement or other maneuvering of a vehicle within a
street will be required. Service drives shall be designed and constructed to
facilitate the flow of traffic, provide maximum safety for traffic ingress and
egress, and provide maximum safety for pedestrian and vehicular traffic on
site. In no case shall two-way and one-way driveways be less than twenty feet
(20') and twelve feet (12') wide, respectively. All parking areas will have
specific points designated as ingress or egress areas.
   D.   Parking facilities as required shall be used for vehicle parking only.
No automobile sales or storage, equipment or machinery sales or storage, dead
storage, outdoor sales, repair work, or dismantling of any kind shall be
permitted within the required parking spaces.
   E.   Parking spaces of commercial, industrial or institutional uses shall be
located not more than five hundred feet (500') from the principal user.
   F.   All uses in the L-1 zone shall have a minimum number of parking spaces
as described below:
 
Business trade or industrial schools 1 space for each 3 classroom seats
                                     1 space for each 1,000 square feet of
Light industrial users               gross floor area, or 2 spaces for each 3
                                     employees, whichever requirement is
                                     greater
Offices                              1 space for each 400 square feet gross
                                     floor area
Retail stores                        1 space for each 300 square feet gross
                                     floor area
Retail stores of bulky merchandise   1 space for each 600 square feet gross
                                     floor area
Service establishments               1 space for each 300 square feet gross
                                     floor area
 
   G.   Uses not listed above shall have a minimum number of spaces as required
by special use permit. (Ord. 398, 8-14-2009)
8-11-8: LOADING SPACE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Loading space as hereinafter set forth shall be provided for all
permitted or special uses in the L-1 zone off of public streets and shall not
project into the public right of way or setback area.
   B.   On the same premises with every building hereafter erected which is
designed to be occupied by any use requiring regular receipt or dispatch of raw
materials or merchandise by truck, there shall be provided and maintained at
least one loading space, not less than thirty feet (30') in length and ten feet
(10') in width, exclusive of access platform and maneuvering area.
   C.   In no case shall the required off street loading area be part of the
area used to satisfy the off street parking requirements. (Ord. 398, 8-14-2009)
8-11-9: SIGN REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   The purpose of this section is to establish standards for the
fabrication, erection, and use of signs, symbols, markings, and advertising
devices within the city. These standards are enacted to protect the public
health, safety and welfare of persons within the community. They are intended
to aid in the development and promotion of business and industry by providing
sign regulations which encourage aesthetic creativity, effectiveness and
flexibility of the design of such devices without creating detriment to the
general public. They are also intended to promote clear views of the natural
surroundings by minimizing visual clutter.
   B.   All signs must adhere to the following regulations:
      1.   No signs shall be placed in any public right of way except publicly
owned signs.
      2.   No sign imitating or resembling an official traffic or government
sign or signal shall be placed on property visible from any public right of
way.
      3.   No sign shall be constructed or erected so as to create a traffic
hazard.
      4.   No sign shall emit audible sound, odor, smoke, steam, laser or
hologram lights.
      5.   It is the obligation of the owner of every sign within the city to
maintain the sign in a good state of repair at all times. A sign which, due to
structural weakness, design defect, or other reason, constitutes a threat to
the health, safety, and welfare of any person or property, must be repaired,
replaced or removed within thirty (30) days of notice from the city.
      6.   No lighted sign shall create a public nuisance or utilize an exposed
incandescent, metal halide, or fluorescent light bulb.
      7.   Lighting shall be designed, located, shielded, and directed to
prevent misdirected or excessive artificial light upon any adjacent public
right of way, surrounding property, residential property or in motorists'
vision.
      8.   Signs located along Highway 95 shall also conform to Idaho state
transportation department regulations.
      9.   The reduction or turning off of sign lighting during nonoperating
hours is encouraged.
      10.   All signs shall be constructed in accordance with applicable
building and electrical codes.
      11.   Abandoned signs or any sign which identifies or advertises an
activity, business, service or event which is no longer produced, conducted,
performed or sold on the premises where the sign is located is prohibited and
must be removed within thirty (30) days of the use being vacated.
   C.   The following signs are allowed within the L-1 zone in conformance with
the size and setback standards set forth:
      1.   Address numbers are required on the face of the building or sign
visible from the fronting street right of way for easy identification of the
property.
      2.   Hours of operation signs.
      3.   Signs located on private property, not oriented to the general
public, and intended to provide information or direction to those using the
facility.
      4.   Flags, symbols, or insignias.
      5.   Works of fine art displayed on private property within the setback
of a building.
      6.   Memorial signs or tablets, names of buildings and dates of erection,
when cut into or attached to the surface or facade of the building.
      7.   Religious symbols and seasonal decorations erected within the
appropriate holiday season.
      8.   One freestanding on premises sign no more than thirty feet (30') in
height, having a maximum total sign area of one hundred (100) square feet per
display area and located not closer than ten feet (10') to any street right of
way line and not closer than twenty feet (20') to any adjoining lot line may be
erected.
      9.   Monument signs no more than eight feet (8') in height, having a
maximum total sign area of sixty four (64) square feet in size.
      10.   Wall mounted, on premises signs may have an area equivalent to one
and one-half (11/2) square feet of sign area for each linear foot of building
width occupied by such enterprise.
      11.   Signs painted directly on a wall shall not exceed fifteen percent
(15%) of the wall area.
      12.   Projecting signs may be placed on any building but shall not extend
more than six feet (6') from the surface to which it is attached and shall not
project over a public right of way.
      13.   Hanging signs may be placed on a building or underneath an awning
or colonnade, but may not project beyond the same. Signs hanging over a public
right of way must have at least eight feet (8') ground clearance.
      14.   Nonilluminated directional signs, not exceeding two (2) square feet
in size, may be placed at the vehicular entrances to a business set back a
minimum of five feet (5') from the street right of way.
      15.   Temporary signs not exceeding one hundred (100) square feet in area
announcing the erection of a building, the architect, owner or contractor may
be erected for a period of sixty (60) days plus the construction period.
      16.   Real estate signs permitted provided that they are no greater than
twelve (12) square feet in size and set back a minimum of ten feet (10') from
the right of way line of any street or highway or property line. Real estate
signs no larger than six (6) square feet in size can be set at the right of way
line. (Ord. 398, 8-14-2009)
8-11-10: FENCE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Outdoor storage of raw materials, finished products, equipment, etc.,
shall be within a sight obscuring nonpierced fence or barrier a minimum of six
feet (6') in height or equal in height to the stored material, whichever is
greater.
   B.   Where sight obscuring fences are required by this title to protect the
surrounding property owners, the use requiring the fence shall be the principal
party in erecting the fence at the time the use is started and they or future
owners shall be the principal party in maintaining the fence in a constant and
good state of repair to include painting, etc. (Ord. 398, 8-14-2009)
8-11-11: LANDSCAPING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   A minimum of two percent (2%) of the lot shall be landscaped with
trees, shrubbery, vines, ground covers, grass, or any combination thereof, all
of which should be drought tolerant.
   B.   All landscaped areas shall be maintained in a healthy and thriving
condition free of weeds, trash and debris.
   C.   Parking lots with more than twelve (12) parking spaces shall have a
minimum of one 15-gallon tree for every six (6) parking spaces. Trees shall be
evenly distributed throughout the parking area to provide shade and visual
relief.
   D.   Trees planted along a public street shall be done in compliance with
Plummer tree ordinance, title 5, chapter 4 of this code, and shall be
maintained in a manner to avoid interference with public utilities, sidewalks
and streets. (Ord. 398, 8-14-2009)
8-11-12: SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Lighting placed upon the building shall be architecturally integrated.
Industrial or exterior lighting shall not produce glare on public highways and
neighboring property.
   B.   Any interference with any other process, equipment, appliance or
devices and any mechanical, electrical or other equipment which could create
such interference shall have all necessary shielding or other protection. (Ord.
398, 8-14-2009)
8-11-13: SPECIAL USES:
On property meeting the minimum lot size requirement permit pursuant to chapter
16 of this title:
Auto wrecking and junk yard. The entire premises shall be enclosed within a
sight obscuring enclosure constructed parallel to and ten feet (10') back from
the right of way of any public street. Automobiles or junk shall not be stored
in a manner that exceeds the height of the enclosure. No vehicle, junk or
salvage material shall be visible from any other property. Applicants shall
include a plan to address pests and mosquitoes, stormwater runoff, and dust
with their application.
Business, trade or industrial school.
Correctional facility.
Eating and drinking establishments.
Grain elevators.
Parks and recreational facilities.
Radio, television or FM broadcasting stations which include aerials when made
an integral part of the principal building. Communications antennas and towers
that are greater than forty five feet (45') in height and tower mounted
antennas shall require a statement from a registered professional engineer
regarding the structural integrity of the antenna and/or tower.
Recreational vehicle parks.
Recycling centers operated in a manner that limits odor and noise. Applicants
shall include a plan to address pests and mosquitoes, stormwater runoff, and
dust with their application.
Retail and service establishments within a business center or industrial park.
Storage of petroleum products exceeding twenty thousand (20,000) gallons total
for each site will require a special permit. Any and all such storage shall
meet National Fire Protection Association standards and state insurance
underwriters requirements - state fire marshal.
Truck or bus storage yards, truck terminals.
No use shall be permitted, the nature or manner of operation of which shall be
determined by the city council to be unduly hazardous or injurious to other
properties in the vicinity or to the general public welfare by reason of the
emission of odor, dust, smoke, noise, gas fumes, vapor, vibration, electrical
or other disturbance. (Ord. 398, 8-14-2009)
CHAPTER 12
WELLHEAD PROTECTION OVERLAY ZONE
SECTION:
8-12-1: Purpose
8-12-2: Applicability
8-12-3: Zone Boundaries
8-12-4: Use Restrictions
8-12-5: Uses Prohibited
8-12-6: Special Uses
8-12-1: PURPOSE:
The wellhead protection overlay zone is established for the purpose of
protecting public water supply wells from contamination by land use activities
occurring or which may occur within the delineated recharge areas for such
wells. Specific goals for this district are:
   A.   Protect human life and health.
   B.   Ensure that the public is provided with a sustainable, safe potable
water supply.
   C.   Minimize expenditure of public money for pollution remediation
projects.
   D.   Minimize regulations on land use.
   E.   Minimize business interruptions. (Ord. 398, 8-14-2009)
8-12-2: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   The requirements of this chapter shall be deemed to be cumulative and
supplementary to those of any underlying zone district. Whenever a conflict
between the provisions of this chapter and the underlying zone district exist,
the more stringent requirements shall apply.
   B.   For the purpose of this chapter, a wellhead protection overlay zone
shall only be established where a direct relationship exists between the
overlay zone and a well serving the public water system. (Ord. 398, 8-14-2009)
8-12-3: ZONE BOUNDARIES:
   A.   The wellhead protection zones are based on delineations from the
Plummer drinking water protection plan made by Idaho department of
environmental quality for each wellhead.
   B.   The following constitute the boundaries for the wellhead protection
zone:
      1.   Zone W-1 is a fixed radius of fifty feet (50') around each wellhead.
      2.   Zone W-2 is a fixed radius of two hundred feet (200') around each
wellhead.
      3.   Zone W-3 is a modeled boundary as delineated by IDEQ to represent
the one to three (3) year time of travel. (Ord. 398, 8-14-2009)
8-12-4: USE RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   In addition to all restrictions and standards applicable for the
underlying zone, the restrictions in this chapter shall apply to all lots
within the wellhead protection overlay zones.
   B.   The only uses allowed within the W-1 zone are those primary and
secondary uses by the city of Plummer in maintaining and operating the public
drinking water system. (Ord. 398, 8-14-2009)
8-12-5: USES PROHIBITED:
   A.   The following uses shall be prohibited within the W-2 zone:
Airports, heliports, racetracks.
Cemeteries, commercial and animal burial.
Commercial animal and poultry husbandry, commercial vineyards and farms, and
general agricultural activities where fuel, chemicals, fertilizer, solvents,
pesticides, leachates, or other detrimental materials and/or wastewater
discharge pose a proximate threat to groundwater as determined by the Panhandle
health district and/or the state of Idaho.
Commercial animal clinics, boarding kennels, animal runs, animal training
schools, commercial riding arenas.
Commercial land application of effluent, sludge or septage, commercial land
application of agricultural waste.
Commercial service facilities, including, but not limited to, vehicle or small
engine repair.
Explosives manufacturing.
Golf courses.
Industrial uses including, but not limited to, batch plants, manufacturing,
processing, fabrication or assembly plants with the usage and/or storage of
fuel, herbicides, pesticides, fertilizer, solvents, waste oils and other
similar petroleum products or byproducts.
Landfills, commercial solid waste collection and transfer facilities.
Livestock.
Manufacturing of fuel, chemicals, fertilizer, solvents, pesticides, oils and
other similar petroleum products or byproducts or hazardous materials.
Rock crushing and/or mining operations.
Sawmills, shingle or planing mills, woodworking plants.
Septic systems, sewage treatment facilities or storage stations, cesspools,
sewage lagoons, injection wells for any type of waste disposal.
Storage of fuel, herbicides, pesticides, fertilizer, solvents, waste oils and
other similar petroleum products or byproducts, leachates, toxic materials, or
other detrimental materials that pose a proximate threat to groundwater as
determined by the state of Idaho.
Wrecking yards, junkyards.
   B.   The following uses shall be prohibited within the W-3 zone:
Cemeteries, commercial and animal burial.
Commercial feedlots.
Landfills.
Manufacturing of fuel, chemicals, fertilizer, solvents, pesticides, oils and
other similar petroleum products or byproducts or hazardous materials.
Septic systems, sewage treatment facilities or storage stations, cesspools,
sewage lagoons, injection wells for any type of waste disposal.
Wrecking yards, junkyards. (Ord. 398, 8-14-2009)
8-12-6: SPECIAL USES:
   A.   The following uses may be allowed within the W-2 zone by special use
permit:
Hospitals, sanatoriums, clinics, nursing homes.
Mobile home parks, multi-family housing.
Recreational facilities, transient residential uses (motels, hotels, RV parks,
campgrounds).
   B.   The following uses may be allowed within the W-3 zone by special use
permit:
Commercial animal and poultry husbandry, commercial vineyards and farms, and
general agricultural activities.
Commercial animal clinics, boarding kennels, animal runs, animal training
schools, commercial riding arenas.
Commercial service facilities, including, but not limited to, vehicle or small
engine repair.
Golf courses.
Industrial uses including, but not limited to, batch plants, manufacturing,
processing, fabrication or assembly plants with the usage and/or storage of
fuel, herbicides, pesticides, fertilizer, solvents, waste oils and other
similar petroleum products or byproducts.
Sawmills, shingle or planing mills, woodworking plants.
Storage of fuel, herbicides, pesticides, fertilizer, solvents, waste oils and
other similar petroleum products or byproducts.
   C.   Prior to special use permit issuance, the applicant shall demonstrate
to the satisfaction of the city of Plummer pursuant to applicable standards and
appropriate practices that, where applicable, fuel, chemicals, fertilizer,
solvents, pesticides, waste oils and other similar petroleum products or
byproducts, leachates or other detrimental materials and/or wastewater
discharge shall not pose a proximate threat to groundwater. (Ord. 398, 8-14-
2009)
CHAPTER 13
O-1 RIPARIAN PROTECTION OVERLAY ZONE
SECTION:
8-13-1: Purpose
8-13-2: Applicability
8-13-3: Buffer Area
8-13-4: Uses Permitted
8-13-5: Uses Prohibited
8-13-6: Special Uses
8-13-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the O-1 riparian protection overlay zone is to protect water
quality and habitat quality in the streams, creeks, and wetlands and other
riparian features in Plummer, in order to accomplish the following objectives:
   A.   Implement the water quality protection, natural resource and hazardous
area protection and rural character protection goals and objectives in the
comprehensive plan.
   B.   Achieve Plummer's resource protection and community character goals in
a manner that is reasonable and sensible to local conditions and concerns of
property owners.
   C.   Protect the public health, safety, and general welfare, by encouraging
and protecting vegetative cover along stream banks to shade the stream, thereby
maintaining lower water temperatures and high quality stream habitat.
   D.   Maintain the integrity and stability of stream banks and protect stream
banks against erosion, by providing for effective vegetative buffers adjacent
to stream corridors, and by prohibiting excavation and building activities
within a specified distance from stream banks and contiguous wetlands.
   E.   Protect and enhance the natural character and appearance of streams,
river corridors, and wetlands which contribute to their valued natural
character of the community, its quality of life and its property values.
   F.   Permit and encourage property owners to enhance native vegetation along
riparian corridors in Plummer. (Ord. 398, 8-14-2009)
8-13-2: APPLICABILITY:
The requirements of this chapter shall be deemed to be cumulative and
supplementary to those of any underlying zone district. Whenever a conflict
between the provisions of this chapter and the underlying zone district exist,
the more stringent requirements shall apply. (Ord. 398, 8-14-2009)
8-13-3: BUFFER AREA:
   A.   The buffer area is measured horizontally upland from the top of the
stream channel bank.
   B.   Streams within the area designated by the FEMA flood insurance rate map
(FIRM) as being in the 100-year flood zone shall have a buffer area of twenty
five feet (25') on both sides of the active channel.
   C.   All other streams and waterways carrying seasonal runoff shall have a
buffer area of ten feet (10') on both sides of the stream channel.
   D.   "Wetlands", as defined as land characterized by the presence of water
at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that does support,
wetland vegetation or aquatic life shall have a buffer area extending twenty
five feet (25') from the seasonal high water mark. (Ord. 398, 8-14-2009)
8-13-4: USES PERMITTED:
Removal of emergent in channel vegetation which has the potential to cause
flooding.
Streets and alleys as platted.
The removal of "hazardous trees", defined as those that pose an obvious and
immediate health, safety or welfare threat to persons or property. Hazardous
tree removal shall be in compliance with Plummer tree ordinance, title 5,
chapter 4 of this code. All trees removed are required to be replaced. (Ord.
398, 8-14-2009)
8-13-5: USES PROHIBITED:
In addition to all restrictions and standards applicable for the underlying
zone, the following shall apply to all lots within the riparian protection
overlay zone:
Housing and open facilities for household pets, small farm animals, poultry or
livestock.
No development consisting of grading or construction of an impervious surface,
including paved or gravel parking areas or paths, and land clearing activity
such as removal of trees or other vegetation shall be permitted within the
designated buffer area unless approved by special use permit.
No dwelling unit, principal building, tiny home or accessory building shall be
constructed within the designated buffer area unless approved by special use
permit.
Placement of fill or dumping of any refuse.
Placement of septic facilities.
Storage of herbicides, pesticides, and fertilizer.
Storage of motorized vehicles or petroleum products.
Storage or use of toxic or hazardous materials.
The removal of vegetation from the buffer area unless approved by special use
permit.
Topsoil, sand and gravel extraction. (Ord. 398, 8-14-2009; amd. Ord. 456, 7-11-
2019)
8-13-6: SPECIAL USES:
On property within the O-1 zone the following uses may be permitted through the
issuance of a special use permit pursuant to chapter 16 of this title:
Boardwalk access to wetlands constructed in accordance with a permit issued by
the Idaho department of environmental quality or the army corps of engineers.
Development of water related and water dependent uses, provided they are
designed and constructed to minimize impact on the existing riparian
vegetation.
Flood control or bank protection structures.
Pedestrian or vehicular bridges when designed and constructed in a manner that
minimizes impact on the riparian feature.
Recreational trails not exceeding ten feet (10') in width. (Ord. 398, 8-14-
2009)
CHAPTER 14
NONCONFORMING LOTS, STRUCTURES, USES
SECTION:
8-14-1: Intent
8-14-2: Nonconforming Lots Of Record
8-14-3: Nonconforming Uses Of Land Or Land With Minor Structures Only
8-14-4: Nonconforming Structures
8-14-5: Nonconforming Uses Of Structures Or Of Structures And Premises In
Combination
8-14-6: Repairs And Maintenance
8-14-1: INTENT:
   A.   Within the districts or zones established by this title or amendments
that may later be adopted there exists:
      1.   Lots;
      2.   Structures;
      3.   Uses of land and structures; and
      4.   Characteristics of use; which uses were lawful before this title was
passed or amended, but which would be prohibited, regulated or restricted under
the terms of this title or future amendment. It is the intent of this title to
permit these nonconformities to continue until they are removed. It is further
the intent of this title that nonconformities shall not be enlarged upon,
expanded or extended, and not be used as grounds for adding other structures or
uses prohibited elsewhere in the same zone or district.
   B.   Nonconforming uses are declared by this title to be incompatible with
permitted uses in the zones or districts involved. A nonconforming use of
structure and land in combination shall not be extended or enlarged after the
effective date hereof or its amendment by attachment on a building or premises,
or by the addition of other uses, of a nature which would be prohibited
generally in the zone or district involved.
   C.   To avoid undue hardship, nothing in this title shall be deemed to
require a change in the plans, construction, or designated use of any building
on which actual construction was lawfully begun prior to the amendment of this
title and upon which actual building construction has been carried on
diligently. Actual construction materials in permanent or demolition or removal
of an existing building has been substantially begun preparatory to rebuilding,
such excavation or demolition or removal shall be deemed to be actual
construction provided that work shall be carried on diligently. (Ord. 320, 9-
14-1995; amd. Ord. 398, 8-14-2009)
8-14-2: NONCONFORMING LOTS OF RECORD:
In any zone or district in which single-family dwellings are permitted, a
single-family dwelling, tiny home and customary accessory buildings may be
erected on any single lot of record at the effective date hereof or amendment
of this title, not withstanding limitations imposed by other provisions of this
title. Variances of yard or setback requirements shall be obtained only through
action of the council 1 . (Ord. 320, 9-14-1995; amd. Ord. 398, 8-14-2009; Ord.
456, 7-11-2019)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 17 of this title.
8-14-3: NONCONFORMING USES OF LAND OR LAND WITH MINOR STRUCTURES ONLY:
Where at the time of passage of this title, lawful use of land exists which
would not be permitted by the regulations imposed by this title, and where such
use involved no individual structure with a replacement cost exceeding one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00), the use shall be discontinued within five (5)
years from the effective date hereof, amendments thereto; or, the area shall be
completely enclosed with a sight obscuring fence approved by the council within
two (2) years.
   A.   No such nonconforming use shall be enlarged or increased or extended to
occupy a greater area of land than was occupied at the effective date hereof or
amendment of this title.
   B.   No such nonconforming use shall be moved in whole or in part to any
portion of the lot or parcel other than that occupied by such use at the
effective date hereof or amendment of this title.
   C.   If any such nonconforming use of land ceases for any reason for a
period of more than three (3) months, the subsequent use of such land shall
conform to the regulations specified by this title for the zone or district in
which such land is located.
   D.   No additional structure not conforming to the requirements of this
title shall be erected in connection with such nonconforming use of land. (Ord.
320, 9-14-1995; amd. Ord. 398, 8-14-2009)
8-14-4: NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES:
Where a lawful structure exists at the effective date hereof or amendment of
this title that could not be built under the terms of this title by reason of
restrictions on area, lot coverage, height, yard, its location on a lot, or
other requirements concerning the structure, it may be continued so long as it
remains otherwise lawful, subject to the following provisions:
   A.   No such nonconforming structure may be enlarged or altered in such a
way which increases its nonconformity, but any structure or portion thereof may
be altered to decrease its nonconformity.
   B.   Should such nonconforming structure or nonconforming portion of a
structure be destroyed by any means to an extent or more than fifty percent
(50%) of its replacement cost at the time of destruction, it shall not be
reconstructed except in conformity with the provisions of this title.
   C.   Should such a structure be moved for any reason for any distance
whatever, it shall thereafter conform to the regulations for the zone or
district in which it is located after it is moved. (Ord. 320, 9-14-1995; amd.
Ord. 398, 8-14-2009)
8-14-5: NONCONFORMING USES OF STRUCTURES OR OF STRUCTURES AND PREMISES IN
COMBINATION:
If lawful use involving individual structures with replacement costs of one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or more, or of structures and premises in
combination, exists at the effective date hereof or amendment of this title
that would not be allowed in the zone or district under the terms of this
title, the lawful use may be continued so long as it remains otherwise lawful,
subject to the following provisions:
   A.   No existing structure devoted to a use not permitted by this title in
the zone or district in which it is located shall be enlarged, extended,
constructed, reconstructed, moved, or structurally altered except in changing
the use of the structure to a use permitted in the zone or district in which it
is located.
   B.   Any nonconforming use may be extended throughout any parts of a
building which were manifestly arranged or designed for such use at the time of
adoption or amendment of this title, but no such use shall be extended to
occupy any land outside such building.
   C.   If no structural alterations are made, any nonconforming use of a
structure, or structures and premises, may as a special exception be changed to
another nonconforming use; provided, that the council, either by general rule
or by making findings in the specific case shall find that it is appropriate to
the zone. In permitting such change, the council may require appropriate
conditions and safeguards in accordance with the provisions of this title.
   D.   Any structure, or structures and land in combination, in or on which a
nonconforming use is superseded by a permitted use, shall thereafter conform to
the regulations for the zone or district, and the nonconforming use may not
thereafter be resumed.
   E.   When a nonconforming use of a structure, or structures and premises in
combination, is discontinued or abandoned for three (3) consecutive months or
for six (6) months during any three (3) year period (except when government
action impeded access to the premises), the structure, or structures and
premises in combination, shall not thereafter be used except in conformity with
the regulations of the zone or district in which it is located.
   F.   Where nonconforming use status applies to a structure and premises, in
combination, removal or destruction of the structure shall eliminate the
nonconforming status of the land. "Destruction" for the purpose of this
subsection is defined as damage to an extent of more than fifty percent (50%)
of the replacement cost at the time of destruction. (Ord. 320, 9-14-1995; amd.
Ord. 398, 8-14-2009)
8-14-6: REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE:
   A.   On any nonconforming structure or portion of a structure containing a
nonconforming use, work may be done on ordinary repairs such as walls,
fixtures, wiring or plumbing; provided, that the cubic content existing when it
became nonconforming shall not be increased.
   B.   If a nonconforming structure or portion of a structure containing a
nonconforming use becomes physically unsafe or unlawful due to lack of repairs
and maintenance, and is declared by any duly authorized official to be unsafe
or unlawful by reasons of physical condition, it shall not be thereafter
restored, repaired, or rebuilt except in conformity with the regulations of the
zone or district in which it is located. (Ord. 320, 9-14-1995; amd. Ord. 398,
8-14-2009)
CHAPTER 15
AMENDMENTS
SECTION:
8-15-1: Title And Map May Be Amended
8-15-2: Application For Zone Change
8-15-3: Amendment Procedures
8-15-4: City Council Public Hearing
8-15-5: Action By City Council
8-15-6: Fees
8-15-7: Certificate Of Ownership
8-15-1: TITLE AND MAP MAY BE AMENDED:
   A.   Generally: Whenever the public necessity, convenience, and general
welfare or good zoning practices require, the city council may, by ordinance
and subject to procedures provided by law, amend, supplement, change or repeal
the regulations, restrictions and boundaries or classification of property.
   B.   Amendment To Text Of Zoning Title: An amendment to the text of this
zoning title may be initiated by the council, or by any citizen or taxpayer of
the city through a petition in writing filed with the city clerk. The council
may hold a public hearing on any such amendment. Advertisement and notice costs
shall be paid by the petitioner.
   C.   Amendment To Official Zoning Map: An amendment to change the official
zoning map may be initiated by the council or any owner or contract buyer of
property in the city. The owner or contract buyer may file a petition in
writing and shall file an application for such change to the official zoning
map with the city clerk as specified herein. Advertisement and notice costs
shall be paid by the petitioner. (Ord. 320, 9-14-1995; amd. Ord. 398, 8-14-
2009)
8-15-2: APPLICATION FOR ZONE CHANGE:
Application for amendments to the official zoning map shall be filed with the
city clerk and shall contain at least the following information:
   A.   Name, address and telephone number of applicant;
   B.   Present land use;
   C.   Present zoning district;
   D.   Proposed land use;
   E.   Proposed zoning district;
   F.   A vicinity map, (drawn to a readable scale), showing property lines,
thoroughfares, linear feet measurements for all parcels of land within three
hundred feet (300') beyond, excluding streets and alleys, of the external
boundaries of the land being considered, and the existing zoning district for
each parcel;
   G.   A list of all property owners and purchasers and their mailing
addresses who are within three hundred feet (300') of the external boundaries,
streets and alleys excluded, of the land being considered and keyed to the
vicinity map;
   H.   A statement on how the proposed amendment relates to the comprehensive
plan, availability of public facilities and compatibility with the surrounding
area. (Ord. 320, 9-14-1995; amd. Ord. 398, 8-14-2009)
8-15-3: AMENDMENT PROCEDURES:
Amendments to this zoning title and official zoning map shall be made in the
following manner:
   A.   Requests shall be submitted to the city council, which shall evaluate
the request to determine the extent and nature of the amendment requested;
   B.   If the request is in accordance with the adopted comprehensive plan,
the city council may adopt or reject the amendment under the notice and hearing
procedures as herein provided; and
   C.   If the request is not in accordance with the adopted comprehensive
plan, the city council may adopt to reject an amendment to the comprehensive
plan under the notice and hearing procedures provided in section 67-6509, Idaho
Code. After the comprehensive plan has been amended as hereinafter provided
for, the city council shall hold a public hearing and make a decision on the
proposed zoning amendment. (Ord. 320, 9-14-1995; amd. Ord. 398, 8-14-2009)
8-15-4: CITY COUNCIL PUBLIC HEARING:
   A.   City Council Public Hearing, Zoning Title Amendments: Not more than
sixty (60) days following the filing of the application to amend this zoning
title, the city council shall conduct at least one public hearing in which
interested persons shall have an opportunity to be heard. At least fifteen (15)
days prior to the hearing, notice of time and place and a summary of the zoning
title amendment shall be published in the official newspaper of the city.
Following the city council's hearing, if the city council makes a material
change from what was presented at the public hearing, further notice and
hearing shall be provided before the city council makes a final decision. (Ord.
320, 9-14-1995; amd. Ord. 398, 8-14-2009)
   B.   Official Zoning District Map Amendments: Not more than sixty (60) days
following the filing of the application to amend the official zoning district
map, the city council shall conduct at least one public hearing in which
interested persons shall have an opportunity to be heard. At least fifteen (15)
days prior to the hearing, notice of time and place and a summary of the
official zoning district map amendment shall be published in the official
newspaper of the city. Additional notice by United States mail, postage
prepaid, shall be provided to property owners and purchasers within three
hundred feet (300'), excluding streets and alleys, and any additional area that
may be impacted by the proposed change as determined by the council. When
notice is required to two hundred (200) or more property owners or purchasers,
alternate forms or procedures which would provide adequate notice may be
provided by local ordinance in lieu of mailed notice. (Ord. 370, 6-9-2005; amd.
Ord. 398, 8-14-2009)
8-15-5: ACTION BY CITY COUNCIL:
   A.   The city council, prior to adopting, revising or rejecting the
amendment to this zoning title, and after holding its public hearing and having
made no material change from what was presented at the public hearing, shall
make a decision.
   B.   Upon granting or denying an application to amend this zoning title, the
city council shall specify in writing:
      1.   The ordinance and standards used in evaluating the application; the
reasons for approval or denial; and
      2.   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain a
permit.
   C.   In the event the city council shall approve an amendment, such
amendment shall thereafter be made a part of this title upon the preparation
and passage of an ordinance and the city official zoning map being duly
amended. (Ord. 320, 9-14-1995; amd. Ord. 398, 8-14-2009)
8-15-6: FEES:
In the event that a public hearing is held, the applicant shall pay the
appropriate fee. (Ord. 370, 6-9-2005; amd. Ord. 398, 8-14-2009)
8-15-7: CERTIFICATE OF OWNERSHIP:
There shall accompany any application processed under this section a
certificate of a reputable title insurance company licensed under the laws of
the state, listing the names and addresses of the record owner or contract
purchasers as shown by the records of the office of the county recorder, and
all persons to whom the property is assessed upon the tax rolls of the county
assessor of Benewah County within the land being considered, and within three
hundred feet (300') of the external boundaries, streets and alleys excluded, of
said land. The cost of the title report shall be the sole responsibility of the
applicant. (Ord. 320, 9-14-1995; amd. Ord. 398, 8-14-2009)
CHAPTER 16
SPECIAL USE PERMIT
SECTION:
8-16-1: Intent
8-16-2: Contents Of Application For Special Use Permits
8-16-3: General Standards Applicable To All Special Uses
8-16-4: Public Sites And Open Spaces
8-16-5: Supplementary Conditions And Safeguards
8-16-6: Public Hearing By City Council
8-16-7: Action By The City Council
8-16-8: Notification To Applicant
8-16-9: Appeal
8-16-10: Certificate Of Ownership Required
8-16-11: Failure To Comply
8-16-1: INTENT:
   A.   The special use permit procedure is intended to provide uses that are
not permitted by right in any district. It is recognized that an increasing
number or new kinds of uses are appearing daily, and that many of these and
some other more conventional uses possess characteristics of such unique and
special nature relative to location, design, size, facilities that each
specific use must be considered individually.
   B.   The city council shall hold a public hearing on each special use permit
application as specified in this chapter. The city council may approve,
conditionally approve or deny a special use permit under the conditions as
herein specified and considering such additional safeguards as will uphold the
intent of this title. (Ord. 320, 9-14-1995; amd. Ord. 398, 8-14-2009)
8-16-2: CONTENTS OF APPLICATION FOR SPECIAL USE PERMITS:
An application for a special use permit shall be filed with the city clerk by
at least one owner or lessee of property for which such special use is
proposed. At a minimum, the application shall contain the following
information:
   A.   Name, address and telephone number of applicants;
   B.   Legal description of property;
   C.   Description of existing use;
   D.   Zoning districts;
   E.   A plan of the proposed site for a special use, drawn to a readable
scale, showing the location of all buildings, parking and loading areas,
traffic access and traffic circulation, open spaces, landscaping, refuse and
service areas, utilities, signs, yards and such other information as the city
council may require to determine if the proposed special use meets with the
intent and requirements of this title; and
   F.   An objective narrative statement evaluation the effects on adjoining
property; the effect of such elements as noise, glare, odor, fumes, and
vibration on adjoining property; a discussion of the general compatibility with
adjacent and other properties in the district; and the relationship of the
proposed use to the comprehensive plan. (Ord. 320, 9-14-1995; amd. Ord. 398, 8-
14-2009)
8-16-3: GENERAL STANDARDS APPLICABLE TO ALL SPECIAL USES:
The city council shall review the particular facts and circumstances of each
proposed special use in terms of the following standards and shall find
adequate evidence showing that such use at the proposed location:
   A.   Will, in fact, constitute a special use as established in this title
for the zoning district involved;
   B.   Will be harmonious with and in accordance with the general objectives
or with any specific objective of the comprehensive plan and/or this zoning
title;
   C.   Will be served adequately by essential public facilities and services
such as highways, streets, police and fire protection, drainage structures,
refuse disposal, water, sewer and schools; or that the persons or agencies
responsible for the establishment of the proposed use shall be able to provide
adequately any such services;
   D.   Will be designed, constructed, operated and maintained to be harmonious
and appropriate in appearance with the existing or intended character of the
general vicinity and that such use will not change the essential character of
the same area;
   E.   Will not create excessive additional requirements as to public cost for
public facilities and services and will not be detrimental to the economic
welfare or the community;
   F.   Will not involve uses, activities, processes, materials, equipment and
conditions of operation that will be detrimental to any persons, property or
the general welfare by reason of excessive production of traffic, noise, smoke,
fumes, glare or odors;
   G.   Will have vehicular approaches to the property which shall be so
designed as not to create an interference with traffic and surrounding public
thoroughfares; and
   H.   Will not result in the destruction, loss or damage of a natural, scenic
or historical feature of major importance. (Ord. 320, 9-14-1995; amd. Ord. 398,
8-14-2009)
8-16-4: PUBLIC SITES AND OPEN SPACES:
Public sites and open spaces shall conform to the following:
   A.   Public Uses: Where it is determined that a proposed park, playground,
school or other public use as shown on the future acquisition map, as
authorized in section 67-6517, Idaho Code, is located in whole or in part
within the proposed development the city council shall notify the appropriate
public agency concerning the land proposed to be acquired. Within thirty (30)
days of the date of notice, the public agency may request the governing body to
suspend consideration of the permit for sixty (60) days from the date of the
request; however, if an agreement between the property owner and the public
agency is not reached within sixty (60) days the city council shall resume
consideration of the special use application;
   B.   Natural Features: Existing natural features which add to residential
development and enhance the attractiveness of the community, such as trees,
watercourses, historic spots and similar irreplaceable assets, shall be
preserved in the design of the development; and
   C.   Special Developments: In the case of a large development, the city
council may require sufficient park or open space facilities of acceptable
size, location and site characteristics that may be suitable for the proposed
development. (Ord. 320, 9-14-1995; amd. Ord. 398, 8-14-2009)
8-16-5: SUPPLEMENTARY CONDITIONS AND SAFEGUARDS:
In granting any special use, the city council may prescribe appropriate
conditions, bonds, and safeguards in conformity with this title. Violations of
such conditions, bonds or safeguards, when made a part of the terms under which
the special use is granted, shall be deemed a violation of this title. (Ord.
320, 9-14-1995; amd. Ord. 398, 8-14-2009)
8-16-6: PUBLIC HEARING BY CITY COUNCIL:
Not more than forty (40) days following the filing of the application and prior
to granting a special use permit, at least one public hearing in which
interested persons shall have an opportunity to be heard shall be held by the
city council. At least fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing, notice of the
time and place and summary of the proposal shall be published in the official
newspaper of the city. Notice by United States mail, postage prepaid, fifteen
(15) days prior to the hearing shall also be provided to property owners and
purchasers within three hundred feet (300') beyond, excluding streets and
alleys, of the external boundaries of the land being considered, and any
additional area that may be substantially impacted by the proposed special use
as determined by the city council. When notice is required to two hundred (200)
or more property owners or purchasers, alternate forms of procedures which
would provide adequate notice may be provided by local ordinance in lieu of
mailed notice. The city clerk shall have the responsibility of preparing the
public notice for the applicant. (Ord. 370, 6-9-2005; amd. Ord. 398, 8-14-2009)
8-16-7: ACTION BY THE CITY COUNCIL:
   A.   Approval Or Disapproval: Within thirty (30) days after the public
hearing, the city council shall either approve, conditionally approve or
disapprove the application as presented. If the application is approved or
approved with modifications, the city council shall issue a special use permit
listing the specific conditions specified by the city council for approval.
   B.   Conditions: Upon granting of a special use permit, conditions may be
attached to a special use permit, including, but not limited to, those:
      1.   Minimizing adverse impact on the other property;
      2.   Controlling the sequence and timing of development;
      3.   Controlling the duration of development;
      4.   Assuring that development is maintained properly;
      5.   Requiring the provisions for on site or off site public facilities
or services; and
      6.   Requiring more restrictive standards than those generally required
in an ordinance.
   C.   Studies; No Binding Precedent: Prior to granting a special use permit,
the city council may request studies from the planning staff of public agencies
(concerning social, economic, fiscal and environmental effects of the proposed
special use). A special use permit shall not be considered as establishing a
binding precedent to grant other special use permits. A special use permit is
not transferable from one parcel of land to another.
   D.   Criteria Enumerated: Upon granting or denying an application, the city
council shall specify in writing:
      1.   The ordinance and standards used in evaluating the application;
      2.   The reasons for approval or denial; and
      3.   The actions, if any, that the application could take to obtain a
permit. (Ord. 320, 9-14-1995; amd. Ord. 398, 8-14-2009)
8-16-8: NOTIFICATION TO APPLICANT:
Within ten (10) days after a decision has been rendered, the city clerk shall
provide the applicant with written notice of the action on the request. (Ord.
320, 9-14-1995; amd. Ord. 398, 8-14-2009)
8-16-9: APPEAL:
An affected person aggrieved by a decision of the city council may, after all
remedies have been exhausted under local ordinance, seek judicial review. (Ord.
320, 9-14-1995; amd. Ord. 398, 8-14-2009)
8-16-10: CERTIFICATE OF OWNERSHIP REQUIRED:
There shall accompany any application processed under this section a
certificate of a reputable title insurance company licensed under the laws of
the state, listing the names and addresses of the record owners or contract
purchasers as shown by the records of the office of the county recorder, all
persons to whom the property is assessed upon the tax rolls of the county
assessor of Benewah County within three hundred feet (300') of the external
boundaries of the land being considered. The cost of the title report shall be
the sole responsibility of the applicant. (Ord. 320, 9-14-1995; amd. Ord. 398,
8-14-2009)
8-16-11: FAILURE TO COMPLY:
If the time limit expires and no extension has been granted, or if any of the
conditions to the use or development are not maintained then the special use
permit shall be considered null and void. Continued operation of a use
requiring a special use permit after such special use permit expires or is in
noncompliance with any condition of a special use permit, shall constitute a
violation of this title. (Ord. 320, 9-14-1995; amd. Ord. 398, 8-14-2009)
CHAPTER 17
VARIANCE PERMIT
SECTION:
8-17-1: Intent
8-17-2: Application And Standards For Variances
8-17-3: Supplementary Conditions And Safeguards
8-17-4: Public Hearing By Council
8-17-5: Action By The City Council
8-17-6: Notification To Applicant
8-17-7: Appeal
8-17-8: Certification Of Ownership Required
8-17-1: INTENT:
The city council may authorize in specific cases such variance from the terms
of this title as will not be contrary to the public interest, where, owning to
special conditions, a literal enforcement of the provisions of this title would
result in unnecessary hardship because of the characteristics of the site. No
nonconforming use of lands, structures or buildings in other districts shall be
considered grounds for issuance of a variance. Variances shall not be granted
on the grounds of convenience or profit, but only where strict application of
the provisions of this title would result in unnecessary hardship. (Ord. 320,
9-14-1995; amd. Ord. 398, 8-14-2009)
8-17-2: APPLICATION AND STANDARDS FOR VARIANCES:
A variance from the terms of this title shall not be granted by the city
council unless and until a written application for a variance is submitted to
the city clerk and the city council, containing:
   A.   Name, address and telephone number of applicant(s);
   B.   Legal description of property;
   C.   Description of nature of variance requested;
   D.   That special conditions and circumstances exist which are peculiar to
the land, are not applicable to other lands, structures or buildings in the
same district;
   E.   That a literal interpretation of the provisions of this title would
deprive the applicant of rights commonly enjoyed by other properties in the
same district under the terms of this title;
   F.   That special conditions and circumstances do not result from actions of
the applicant; and
   G.   That granting the variance requested will not confer on the applicant
any special privilege that is denied by this title to other lands, structures
or buildings in the same district;
   H.   A site plan/plot plan, drawn to a readable scale, containing and
showing the following information:
      1.   Dimensions of all property under review.
      2.   Location of the present building on the subject property
(applicants) with the dimensions of the front, side and rear yards.
      3.   Dimensions of all other buildings or structures on subject property.
      4.   Location of any proposed building or structures on the proposed
extension, expansion or relocation of a building or structure on the property.
      5.   Location of the buildings on adjacent lots, giving the depth of the
front, rear and side yards, showing all dimensions.
      6.   The existing use of each building or structure and the proposed use
of the existing or new building.
      7.   The name and location of all streets and alleys.
      8.   The location and arrangement of all parking facilities.
      9.   Show on the site plan how the project will be landscaped, placement
of trees, shrubs, lawns, and other ground cover.
      10.   Location of fencing, garages, driveways, sidewalks, water lines,
sewer lines and other utility improvements.
Variance shall not be granted unless the city council makes specific written
findings of fact based directly on the particular evidence presented to it
which supports conclusions that the above mentioned standards and conditions
have been met by the applicant. (Ord. 320, 9-14-1995; amd. Ord. 398, 8-14-2009)
8-17-3: SUPPLEMENTARY CONDITIONS AND SAFEGUARDS:
Under no circumstances shall the city council grant a variance to allow a use
not permissible under the terms of this title in the district involved, or any
use expressly or by implication prohibited by the terms of this title in said
district. In granting any variance, the city council may prescribe appropriate
conditions and safeguards in conformity with this title. Violation of such
conditions and safeguards, when made a part of the terms under which a variance
is granted shall be deemed a violation of this title. (Ord. 320, 9-14-1995;
amd. Ord. 398, 8-14-2009)
8-17-4: PUBLIC HEARING BY COUNCIL:
Not more than forty (40) days following the filing of the application and prior
to granting a variance, at least one public hearing in which interested persons
shall have an opportunity to be heard shall be held by the city council. At
least fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing, notice of the time and place and
summary of the proposal shall be published in the official newspaper of the
city. Notice by United States mail, postage prepaid, fifteen (15) days prior to
the hearing shall also be provided to property owners and purchasers within
three hundred feet (300') beyond, excluding streets and alleys, of the external
boundaries of the land being considered, and any additional area that may be
substantially impacted by the proposed special use as determined by the city
council. When notice is required to two hundred (200) or more property owners
or purchasers, alternate forms of procedures which would provide adequate
notice may be provided by local ordinance in lieu of a mailed notice. The city
clerk shall have the responsibility of preparing the public notice for the
applicant. (Ord. 370, 6-9-2005; amd. Ord. 398, 8-14-2009)
8-17-5: ACTION BY THE CITY COUNCIL:
   A.   Within thirty (30) days after the public hearing the city council shall
either grant or deny the request for variance.
   B.   Upon granting or denying an application, the city council shall specify
in writing:
      1.   The ordinance and standards used in evaluating the application;
      2.   The reasons for granting or denying the application; and
      3.   The actions, if any, the applicant could take to obtain a permit.
(Ord. 320, 9-14-1995; amd. Ord. 398, 8-14-2009)
8-17-6: NOTIFICATION TO APPLICANT:
Within ten (10) days after a decision has been rendered, the city clerk shall
provide the applicant with written notice of action on the request. (Ord. 320,
9-14-1995; amd. Ord. 398, 8-14-2009)
8-17-7: APPEAL:
An affected person aggrieved by a decision of the city council may, after all
remedies have been exhausted under local ordinance, seek judicial review. (Ord.
320, 9-14-1995; amd. Ord. 398, 8-14-2009)
8-17-8: CERTIFICATION OF OWNERSHIP REQUIRED:
There shall accompany any application processed under this section a
certificate of a reputable title insurance company licensed under the laws of
the state, listing the names and addresses of the record owners or contract
purchasers as shown by the records of the office of the county recorder, and
all persons to whom the property is assessed upon at the tax rolls of the
county assessor of Benewah County within the land being considered and within
three hundred feet (300') of the external boundaries of said land. The cost of
title report shall be the sole responsibility of the applicant. (Ord. 320, 9-
14-1995; amd. Ord. 398, 8-14-2009)
CHAPTER 18
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
8-18-1: Permits Required
8-18-2: Application Forms
8-18-3: Zoning Upon Annexation
8-18-4: New And Unlisted Uses
8-18-5: Enforcement
8-18-6: Violations
8-18-7: Penalties
8-18-8: Schedule Of Fees, Charges And Expenses
8-18-1: PERMITS REQUIRED:
   A.   Commencement Of Work: All permits for construction, alteration, or for
occupancy must have work commenced within one hundred eighty (180) days of the
date of issuance of the permit or the permit becomes null and void.
   B.   Occupancy:
      1.   Generally: It shall be unlawful to use or occupy or permit the use
or occupancy of any building or premises, or both, or part thereof thereafter
created, erected, changed, converted or wholly or partially altered or enlarged
in its use or structure until a certificate of occupancy shall have been issued
therefor by the office of the building department.
      2.   Exceptions: Occupancy permits are not required for single- family
dwellings or other buildings excluded in the building code 1 . (Ord. 320, 9-14-
1995; amd. Ord. 398, 8-14-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 7, chapter 1 of this code.
8-18-2: APPLICATION FORMS:
Administrative forms shall be available in sufficient quantity at the city
clerk's office. These forms must ask for sufficient and detailed information to
assist in the granting of the various permits, uses, variances and the like.
These forms shall be constantly reviewed and upgraded as necessary to ensure
that decisions may be made on fair and equal basis. (Ord. 320, 9-14-1995; amd.
Ord. 398, 8-14-2009)
8-18-3: ZONING UPON ANNEXATION:
   A.   Procedure And Application: A person desiring to have a parcel of land
annexed into the incorporated area of the city, shall submit a written request
containing at least the following information:
      1.   The complete legal description of the parcel or parcels as last
shown on the record of the county recorder. Tax numbers are not of sufficient
legal description to satisfy this requirement.
      2.   A plot plan (drawn to a readable scale) showing the following:
         a.   Parcel or parcels, vicinity streets, location in relation to city
boundaries, measurements of parcel or parcels in linear feet, all directions
and total acreage.
         b.   Zone or zone district desired.
         c.   A tentative plan showing the proposed intended use should be
submitted with the application for annexation.
      3.   All parcels of land to be considered for annexation must have a
continuous boundary attachment to the existing incorporated area. A mere ribbon
or very narrow strip of land shall not be considered a contiguous attachment.
   B.   Hearing And Decision:
      1.   Upon receipt of an application for annexation, the council shall
hold at least one public hearing, as provided in section 67-6509, Idaho Code,
in which interested persons shall have an opportunity to be heard. At least
fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing, notice of the time and place and a
summary of the plan to be discussed shall be published in the official
newspaper of the city. All costs for notification and advertising for hearing
shall be the responsibility of the applicant.
      2.   If the council rejects the annexation, the applicant shall be
notified in writing and no further action shall be required.
      3.   If the council approves the zoning as presented or amended, and the
annexation, this zoning title and official zoning map shall be amended in
accordance with section
8-3-1 of this title.
      4.   Concurrently or immediately following the adopting of an ordinance
for annexation, the city council shall comply with all provisions of sections
50-222 through 50-223, Idaho Code, when annexing adjacent territory to the city
limits. (Ord. 320, 9-14-1995; amd. Ord. 398, 8-14-2009)
8-18-4: NEW AND UNLISTED USES:
   A.   Development Of New Uses: It is recognized that new types of land use
will develop and forms of land use not anticipated may seek to locate in the
city.
   B.   Procedures For Determination: In order to provide for such changes and
contingencies, a determination as to the appropriate classification of any new
or unlisted form of land use shall be made as follows:
      1.   The question concerning any new or unlisted use shall be accompanied
by a statement of facts listing the nature of the use, including, but not
limited to, whenever it involves dwelling activity, sales, processing, type of
project, storage, and amount or nature thereof, enclosed or open storage,
anticipated employment and the amount of noise, odor, fumes, dust, toxic
materials and vibration likely to be generated.
      2.   The council shall consider the nature and describe performance of
the proposed use and its compatibility with the uses permitted in the various
districts and determine the type of zone within which such use should be
permitted. (Ord. 320, 9-14-1995; amd. Ord. 398, 8-14-2009)
8-18-5: ENFORCEMENT:
All departments, officials and employees of the city vested with the duty of
authority to issue permits shall conform to the provisions of this title; and
any such permit or any business license issued in conflict with the provisions
of this title shall be null and void. It shall be the duty of the director of
the building department of the city, or his authorized agent, to enforce the
provisions of this title pertaining to the erection, construction,
reconstruction, moving, conversion, alteration, addition, location or use of
any building or structure. (Ord. 320, 9-14-1995; amd. Ord. 398, 8-14-2009)
8-18-6: VIOLATIONS:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this title shall be deemed guilty
of a misdemeanor, and each such person shall be deemed guilty of a separate
offense for each and every day or portion thereof during which any violation of
any of the provisions of this title is committed, continued, or permitted.
(Ord. 320, 9-14-1995; amd. Ord. 398, 8-14-2009)
8-18-7: PENALTIES:
Except in those cases where a specific penalty is prescribed elsewhere within
this code (e.g., subsection 3-1-9D of this code), any person violating any of
the sections or provisions of this title shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 352, 10-10-2002; amd. Ord. 398, 8-14-2009)
8-18-8: SCHEDULE OF FEES, CHARGES AND EXPENSES:
The council shall establish by resolution a schedule of fees, charges and
expenses and a collection procedure for zoning permits, amendments, appeals,
variances, special use permits, plan approvals and other matters pertaining to
the administration and enforcement of this title requiring investigation,
inspections, legal advertising, postage, and other expenses. The schedule of
fees shall be in the office of the city clerk and may be altered or amended
only by the council. Until applicable fees, charges and expenses have been paid
in full, no action shall be taken on any application or appeal. (Ord. 370, 6-9-
2005; amd. Ord. 398, 8-14-2009)
TITLE 9
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE
SECTION:
9-1-1: Authority
9-1-2: Purposes
9-1-1: AUTHORITY:
These regulations are authorized by Idaho Code, title 50, chapter 13 and title
67, chapter 65 and Idaho constitution. (Ord. 376, 3-9-2006)
9-1-2: PURPOSES:
   A.   The purpose of these regulations is to promote the public health,
safety and general welfare while providing for the harmonious development of
the area.
   B.   Land proposed for subdivision must be suitable and safe for building
without danger from flood, or other natural or manmade hazard. Proposed public
improvements shall conform to any standards adopted by the city and not be in
conflict with goals and policies set forth in the comprehensive plan. It is
intended that these regulations complement and implement provisions and
standards contained in or referenced in building codes, zoning ordinances and
the comprehensive plan.
   C.   These provisions are adopted to provide for the orderly division of
land within the city, and:
      1.   To protect and provide for the public health, safety, and general
welfare of Plummer.
      2.   To guide the future growth and development of the city in accordance
with the comprehensive plan.
      3.   To protect the character and the social and economic stability of
all parts of the city and to encourage the orderly and beneficial development
of the community's lands.
      4.   To guide public and private policy in order to provide adequate and
efficient streets, water, sewerage, drainage, parks, open space, and other
public facilities.
      5.   To provide coordination of streets and roads with existing or
planned streets and roads.
      6.   To establish reasonable standards of design and procedures for
subdivisions in order to further the orderly layout and use of land, and to
ensure proper legal description of subdivided land.
      7.   To ensure that public facilities and services are available
concurrent with development and will have sufficient capacity to serve the
subdivision.
      8.   To provide the procedures for approval, the manner and form of
filing of any plat, and the administration of these regulations. (Ord. 376, 3-
9-2006)
CHAPTER 2
GENERAL SUBDIVISION PROVISIONS
SECTION:
9-2-1: Applicability
9-2-2: Exemptions
9-2-3: Amendments
9-2-4: Fees
9-2-5: Enforcement And Penalties
9-2-6: Interpretation, Conflict, And Severability
9-2-7: Administration
9-2-8: Exception To Subdivision Regulations
9-2-9: Development And Construction Agreements Required
9-2-10: Time Limits
9-2-1: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   All divisions of land into two (2) or more lots, tracts, parcels,
sites, or divisions, regardless of lot size for purpose of sale, lease,
transfer, etc., within the city must proceed in accordance with this title as
prescribed by Idaho Code. Divisions which meet the criteria set forth for minor
subdivisions may proceed in compliance with the minor subdivision requirements
in this title.
   B.   It shall be unlawful to transfer ownership of lots constituting the
subdivision of land as defined and regulated by this title before a plat has
been prepared and recorded pursuant to Idaho Code and has been accepted by the
city.
   C.   All improvements shall be made to city standards as outlined in chapter
8 of this title and otherwise adopted by the city. (Ord. 376, 3-9-2006)
9-2-2: EXEMPTIONS:
Exemptions from this subdivision ordinance include:
   A.   The transfer of land between two (2) adjacent property owners, which
does not result in the creation of any additional building site.
   B.   Divisions made for the purpose of lot line adjustments where no
additional lots are created and where the resultant tracts comply with the
requirements of the underlying zoning classification, including minimum lot
size.
   C.   Any division of land made by testamentary provision or the laws of
descent. Parcels of land so created must comply with lot size, frontage, and
improvement standards established by this code and other applicable laws to be
eligible for a building permit or to qualify for establishment of an authorized
land use.
   D.   Any acquisition of land by a public agency for public right of way or
public utility purposes.
   E.   Divisions made as the result of exercise of the powers of eminent
domain as defined and allowed for by Idaho Code.
   F.   Divisions for conveyance of land to the city, a public entity, or
homeowners' association for a public or common purpose. (Ord. 376, 3-9-2006)
9-2-3: AMENDMENTS:
The city council may, from time to time, amend, supplement, or repeal the
regulations and provisions of this title in the manner prescribed by Idaho
Code. (Ord. 376, 3-9-2006)
9-2-4: FEES:
The city council may, by resolution, adopt reasonable fees related to the cost
of services associated with review, processing and inspection of subdivision of
land. Such fees charged by the city may be reviewed periodically by the city
council and changed by council resolution and in accordance with Idaho Code.
(Ord. 376, 3-9-2006)
9-2-5: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES:
   A.   It shall be the authority of the administrator or his designees to
enforce the provisions of this title.
   B.   No building permit shall be issued for the construction of any building
or structure located on a lot or plat subdivided or sold in violation of the
provisions of this title. Nor shall the city have any obligation to issue
certificates of occupancy or to extend utility services to any parcel created
or established in violation of these provisions.
   C.   No developer shall offer to the county recorder, for recording a plat
which does not conform in all respects to this title and which has not been
given final plat approval by the city council after complying with all required
administrative and review procedures.
   D.   Violations of the provisions of this title shall be deemed a
misdemeanor crime, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, with each day such violation continues constituting a
separate offense. The landowner, tenant, developer, builder or any other person
who commits, participates in, assists in or maintains such violation may each
be found guilty of a separate offense. The city shall have recourse to such
civil remedies in law and equity as may be necessary to ensure compliance with
the provisions of these regulations. (Ord. 376, 3-9-2006)
9-2-6: INTERPRETATION, CONFLICT, AND SEVERABILITY:
   A.   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this title
shall be held to be the minimum requirements. More stringent provisions may be
required if it is demonstrated that such standards are necessary to protect the
public health, safety and welfare.
   B.   Where any provision of these regulations imposes restrictions different
from those imposed by any other provision of these regulations or any other
ordinance, rule, regulation, or other provision of law, the provision which is
more restrictive or imposes the standards most likely to protect the public
health, safety and general welfare shall control.
   C.   The provisions of this title are severable. If any section, sentence,
clause, or phrase of this title is adjudged by a court of competent
jurisdiction to be invalid, the decision shall not affect the remaining
portions of this title. (Ord. 376, 3-9-2006)
9-2-7: ADMINISTRATION:
An administrator shall be appointed by the mayor and approved by the city
council to carry out the provisions as herein specified. The administrator
shall receive and process all subdivision applications. The administrator may
periodically research the county assessor's records to perform the necessary
investigation to detect any violations of this title. (Ord. 376, 3-9-2006)
9-2-8: EXCEPTION TO SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS:
   A.   Where strict compliance with these regulations and/or the purposes of
these regulations may be better served by an alternative proposal, the city
council may approve an exception to these regulations. The granting of an
exception shall not have the effect of nullifying the intent and purpose of
these regulations. The city council shall not permit exceptions unless it
finds, based upon the evidence presented to it in each specific case, that:
      1.   The granting of the exception will not be detrimental to the public
safety, health, or welfare, or injurious to other property; and
      2.   The conditions upon which the request is based are somewhat unique
to the property for which the relief is sought, are not applicable generally to
other property, and are not as a result of any action taken by the owner; and
      3.   Because of the particular physical surroundings, shape, or
topographical conditions of the specific property involved, a particular and
unnecessary hardship to the owner, or environmental damage would result if the
strict application of these regulations is applied; and
      4.   The change sought will not be contrary to the zoning ordinance or
comprehensive plan.
   B.   In considering exceptions, the city council may require conditions that
will secure the purposes of this title. An exception is an alternative design,
or deviation from subdivision ordinance requirements or standards that is
requested by the developer. The exception requested must be in writing and
submitted with the application and the request shall specify which ordinance
provisions shall be subject to exception along with the proposed changes and
the reasons why the changes are necessary. The request will be reviewed and a
decision rendered by the city council as an integral part of the overall review
process as outlined in this title. (Ord. 376, 3-9-2006)
9-2-9: DEVELOPMENT AND CONSTRUCTION AGREEMENTS REQUIRED:
It shall be a requirement of compliance with this title that a development
agreement and a construction improvement agreement be entered into and approved
by the city prior to initiating physical construction of subdivision
improvements or recordation of a subdivision plat and that a capital facilities
guarantee agreement be entered into prior to acceptance of the improvements by
the city. No construction of subdivision improvements shall begin without the
express written approval of the administrator. (Ord. 376, 3-9-2006)
9-2-10: TIME LIMITS:
Time limits contained within this title are directory. Violation of time limits
established in this title shall not be the basis for damages and shall have no
effect on the approval or disapproval of a subdivision. Time limits provided
herein may be extended for good cause. (Ord. 376, 3-9-2006)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
9-3-1: Words Defined
9-3-2: Interpretation
9-3-1: WORDS DEFINED:
For this title, the following terms, phrases, and words shall have the meanings
given in this chapter:
ADMINISTRATOR: An official expressly appointed by the mayor and approved by the
city council to administer all or part of this subdivision ordinance.
Developers shall follow the direction of the administrator as to which
approvals are required, the appropriate review process, or of filing an
application at any time during the process.
ALLEY: A right of way not intended for general traffic circulation that is
designed to serve as secondary access to the side or rear of those properties
whose principal frontage is on some other street.
APPROACH: The location at which a driveway intersects with a public street.
BLOCK: A contiguous group of lots with defined boundaries established by plat.
Such boundaries are street rights of way, railroad rights of way, waterways,
parks, undivided acreage, or a combination thereof.
BUILDING: A structure designed or used as the living quarters for one or more
families, or a structure designed or used for occupancy by people, animals, or
material goods.
CITY: The city of Plummer, Idaho; the city council; mayor; or staff.
CITY ATTORNEY: A person qualified to practice law in the state, employed or
contracted by the city for the position of city attorney or his designated
representative.
CITY ENGINEER: A person qualified to practice engineering and registered by the
state, employed or contracted by the city for the position of city engineer or
his designated representative.
CODE: The municipal code for the city of Plummer, of which this title is
included, in its most current form.
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: That plan adopted, and occasionally amended, by the city
council as the comprehensive plan for the city of Plummer.
CONCEPT PLAN: A preliminary presentation and documentation of a proposed
subdivision of sufficient accuracy to be used for the purpose of discussion and
classification.
CONSTRUCTION IMPROVEMENT AGREEMENT: An agreement that more particularly
describes the duties and obligations of the parties for the development of a
subdivision or portion of a subdivision. The purpose is to establish specific
construction details and guarantees necessary for the timely construction of
public infrastructure improvements and such other improvements as may be
necessary. The construction improvement agreement may be an addendum to the
development agreement.
COUNTY RECORDER: The recorder of Benewah County.
COVENANT: An agreement, promise or guarantee made between two (2) or more
parties.
CUL-DE-SAC: A street designed to provide access to adjoining properties which
is closed at one end by a circular area of a sufficient size for turning
vehicles around.
DEDICATION: The deliberate appropriation of land by its owner for any general
or public use, reserving unto himself no other right than such as are
compatible with the full exercise and enjoyment of the public uses to which
property has been appropriated. Land dedicated to the public becomes public
land upon acceptance by the city council and recording of the final plat.
DEVELOPER: The legal or beneficial owner or owners of any land undertaking the
subdividing of land.
DEVELOPMENT: A project involving substantial property improvement and, usually,
a change of land use character within the site; the act of using land for
building or extractive purposes.
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT: An agreement setting forth the responsibilities of the
city and developer, conditions applicable to the development, and development
schedules, which is entered into after subdivision approval has been granted
but prior to construction. Entering into a development agreement shall be a
condition of approval of any subdivision unless no improvements are to be made.
A development agreement is typically not required for a minor subdivision.
EASEMENT: A grant by a property owner to the public or another party of the
right to use defined or described land for a specific use and purpose.
FIRE CHIEF: The chief of the Plummer gateway fire district.
FINAL APPROVAL: The official action of the administrator after the city council
has approved a subdivision after all conditions, engineering plans, and other
requirements have been completed or fulfilled and the required improvements
have been installed, or guarantees properly posted for their completion.
FINAL PLAT: The final drawing of the subdivision and dedication prepared for
filing for record with the county recorder and containing all elements and
requirements set forth in Idaho Code and this title (see also definition of
Plat).
GENERAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN: A plan outlining general, rather than detailed,
development intentions. It describes the basic parameters of a development
proposal, rather than giving full engineering details. As such, it allows
general intentions to be proposed and discussed without the extensive costs
involved in submitting a detailed proposal.
INTERSECTION: The location at which two (2) streets intersect, whether public
or private.
LOT: A designated parcel, tract, or area of land established by a plat to be
used, developed, or built upon as a unit.
LOT FRONTAGE: That portion of a lot extending along an adjacent primary platted
right of way.
LOT LINE: A line of record bounding a lot that divides one lot from another lot
or from a public or private street or any other public space and that
constitutes part of the perimeter.
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING: A document that memorializes the review process
and sets forth the conditions of approval of a minor subdivision that is signed
by the administrator and the developer after approval.
MINOR SUBDIVISION: A subdivision containing five (5) or fewer lots and
proposing no new streets, extensions to existing streets, and where
infrastructure is in place or available.
OFF SITE: Not located on the property that is the subject of a development
application or on a contiguous portion of a street or right of way.
OFF STREET PARKING SPACE: A parking space provided in a parking lot or private
driveway.
ON SITE: Located on the lot in question or on the property being developed.
ON STREET PARKING SPACE: A parking space that is located on a dedicated street
right of way.
OPEN SPACE: Land, essentially free of structures, set aside, dedicated,
designated, or reserved for the public or private use or enjoyment or for the
use and enjoyment of owners and occupants of land adjoining or neighboring such
open space.
PARCEL: A unit of land of contiguous quantity in the ownership of one person or
entity and constituting a separate tract of land.
PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE: Security in a form that serves as a guarantee that the
public or identified common improvements required as a part of the approval of
a development are satisfactorily completed.
PLAT: A reproducible and permanent drawing of a subdivision and dedications and
easements, including certificates, descriptions, and approvals, prepared in
accordance with Idaho Code and this title.
PREAPPLICATION CONFERENCE: A meeting among developers, city staff, and other
representatives which affords developers the opportunity to present their
proposals informally.
PRIVATE STREET: A street, road, or drive, constructed on private property which
is not dedicated and accepted as a public right of way for public use, and is
not maintained by the city.
PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT: That department of the city of Plummer which is
responsible for the operations and maintenance of public streets, parks, water,
sewerage, and other similar facilities.
RESTRICTIVE COVENANT: A covenant that runs with the land made by the developer
and made part of the purchase agreement or deed to restrict specific activities
in a development which are civilly enforced.
RIGHT OF WAY: A portion of property reserved for public or shared use and
approved for such use by the city council to provide circulation and travel to
abutting properties and including, but not limited to, streets, sidewalks,
provision for public utilities, cut and fill slopes, and public open spaces.
ROADWAY: The portion of right of way developed as a street for the purpose of
vehicular travel.
SETBACK LINE: An imaginary line established by zoning ordinance that requires
all buildings to be set back a certain distance from lot lines.
STATE: The state of Idaho.
STREET: A public right of way, which provides vehicular and pedestrian
circulation, primary access to abutting properties, and parking, that
dedication of which has been officially accepted by the city. The term street
also includes the terms highway, parkway, road, avenue, and other such terms.
SUBDIVISION: The division of a lot, tract, or parcel of land into two (2) or
more lots, tracts, parcels, or other divisions of land for sale or development,
subject to the exemptions set forth in this title.
SUBDIVISION PLAN: A neat and approximate drawing of the proposed layout of
streets, blocks, lots, proposed utilities, and other elements of a plat or
subdivision which shall furnish a basis for approval or disapproval of the
general layout of the plat or subdivision.
UTILITIES: Installations for conducting water, sewage, electricity, storm
water, telephone, television and similar facilities providing service to and
used by the public.
VARIANCE: A modification of the strict terms of the relevant regulations where
such modification will not be contrary to the public interest, and where owing
to conditions peculiar to the property and not the result of the action of the
applicant, a literal enforcement of this title would cause undue hardship.
VICINITY MAP: A small scale map showing the location of a tract of land in
relation to a larger area.
WARRANTY GUARANTEE: A percentage of the cost of public subdivision improvements
provided as cash in escrow, bond, or irrevocable letter of credit to warrant
the design, construction materials, and workmanship of the improvements for a
specified period of time.
ZONING ORDINANCE: The zoning ordinance of the city of Plummer. (Ord. 376, 3-9-
2006)
9-3-2: INTERPRETATION:
   A.   When not inconsistent with the context, words in the plural number
include the singular number, and words in the singular number include the
plural number.
   B.   The word "shall" is always mandatory and not merely directory. The word
"may" is permissive.
   C.   The masculine shall include the feminine.
   D.   The present tense includes the past or future tense.
   E.   Except as expressly defined herein, words used in this title shall be
given their ordinary meaning consistent with common usage and context. (Ord.
376, 3-9-2006)
CHAPTER 4
MINOR SUBDIVISIONS
SECTION:
9-4-1: Purpose
9-4-2: Preapplication
9-4-3: Application Submittals
9-4-4: Subdivision Plan; Required Content
9-4-5: Review And Approval
9-4-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of minor subdivision review is to provide a simplified procedure
for processing minor subdivisions. "Minor subdivisions" are subdivisions of
five (5) or fewer lots that create no new streets. The process is intended for
the creation of lots along existing streets where infrastructure is available.
A developer proposing to create additional lots on the same original parcel
within a single five (5) year period as a minor subdivision may be required by
the administrator to use the full subdivision review process if the
administrator determines that the multiple minor subdivisions may have a
significant impact on public facilities to be used by the development. (Ord.
376, 3-9-2006)
9-4-2: PREAPPLICATION:
   A.   Prior to submittal of a minor subdivision application, the developer
may submit a concept plan and meet with the administrator to review the
proposal.
   B.   There is no fee required for the preapplication process.
   C.   A preapplication meeting allows the developer an opportunity to meet
with the administrator and city staff. Elected officials shall not be a part of
this process. Items to be reviewed include, but are not limited to:
determination that the division qualifies as a minor subdivision, the general
subdivision process, overall design, conformity to the comprehensive plan,
determination if additional permits are needed, and consideration of other
agencies that the developer should contact before preparing a subdivision plan
and application.
   D.   At the conclusion of the preapplication review process, the
administrator may provide the developer with a letter outlining the issues,
concerns and recommendations deemed important by the city staff based on the
level of information available at the time of preapplication review. It does
not constitute an approval in any way. (Ord. 376, 3-9-2006)
9-4-3: APPLICATION SUBMITTALS:
   A.   All applications for minor subdivisions shall be submitted to the
administrator along with the appropriate fees.
   B.   The documents submitted are intended to provide the approving authority
with sufficient information and data to assure compliance with all municipal
codes and specifications and ensure that the proposed development meets the
design and improvement standards contained in this title.
   C.   In specific cases and for documented reasons, the administrator may
waive the submission of a particular document. All documents must be submitted,
unless waived in writing, before an application is accepted and will be
processed.
   D.   An application for a minor subdivision shall include the following:
      1.   An application form, provided by the city, filled out completely and
signed by the developer and the legal owner of the real property, if different,
authorizing the applicant to file for the subdivision.
      2.   A list of the names and addresses of the owners of real property
adjacent to the proposed subdivision as shown on record in the county
assessor's office.
      3.   Subdivision plan of the proposed subdivision which includes the
elements listed in this chapter. The number of copies will be determined by the
administrator. In addition to the original plan, a reduced copy, eleven inches
by seventeen inches (11"x17") in dimension, shall be provided. (Ord. 376, 3-9-
2006)
9-4-4: SUBDIVISION PLAN; REQUIRED CONTENT:
The subdivision plan shall be drawn to a scale not greater than one inch to
forty feet (1" = 40') or less than one inch to one hundred feet (1"=100') and
shall include the following elements:
   A.   Requested name of subdivision.
   B.   Name, address, and phone number of the developer and engineer or
surveyor who prepared the plat. Name and address of the record owner of the
property.
   C.   Legal description of subdivision.
   D.   Vicinity map.
   E.   North arrow and scale.
   F.   Lot lines showing dimensions of each lot with proposed lot numbers. All
lots shall be numbered in a systematic order.
   G.   Current land use and existing or proposed subdivision and adjacent
land. Statement of the intended use of the proposed subdivision.
   H.   Location, width, and names of all adjacent streets or other public
rights of way. Location of existing streetlights, fire hydrants, water lines,
sewer lines, and other utilities. Streams, watercourses, natural drainage
patterns, drainage ditches, culverts, wetland, or floodplains. Existing trees
and significant vegetation.
   I.   Any existing or proposed easements and right of way dedications.
   J.   Location of existing structures and setbacks from proposed lot lines.
(Ord. 376, 3-9-2006)
9-4-5: REVIEW AND APPROVAL:
   A.   Upon receipt of a complete application, the administrator shall
schedule a minor subdivision review with staff and the developer.
   B.   The administrator shall provide copies of submitted documents, as
necessary, to outside agencies and jurisdictions which, in the opinion of the
administrator, may be affected by the proposal. In addition, the administrator
shall provide written notice to the owners of property adjacent to the property
proposed for development. The notice shall provide the adjacent property owners
a plan of the minor subdivision, general information concerning the proposal,
and the time frame for submitting written comments. The period of time for
comment or response shall not be less than fourteen (14) days from the date of
notice.
   C.   The administrator shall conduct a minor subdivision review, along with
appropriate staff, to ensure that all applicable ordinance provisions are
followed or completed. Minor subdivision review shall include, but not be
limited to:
      1.   Review of lot size and dimensions for conformance to the zoning
ordinance.
      2.   Determination that there are adequate facilities to serve the minor
subdivision with sewer and water.
      3.   Review of the location of fire hydrants and the location for the
installation of streetlights if determined to be necessary by the public works
department.
      4.   Define the scope of improvements and dedications required including
water, sewer, streets, drainage, easements, and rights of way.
      5.   Evaluation of the location of potential right of way to access
adjoining parcels.
   D.   A written recommendation shall be rendered promptly to the city council
and sent to the applicant unless circumstances require otherwise, such
circumstances to be set forth in writing to the applicant. The administrator
shall make a recommendation to grant approval, to grant approval with
conditions, or to deny the minor subdivision.
   E.   The city council shall act on the recommendation at the next meeting of
which it can be accommodated. Notice of the action taken by the city council
shall also be mailed to the applicant and to owners of real property adjacent
to the minor subdivision. A decision to deny shall be in writing and indicate
reasons for denial and indicate what steps are necessary to obtain approval. In
the case of approval or approval with conditions, a memorandum of understanding
shall be prepared that details the conditions of approval and the
responsibilities of the developer. The memorandum of understanding shall be
signed by the developer and the administrator prior to proceeding to final plat
review.
   F.   Approval by the city council of a minor subdivision shall be effective
for a period of one year from the date of approval. If a final plat is not
submitted for approval within the one year period, the minor subdivision
approval is null and void, unless a reason for delay is documented and approved
by the city. The developer would then be required to submit a new application.
   G.   At any time after minor subdivision approval, and before submission of
a subdivision plat, the developer may request of the administrator that an
amendment be made to the minor subdivision plan or to conditions of approval.
If the proposed amendment is a minor change to the plan and consistent with
conditions of approval, the administrator may grant the amendment in writing.
If the amendment is significant or involves a change in the conditions of
approval, the administrator shall schedule a review with staff, and notify
adjoining landowners. The amendment shall be considered by the city council at
the next meeting at which it can be accommodated.
   H.   If the proposed amendment changes the plan to cause it to become a
major subdivision, the administrator shall disapprove the amendment and notify
the developer to adhere to the approved plan or to apply for the full
subdivision review process. (Ord. 376, 3-9-2006)
CHAPTER 5
SUBDIVISION APPLICATION AND APPROVAL
SECTION:
9-5-1: Purpose
9-5-2: Preapplication
9-5-3: Application Submittals
9-5-4: Preliminary Plat; Required Elements
9-5-5: Preliminary Construction Plans; Required Elements
9-5-6: Subdivision Review And Approval
9-5-7: Zoning And Subdivision Regulations
9-5-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this process is to provide a timely and efficient review of
subdivisions. A subdivision is any division of a lot, tract, or parcel of land
into two (2) or more lots and accompanied by proposed new streets or extensions
to existing streets, and/or extensions of municipal sewer and water services.
(Ord. 376, 3-9-2006)
9-5-2: PREAPPLICATION:
   A.   Prior to submittal of a subdivision application, the developer shall
submit three (3) copies of a concept plan and general development plan to the
administrator and have completed a preapplication conference to review the
proposal.
   B.   There is no fee required for the preapplication process.
   C.   A preapplication conference allows the developer an opportunity to meet
with city staff, public works, and other representatives deemed appropriate by
the administrator. Elected officials shall not be a part of this process. Items
to be reviewed include, but are not limited to: the general subdivision
process, overall design, lot sizes, street layout, preliminary utility design,
proposed improvements, conformity to the comprehensive plan, determination if
additional special permits are needed, and consideration of other agencies that
the developer should contact before preparing the preliminary plat and
application.
   D.   At the conclusion of the preapplication review process, the
administrator shall provide the developer with a written notice to proceed,
which includes a statement of issues, comments, concerns and recommendations
deemed important by the city staff based on the level of information available
at the time of preapplication review. A notice to proceed states that the
proposed subdivision has been reviewed by appropriate staff and agencies and is
eligible to submit an application upon providing any additional information. It
does not constitute an approval in any way.
   E.   A notice to proceed is valid for a period of one hundred eighty (180)
days. The administrator may extend the duration of notice to proceed if
conditions of the preapplication review have not materially changed. After
expiration of a notice to proceed, the developer shall be required by the
administrator to resubmit for a preapplication conference. (Ord. 376, 3-9-2006)
9-5-3: APPLICATION SUBMITTALS:
   A.   All applications for subdivisions shall be submitted to the
administrator along with the appropriate fees. No application for a subdivision
shall be accepted until a preapplication review has been completed and a
written notice to proceed has been issued by the administrator.
   B.   The documents submitted are intended to provide the approving authority
with sufficient information and data to assure compliance with all municipal
codes and specifications and ensure that the proposed development meets the
design and improvement standards contained in this title.
   C.   Documents to be submitted are listed and described in this chapter. In
specific cases and for documented reasons, the administrator may waive the
submission of a particular document. All documents must be submitted, unless
waived in writing, before an application is accepted and processed.
   D.   An application for a subdivision shall include the following:
      1.   An application form, provided by the city, filled out completely and
signed by the developer and the legal owner of the real property, if different,
authorizing the applicant to file for the subdivision.
      2.   A list of the names and addresses of the owners of real property
within three hundred feet (300') of the exterior boundaries of the proposed
subdivision. The names and addresses shall be prepared by a title company
licensed to do business in the state.
      3.   Preliminary plat of the proposed subdivision which includes the
elements listed in this chapter. The number of copies will be determined by the
administrator. In addition to the plans, a reduced copy, eleven inches by
seventeen inches (11"x17") in dimension, shall be provided.
      4.   Preliminary construction plans shall be submitted for all required
improvements including sanitary sewer, water supply, storm water collection and
disposal, streets, and any other elements determined to be necessary during
preapplication review. Preliminary construction plans shall be prepared by a
civil engineer licensed in the state of Idaho and include the elements listed
in this chapter. The waiving or addition of elements to the plans may be made
by the city engineer at the preapplication review and shall be in writing and
made a part of the notice to proceed.
      5.   A copy of any proposed restrictive covenants and/or deed
restrictions.
      6.   Any dedications to the public and/or easements with a statement of
location, dimensions, and purpose of such.
      7.   Any additional information required as part of the notice to
proceed.
      8.   A statement as to whether or not an exception, as specified in
section
9-2-8 of this title is being requested with respect to any provision of this
title describing the particular provision, the exception requested, and reason
therefor. (Ord. 376, 3-9-2006)
9-5-4: PRELIMINARY PLAT; REQUIRED ELEMENTS:
The preliminary plat shall be drawn on good quality paper, shall have
dimensions of not less than one inch to one hundred feet (1"=100'), and shall
include the following elements:
   A.   Proposed name of subdivision.
   B.   Name, address, and phone number of the developer and engineer or
surveyor who prepared the plat. Name and address of the record owner of the
property.
   C.   Legal description of subdivision including a metes and bounds
description with dimensions of the site. Acreage of the tract to the nearest
tenth of an acre.
   D.   Vicinity map.
   E.   North arrow and scale. Contour lines, shown at five foot (5') intervals
where land slope is greater than ten percent (10%) and at two foot (2')
intervals where land slope is ten percent (10%) or less, references to a bench
mark, including location and elevation.
   F.   Lot lines showing dimensions of each lot, and blocks when applicable,
with proposed lot and block numbers. All lots and blocks shall be numbered in a
systematic order.
   G.   Current land use and existing or proposed subdivision and adjacent
land. Statement of the intended use of the proposed subdivision. Existing and
proposed zoning.
   H.   Location, width, and names of all adjacent streets or other public
rights of way. Location of existing streetlights, fire hydrants, water lines,
sewer lines, and other utilities. Streams, watercourses, natural drainage
patterns, drainage ditches, culverts, wetland, or floodplains. Existing trees
and significant vegetation.
   I.   Location and width of proposed streets and proposed street names.
   J.   Location of proposed water and sewer lines, drainage ditches, culverts,
and other utilities.
   K.   Any existing or proposed easements and right of way dedications.
   L.   Location of existing structures and setbacks from proposed lot lines.
   M.   Development phases, or stages, if the project will be done over several
years. (Ord. 376, 3-9-2006)
9-5-5: PRELIMINARY CONSTRUCTION PLANS; REQUIRED ELEMENTS:
The preliminary construction plans shall include the following elements:
   A.   Proposed utility infrastructure plans, including sanitary sewer, water,
and storm water management.
   B.   Street improvement plans, indicating slopes in excess of five percent
(5%).
   C.   Proposed street names.
   D.   Street lighting plans, site identification signs, traffic control
signs.
   E.   Pedestrian circulation plans.
   F.   Any other public improvements to be constructed. (Ord. 376, 3-9-2006)
9-5-6: SUBDIVISION REVIEW AND APPROVAL:
   A.   The date that a completed application is accepted by the administrator
shall be the official submission date.
   B.   Upon receipt of an application for subdivision approval along with all
of the required submittals, the administrator shall schedule a public hearing
before the city council. The administrator will:
      1.   Submit a notice for publication in the official newspaper of the
city. Such notice shall provide the time and place of the public hearing, a
description of the location of the subdivision, and a brief statement
summarizing the request. Notice shall be published at least fifteen (15) days
prior to the public hearing.
      2.   Mail notices to all owners of property within three hundred feet
(300') of the boundaries of the land proposed to be subdivided. The
administrator may mail notices to additional property owners as the
administrator believes should receive notice. The developer shall provide a
current mailing list of all property owners within three hundred feet (300') of
the boundaries of the subdivision. Such notice shall provide the time and place
of the public hearing, a description of the location of the subdivision, a
brief statement summarizing the request, and a vicinity map. Notice shall be
mailed at least fifteen (15) days prior to the public hearing.
      3.   Post notice on the property. Notice shall provide the time and place
of the public hearing, a brief statement summarizing the request, and a phone
number to call for information. Notice shall be posted on the property at least
seven (7) days prior to the public hearing.
      4.   Notice and request for comment shall be mailed to agencies,
utilities, and other jurisdictions deemed appropriate by the administrator or
required by Idaho Code at least fifteen (15) days prior to the public hearing
date. The notice and request for comment shall include application information,
notice of the public hearing date, additional staff comments, and a date by
which comments are to be received. A copy of the application and a copy of the
subdivision plan shall be included.
   C.   The administrator shall prepare a report for the city council that
provides information about the site and the subdivision to aid in making a
decision. The report should include, but is not limited to, the following
information, whether part of the application materials or otherwise:
      1.   The current zoning and comprehensive plan policies relevant to the
proposed subdivision.
      2.   Existing land use on the site of the subdivision as well as the
surrounding land use.
      3.   The location, size, adequacy, and/or capacity of existing sewer and
water lines.
      4.   A description of the physical characteristics of the site to include
a basic inventory of vegetation and any unique features.
      5.   A description of existing streets serving the site of the
subdivision and a synopsis of the proposed streets.
      6.   A list of issues to be brought to the council's attention.
      7.   An analysis of the impact of the subdivision on the infrastructure
of the community. This shall include deficiencies in existing infrastructure
and what improvements would be needed to bring the infrastructure up to an
acceptable level of service.
      8.   Recommended conditions if the subdivision should be approved.
   D.   After the city council has reviewed the subdivision plan, preliminary
construction plans, staff report, and testimony and exhibits submitted at the
public hearing, the council shall make a decision as soon as practical after
the public hearing, unless circumstances require a longer review period for
reasons set forth in a motion adopted by the council. The council shall
approve, approve with conditions, or disapprove the subdivision. The
administrator shall notify the developer in writing of the decision of the city
council and, in the case of approval or approval with conditions, shall prepare
a development agreement for signature by the developer and the city. A decision
to deny shall be in writing and indicate the reasons for denial.
   E.   No subdivision shall receive approval unless findings and conclusions
are made that:
      1.   Definite provision has been made for a water supply system that is
adequate in terms of quantity and quality for the type of subdivision proposed.
      2.   Adequate provisions have been made for a public sewage system and
that the existing municipal system can accommodate the proposed sewer flows.
      3.   Proposed streets are consistent with the transportation element of
the comprehensive plan and fit the city's circulation pattern.
      4.   All aspects of the subdivision comply with design standards in this
code.
      5.   The subdivision would not cause any environmental harm.
      6.   All areas of the proposed subdivision are zoned for the proposed use
and the use conforms to other requirements found in this code.
   F.   Upon approval by the city council of the preliminary construction
plans, the developer shall have construction plans prepared by a civil
engineer, licensed in the state. Such plans shall adhere to the design and
improvement standards set forth in this title as well as other adopted city
standards. No construction of any kind shall take place on the site of an
approved subdivision until final construction plans are reviewed and approved
by the public works department and city engineer, and a development agreement
and a construction improvement agreement are completed and properly approved by
the city council. Systems reviewed and subject to approval include, but are not
limited to:
      1.   Streets, including sidewalks or pathways.
      2.   Water delivery system and water supply.
      3.   Sanitary sewer system.
      4.   Storm water collection, including storm water management during
construction.
      5.   Streetlight plans.
      6.   Other site improvements.
      7.   Off site improvements. (Ord. 376, 3-9-2006)
9-5-7: ZONING AND SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS:
   A.   Every subdivision shall conform to zoning and subdivision regulations
applicable at the official submission date.
   B.   The approval of a subdivision shall be effective for a period of one
year from the date that the development agreement is approved unless a
different time period is requested by the developer, in writing, at the time of
application, and agreed to by the city council in a development agreement. By
the end of the designated time period, the developer must have submitted a
final plat for review and approval, or the subdivision approval shall be null
and void, and the developer shall be required to submit a new application.
   C.   Prior to the expiration date of the effective period, the developer may
request an extension, in writing, from the administrator. The administrator may
grant an extension, not to exceed twelve (12) months, upon showing of good
cause by the developer. The administrator shall render a decision to grant or
not grant an extension in a timely manner. The developer may appeal the
decision of the administrator to the mayor. The city council may grant an
extension beyond twelve (12) months, upon showing of good cause by the
developer.
   D.   At any time after subdivision approval and before submission of a final
subdivision plat, the developer may request of the administrator, in writing,
that an amendment be made to the subdivision plan or to conditions of approval.
If the proposed amendment is a minor change to the plan, the administrator may
grant the amendment in writing. If the amendment is major or involves a
substantial change to the conditions of approval, the administrator shall
schedule a public hearing before the city council in accordance with the same
requirements for a public hearing for subdivision approval.
   E.   A public hearing on a proposed major amendment shall be limited to
whether the proposed amendment should or should not be approved. The council
may approve, approve with modifications, or disapprove any proposed major
amendment and may make any modifications in the terms and conditions of
subdivision approval reasonably related to the proposed amendment. Any changes
approved shall be included in an addendum to the development agreement for the
project. (Ord. 376, 3-9-2006)
CHAPTER 6
FINAL PLAT REVIEW
SECTION:
9-6-1: Application
9-6-2: Review
9-6-3: Approval
9-6-4: Recordation
9-6-5: Applicable Laws
9-6-1: APPLICATION:
   A.   Following approval of a subdivision or minor subdivision, and meeting
all requirements or conditions thereof, the developer shall file, within the
permitted time period, an application for final plat review with the
administrator accompanied by the appropriate fee.
   B.   The application for final plat review shall:
      1.   Be made on forms provided by the city.
      2.   Include proof of current ownership of the real property included in
the proposed final plat.
      3.   Include a proposed final plat of the entire subdivision, minor
subdivision, or section/phase thereof as determined by a phasing plan approved
during subdivision review. All signature blocks and all elements required
during the preliminary plat process shall be included.
      4.   Comply in all material respects with the approved subdivision or
minor subdivision plan, whichever is applicable.
      5.   Include all formal irrevocable offers of dedication to the public of
all streets, local government uses, utilities, additional rights of way, parks,
and easements in a form approved by the city attorney.
      6.   Include copies of final engineering construction drawings for all
public improvements, one being a reproducible Mylar.
      7.   Be accompanied by a public works department certification that all
the streets, water system, sanitary sewers, storm water facilities and other
public improvements, including lot improvements on the individual lots of the
subdivision have been completed and accepted as required in these regulations,
or that a guarantee has been submitted in the proper form. (Ord. 376, 3-9-2006)
9-6-2: REVIEW:
   A.   Upon submittal of the final plat to the administrator, a staff review
will be completed promptly, unless the administrator determines that more time
is needed for review, in which case the developer will be notified and given
the reasoning behind the extended time and proposed time of completion for
review. The review will determine whether all conditions of the approved
development agreement have been completed and whether the final plat is
consistent with the approved subdivision.
Such review shall determine that:
      1.   The plat is in conformance with Idaho Code standards.
      2.   The plat layout is as approved by the city council during
subdivision review or as approved by the administrator during minor subdivision
review.
      3.   A development agreement has been completed.
      4.   Language on the dedication section of the plat reflects what was
agreed to in the development agreement and that any dedications are accurately
described.
      5.   The approximate signature blocks are on the plat and that all
signatures have been obtained except for the signatures of the city engineer,
mayor, city clerk, and county recorder.
      6.   Construction plans have been reviewed and approved.
      7.   All required on site and off site improvements have been constructed
and accepted by the public works department, or have been suitably guaranteed.
   B.   If the review determines that the conditions of the approved
development agreement have not been completed or the final plat is not
consistent with the approved subdivision, the administrator shall send a notice
to the developer identifying the items not in compliance and indicating what is
needed to resubmit for approval. (Ord. 376, 3-9-2006)
9-6-3: APPROVAL:
When staff review of the plat is completed and all required terms and
conditions are satisfied, staff shall forward the plat to the city clerk
recommending that it be submitted to the city council for approval. The city
clerk shall place the request for plat approval on the next available city
council agenda. The council shall review the application and final plat and,
upon a finding that all the requirements have been satisfied, shall authorize
the mayor and the city clerk to sign. The city engineer's signature shall be
the final approval assigned to the plat. (Ord. 376, 3-9-2006)
9-6-4: RECORDATION:
   A.   After the plat is signed by the mayor, city clerk and city engineer,
the developer shall record the plat with the county recorder, and provide the
administrator with a reproducible Mylar copy of the recorded plat. Upon
recordation of the plat and receipt of a reproducible Mylar of the recorded
plat, building permits may be issued for the lots created.
   B.   If an approved plat has not been recorded within one year from the date
of preliminary approval, then before it can be recorded, there must be endorsed
on the plat, or recorded with it and referred to thereon, a certificate of the
city council dated within thirty (30) days of the recording that the approval
has not been modified, amended or rescinded, nor the plan changed. (Ord. 376,
3-9-2006)
9-6-5: APPLICABLE LAWS:
To obtain final plat approval, the developer shall be in compliance with all
federal, state and local laws applicable at the time that the plat is reviewed
for approval. The developer shall be in compliance with all local laws and
regulations applicable at the time that the subdivision was approved by the
city council, or in the case of minor subdivisions, at the time the minor
subdivision was approved by the administrator. A plat shall not be authorized
for recordation if there exists a violation to relevant ordinances or statutes.
(Ord. 376, 3-9-2006)
CHAPTER 7
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS
SECTION:
9-7-1: General
9-7-2: Elements Of Agreement
9-7-3: Covenants
9-7-4: Third Party Rights
9-7-5: Developer's Compliance
9-7-6: Agreement To Run
9-7-7: Amendments To The Agreement
9-7-8: Construction Improvement Agreement
9-7-1: GENERAL:
A development agreement shall constitute a binding contract between the
developer of a proposed subdivision and the city (the "parties") and shall
contain those terms and conditions agreed to by the parties and those required
by this title. The staff of the city, in conjunction with the city attorney, is
authorized to negotiate development agreements on behalf of the city. The
development agreement shall be adopted by the city council and recorded in the
county recorder's office. Development agreement requirements may be waived for
certain minor subdivisions upon a finding by the administrator that they will
serve no purpose. (Ord. 376, 3-9-2006)
9-7-2: ELEMENTS OF AGREEMENT:
   A.   The development agreement shall be negotiated by the staff and city
attorney and approved by the city council prior to signature by the parties. A
brief statement shall be included describing the subdivision, its location,
legal description, number of lots, and the date of subdivision approval by the
city council.
   B.   The agreement shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
      1.   Any conditions of approval from the review and approval process.
      2.   Time limit and provisions for extension or extinguishing the
agreement.
      3.   Phasing plans, if any, and a description of any required temporary
improvements and the terms of those improvements.
      4.   Description of construction improvements to be installed on site and
off site.
      5.   Covenants, if any, made by the developer to the city.
      6.   Covenants, if any, made by the city.
      7.   Details of dedications beyond those required.
      8.   Addenda, to include a construction improvement agreement as detailed
in this chapter.
      9.   Penalty for noncompliance, including, but not limited to, the
suspension of building permits. (Ord. 376, 3-9-2006)
9-7-3: COVENANTS:
The city may, without incurring any liability, engage in action that otherwise
would constitute a breach of any covenant contained in a development agreement
if it makes a determination, on the record, that the action is necessary to
avoid a substantial risk to public health, safety, and general welfare. All
such covenants shall be subject to an additional proviso that the city may
without incurring any liability, engage in action that would constitute a
breach of any such covenant if the action is required by federal or state law.
(Ord. 376, 3-9-2006)
9-7-4: THIRD PARTY RIGHTS:
Except as otherwise expressly provided in a development agreement, the
development agreement shall create no rights enforceable by any party who/which
is not a party to the development agreement. Purchasers of lots in approved
subdivisions are not deemed to be third party beneficiaries of development
agreements. (Ord. 376, 3-9-2006)
9-7-5: DEVELOPER'S COMPLIANCE:
Performance of the city's duties pursuant to a development agreement are
expressly conditioned upon the developer's substantial compliance with each and
every term, condition, provision, and covenant of the agreement, and all
applicable federal, state and local laws and regulations. (Ord. 376, 3-9-2006)
9-7-6: AGREEMENT TO RUN:
A development agreement shall run with the land and bind all successors, heirs,
and assignees of the developer. The development agreement, including addenda,
shall be filed with the county recorder's office to give notice of any
prospective purchaser. When the development agreement expires at the agreed
upon date set forth within the agreement or, when the terms of the agreement
have been satisfied or are no longer valid, the city shall file a release with
the county recorder's office. (Ord. 376, 3-9-2006)
9-7-7: AMENDMENTS TO THE AGREEMENT:
Should amendments to the agreement be necessary and if all parties are in
agreement, an addendum to the agreement shall be negotiated subject to review
by the city attorney for signature of the parties. Either party may propose
amending the agreement by written notification to the other parties of the
nature of the amendment and the reasons why the amendment is necessary. The
party requesting the amendment shall be responsible for any cost associated
with the preparation of the addendum to the development agreement, unless the
parties agree to share the costs. Such cost sharing arrangement shall be
determined and agreed to, by the parties, prior to negotiating the addendum to
the agreement. Amendments must comply with the formalities of approval,
including approval by the city council, which govern original development
agreements. Amendments shall be filed with the county recorder's office upon
approval and signature. (Ord. 376, 3-9-2006)
9-7-8: CONSTRUCTION IMPROVEMENT AGREEMENT:
   A.   An addendum to, or component of, a development agreement that sets
forth the specific public improvements to be constructed in the subdivision,
the manner and timing of the construction, duties and responsibilities of the
developer, estimated costs of the improvements, provisions for inspecting the
construction and its conformity to the submitted plans, performance guarantee,
maintenance, warranty, and standards shall be deemed a construction improvement
agreement.
   B.   A construction improvement agreement shall be reviewed by the city
attorney prior to the signature of the city and the developer. The construction
improvement agreement may be completed in conjunction with the development
agreement or subsequent to the development agreement.
   C.   A construction improvement agreement shall be executed prior to the
commencement of any construction relating to the subdivision. Staging or
mobilization of equipment or establishing a temporary construction office or
equipment storage yard shall not be considered to be "construction" for
purposes of this section. Initiating actual construction prior to execution of
a construction improvement agreement by all parties shall constitute a
violation of this title. (Ord. 376, 3-9-2006)
CHAPTER 8
CONSTRUCTION IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
9-8-1: Completion Of Improvements
9-8-2: Required Public Improvements
9-8-3: Performance Guarantee
9-8-4: Performance Guarantee Amount
9-8-5: Release Of Performance Guarantee
9-8-6: Penalty In Case Of Failure To Complete Improvements
9-8-7: Dedications
9-8-8: Maintenance
9-8-9: Warranty Of Improvements
9-8-10: Warranty Guarantee
9-8-11: Warranty Guarantee Amount
9-8-1: COMPLETION OF IMPROVEMENTS:
All required improvements shall be completed within one year of the effective
date of the construction improvement agreement unless a different time period
is approved by city council. Before a plat is signed by the city engineer, the
developer shall be required to complete all street, sanitary, and other public
improvements, including lot improvements on individual lots as required in
these regulations and as approved by the city council, or the developer shall
provide a suitable performance guarantee. No building shall be occupied, nor
shall any use be established in a subdivision, until all necessary improvements
have been installed and accepted for maintenance by the city and other public
service providers. The purpose of this requirement is to ensure to the greatest
extent possible that the health and safety of the public and the residents of
new subdivisions are protected. (Ord. 376, 3-9-2006)
9-8-2: REQUIRED PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS:
Every developer shall be required to install the following public and other
improvements in accordance with the conditions and specifications as follows:
   A.   Monuments shall be set in accordance with Idaho Code 50-1303. In
addition, brass caps shall be located at all street intersections and where the
street centerline intersects the subdivision boundaries, and at the point of
curve, point of tangent or point of intersection in the street as needed.
   B.   Streets and alleys, an adequate storm drainage system, public water and
sewage systems, adequate fire protection, street name signs shall be required.
   C.   Traffic control signs, streetlights, sidewalks, or pathways may be
required throughout the subdivision.
   D.   Underground utilities are required.
   E.   All improvements listed above or otherwise shall be constructed in
accordance with standards set forth in chapter 9 of this title. (Ord. 376, 3-9-
2006)
9-8-3: PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE:
The developer may guarantee to complete all of the agreed upon improvements
within one year of the effective date of the construction improvement agreement
or within such alternative time period approved by city council by providing to
the city one or more of the following instruments in an amount equal to at
least one hundred fifty percent (150%) of the value of improvements to be
guaranteed:
   A.   Performance Bond: The developer may provide a performance bond from a
company qualified by law to act as a surety in the state. The bond shall be in
the form approved by the city and name the city as the obligee and the
developer as principal.
   B.   Escrow: The developer may deposit funds in an escrow with a bank or
financial institution qualified by law to do business in the state. The
disbursement of the escrow funds shall be governed by an escrow agreement in a
form approved by the city.
   C.   Irrevocable Letter Of Credit: The developer may cause a bank or
financial institution, qualified by law to do business in the state to issue an
irrevocable letter of credit in a form approved by the city. (Ord. 376, 3-9-
2006)
9-8-4: PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE AMOUNT:
   A.   The performance guarantee amount shall be one hundred fifty percent
(150%) of the estimated costs of all improvements not yet completed, not
including those to be constructed by private utilities. The developer's
engineer shall have prepared, documented, and certified each cost estimate. The
estimated costs shall be submitted by the developer to the city engineer for
approval. The estimated cost of all improvements shall be the sum of the
estimated cost approved by the city engineer.
   B.   If the developer is not in default under the terms of the development
agreement, the city may allow a proportionate reduction in the amount of the
performance guarantee in increments not less than twenty five percent (25%) of
the surety amount. The amount of the performance guarantee shall always be
greater or equal to the amount of the cumulative required warranty amount. City
may charge fees for processing any partial release. (Ord. 376, 3-9-2006)
9-8-5: RELEASE OF PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE:
As soon as any one of the following occurs, the city may release any
performance guarantee which has not been used or encumbered under provisions of
the development agreement or this code:
   A.   The final acceptance of all improvements and the posting of warranty
guarantee as set forth in this code.
   B.   The expiration of the warranty period as provided in this code. (Ord.
376, 3-9-2006)
9-8-6: PENALTY IN CASE OF FAILURE TO COMPLETE IMPROVEMENTS:
In the event the developer shall, in any case, fail to complete such work
within the period of time as required by the conditions of the guarantee for
the completion of public improvements, it shall be the authority of the city
council to proceed to have such work completed. In order to accomplish this,
the city may reimburse itself for the cost and expense thereof by appropriating
the performance guarantee instrument, or may take such steps as may be
necessary to require performance by the bonding or surety company as included
in a written agreement between the city and the developer. (Ord. 376, 3-9-2006)
9-8-7: DEDICATIONS:
Acceptance of dedication of streets or other public areas or facilities shall
be by the city council after review and recommendation by the city engineer.
Any dedications for property and/or public improvements shall be free and clear
of all liens and encumbrances. (Ord. 376, 3-9-2006)
9-8-8: MAINTENANCE:
The developer shall perform capital maintenance of each required public
improvement until the city has expressly accepted the improvements. Details of
the maintenance provisions shall be included in the construction improvement
agreement. (Ord. 376, 3-9-2006)
9-8-9: WARRANTY OF IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   The developer shall warranty the design, construction materials, and
workmanship of the improvements installed pursuant to this title against any
failure or defect in design, construction, material, or workmanship for a
period of one year, except for sewer systems which shall be warranted until
such time as the number of active users on the system reaches twenty percent
(20%) of the approved user design capacity, but not less than one year or more
than three (3) years.
   B.   This warranty shall cover all direct and indirect costs of repair or
replacement, and damage to the property, improvements, or facilities of the
city or any other person, caused by such failure or defect or in the course of
repairs, any increase in cost to the city of operating and maintaining a city
improvement resulting from such failures, defects, or damages.
   C.   The warranty shall not extend to any failure or defect caused solely by
changes in design, construction, or materials required by the city as a
deviation from regular requirements established by this title. (Ord. 376, 3-9-
2006)
9-8-10: WARRANTY GUARANTEE:
To secure the developer's performance of the warranty of improvements, the
performance guarantee provided by the developer pursuant to this code shall
remain in effect until the end of the warranty period or the developer shall
provide a warranty guarantee by one or more of the following instruments in an
amount according to this chapter:
   A.   Warranty Bond: The developer may provide a performance bond from a
company qualified by law to act as a surety in the state. The bond shall be in
the form approved by the city and name the city as the obligee and the
developer as principal.
   B.   Escrow: The developer may deposit funds in an escrow with a bank or
financial institution qualified by law to do business in the state. The
disbursement of the escrow funds shall be governed by an escrow agreement in a
form approved by the city.
   C.   Irrevocable Letter Of Credit: The developer may cause a bank or
financial institution, qualified by law to do business in the state to issue an
irrevocable letter of credit in a form approved by the city. (Ord. 376, 3-9-
2006)
9-8-11: WARRANTY GUARANTEE AMOUNT:
The amount required to be provided in the form of a warranty guarantee as
described above shall be a percentage of the actual cost of improvements:
   A.   Less than five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00) in improvements
shall require a guarantee in the amount of ten percent (10%) of the actual cost
of improvements.
   B.   At least five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00), but less than one
million dollars ($1,000,000.00) in improvements shall require a guarantee in
the amount of seven and one-half percent (7.5%) of the actual cost of
improvements.
   C.   One million dollars ($1,000,000.00) or more in improvements shall
require a guarantee in the amount of five percent (5%) of the actual cost of
improvements. (Ord. 376, 3-9-2006)
CHAPTER 9
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
SECTION:
9-9-1: General
9-9-2: Blocks
9-9-3: Lots
9-9-4: Street Location
9-9-5: Street Specifications, Public
9-9-6: Street Specifications, Private
9-9-7: Improvements To Existing Streets
9-9-8: Street Names
9-9-9: Alleys
9-9-10: Approaches
9-9-11: Mailbox Turnouts
9-9-12: Signs
9-9-13: Sewer Systems
9-9-14: Sewer Connections
9-9-15: Water Systems
9-9-16: Water Connections
9-9-17: Fire Protection
9-9-18: Street Lighting
9-9-19: Public Utilities
9-9-20: Easements To Be Provided
9-9-21: Pedestrian Access
9-9-22: Open Space
9-9-1: GENERAL:
   A.   Development standards are adopted to provide for adequate facilities,
lots satisfactory for building, and provide uniformity in the development of
streets, utilities, and other improvements.
   B.   Whenever a manual is specified, it shall be the most current
publication, unless otherwise specified.
   C.   The capacities and dimensions of water, sewer, drainage and street
facilities shall be adequate to provide for the future needs of other
undeveloped properties in the general vicinity. The city may share in the cost
of these improvements to the extent of the difference in cost between the
capacities needed to serve the subdivision and the capacities required to serve
the vicinity.
   D.   Where any of these standards are in conflict with regulations of any
other ordinance, regulation or provision of law, the standard which is more
restrictive or imposes the provisions most likely to protect the public health,
safety and general welfare shall control. (Ord. 376, 3-9-2006)
9-9-2: BLOCKS:
   A.   In general blocks shall be as long as is reasonably possible,
consistent with the topography and the needs for convenient access,
circulation, control and safety of street traffic. Blocks shall not exceed six
hundred feet (600') or be less than two hundred fifty feet (250') in length.
   B.   The width of blocks shall ordinarily be sufficient to allow for two (2)
tiers of lots of depths consistent with the type of land use proposed. Blocks
shall not be less than two hundred feet (200') in depth unless they contain a
single bank of lots.
   C.   All blocks shall be numbered in a systematic order. (Ord. 376, 3-9-
2006)
9-9-3: LOTS:
   A.   Lot size shall conform to the minimum set forth in the zoning ordinance
and shall be suitable for the land use proposed.
   B.   Each lot shall have frontage on a public right of way or on an approved
private street sufficient to provide access or as prescribed in the zoning
ordinance, whichever is greater.
   C.   Side lot lines shall be substantially at right angles to the street
lines. Side lot lines at the terminus of a cul-de-sac shall be radiant to the
street lines.
   D.   All lots shall be numbered in a systematic order. (Ord. 376, 3-9-2006)
9-9-4: STREET LOCATION:
   A.   The layout of streets shall provide for the continuation of existing
streets and shall provide for the future projection of streets into areas which
are presently not subdivided.
   B.   Dead end streets will not be approved except in locations designated to
be necessary to future development of adjacent lands.
   C.   Where a subdivision abuts or contains the right of way of a railroad, a
limited access highway, or abuts an industrial land use, a street approximately
parallel to and on each side of such right of way may be required. Such streets
shall be at a distance suitable for the intervening land and take into
consideration the future construction of any bridges or other means of
connection. (Ord. 376, 3-9-2006)
9-9-5: STREET SPECIFICATIONS, PUBLIC:
These specifications shall apply to design and construction of all new streets
built for city acceptance.
   A.   All public streets shall have a minimum right of way of sixty feet
(60'). A wider right of way may be required by the city.
   B.   Half streets shall be prohibited unless there exists a dedicated half
street of an adjoining plat in which case the other half shall be dedicated on
the proposed plat to make the street complete. All streets shall be two-way
streets.
   C.   Cul-de-sacs are discouraged and should only be used to provide access
to a minimal number of lots. There shall be no parking in cul-de-sacs. All cul-
de-sacs shall be no longer than four hundred feet (400') in length. They shall
have a turnaround at the terminus sufficient for access by emergency vehicles
with a minimum radius to meet fire code.
   D.   All streets shall be constructed to the center of the right of way.
Certain adverse conditions may necessitate an off center placement of the
street. These changes shall first be approved by the city engineer.
   E.   All street rights of way shall be cleared of trees, brush and debris,
which shall be disposed of. In rough terrain, certain trees and brush may be
left to stabilize slopes, upon approval of the city engineer.
   F.   Streets shall have a minimum roadway of twenty eight feet (28'). A
wider roadway may be required to provide for high traffic volume or on street
parking.
   G.   All slopes, ditches, and particulars of streets designed, constructed,
or offered for city acceptance shall conform to the "Manual For Highway And
Street Standards", from the local highway technical assistance council (LHTAC).
One copy of said manual is on file and available for public review at the city
clerk's office.
   H.   All new streets shall be paved to meet current city street standards.
   I.   The drainage within the right of way shall be adequate to carry all
runoff of the surrounding drainage area. An engineered drainage plan may be
required for certain areas.
   J.   All intersections shall be at a ninety degree (90°) angle.
   K.   Street jogs with centerline offsets of less than one hundred twenty
five feet (125') shall be avoided.
   L.   Streets shall not be gated, nor have any impediments to open access.
   M.   Streets shall conform closely to the natural contour of the land. The
maximum grade of streets shall be six percent (6%). On rough terrain the grade
can be as high as nine percent (9%), provided that an engineered plan is
submitted showing that all other possibilities have been explored.
   N.   The minimum culvert in the roadway shall be eighteen inches (18") in
diameter. The minimum culvert for approach or driveway shall be twelve inches
(12") in diameter. All culverts shall be a minimum of 16-gauge galvanized
corrugated steel, corrugated aluminum or ADS N-12 double wall storm drainage
pipe. (Ord. 376, 3-9-2006)
9-9-6: STREET SPECIFICATIONS, PRIVATE:
Private streets may be approved by the city council and must meet the same
specifications as public streets. (Ord. 376, 3-9-2006)
9-9-7: IMPROVEMENTS TO EXISTING STREETS:
   A.   Improvements to existing streets may be required to ensure the smooth
transition to a new street adjoining or meeting the existing street.
   B.   Improvements to existing access roads may be required. (Ord. 376, 3-9-
2006)
9-9-8: STREET NAMES:
All street names shall be established consistent with title 5, chapter 8, of
the Plummer Municipal Code entitled “Road Names And Addresses”. (Ord. 474, 12-
19-2024)
9-9-9: ALLEYS:
   A.   Alleys shall be provided at the rear of all lots, except where this
requirement is expressly waived by the city. Easements shall be provided in the
place of dedicated alleys for the purpose of utility services.
   B.   Alley rights of way shall be a minimum of twenty feet (20').
   C.   Dead end alleys shall not be permitted unless necessary to meet the
circulation pattern. (Ord. 376, 3-9-2006)
9-9-10: APPROACHES:
Approaches shall provide for the orderly ingress and egress of vehicles while
protecting the safety of vehicles and pedestrians on or along the streets
accessed by the approach. All driveways and other approaches to be developed
within the city, at any time, shall conform to the following requirements:
   A.   All driveways or other approaches shall be at a ninety degree (90°)
angle to the street unless approved by the city engineer.
   B.   The minimum culvert for approach or driveway shall be twelve inches
(12") in diameter. All culverts shall be a minimum of 16-gauge galvanized
corrugated steel, corrugated aluminum or ADS N-12 double wall storm drainage
pipe.
   C.   All approaches serving truck traffic shall be adequate to accommodate
the truck turning movements, and the approach width shall be a minimum of forty
feet (40').
   D.   Driveway approaches shall have a minimum width of twenty four feet
(24') and a maximum width of thirty feet (30').
   E.   All approaches shall drain away from the roadway, except in areas
having curb and gutter with a storm drain system. Approaches shall not impair
the drainage within the public right of way, alter the stability of the roadway
subgrade, or materially alter the drainage of the areas adjacent to the public
right of way.
   F.   The maximum number of approaches for each lot shall be one, unless
approved by the city engineer.
   G.   The minimum distance between approaches shall be ten feet (10'). A
larger minimum distance may be imposed by the city engineer, when in his
opinion, there is a safety concern due to high traffic, speed limits, or other
impediments.
   H.   Any development bordering or accessing state highways is encouraged to
have a single access point onto the highway for the development. All approaches
to state highways shall conform to the state adopted standards and be approved
by the Idaho department of transportation.
   I.   All approaches to city streets shall conform to the "Manual For
Approaches", from the local highway technical assistance council (LHTAC). One
copy of said manual is on file and available for public review at the city
clerk's office. (Ord. 376, 3-9-2006)
9-9-11: MAILBOX TURNOUTS:
   A.   It is desired to have the mail carrier stop out of the travelway
whenever possible for safety reasons. When any mailbox is to be installed on a
public street, the owner of such mailbox shall have a turnout with a minimum
width of eight feet (8') from the edge of the travelway developed at the time
that the mailbox is installed.
   B.   Mailbox supports should not be larger than four inch by four inch
(4"x4") wood posts, one and one-half inch (11/2") metal pipe or one and one-
half inch (11/2") angles for safety reasons. The box to post attachment should
be strong enough to resist separation when hit. No massive metal, concrete,
stone or other hazardous support will be allowed. (Ord. 376, 3-9-2006)
9-9-12: SIGNS:
   A.   All signs for the purpose of street identification, traffic flow,
speed, or other required street signs shall be new and shall be installed in
accordance to the "Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices" (MUTCD). One copy
of said manual is on file and available for public review at the city clerk's
office.
   B.   Street name signs shall be installed in the appropriate locations at
each street intersection.
   C.   Traffic control signs as legally required or deemed necessary shall be
installed in accordance with MUTCD standards. (Ord. 376, 3-9-2006)
9-9-13: SEWER SYSTEMS:
   A.   All subdivisions within city limits shall be provided with a complete
sanitary sewer system serving each lot to be used for building.
   B.   All public sewage systems shall be an extension of existing public
systems whenever possible. In the event that the proposed public system is not
an extension of an existing system, there shall be a showing by the developer
that the extension is not feasible and not to the best interest of the public.
   C.   All public sewage systems shall be constructed in accordance with the
Idaho standards for public works construction (ISPWC) and this code. Public
sewage systems shall be built to provide for future connection.
   D.   All public sewage system plans shall be submitted to the Idaho
department of environmental quality for approval and a copy of the letter of
such approval provided to the city. (Ord. 376, 3-9-2006)
9-9-14: SEWER CONNECTIONS:
   A.   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building.
   B.   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow, sanitary sewage carried by
such building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and discharged to the
building sewer at the owner's expense. Grade restrictions may be imposed upon
the construction or design of buildings.
   C.   Roof downspouts, exterior foundation drains, areaway drains or other
sources of surface runoff or ground water shall not be connected to a building
sewer which is in turn connected directly, or indirectly, to a public sanitary
sewer.
   D.   All sewer service connections shall be constructed in accordance with
the Idaho standards for public works construction (ISPWC), and this code.
   E.   All sewer service connections shall comply with the permit requirements
of the state. (Ord. 376, 3-9-2006)
9-9-15: WATER SYSTEMS:
   A.   All subdivisions shall be provided with a potable water distribution
system serving each lot designated for human habitation.
   B.   All public water systems shall be an extension of existing public
systems whenever possible. In the event that the proposed public system is not
an extension of an existing system, there shall be a showing by the developer
that the extension is not feasible and not to the best interest of the public.
   C.   All public water systems shall be constructed in accordance with the
Idaho Standards for Public Works Construction (ISPWC) and this Code. Public
water systems shall be built to provide for future connection.
   D.   All public water system plans shall be submitted to the Idaho
Department of Environmental Quality for approval and a copy of the letter of
such approval provided to the City. (Ord. 376, 3-9-2006)
9-9-16: WATER CONNECTIONS:
   A.   Water shall not be provided to any property except through a gallons
per day meter, make and model to be approved by City. Remote meters shall be
required. Water meters, both ground meters and remote meters, shall be
accessible at all times to the City.
   B.   All service pipes shall be so arranged so that the supply to each
separate house or premises may be controlled by a separate stopcock placed
within and near the line of the street curb.
   C.   All water service connections shall have a backflow prevention device
installed as required by this Code.
   D.   All water service connections shall be constructed in accordance with
the Idaho Standards for Public Works Construction (ISPWC), and this Code.
   E.   All water service connections shall comply with the permit requirements
of the State. (Ord. 376, 3-9-2006)
9-9-17: FIRE PROTECTION:
   A.   Adequate fire protection shall be provided. Standard hydrant spacing
shall be one at each street intersection with intermediate hydrants where
intersections exceed three hundred feet (300').
   B.   When any portion of a building or hazard to be protected is in excess
of one hundred fifty feet (150') from a public street frontage, there shall be
provided, when required by the Fire Chief, on site fire hydrants and mains
capable of supplying the required flow. (Ord. 376, 3-9-2006)
   C.   Water mains and laterals shall be of sufficient size and design to
provide the minimum required flows as specified by the Fire Chief using the
Fire Code. In no case shall any water main or lateral supplying a fire hydrant
be of less than six inch (6") diameter when part of a looped system and not
less than eight inch (8") diameter if the system is not looped or the fire
hydrant is installed on a dead end main exceeding three hundred feet (300') in
length. (Ord. 376, 3-9-2006; amd. Ord. 452, 9-13-2018)
   D.   Prior to the City issuance of certificate of occupancy, all required
fire hydrants shall be tested and approved as to service, location, and
available flow by the Fire Chief. (Ord. 376, 3-9-2006)
9-9-18: STREET LIGHTING:
Street lighting shall be installed as required by the City and shall conform to
the requirements of the City and the public utility providing such lighting.
(Ord. 376, 3-9-2006)
9-9-19: PUBLIC UTILITIES:
   A.   Underground conduit shall be installed by the developer to each lot for
utilities such as telephone, electricity and cable television when those
utilities are required by the City, by ordinance or policy, to be installed
underground.
   B.   Installations may be overhead when determined by the City Engineer that
it is impracticable to construct facilities underground due to subsurface soil
conditions and/or other special conditions. (Ord. 376, 3-9-2006)
9-9-20: EASEMENTS TO BE PROVIDED:
   A.   Where alleys are not provided, easements for public utilities shall be
provided on each side of all rear lot lines where necessary. Such easements
shall not be less than five feet (5') wide on the half width. Easements for
water or sewer lines shall not be less than ten feet (10') on the half width.
The easements shall be continuous and aligned from block to block.
   B.   Easements for unusual facilities such as high voltage electrical lines,
drainage structures, and pond areas, shall be of such widths as is adequate for
the purpose, including any maintenance roads. (Ord. 376, 3-9-2006)
9-9-21: PEDESTRIAN ACCESS:
All sidewalks or pathways shall have an easement of at least eleven feet (11')
in width and shall include a concrete or paved pathway of at least four feet
(4') in width. (Ord. 376, 3-9-2006)
9-9-22: OPEN SPACE:
Common lots which do not comply with the minimum requirements of the zoning
ordinance and which are part of a subdivision may be approved when said lots
are designated for open space or some other common purpose, and when an
acceptable method of maintenance is provided. (Ord. 376, 3-9-2006)
