CITY CODE
of
PONDERAY
IDAHO
2008
Code current through
Ord. 179, passed 7-7-2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
         This code of the City of Ponderay, as supplemented, contains
ordinances up to and including ordinance 179, passed July 7, 2025. Ordinances
of the City adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code
to the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the
City office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code
has been amended, superseded or repealed.
                     American Legal Publishing
                     Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they have not been incorporated into
the code and they may not show the original ordinances in their entirety.
Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions concerning
the ordinances listed.
Ord 177
4-4-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be referred to as PONDERAY CITY ANIMAL CONTROL CODE. (Ord.
7-7, 1991)
4-4-2: STATEMENT OF PURPOSE:
It shall be the purpose of this chapter to provide standards and procedures for
the care and ownership of domestic animals within the city. While this chapter
does not address all aspects of animal ownership, it establishes minimum
standards for animal care, control and treatment in the interest of public
safety and animal welfare. The responsibility for the actions and behavior of
domestic animals remains with the owner. (Ord. 7-7, 1991)
4-4-3: DEFINITIONS 1 :
For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply:
ABATEMENT: An "officer" as herein defined may destroy the animal or cause it to
be destroyed or may require the animal to be taken out of the city of Ponderay
at an officer's discretion or upon specific direction of the city council.
ADULT DOG; ADULT CAT: Any dog or cat more than six (6) months of age.
ALTERED: A full ovarian hysterectomy in the case of a female and a complete
removal of the testicles in a male. A vasectomized male dog does not qualify as
an altered animal.
ANIMAL: Shall include, but not be limited to, birds, fish, reptiles, mammals
and nonhuman primates.
AT LARGE: Being on any private property without the permission of the person
who owns or has a right to possess or use the property; or unrestrained by a
leash on either public property or private property or in any other place or
manner which presents substantial risk of interference with other animals, or
public safety or welfare.
ATTACK: Biting, attempted biting or aggressive pursuit with the present ability
to bite or injure a person.
CITY COUNCIL: The city council of the city of Ponderay, Bonner County, Idaho.
DOG: Canis familiaris of either sex, altered or unaltered, or any other member
of the Canis genus if owned, kept or harbored.
HUNTING DOG: Any dog of the hunting type or breeds which is actively engaged in
lawful hunting pursuant to regulations established by the Idaho department of
fish and game.
LEASH: Any rope, leather strap, chain, or any other material not greater than
six feet (6') in length, being held in the hand of a person capable of
controlling or actually controlling the animal to which it is attached.
OFFICER: Any police officer, sheriff, sheriff's deputy or law enforcement
officer, or such other person as may be identified, nominated, appointed or
designated by the mayor and/or city council of the city of Ponderay, Bonner
County, Idaho.
OWNER: Any person who is the legal owner or any person who keeps, harbors or
possesses any animal.
RABIES CERTIFICATE FORM: Means a rabies certificate form issued by a licensed
veterinarian. To serve as a valid rabies certificate form it must show:
   A.   The animal owner's name, address and telephone number;
   B.   The animal's name, species, breed, color, sex and age;
   C.   The type, lot number and manufacture of the rabies vaccine;
   D.   The date of the vaccination;
   E.   The date on which the vaccination expires; and
   F.   The signature of the veterinarian who vaccinated the animal or other
signature authorized by the veterinarian administering the vaccination.
RABIES TAG: A piece of metal or other durable material inscribed with a date
and number which has been issued by a veterinarian.
SEVERE INJURY: Any physical injury to a human being that results in muscle
tears or disfiguring lacerations, or which requires multiple sutures or
corrective or cosmetic surgery.
STOCK DOG: Any dog of the herding type or breeds which is actively engaged in
the herding of livestock while under the control of the owner of the dog.
VACCINATED ANIMAL: Any animal inoculated with a rabies vaccine and wearing a
current rabies tag indicating proof of such vaccination. Such rabies vaccine
must be approved by the state of Idaho and administered by a licensed
veterinarian.
VICIOUS ANIMAL: A. Any animal which:
      1.   Has twice, within a forty eight (48) month period, bitten, attacked
or otherwise caused injury to a person engaged in lawful activity; or
      2.    Has once attacked or bitten a person engaged in lawful activity
causing death or severe injury.
   B.   Provided, no animal may be declared vicious if any injury or damage is
sustained by a person who, at the time the injury or damage was sustained, was
committing a trespass or other tort upon the premises occupied by the owner or
keeper of the animal, or was tormenting, abusing or assaulting the animal, or
was committing or attempting to commit a crime. No animal may be declared
vicious if the animal was protecting or defending a person from an unjustified
physical attack or assault by the recipient of any damage or injury from the
animal.
   C.   No portion of this chapter shall in any way inhibit the use of any
police dog or military dog or other law enforcement dog by a public law
enforcement agency. (Ord. 7-7, 1991)
 
Notes
 
1 1. See subsection 9-1-2B of this code for definition of "kennel, boarding".
4-4-4: LICENSING REQUIREMENTS:
(Rep. by Ord. 123, 1-7-2014)
4-4-5: RABIES VACCINATIONS:
   A.   Vaccination Required: Dog owners shall obtain a rabies vaccination for
each dog they own, keep, harbor, or possess, within thirty (30) days after it
becomes three (3) months of age, or within thirty (30) days after obtaining any
dog over three (3) months of age. It shall be unlawful for any person to keep,
harbor or possess any dog unless such dog has a current rabies vaccination, as
required above, administered by a licensed veterinarian, with a rabies vaccine
approved for use in a dog. Such vaccinations shall be repeated at such
intervals as required by the type of vaccine used and licensing requirements of
said vaccine.
   B.   Vaccination Certificate: Any veterinarian who vaccinates a dog for
rabies shall also certify, by properly completing, as provided in section 4-4-
3 of this chapter, the rabies certificate form.
   C.   Exemption From Vaccination: Notwithstanding any other provision of this
chapter, a dog need not be vaccinated for rabies during an illness, provided a
licensed veterinarian has examined the dog and has certified, in writing, that
such vaccination should be postponed. Said temporary exemption shall be valid
only for the duration of the illness or other medical condition for which it is
granted. Any owner of a dog which has not been vaccinated for medical reasons
shall retain written evidence of such exemption and shall produce it upon
demand to any lawful authority. (Ord. 7-7, 1991; Ord. 7-7a, 1998)
4-4-6: RABIES TAG:
   A.   Affixed Rabies Tag: Every dog owner shall securely affix the current
rabies tag to the collar or harness of the dog for which it was issued, and
shall ensure that the dog wears such rabies tag at all times.
   B.   Transfer Of Rabies Tag: A rabies tag issued for one dog shall not be
transferred or attached to another dog.
   C.   Removal Of Tag: No person shall remove a rabies tag or identification
tag from any dog which is not owned by that person. (Ord. 7-7, 1991)
4-4-7: REPORTING SUSPECTED RABIES AND BITES:
   A.   Suspected Cases Of Rabies: Any person having care and custody of an
animal which shows symptoms of rabies or which acts in a manner which would
lead to a reasonable suspicion that the animal may have rabies shall notify the
police department and the Panhandle health department.
   B.   Reporting Bites: All persons bitten, and the parents or guardians of
minor children bitten, by a dog, cat, skunk, fox, coyote, bobcat or other
animal of a species subject to rabies shall notify the police department and
the Panhandle health department as soon as possible thereafter. Physicians
treating such bites and other persons having knowledge of such bites shall also
notify the police department and the Panhandle health department. (Ord. 7-7,
1991)
4-4-8: ISOLATION OF ANIMALS:
   A.   Suspected Rabid Animals: Upon the order of the police department or the
Panhandle health department, a suspected rabid animal shall be isolated in
strict confinement under the proper care and observation of a licensed
veterinarian in a veterinary hospital, animal shelter or other facility
approved by the city council or officer of the Panhandle health department.
Such animal shall not be killed or released for at least ten (10) days after
the onset of symptoms, unless permission is obtained from the owner or
responsible health agency to kill the animal for the purpose of laboratory
examination.
   B.   Biting Animals: Any animal of a species subject to rabies which bites
any person shall be isolated in strict confinement in a place and manner
approved by the police department or the Panhandle health department for at
least fourteen (14) days after the date of the bite. Dogs or cats shall be so
isolated and observed for at least ten (10) days after the infliction of the
bite or exposure. Dogs and cats which have been isolated under the immediate
supervision of a licensed veterinarian may be released on the fifth day if,
upon examination by the veterinarian, the veterinarian certifies, in writing,
that no clinical signs or symptoms of rabies exist. Notwithstanding all of the
foregoing provisions, the city council or officer, with the permission of the
owner of the animal, if known, may authorize the euthanasia of the animal for
the purpose of laboratory examination. (Ord. 7-7, 1991)
4-4-9: CONTROL OF ANIMALS:
   A.   Restraint Of Dogs: Dog owners shall at all times prevent their dogs
from being at large and from being in violation of other sections of this
chapter. Failure of an owner or handler to comply with the provisions hereof
shall be a violation of this chapter. However, dogs may be free from a leash
while participating in field trials and obedience trials, while actively
engaged in herding livestock, while assisting a peace officer engaged in law
enforcement duties, or while hunting pursuant to Idaho fish and game
regulations.
   B.   Female Dogs In Season (Estrus): Dog owners shall securely confine their
female dogs within an enclosure while in season (estrus). (Ord. 7-7, 1991)
4-4-10: CARE AND TREATMENT:
   A.   Inhumane Treatment: No person shall treat an animal in a cruel or
inhumane manner, or wilfully or negligently cause or permit any animal to
suffer torture or unnecessary pain.
   B.   Abandonment: No person shall abandon any animal without care on any
public or private property, or allow any animal to be without potable water and
food for a period of time in excess of twelve (12) hours.
   C.   Injured And Diseased Animals: No person shall knowingly harbor or keep
any animal with a serious injury or which is inflicted with mange, ringworm,
distemper or any other contagious disease, unless such animal is being given
adequate treatment for such disease or injury. The city may take immediate
possession of any such animal not being treated or not responding to treatment,
and may immediately dispose of the animal unless the owner shall forthwith
place such an animal under the control and treatment of a licensed
veterinarian. Provided, the city may take immediate possession of a diseased or
injured animal, when circumstances warrant, and place said animal under the
care and control of a licensed veterinarian. The owner of such an animal shall
pay all fees and expenses related to veterinary care, including, but not
limited to, the impoundment, transportation, confinement, board, veterinary
care and associated treatment. Failure to pay said costs shall preclude return
of the animal to its owner.
   D.   Transportation Of Animals: No person shall transport or carry on any
public road or highway any animal in a motor vehicle unless the animal is
safely enclosed within the vehicle, or is protected by a cab or container,
secured cage, cross tether, harness or other device that will prevent the
animal from falling from, being thrown from or jumping from the vehicle.
   E.   Animals In Unattended Vehicles: No person shall leave an animal in any
unattended vehicle without adequate ventilation or security to protect the
public, or otherwise in any manner as to subject the animal to extremes of
temperature which adversely affect the health or welfare of the animal. (Ord.
7-7, 1991)
4-4-11: VICIOUS ANIMALS:
   A.   Injury By Vicious Animals: Any person owning or having custody or
control of a vicious animal shall be deemed to have violated this chapter if,
as a result of that person's failure to exercise reasonable care, the animal
injures any other person or animal engaged in lawful activities. A vicious
animal, within the meaning of section 4-4-3 of this chapter, shall be deemed a
public nuisance and shall be subject to the provisions of this section for the
remainder of its life.
   B.   Control Of Vicious Animals: Any person who possesses, harbors, keeps or
owns a "vicious animal" as defined in section 4-4-3 of this chapter shall be
required to comply with the following conditions:
      1.   Restraint: Keep such animal restrained in a manner which prevents
any attacks or bites on persons or other animals engaged in lawful activities.
      2.   Sale Or Transfer Of Ownership:
         a.   Notify City Council: Owners of a vicious animal who sell or in
any way transfer the ownership, custody, care or residence of the animal shall,
at least fourteen (14) days prior to the sale or transfer of ownership or
residence, inform the city council, in writing, of the name, address and
telephone number of the new owner or custodian or new residence location. Said
notification shall include the name and description of the animal.
         b.   Notify New Owner: The owner shall, in addition, notify the new
owner, in writing, of the details of the animal's record and the terms and
conditions of the animal's maintenance.
         c.   Inspection Of New Home: Prior to placement of the vicious animal
at its new home, the city shall be called to inspect the premises. If the
premises do not conform to the standards set by this section, the vicious dog
shall not assume residence. Failure to accord with these requirements shall
constitute a violation of this chapter.
      3.   Confinement On Owner's Property; Pen Or Structure Specifications:
While on the owner's property, a vicious animal must be securely confined
indoors or in a securely enclosed and locked pen or structure, suitable to
prevent the entry of young children and designed to prevent the animal from
escaping. Such pen or structure for an animal must have minimum dimensions of
five feet by ten feet (5' x 10') and must have secure sides and a secure top.
If the structure has no bottom secured to the sides, the sides must be embedded
into the ground no less than two feet (2'). The enclosure must also provide
adequate protection from the elements for the animal. Each such enclosure must
be surrounded by a secondary fence or other barrier which would prevent a child
or others from reaching the vicious dog by any foreseeable means.
      4.   Sign Required: The owner or keeper shall display a sign on his or
her premises warning that there is a vicious animal on the property. This sign
shall be legible from the closest public access. In addition, the owner shall
conspicuously display a sign with a symbolic warning for children indicating
the presence of the vicious animal.
      5.   City Inspections: The owner or keeper of the vicious animal shall at
any time allow the city, its agents or assigns, or any peace officer to inspect
the premises where the vicious animal is located to ensure compliance with this
chapter and any order of a court respecting the keeping of the vicious animal.
      6.   Alteration Required: The vicious animal shall be altered within ten
(10) days of having been declared vicious, unless clinically advised otherwise
by a licensed veterinarian. The cost of alteration shall be borne by the owner
or keeper of the vicious animal.
      7.   Special License Fee: The owner of any vicious animal shall pay a
special license fee of seventy five dollars ($75.00) per year. Said fee shall
offset the costs of annual inspection of the premises by the city.
      8.   Presence In Public: No dog which has been declared vicious pursuant
to this section shall be taken into any public place, other than to a
veterinarian's office, regardless of the control measures undertaken by the
dog's handler.
   C.   Notification And Procedure:
      1.   Notice Of Intent To Declare Animal Vicious: The city, its officers,
officials or assigns shall notify the owners of any animal to be declared
vicious of its intent to make such declaration. Notification shall be attempted
by certified mail at the owner's last known address, in addition to
notification by first class mail. The preliminary declaration shall be
effective upon mailing and the animal shall be maintained in secure confinement
until administrative procedures are complete. The owner shall have ten (10)
days to request a hearing before the city council. In the event the owner fails
to request such a hearing, the preliminary declaration shall become permanent.
      2.   Hearing Requested:
         a.   Scheduled: In the event the owner of the animal requests such a
hearing, the city council shall hold a hearing within fourteen (14) days and,
in any event, as soon as possible.
         b.   Hearing: The city shall present all pertinent information
supporting the declaration as a vicious dog during such hearing. During such
hearing, the owner of the animal may present any written evidence regarding the
facts of the case. Oral testimony may be limited as the city council schedule
dictates, but in no event shall more than one hour of defense be heard.
         c.   Council Findings And Decision: The city council shall advise the
owner of the animal within ten (10) days of the hearing of its findings and
decision.
         d.   Care Of Animal Pending Council Decision; Costs: Until the owner
of the animal has been advised by the city council of its findings and
decision, the animal shall be maintained in compliance with the provisions of
the vicious dog declaration or impounded if proper precautions are not in
place. In the event the animal has been impounded in this time period, the
owner shall pay all board fees, impound fees, and quarantine fees regardless of
the outcome of the hearing.
      3.   Notice Of Escape: The owner of a declared vicious animal shall
notify the city clerk and animal control officer immediately in the event the
animal escapes. The owner shall make every possible effort to recapture such an
animal immediately and to warn others of its release. (Ord. 7-7, 1991; 2008
Code)
4-4-12: IMPOUNDING OF ANIMALS:
   A.   Authority To Impound: Any peace officer, animal control officer or any
other person authorized by the city may seize and impound any dog without a
collar or harness bearing evidence of current vaccination as required by this
chapter, and any and all dogs or other animals found running at large upon the
public streets, alleys or other public places, or on private premises without
the permission of the owner of said premises, or any and all vicious animals.
   B.   Entry Onto Premises: Any peace officer or animal control officer or
other person authorized by the city is authorized to enter private property to
take possession of and impound any animal whenever the peace officer or other
authorized person is in fresh pursuit of an animal which is in violation of a
provision of this chapter at the time the animal enters onto private property
or a nonenclosed nondwelling building.
   C.   Interfering Or Obstructing Animal Control Officer Or Peace Officer: Any
person who shall hinder, delay, interfere with or obstruct an animal control
officer or any peace officer or person authorized by the city to enforce this
chapter, in the capture, securing or taking to an animal shelter any animal to
be impounded, or who shall open or in any manner directly or indirectly aid,
counsel or advise the opening of any animal control cage, ambulance, wagon or
other vehicle used for the collection or conveyance of animals to the animal
shelter shall be deemed to have violated this chapter.
   D.   Reclaiming Of Impounded Dogs: Any dog impounded for violation of this
chapter may be reclaimed from impound after paying the appropriate fees at any
time prior to adoption and may be taken from the shelter by the owner or any
authorized person so long as the person reclaiming the dog pays the person in
charge of the shelter any impound fees, in an amount determined from time to
time by resolution of the city. The owner of any unvaccinated animal shall
obtain a rabies vaccination for the dog and provide proof of same to the
shelter within thirty (30) days after reclaiming the animal. If proof is not
provided as required, a violation of this chapter shall be deemed to have
occurred.
   E.   Time For Holding Impounded Dogs:
      1.   Unidentified Animals: All unidentified impounded animals shall be
held for a minimum of three (3) working days, after which time, they become the
property of the shelter.
      2.   Identified Animals: All identified impounded animals shall be held
for five (5) working days, after which they become the property of the shelter.
      3.   Notice Of Impoundment: A notice of impoundment may be mailed by the
shelter to the last known address of an identified owner. Such dogs then may be
disposed of by the shelter or offered for sale by the shelter in an amount to
be determined by the shelter.
   F.   Abatement Proceedings; Habitual Offender: Any animal that has been
impounded more than three (3) times in any one year period of time, or whose
owner has been convicted more than three (3) times in any one year period of
time for violation of any portion of this chapter relating to the animal in
question, or any combination of impoundments and/or convictions of more than
three (3) times in any one year period of time, may be abated by the city.
(Ord. 7-7, 1991)
   G.   Notice And Hearing For Abatement Proceedings:
      1.   Notice: The city, its animal control officer or assigns shall notify
the owner of an animal to be abated for being a habitual offender of its intent
to do so. Notification shall be attempted by certified mail to the owner's last
known address, in addition to notice by first class mail. (Ord. 7-7, 1991; 2008
Code)
      2.   Request For Hearing: The owner shall have ten (10) days to request a
hearing before the city council.
      3.   Failure To Request Hearing: In the event the owner fails to request
such a hearing, the declaration shall become effective at the end of the ten
(10) day period.
      4.   Hearing: In the event the owner of the animal requests such a
hearing, the city council shall hold such a hearing within fourteen (14) days
or, in any case, as soon as possible. During such a hearing the owner of the
animal may present any evidence regarding the facts of the case. The city shall
present all pertinent information during such a hearing. The hearing shall not
exceed one hour in length.
      5.   Council Findings And Decision: The city council shall advise the
owner of the animal of their finding and decision within ten (10) days of the
hearing.
      6.   Costs Of Impoundment: In the event the animal has been impounded in
this time period, the owner shall pay all boarding fees, impound fees, medical
treatment costs, and quarantine fees regardless of the outcome of the hearing.
(Ord. 7-7, 1991)
4-4-13: ADOPTION OF ANIMALS FROM THE SHELTER:
Dogs may be adopted from the shelter once they have been resident at the
shelter for the time periods specified in section 4-4-12 of this chapter. The
shelter may charge an adoption fee and refundable deposit sufficient to cover
the cost of vaccination and alteration. The new owner shall submit proof to the
shelter within thirty (30) days or within thirty (30) days of the animal
becoming six (6) months of age, whichever is sooner, that a rabies vaccination
has been obtained and that the animal has been altered. Upon submission of such
proof, the shelter shall refund the deposit and give the owner a certificate of
compliance. (Ord. 7-7, 1991)
4-4-14: MAINTENANCE OF MULTIPLE ANIMALS:
No person or persons in aggregate, nor any corporation of any type, shall own,
harbor or keep more than six (6) adult dogs, nor more than six (6) adult cats,
or any combination thereof exceeding the number of six (6), on any single
parcel or aggregated parcels of real property where said keeping results in the
creation of a nuisance due to odor, noise, collection of fecal matter on the
property in question or neighboring properties, or other public health or
welfare concerns. (Ord. 7-7, 1991)
4-4-15: ANIMALS IN PARKS:
A.   Animals shall be allowed in city parks when properly restrained as out
lined in Ponderay City Code 4-4-9, except as follows:
1.   All animals, except properly identified service animals. shall be
prohibited from all areas at the Field of Dreams complex that are located
within the fenced perimeter of the turf sports fields. Failure to comply with
this requirements shall constitute a violation of this chapter and shall be
subject to the penalties established at PCC 4-4-17.
2.   During City events where signage indicates that animals are prohibited.
 
4-4-16: DISTURBING THE PEACE:
It is unlawful for any person owning, keeping or harboring, or having the care,
custody or possession of any animal, bird or fowl to keep or maintain, or to
cause or permit to be kept or maintained, upon any premises in the city or upon
any public street, highway, sidewalk, alley, park, playground or other public
place in the city, any animal, bird or fowl which by barking, howling, whining,
crowing or other audible noise disturbs the peace and quiet of any reasonable
person or interferes with the reasonable and comfortable enjoyment of life or
property. (Ord. 7-9, 2001)
4-4-17: PENALTY:
   A.   Unless otherwise provided, any person who violates any provision of
this chapter is guilty of an infraction, punishable as allowed by Idaho Code
section 18-113A or any successor statute. If a person is found to have violated
this chapter for the third time, that person shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
punishable as allowed by Idaho Code section 18-113 or any successor statute.
Any subsequent conviction shall also be a misdemeanor.
   B.   In addition, a person violating this chapter may be subject to civil
remedy as necessary to assure compliance with this chapter. (Ord. 7-7b, 11-18-
2002)
 
 
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 2008-6
An ordinance of the city of Ponderay, Idaho, adopting titles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6,
7, 8, 9, and 10 of the revised and amended municipal code of the city of
Ponderay; repealing provisions in conflict therewith; and providing for
publication.
WHEREAS, the city of Ponderay has conducted a revision of titles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5,
6, 7, 8, 9, and 10 of the municipal code of the city of Ponderay; and,
WHEREAS, such revisions have been made by the city of Ponderay in consultation
with Sterling Codifiers, a specialized and professional municipal code
preparer; and,
WHEREAS, such revisions have been made to provide consistency in the
application and enforcement of the accumulated and modified code and ordinances
of the city of Ponderay; and,
WHEREAS, the revised provisions are in the best interest and to promote public
safety and health of the citizens and properties in the city limits of the city
of Ponderay and are a reasonable and necessary exercise of the powers granted
to municipal corporations in the state of Idaho;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the mayor and city council of the city of
Ponderay, Idaho:
1.   The attached and incorporated titles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10 of
the revised and amended city code are in the best interests of the citizens and
properties of the city of Ponderay.
2.   The attached and incorporated titles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, and 10 of
the revised and amended city code are hereby adopted and approved.
3.   Any provision of city code or any ordinance previously adopted which is in
conflict with the provisions of titles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10
attached hereto and incorporated herein, are hereby repealed.
4.   The provisions of the attached and incorporated titles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6,
7, 8, 9, and 10 of the revised and amended city code are independent and
severable. If any provision should subsequently be found to be unlawful or
invalid, said finding shall not affect any other provision of said titles or
revised and amended city code.
5.   Any violation of previously existing city code or ordinances which
occurred prior to the adopting of the attached and incorporated titles 1, 2, 3,
4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, and 10 shall be enforceable under said prior provisions
subject to the applicable statutes of limitation for enforcement thereunder.
6.   The provisions of titles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, and 10 of the revised
and amended city code are attached hereto and incorporated herein in their
entirety by reference and of the same force and effect as if set forth
individually and fully herein.
7.   This ordinance shall be in full force and effect upon publication
according to law.
8.   This ordinance and/or its summary shall be published in one issue of the
Bonner County Daily Bee, which is hereby declared to be the official newspaper
of the city for the publication of this ordinance.
Passed by the city council and approved by the mayor, under suspension of the
rules, as an ordinance of the city of Ponderay, Bonner County, Idaho, at a
regular meeting of the Ponderay city council held on the 15th day of September,
2008.
         Carol Kunzeman
         Mayor
ATTEST:
Nancy B. Piatt
City Clerk
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION; GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 1
PONDERAY CITY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Adoption
1-1-2: Title; Citation; Reference
1-1-3: Codification Authority
1-1-4: Reference Applies To All Amendments
1-1-5: Title, Chapter And Section Headings
1-1-6: Reference To Specific Ordinances
1-1-7: The City
1-1-8: Repeal Of Previously Existing Ordinances
1-1-9: Limitations On Repeal Of Ordinances
1-1-10: Severability
1-1-1: ADOPTION:
Pursuant to the provisions of Idaho Code sections 50-903 through 50-906, there
is hereby adopted the PONDERAY CITY CODE as published by the city. (Ord. 1-40,
2002)
1-1-2: TITLE; CITATION; REFERENCE:
This code shall be known as the Ponderay city code and it shall be sufficient
to refer to this code as the Ponderay city code in any prosecution for the
violation of any provision thereof or in any proceeding at law or equity. It
shall be sufficient to designate any ordinance adding to, amending, correcting
or repealing all or any part or portion thereof as an addition to, amendment
to, correction or repeal of the Ponderay city code. Further, reference may be
had to the titles, chapters, sections and subsections of the Ponderay city code
and such reference shall apply to that numbered title, chapter, section or
subsection as it appears in the code. (Ord. 1-40, 2002)
1-1-3: CODIFICATION AUTHORITY:
This code consists of all the regulatory and penal ordinances, and certain of
the administrative ordinances, of the city codified pursuant to the provisions
of Idaho Code sections 50-903 through 50-906. (Ord. 1-40, 2002)
1-1-4: REFERENCE APPLIES TO ALL AMENDMENTS:
Whenever a reference is made to this code as the Ponderay city code or to any
portion thereof, or to any ordinances of the city, the reference shall apply to
all amendments, corrections and additions heretofore, now or hereafter made.
(Ord. 1-40, 2002)
1-1-5: TITLE, CHAPTER AND SECTION HEADINGS:
Title, chapter and section headings contained herein shall not be deemed to
govern, limit, modify or in any manner affect the scope or intent of the
provisions of any title, chapter or section hereof. (Ord. 1-40, 2002)
1-1-6: REFERENCE TO SPECIFIC ORDINANCES:
The provisions of this code shall not in any manner affect matters of record
which refer to, or which are otherwise connected with, ordinances which are
therein specifically designated by number or otherwise, and which are included
within this code, but such reference shall be construed to apply to the
corresponding provisions contained within this code. (Ord. 1-40, 2002)
1-1-7: THE CITY:
All references in this code to the "city", unless otherwise indicated by
context, shall mean the city of Ponderay, county of Bonner, state of Idaho.
(Ord. 1-40, 2000)
1-1-8: REPEAL OF PREVIOUSLY EXISTING ORDINANCES:
So far as the provisions of this code are the same in effect as those of
previously existing ordinances, they shall be construed as continuations
thereof but subject to the above limitation and to the provisions of the next
section, all ordinances of the city heretofore in force (except such as are of
a private, local or temporary nature, including franchises, grants, dedications
and special levies for local assessments) are hereby repealed. (Ord. 1-40,
2002)
1-1-9: LIMITATIONS ON REPEAL OF ORDINANCES:
The repeal of ordinances in effect at the time of the adoption of this code, as
provided in section
1-1-8 of this chapter, shall not encompass ordinances which are not, by their
nature, penal or regulatory. Specifically, ordinances related to the annexation
or disannexation of property are not hereby repealed. (Ord. 1-40, 2002)
1-1-10: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this code is for any
reason held to be invalid or unconstitutional, such decision shall not affect
the validity of the remaining portions of this code. The council hereby
declares that it would have passed this code, and each section, subsection,
sentence, clause or phrase thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or
more sections, subsections, sentences, clauses or phrases had been declared
invalid or unconstitutional; and if for any reason this code shall be declared
invalid or unconstitutional, then the original ordinance or ordinances shall be
in full force and effect as if they had not be repealed hereby. (Ord. 1-40,
2002)
CHAPTER 2
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-2-1: General Penalty
1-2-2: Application Of Provisions
1-2-3: Liability Of Officers
1-2-1: GENERAL PENALTY 1 :
Any person convicted of a violation of any section or provision of this code,
where no other penalty is set forth, shall be punished by a fine not to exceed
one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), or by imprisonment not to exceed six (6)
months, or by both such fine and imprisonment for each offense; or by a fine
not to exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00) with no imprisonment, when the
offense is designated as an infraction by state law or by any section or
provision of this code. (2008 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. IC §§ 18-111, 18-113, 18-113A, 50-302.
1-2-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Application Of Penalty:
      1.   The penalty provided in this chapter shall be applicable to every
section of this code the same as though it were a part of each and every
separate section. Any person convicted of a violation of any section of this
code where any duty is prescribed or obligation imposed or where any action
which is of a continuing nature is forbidden or is declared to be unlawful
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor unless otherwise provided. A separate
offense shall be deemed committed upon each day such duty or obligation remains
unperformed or such act continues unless otherwise specifically provided in
this code.
      2.   Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act
constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this code, and there shall
be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the provisions of
this chapter shall apply.
   B.   Imposition Of Penalty: In all cases where the same offense is made
punishable or is created by different clauses or sections of this code, the
prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed; but not more than one
recovery shall be had against the same person for the same offense; provided,
that the revocation of a license or permit shall not be considered a recovery
or penalty so as to bar any other penalty being enforced.
   C.   Breach Of Provisions: Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to
do any act constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this code and
there shall be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the
provisions of this chapter shall apply. (2008 Code)
1-2-3: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty unless the intention of
the city council to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or employee is
specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the duty. (2008
Code)
CHAPTER 3
CITY COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-3-1: Council Meetings
1-3-2: Consent Agenda
1-3-1: COUNCIL MEETINGS:
   A.   Day And Time:
      1.   The city council shall hold two (2) regular city council meetings
per month, on the first and third Mondays of each month at five-thirty o’clock
(5:30) P.M.
      2.   If the Monday on which a regularly scheduled city council meeting is
to be held is a holiday, the city council shall hold its regular meeting on the
Tuesday immediately following that Monday.
   B.   Place: All regular meetings of the city council shall be held at the
Ponderay city hall, 288 4th Street, Ponderay, Bonner County, Idaho.
(Ord. 1-30, 1994; amd. Ord. 1-32, 1997; Ord. 1-32d, 2001; Ord. 166, 9-19-2022)
1-3-2: CONSENT AGENDA:
   A.   Permitted: To ensure that the city council meetings are conducted in an
orderly and efficient manner, the city council may use a consent agenda wherein
certain administerial items will be placed on the agenda and be passed by
motion in its entirety or any part thereof. (Ord. 1-28, 1994)
   B.   Contents: The contents of the consent agenda may include, but are not
limited to, minutes from regular meetings, special meetings, and workshops of
the council, the treasurer's report, updates of pending city business which
needs no current action, and any other matters regularly before the council.
This agenda list may be modified, limited or expanded by resolution of the
council. (Ord. 1-28, 1994)
CHAPTER 4
ELECTIONS
SECTION:
1-4-1: Date Of General Election
1-4-2: Dates Of Other Elections
1-4-3: Polling Place
1-4-4: Hours Of Election
1-4-1: DATE OF GENERAL ELECTION:
A general election shall be held in the city on the Tuesday following the first
Monday of November in each odd numbered year. (Ord. 1-33, 1997)
1-4-2: DATES OF OTHER ELECTIONS:
All other city elections shall be known as special city elections and may be
held on the following days not to exceed two (2) elections per calendar year:
   A.   The third Tuesday in May of each year; and
   B.   The Tuesday following the first Monday in November of each year.
   C.   In addition to the elections specified in subsections A and B of this
section, an emergency election may be called upon motion of the city council.
An emergency exists when there is a great public calamity, such as an
extraordinary fire, flood, storm, epidemic or other disaster, or if it is
necessary to do emergency work to prepare for a national or local defense, or
it is necessary to do emergency work to safeguard life, health or property.
(Ord. 119, 8-6-2012)
1-4-3: POLLING PLACE:
Pursuant to Idaho Code city elections shall be conducted by the Bonner County
clerk and the place of polling shall be determined by the Bonner County clerk.
(Ord. 119, 8-6-2012)
1-4-4: HOURS OF ELECTION:
For all general and special city elections, the polls shall be open at twelve
o'clock (12:00) noon and remain open until all registered electors of the city
have voted or until eight o'clock (8:00) P.M. of the same day, whichever comes
first. (Ord. 1-33, 1997)
CHAPTER 5
POLICE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
1-5-1: Department Created
1-5-2: Appointments; Promotions (Rep. by Ord. 127, 6-16-2014)
1-5-3: Police Officers' Training Requirements
1-5-4: Powers And Duties
1-5-5: Custody Of Property
1-5-6: Equal Opportunity
1-5-7: Police Chief Appointed
1-5-1: DEPARTMENT CREATED:
There is hereby created a Police Department for the City which shall consist of
the Chief of Police and such other members as may be provided for by the City
Council. (Ord. 4-21, 1994)
1-5-2: APPOINTMENTS; PROMOTIONS:
(Rep. by Ord. 127, 6-16-2014)
1-5-3: POLICE OFFICERS' TRAINING REQUIREMENTS:
The City Council declares that it adheres to the standards for recruitment and
training established pursuant to Idaho Code title 19, chapter 51. (Ord. 4-21,
1994)
1-5-4: POWERS AND DUTIES:
Duly appointed police officers of the City shall have the power to arrest all
offenders and suspected offenders for violation of the laws of this State or of
the City, by day or by night, in the same manner as other police officers of
this State. They shall likewise be vested with the power to serve any other
process issued under authority of this Code and ordinances of the City, and in
accordance with Idaho Code section 50-209. (Ord. 4-21, 1994)
1-5-5: CUSTODY OF PROPERTY:
The Chief of Police shall have custody of all lost, abandoned or stolen
property recovered within the City. (Ord. 4-21, 1994)
1-5-6: EQUAL OPPORTUNITY:
In making appointments to the Police Department, no person shall be deprived of
an opportunity to serve on the Police Department because of race, religion,
skin color, national origin or sex. No arbitrary rules on height, weight or
achievement of strength unrelated to job needs shall be imposed. No handicapped
person shall be denied, merely by virtue of being handicapped, appointment to a
position on the Police Department which the handicapped person is qualified to
fill. (Ord. 4-21, 1994)
1-5-7: POLICE CHIEF APPOINTED:
The Chief of Police of Ponderay is an appointed official in accordance with
chapter 2, title 50 of the Idaho Code. (Ord. 134, 3-21-2016)
CHAPTER 6
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
SECTION:
1-6-1: Commission Created
1-6-2: Membership; Duties
1-6-3: Term Of Office
1-6-4: Vacancies
1-6-5: Removal Of Members
1-6-6: Compensation
1-6-7: Rule Making Authority
1-6-8: Powers And Duties Of City Council
1-6-9: Planner Appointed
1-6-1: COMMISSION CREATED:
To avail itself of the power conferred by Idaho Code title 67, chapter 65, it
is hereby ordained that a Planning Commission consisting of six (6) members be
appointed by the Mayor, subject to confirmation by the City Council. (Ord. 6-1,
1970; 2008 Code)
1-6-2: MEMBERSHIP; DUTIES:
   A.   Ex Officio Members: Not more than one-third (1/3) of the commission
hereby created shall be ex officio members by virtue of public office or
position held in the City.
   B.   Nonresident Taxpayer: Not more than one (1) member of said commission
may be a nonresident taxpayer of the City.
   C.   Political Affiliation: Members shall be appointed and selected without
respect to political affiliation.
   D.   Responsibilities And Duties: The commission shall assume all
responsibilities and duties as set forth in Idaho Code title 67, chapter 65.
(Ord. 6-1, 1970; 2008 Code)
1-6-3: TERM OF OFFICE:
The term of office for each appointive officer shall be six (6) years. No
person shall serve more than two (2) full consecutive terms without specific
concurrence by two-thirds (2/3) of the Governing Board adopted by motion and
recorded in the minutes. (Ord. 6-1, 1970; 2008 Code)
1-6-4: VACANCIES:
Vacancies occurring other than through expiration of the term shall be filled
by the Mayor, subject to confirmation by the City Council. (Ord. 6-1, 1970)
1-6-5: REMOVAL OF MEMBERS:
Members may be removed for cause by a majority vote of the City Council. (Ord.
6-1, 1970; 2008 Code)
1-6-6: COMPENSATION:
Members shall be compensated for each regularly scheduled meeting attended in
an amount to be established from time to time by resolution of the City
Council. (Ord. 6-1a, 1999)
1-6-7: RULE MAKING AUTHORITY:
Written organization papers or bylaws consistent with this chapter and other
laws of the State for the transaction of business of the commission shall be
adopted. A record of meetings, hearings, resolutions, studies, findings,
permits, and actions taken shall be maintained. All meetings and records shall
be open to the public. At least one (1) regular meeting shall be held each
month for not less than nine (9) months in a year. A majority of currently
appointed voting members of the commission shall constitute a quorum. (2008
Code)
1-6-8: POWERS AND DUTIES OF CITY COUNCIL:
This chapter in no way diminishes the responsibility of the City Council from
overseeing and authorizing any rule or regulation as required by the Idaho
Code. (Ord. 6-8, 1994)
1-6-9: PLANNER APPOINTED:
The planner of Ponderay is an appointed official in accordance with chapter 2,
title 50 of the Idaho Code. (Ord. 134, 3-21-2016)
CHAPTER 7
OFFICIAL CITY NEWSPAPER
SECTION:
1-7-1: Designated
1-7-1: DESIGNATED:
The "Bonner County Daily Bee" is hereby designated the official newspaper of
the city of Ponderay, pursuant to Idaho Code section 50-213. (Ord. 1-9a, 2001)
CHAPTER 8
FEE SCHEDULE
SECTION:
1-8-1: Adoption
1-8-2: Amendment
1-8-1: ADOPTION:
The city hereby adopts an official fee schedule to be kept on file with the
city clerk. (Ord. 1-42, 11-20-2006)
1-8-2: AMENDMENT:
The fee schedule may be amended from time to time by resolution of the city
council in accordance with law. (Ord. 1-42, 11-20-2006)
CHAPTER 9
DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEE
SECTION:
1-9-1: Title; Purpose
1-9-2: Definitions
1-9-3: Application
1-9-4: Collection Of Impact Fee
1-9-5: Capital Improvement Projects
1-9-6: Calculation Of Impact Fee
1-9-7: General Methodology For Calculation
1-9-8: Inflationary Adjustment Index
1-9-9: Administration Of Impact Fee
1-9-10: Credits And Reimbursement
1-9-11: Refunds
1-9-12: Appeals
1-9-13: Extraordinary Impacts
1-9-14: Development Impact Fee Program/Capital Improvement Plan
1-9-15: Bonding
1-9-16: Effect Of Impact Fee On City Development Regulations
1-9-17: Other Powers And Rights Not Affected
1-9-18: Public Health, Safety And Welfare
1-9-1: TITLE; PURPOSE:
   A.   Short Title: The provisions of this chapter shall be known as the CITY
OF PONDERAY DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEE ORDINANCE.
   B.   Purpose: The purpose of these regulations is to prescribe the procedure
whereby developers of land shall pay an impact fee as set forth in this chapter
for the purpose of providing the public facilities and system improvements
needed to serve future residents and users of such development. It is further
the purpose of this chapter to:
      1.   Ensure that adequate facilities are available to serve new growth
and development;
      2.   Promote orderly growth and development by establishing uniform
standards by which the city may require that those who benefit from new growth
and development pay a proportionate share of the cost of new public facilities
needed to serve new growth and development;
      3.   Ensure that those who benefit from new growth and development are
required to pay no more than their proportionate share of the cost of public
facilities needed to serve new growth and development and to prevent duplicate
and ad hoc development requirements;
      4.   Collect and expend development impact fees pursuant to the enabling
powers granted by the provision of the Idaho development impact fee act, Idaho
Code title 67, chapter 82;
      5.   Provide the legal and procedural basis for the implementation of
development impact fees within the area of city impact; and
      6.   Ensure that any capital improvement funded wholly or in part with
impact fee revenue shall first be included in an approved capital improvements
plan that lists the capital improvements that may be funded with impact fee
revenues as well as the estimated costs and timing for each improvement. (Ord.
2008-3, 2-4-2008)
1-9-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the following
meanings, unless another meaning is plainly intended:
BUILDING PERMIT: The permit required for new construction and additions.
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS: Improvements with a useful life of ten (10) years or
more, by new construction or other action, which increase the service capacity
of a public facility, or service improvement.
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS PLAN: A plan adopted and amended pursuant to the provision
of the development impact fee act, Idaho Code section 67-8208 that identifies
capital improvements for which development impact fees may be used as a funding
source. The capital improvements plan is included as a part of the development
impact fee report.
CITY: The city of Ponderay, a municipal corporation duly organized pursuant to
the laws of the state of Idaho.
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real property, the
use of any principal structure or land, or any other activity that requires
issuance of a building permit, or manufactured/mobile home permit, which
creates additional demand and need for public facilities.
DEVELOPMENT APPROVAL: Any written duly authorized document from the city that
authorizes the commencement of a development.
DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEE: A payment of money imposed as a condition of
development approval to pay for a proportionate share of the cost of system
improvements needed to serve development. This term is also referred to as an
impact fee in this chapter. The term does not include the following:
   A.   A charge or fee to pay the administrative, plan review or inspection
cost associated with permits required for development;
   B.   Connection or hookup charges;
   C.   Availability charges for drainage, sewer, water, or transportation
charges for services provided directly to the development; or
   D.   Amounts collected from a developer in a transaction in which the city
has incurred expenses in constructing capital improvements for the development
if the owner or developer has agreed to be financially responsible for the
construction or installation of the capital improvements, unless a written
agreement is made pursuant to Idaho Code subsection 67-8209(3) for credit or
reimbursement.
DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENT: A requirement attached to a developmental approval or
other governmental action approving or authorizing a particular development
project including, but not limited to, a rezoning, which requirement compels
the payment, dedication or contribution of goods, services, land, or money as a
condition of approval.
EXTRAORDINARY COSTS: Those costs incurred as a result of an extraordinary
impact.
EXTRAORDINARY IMPACT: An impact which is reasonably determined by the city to:
   A.   Result in the need for system improvements, the cost of which will
significantly exceed the sum of the development impact fees to be generated
from the project or the sum agreed to be paid pursuant to a development
agreement as allowed by Idaho Code subsection 67-8214(2);
   B.   Result in the need for system improvements which are not identified in
the capital improvements plan;
   C.   Have an impact which results in a lower than acceptable level of
service.
FEE PAYER: That person who pays or is required to pay a development impact fee.
GROSS FLOOR AREA: The sum of the areas of the several floors of the building or
structure, including areas used for human occupancy or required for the conduct
of the business or use, as measured from the exterior faces of the walls. It
does not include cellars, unenclosed porches, or attics when not used for human
occupancy, nor any floor space in an accessory building, carport, or the main
building intended or designed for the parking of motor vehicles in order to
meet any city parking requirement nor nonresidential facilities; arcades,
porticos, and similar open areas which are located at or near street level,
which are accessible to the general public, and which are not designed or used
as sales, display, storage, service, or production areas.
IMPACT FEE: See definition of Development Impact Fee.
LAND USE ASSUMPTIONS: A description of the service area and projections of land
uses, densities, intensities, and population in the service area over at least
a twenty (20) year period.
LEVEL OF SERVICE: A measure of the relationship between service capacity and
service demand for public facilities.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure, constructed according to HUD/FHA manufactured
home construction and safety standards, transportable in one or more sections,
which:
   A.   In the traveling mode, is eight feet (8') or more in width or is forty
(40) body feet or more in length, or
   B.   When erected on site, is three hundred twenty (320) or more square
feet; and
   C.   Is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling
with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required
utilities; and
   D.   Includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning, and electrical
systems contained therein;
   E.   Except that such term shall include any structure which meets all the
requirements of this definition except the size requirements and with respect
to which the manufacturer voluntarily files a certification required by the
secretary of housing and urban development and complies with the standards
established under 42 USC 5401, et seq.
MOBILE HOME: A structure similar to a manufactured home, but built to a mobile
home code prior to June 15, 1976, the date of enactment of the federal
manufactured housing and safety standards act (HUD code).
MODULAR BUILDING: Any building or building component, other than a
manufactured/mobile home, which is constructed according to standards contained
in the international building code, as adopted or any amendments thereto, which
is of closed construction and is either entirely or substantially prefabricated
or assembled at a place other than the building site.
PRESENT VALUE: The total current monetary value of past, present, or future
payments, contributions or dedications of goods, services, materials,
construction, or money.
PROJECT: A particular development on an identified parcel of land.
PROJECT IMPROVEMENTS: In contrast to system improvements, project improvements
are site improvements and facilities that are planned and designed to provide
service for a particular development project and that are necessary for the use
and the convenience of the occupants or users of the project.
PROPORTIONATE SHARE: That portion of the cost of system improvements
determined, pursuant to Idaho Code section 67-8207, which reasonably relates to
the service demands and needs of the project.
PUBLIC FACILITIES: Those types of improvements described in Idaho Code section
67-8203, including, but not limited to, the following:
   A.   Water supply production, treatment, storage and distribution
facilities;
   B.   Wastewater collection, treatment and disposal facilities;
   C.   Roads, streets and bridges, including rights of way, traffic signals,
landscaping and any local components of state or federal highways;
   D.   Storm water collection, retention, detention, treatment and disposal
facilities, flood control facilities, and bank and shore protection and
enhancement improvements;
   E.   Parks, open space and recreation areas, and related capital
improvements; and
   F.   Public safety facilities.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicular type unit primarily designed as temporary
quarters for recreational, camping, or travel use, which either has its own
motive power or is mounted on or drawn by another vehicle.
SERVICE UNIT: A standardized measure of consumption, use, generation, or
discharge attributable to an individual unit of development calculated in
accordance with generally accepted engineering or planning standards for a
particular public facility category, i.e., parks, police, of capital
improvements.
SYSTEM IMPROVEMENTS: In contrast to project improvements, mean capital
improvements to public facilities which are designed to provide service to a
service area including, and without limitation, the type of improvements
described in Idaho Code section 50-1703.
SYSTEM IMPROVEMENTS COSTS: Costs incurred for construction or reconstruction of
system improvements, including design, acquisition, engineering and other costs
attributable thereto, and also including, without limitation, the type of costs
described in Idaho Code subsection 50-1702(h), to provide additional public
facilities needed to service new growth and development. For clarification,
system improvement costs do not include:
   A.   Construction, acquisition or expansion of public facilities other than
capital improvements identified in the capital improvements plan;
   B.   Repair, operation or maintenance of existing or new capital
improvements;
   C.   Upgrading, updating, expanding or replacing existing capital
improvements to serve existing development in order to meet stricter safety,
efficiency, environmental or regulatory standards;
   D.   Administrative and operating costs of the city, unless such costs are
attributable to development of the capital improvements plan, as provided in
Idaho Code section 67-8208, or
   E.   Principal payments and interest or other finance charges on bonds or
other indebtedness except financial obligations issued by or on behalf of the
city to finance capital improvements identified in the capital improvements
plan.
UNIT(S) OF DEVELOPMENT: A quantifiable increment of development activity
measured in terms of dwelling units, or other appropriate measurements
contained in the impact fee schedule incorporated in the "report." (Ord. 2008-
3, 2-4-2008; 2008 Code)
1-9-3: APPLICATION:
   A.   Applicability: The provisions of this chapter shall apply uniformly to
all those who benefit from new growth and development except as provided in
subsection B of this section.
   B.   Exceptions: The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the
following:
      1.   Rebuilding the same amount of floor space of a structure that was
destroyed by fire or other catastrophe, providing the structure is rebuilt and
ready for occupancy within two (2) years of its destruction;
      2.   Remodeling or repairing a structure that does not increase the
number of service units;
      3.   Replacing a residential unit, including a modular building or
manufactured/mobile home, with another residential unit on the same lot;
provided, that the number of service units does not increase;
      4.   Placing a temporary construction trailer or office on a lot;
      5.   Constructing an addition on a residential structure that does not
increase the number of service units;
      6.   Adding uses that are typically accessory to residential uses, such
as tennis courts or clubhouse, unless it can be clearly demonstrated that the
use creates a significant impact on the capacity of system improvements;
      7.   Upon demonstration by fee payer by documentation such as utility
bills and tax records, that the installation of a modular building,
manufactured/mobile home or recreational vehicle on that same lot or space for
which a development impact fee has been paid previously, and so long as there
is no increase in service units.
   C.   Exemption: An exemption must be claimed by the fee payer upon
application for a building permit. Any exemption not so claimed shall be deemed
waived by the fee payer. Applications for exemption shall be submitted to and
determined by the city clerk, or his or her duly designated agent, within
ninety (90) days. Appeals from the city clerk's, or his or her duly designated
agent, determination shall be made under the provisions of section
1-9-12 of this chapter. (Ord. 2008-3, 2-4-2008)
1-9-4: COLLECTION OF IMPACT FEE:
   A.   Due: The development impact fee shall be paid and collected at the time
of issuance of a building permit or a manufactured/mobile home installation
permit.
   B.   Issuance Of Permit Or Approval: No building permit or other equivalent
city approval shall be issued for "development" as herein defined unless the
impact fee is paid pursuant to this chapter.
   C.   Manufactured/Mobile Home: A manufactured/mobile home unit may not
locate on a manufactured/mobile home site unless the impact fee is paid
pursuant to this chapter or has been paid on a previous manufactured/mobile
home unit on the same site.
   D.   Payment Dishonored: In the event payment is dishonored, the city shall
have all lawful remedies including, but not necessarily limited to, the
withholding of utility services, the imposition of reasonable interest and
penalties, the imposition of liens pursuant to Idaho Code title 45, chapter 5,
the withholding of other city approvals required for the development of other
properties owned by the fee payer, and the issuance of "stop work" orders, and
the revocation or suspension of the building permit. (Ord. 2008-3, 2-4-2008)
1-9-5: CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS:
The capital improvement projects to be financed by the impact fee are those as
listed in the "report", incorporated herein by reference along with all
footnotes, exhibits, appendices, and other attachments referenced. (Ord. 2008-
3, 2-4-2008)
1-9-6: CALCULATION OF IMPACT FEE:
   A.   Manufactured/Mobile Home: The city shall calculate the amount of the
impact fee due for each building permit and manufactured/mobile home
installation permit by the procedure set forth in the "report".
   B.   Development:
      1.   The calculation of a development impact fee shall be in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles. A development impact fee shall
not be deemed invalid because payment of the fee may result in an incidental
benefit to owners or developers within the service area other than the person
paying the fee.
      2.   A development impact fee shall be calculated on the basis of the
performance standard for public facilities adopted in this chapter and in the
"report" that are applicable to existing development as well as new growth and
development. The construction, improvement, expansion or enlargement of new or
existing public facilities for which a development impact fee is imposed must
be attributable to the capacity demands generated by the new development.
      3.   If the development for which a building permit is sought contains a
mix of uses, the impact fee will be calculated for each type of use.
   C.   Certification: Prior to making an application for a building permit or
manufactured/mobile home installation permit, a prospective applicant may
request, in writing, a written certification of the development impact fee
schedule or individual assessment for a particular project which shall
establish the development fee for a period of one year from the date of
certification. The certification shall include an explanation of facilities
considered under Idaho Code section 67-8207. The certification shall specify
the system improvement(s) for which the impact fee is intended to be used.
   D.   Individual Assessment: Individual assessment of impact fees is
permitted in situations where the fee payer can demonstrate by clear and
convincing evidence that the established impact fee is inappropriate.
      1.   Individual assessments of development impact fees may be made by
application to the city clerk, or his or her duly designated agent, prior to
receiving building permits, manufactured/mobile home installation permits, or
other necessary approvals from the city. The city clerk, or his or her duly
designated agent, shall evaluate such individual assessments under the
guidelines provided for in subsection D4 of this section. If the guidelines are
met, the individual assessment shall be approved by the city clerk, or his or
her duly designated agent. Any decision regarding a request for an individual
assessment shall be provided, in writing, to the applicant, and a copy of said
decision, along with supporting documentation, shall be provided to the city
council within thirty (30) days of the decision.
      2.   Late applications for individual assessments may be submitted within
thirty (30) days after the receipt of a building permit only if the fee payer
makes a showing that the facts supporting such application were not known or
discoverable prior to receipt of a building permit and that undue hardship
would result if said application is not considered.
      3.   The city clerk, or his or her duly designated agent, shall render a
written decision regarding the individual assessment and forward it to the city
council within thirty (30) days of the date a complete application is
submitted. The decision of the city clerk, or his or her duly designated agent,
shall establish the impact fee for the project in question for a period of one
year from the date said decision becomes final.
      4.   The city clerk, or his or her duly designated agent, shall evaluate
an application for individual assessment and may approve the same if fee payer
has shown by clear and convincing evidence that the established impact fee is
inappropriate and that the following facts and conditions exist:
         a.   Exceptional or extraordinary circumstances or conditions apply to
the development that do not apply generally to other properties in the vicinity
of the development.
         b.   An individual assessment is necessary for the reasonable and
acceptable development of the property.
         c.   The approval of the individual assessment will not be materially
detrimental to the public welfare or injurious to property in the vicinity in
which the development is located.
         d.   The approval of the individual assessment will not adversely
affect the capital improvement plan for the city.
      5.   Appeals from the determination of the city clerk, or his or her duly
designated agent, of individual assessment shall be made to the city council by
the filing of an appeal with the city clerk within thirty (30) days of the date
of mailing, faxing, or personal delivery of written notice of the decision of
the city clerk, or his or her duly designated agent. Final determination
regarding the appeal of individual assessments shall be made by the city
council. (Ord. 2008-3, 2-4-2008)
1-9-7: GENERAL METHODOLOGY FOR CALCULATION:
   A.   Methodology: The amount of the impact fee shall be calculated using the
methodology contained in the "report".
   B.   Fee Not To Exceed Proportional Share Of Costs: A development impact fee
shall not exceed a proportionate share of the cost of system improvements
determined in accordance with Idaho Code section 67-8207. Development impact
fees shall be based on actual system improvement costs or reasonable estimates
of such costs.
   C.   Election To Pay Proportional Share Of System Improvement Costs: A
developer shall have the right to elect to pay a project's proportionate share
of system improvement costs by payment of development impact fees according to
the fee schedule as full and complete payment of the development project's
proportionate share of system improvement costs, except as provided in Idaho
Code subsection 67-8214(3). The schedule of development impact fees for various
land users per unit of development shall be as set forth in the "report".
   D.   Proportionate Share Determination:
      1.   All development impact fees shall be based on a reasonable and fair
formula or method under which the development impact fee imposed does not
exceed a proportionate share of the costs incurred or to be incurred by the
city in the provision of system improvements to serve the new development. The
proportionate share is the cost attributable to the new development after the
city considers the following:
         a.   Any appropriate credit, offset, or contribution of money,
dedication of land, or construction of system improvements;
         b.   Payments reasonably anticipated to be made by or as a result of a
new development in the form of user fees, debt service payments, or taxes which
are dedicated for system improvements for which development impact fees would
otherwise be imposed; and
         c.   All other available sources of funding such system improvements.
      2.   In determining the proportionate share of the cost of system
improvements to be paid by the developer, the following factors shall be
considered by the city:
         a.   The cost of existing system improvements within the service area
or areas;
         b.   The means by which existing system improvements have been
financed;
         c.   The extent to which the new development will contribute to the
cost of system improvements through taxation, assessments, or developer or
landowner contributions, or has previously contributed to the cost of system
improvements through developer or landowner contributions;
         d.   The extent to which the new development is required to contribute
to the cost of existing system improvements in the future;
         e.   The extent to which the new development should be credited for
providing system improvements, without charge to other properties within the
service area or areas;
         f.   Extraordinary costs, if any, incurred in serving the new
development;
         g.   The time and price differential inherent in a fair comparison of
fees paid at different times; and
         h.   The availability of other sources of funding system improvements
including, but not limited to, user charges, general tax levies,
intergovernmental transfers, and special taxation. The city shall develop a
plan for alternative sources of revenue, which shall include, but not
necessarily be limited to, plans generated during the city's annual budget
process, lobbying efforts, tax increment financing, implementation of user fees
and various forms of utilities. (Ord. 2008-3, 2-4-2008)
1-9-8: INFLATIONARY ADJUSTMENT INDEX:
This chapter provides for an automatic annual adjustment to the impact fee
based on the constructions materials index for Seattle. The adjustment may
increase or decrease the impact fee depending on the value of the index for
that year. The annual effective date of this fee adjustment shall coincide with
the beginning date of the city's annual budget. (Ord. 2008-3, 2-4-2008)
1-9-9: ADMINISTRATION OF IMPACT FEE:
   A.   Transfer Of Funds To City Finance Officer: Upon receipt of impact fees,
the city finance officer, or his or her duly designated agent, shall be
responsible for placement of such funds into separate accounts as hereinafter
specified. All such funds shall be deposited in interest bearing accounts,
within the capital projects fund, in a bank authorized to receive deposits of
city funds. Interest earned by each account shall be credited to that account
and shall be used solely for the purposes specified for funds of such account.
   B.   Establishment And Maintenance Of Accounts: The city finance officer, or
his or her duly designated agent, shall establish separate accounts and
maintain records for each such account whereby impact fees collected can be
segregated.
   C.   Maintenance Of Records: The city finance officer, or his or her duly
designated agent, shall maintain and keep accurate financial records for each
such account: 1) that shall show the source and disbursement of all revenues;
2) that shall account for all monies received; 3) that shall ensure that the
disbursement of funds from each account shall be used solely and exclusively
for the provision of projects specified in the capital improvements program;
and 4) that shall provide an annual accounting for each impact fee account
showing the source and amount of all funds collected and the projects that were
funded.
   D.   Use Of Funds: Development impact fees shall only be spent for the
public facility category, i.e., parks, police, fire and circulation, of system
improvements for which the fees are collected and either within or for the
benefit of the service area in which the project is located.
   E.   Review And Modification: Unless the city council deems some other time
period is appropriate, the city shall at least once every five (5) years,
commencing from the date of the original adoption of the capital improvement
plan, review the development potential of the area and update the capital
improvements plan in accordance with the procedures set forth in Idaho Code
section 67-8206. The city may make any updates as are deemed necessary as a
result of: 1) development occurring in the prior year; 2) capital improvements
actually constructed; 3) changing facility needs; 4) inflation; 5) revised cost
estimates for capital improvements; 6) changes in the availability of other
funding projects; and 7) such other factors as may be relevant.
   F.   Capital Improvements Budget: The city shall annually adopt a capital
improvements budget.
   G.   Annual Report: As part of its annual audit process, the city shall
prepare an annual report describing the amount of all development impact fees
collected, appropriated, or spent during the preceding year by category of
public facility and service area.
   H.   Earmarking And Expenditure Of Fees: All other requirements of Idaho
Code section 67-8210, regarding earmarking and expenditure of collected
development impact fees, shall apply. (Ord. 2008-3, 2-4-2008)
1-9-10: CREDITS AND REIMBURSEMENT:
   A.   Credit Or Reimbursement For Present Value: In the calculation of
development impact fees for a particular project, credit or reimbursement shall
be given for the present value of any construction of system improvements or
contribution or dedication of land or money required by the city from a
developer for system improvements of the public facility category, i.e., parks,
police, circulation, for which the development impact fee is being collected.
Credit or reimbursement shall not be given for project improvements unless
those improvements are identified in the "report" as a system improvement. In
that event, the credit given will only be given for those project improvements
that are specifically listed in the "report" and not for any portion of the
improvements that would otherwise be required by zoning, subdivision, or other
city regulations.
   B.   System Improvements In Excess Of Proportional Share: If a developer is
required to construct, fund or contribute system improvements in excess of the
development project's proportionate share of system improvement costs, the
developer shall receive a credit on future impact fees or be reimbursed at the
developer's choice for such excess construction, funding or contribution from
development impact fees paid by future development which impacts the system
improvements constructed, funded or contributed by the developer(s) or fee
payer. If a credit for the payment of future impact fees is requested, the
credit shall be given only for the public facility category that received
system improvements in excess of the development's proportionate share.
   C.   Credit Or Reimbursement Due Developer: If credit or reimbursement is
due to the developer pursuant to this section, the city shall enter into a
written agreement with the fee payer, negotiated in good faith, prior to the
construction, funding, or contribution. The agreement shall provide for the
amount of credit or the amount, time and form of reimbursement.
   D.   Request For Credit Or Reimbursement: Any person requesting such credit
or reimbursement shall submit their request, in writing, on a form provided by
the city and present documentation of costs or payments for facilities to the
city clerk, or his or her duly designated agent, prior to issuance of a
building permit or manufactured/mobile home installation permit. The
determination shall be made no more than forty five (45) days after complete
documentation is submitted to the city clerk, or his or her duly designated
agent. Any appeal from such a determination by the city clerk, or his or her
duly designated agent, shall be pursuant to section
1-9-12 of this chapter. (Ord. 2008-3, 2-4-2008)
1-9-11: REFUNDS:
   A.   Request For Refund: The current owner or contract purchaser of property
on which an impact fee has been paid may request a refund of such fee if:
      1.   Service is available but never provided;
      2.   The project for which a building permit has been used has been
lawfully altered resulting in a decrease in the amount of the impact fee due;
or
      3.   The city, after collecting the fee when service is not available,
has failed to appropriate and expend the collected development impact fees
pursuant to Idaho Code subsection 67-8210(4);
      4.   A building permit or permit for installation of a manufactured/
mobile home is denied or abandoned.
   B.   Form; Documentation: The request for refund must be filed, in writing,
and submitted to the city clerk, or his or her duly designated agent, on a form
provided by the city for such purpose. The owner shall provide such
documentation as the city clerk, or his or her duly designated agent, may
require proving such satisfaction, reconveyance, or releases from contract
sellers, mortgagees, lien holders, and/or others having an interest in the real
property for which an impact fee has been paid.
   C.   Filing: A request for refund must be filed within the time allowed by
law.
   D.   Decision: Within ninety (90) days of the date of receipt of a request
for refund, the city clerk or his or her duly designated agent, must provide
the owner, in writing, with a decision on the refund request, including the
reasons for the decision. If a right to refund exists, the city is required to
send a refund to the owner of record within ninety (90) days after it is
determined that a refund is due. A refund shall include a refund of interest at
one-half (1/2) the legal rate provided for in Idaho Code section 28-22-104.
   E.   Appeal: Owner may appeal the determination of the city clerk, or his or
her duly designated agent, to the city council pursuant to the provisions in
section
1-9-12 of this chapter. (Ord. 2008-3, 2-4-2008)
1-9-12: APPEALS:
   A.   Right To Appeal: A developer or fee payer may appeal the written
determination of the applicability and amount of the development impact fee, or
refund, or any discretionary action or inaction by or on behalf of the city to
the city council.
   B.   Notice Of Appeal: The developer or fee payer must file a notice of
appeal to the city council with the city clerk within thirty (30) days
following the written determination, discretionary action, or inaction. When
filing an appeal, the fee payer shall submit a letter providing a full
explanation of the request, the reason for appeal, as well as all supporting
documentation.
   C.   No Stay Of Required Payment: The filing of an appeal shall not stay
required payment of the impact fee; however, a fee payer can pay a development
impact fee under protest in order to obtain development approval or building
permit.
   D.   Mediation: Upon voluntary agreement by the fee payer and the city, any
disagreement related to the impact fee for the proposed development may be
mediated by a qualified independent party.
      1.   Mediation may take place at any time during the appeals process, and
participation in mediation does not preclude the fee payer from pursuing other
remedies provided for in this chapter.
      2.   The fee payer and the city shall share mediation costs equally.
(Ord. 2008-3, 2-4-2008)
1-9-13: EXTRAORDINARY IMPACTS:
   A.   Determination Of Proportional Share: In determining the proportionate
share of the cost of system improvements to be paid by the developer, the city
clerk, or his or her duly designated agent, shall consider whether any
extraordinary costs will be incurred in serving the development based upon an
"extraordinary impact" as defined in section
1-9-2 of this chapter. This determination shall be made prior to issuance of
any permit for development and shall be paid prior to any such issuance except
as may be provided pursuant to a private agreement between the parties as
authorized by Idaho Code section 67-8214.
   B.   Extraordinary Impact Determined: If the city clerk, or his or her duly
designated agent, determines that the development will result in an
extraordinary impact, it shall advise the fee payer, in writing, what the
extraordinary impact is, the reason for the extraordinary impact, and the
estimated costs to be incurred as a result of the extraordinary impact.
   C.   No Obligation To Approve Development: Nothing in this chapter shall
obligate the city to approve any development that results in extraordinary
impact.
   D.   Appeal: The fee payer may appeal the determination of an extraordinary
impact or the amount of extraordinary costs incurred, in writing, by filing a
notice of appeal to the city council with the city clerk pursuant to the terms
set forth in section
1-9-12 of this chapter. When filing an appeal, the fee payer shall submit a
letter providing the reason for the appeal along with supporting documentation.
The city council shall consider the appeal and make a final determination
within ninety (90) days of receipt of the written appeal. (Ord. 2008-3, 2-4-
2008)
1-9-14: DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEE PROGRAM/CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PLAN:
Addendum A entitled "Development Impact Fee Program/Capital Improvement Plan"
dated November 2007, along with all footnotes, exhibits, appendices, and other
attachments referenced therein, all of which are by this reference incorporated
herein as if set forth fully. A description of acceptable levels of service for
system improvements is described in the "report". (Ord. 2008-3, 2-4-2008)
1-9-15: BONDING:
Funds pledged toward retirement of bonds, revenue certificates, or other
obligations of indebtedness for such projects may include impact fees and other
city revenues as may be allocated by the city council. (Ord. 2008-3, 2-4-2008)
1-9-16: EFFECT OF IMPACT FEE ON CITY DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS:
This chapter shall not affect, in any manner, the permissible use of property,
density of development, design and improvement standards and requirements, or
any other aspect of the development of land or provision of capital
improvements subject to the zoning and subdivision regulations or other
regulations of the city, which shall be operative and remain in full force and
effect without limitation with respect to all such development. (Ord. 2008-3,
2-4-2008)
1-9-17: OTHER POWERS AND RIGHTS NOT AFFECTED:
   A.   Project Improvements: Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the city
from requiring a developer to construct reasonable project improvements in
conjunction with a development project.
   B.   Rights Of Way: Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent or
prohibit private agreements between property owners and developers, the Idaho
transportation department, the city, and other governmental entities in regard
to the construction or installation of system improvements or providing for
credits or reimbursements for system improvement costs incurred by a developer
including interproject transfers of credits or providing for reimbursement for
project improvements which are used or shared by more than one development
project. If it can be shown that a proposed development has a direct impact on
a public facility under the jurisdiction of the Idaho transportation
department, then the agreement shall include a provision for the allocation of
impact fees collected from the developer for the improvement of the public
facility by the Idaho transportation department.
   C.   Extraordinary Impact: Nothing in this chapter shall obligate the city
to approve development that results in an extraordinary impact. Extraordinary
impacts shall be determined and processed pursuant to section
1-9-13 of this chapter.
   D.   Reduction In Level Of Service: Nothing in this chapter shall obligate
the city to approve a development request that may reasonably be expected to
reduce levels of service below minimum acceptable levels established in this
chapter. To this end, the city may impose a development impact fee for system
improvement costs incurred subsequent to adoption of this chapter to the extent
that new growth and development will be served by the system improvements.
   E.   Create Additional Right To Develop; Diminishment Of City Power: Nothing
in this chapter shall be construed to create any additional right to develop
real property or diminish the power of the city in regulating the orderly
development of real property.
   F.   Eminent Domain: Nothing in this chapter shall work to limit the use by
the city of the power of eminent domain or supersede or conflict with
requirements or procedures authorized in the Idaho Code for local improvement
districts or general obligation bond issues.
   G.   Annexation: Nothing herein shall restrict or diminish the power of the
city to annex property into its territorial boundaries or exclude property from
its territorial boundaries upon request of a developer or owner, or to impose
reasonable conditions thereon, including the recovery of project or system
improvement costs required as a result of such voluntary annexation. (Ord.
2008-3, 2-4-2008)
1-9-18: PUBLIC HEALTH, SAFETY AND WELFARE:
   A.   Declaration: The provisions of this chapter are hereby found and
declared to be in furtherance of the public health, safety, welfare, and
convenience and it shall be liberally construed to effectively carry out its
purposes.
   B.   No Waiver: Neither the adoption of this chapter nor the repeal of any
ordinance shall, in any manner, affect the prosecution for violation of such
ordinance committed prior to the effective date hereof or be constructed as a
waiver of any license or penalty due under any such ordinance or in any manner
affect the validity of any action heretofore taken by the city council or the
validity of any such action to be taken upon matters pending before the city
council on the effective date hereof. (Ord. 2008-3, 2-4-2008)
TITLE 2
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUSINESS LICENSES
SECTION:
2-1-1: Definitions
2-1-2: Business License; When Required
2-1-3: Application
2-1-4: Change Of Address; Change Of Designated Agent
2-1-5: License Fees
2-1-6: Expiration Of Business License; Renewal; Grace Period
2-1-7: Violations; Penalty
2-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
BUSINESS: Any employment, occupation or commercial activity engaged in for the
purpose of realizing gain or for livelihood, including home occupations defined
in section
9-1-2 of this code, or any amendments thereof.
BUSINESS LICENSE: A license required under this chapter.
CITY: The city of Ponderay.
ENTITY: A corporation, partnership or other legal form authorized by law to
conduct a business, trade or profession.
PROFESSION: A vocation or occupation requiring special education and skill,
including, but not limited to, the practice of law, the practice of medicine,
the practice of dentistry and the practice of chiropractic.
TRADE: An occupation or activity which a person has learned and which they
carry on for the purpose of realizing gain or for livelihood. (Ord. 125, 3-17-
2014)
2-1-2: BUSINESS LICENSE; WHEN REQUIRED:
After January 1, 1999, it shall be unlawful for any person or entity to engage
in any business, trade or profession within the limits of the city until they
shall have first applied for and obtained a business license as required under
this chapter. (Ord. 125, 3-17-2014)
2-1-3: APPLICATION:
Verified applications for a business license shall be made by the owner of the
business, trade or profession, or by a designated agent, upon a form to be
furnished by the city clerk. Such application shall contain the following
information:
   A.   The full name of the owner of the business, trade or profession;
   B.   The mailing address and telephone number of the business, trade or
profession;
   C.   The physical address of any and all locations within the city at which
such business, trade or profession is to be conducted;
   D.   The name, address and phone number of an agent of the business, trade
or profession, who is designated by the owner as authorized to receive any
notices permitted or required by law to be provided to the business, trade or
profession;
   E.   A description of the nature and purpose of the business, trade or
profession to be licensed; and
   F.   The signature of the owner of the business, trade or profession, or the
owner's designated agent. (Ord. 125, 3-17-2014)
2-1-4: CHANGE OF ADDRESS; CHANGE OF DESIGNATED AGENT:
   A.   If the business, trade or profession closes any location described in
the application for a business license, or if the business, trade or profession
intends to conduct any activity at a location not described in the application
for the business license, the owner or the owner's designated agent shall
notify the city clerk of the change, who shall note the same in the register of
licenses.
   B.   If the business, trade or profession changes the agent described in the
application for a business license who is authorized to receive any notices
permitted or required by law, or if the designated agent changes his/her
address as described in the application for the business license, the owner or
the owner's designated agent shall notify the city clerk of the change, who
shall note the same in the register of licenses. (Ord. 125, 3-17-2014)
2-1-5: LICENSE FEES:
Every individual or entity required by this chapter to obtain a license to
engage in any business, trade or profession shall pay to the city clerk an
annual administrative processing fee which shall be set, from time to time, by
resolution of the city council. Said fee must be paid in full prior to the
issuance of a business license. (Ord. 125, 3-17-2014)
2-1-6: EXPIRATION OF BUSINESS LICENSE; RENEWAL; GRACE PERIOD:
   A.   All business licenses issued pursuant to this chapter shall expire on
December 31 of each year.
   B.   Any person or entity engaged in a business, trade or profession within
the city, and who holds a business license pursuant to this chapter, shall
request a renewal of said license from the city clerk after December 1 and
prior to the expiration of the license. Said request shall be in writing and
accompanied by the appropriate fee. A new application is required to be
completed every year. Upon receipt of the request and fee, the city clerk shall
endorse the business license for the person or entity for the next calendar
year.
   C.   Any person or entity engaged in a business, trade or profession within
the city on December 31, 1998, and which person or entity shall continue to
engage in the business, trade or profession within the city of Ponderay in
1999, shall apply for and obtain an initial business license no later than
January 31, 1999. (Ord. 125, 3-17-2014)
2-1-7: VIOLATIONS; PENALTY:
   A.   Any person or entity who violates any provision of this chapter shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punishable by a fine in a sum not
exceeding three hundred dollars ($300.00), for each violation.
   B.   Each day that a person or entity engages in a business, trade or
profession in violation of this chapter shall constitute a separate offense.
   C.   The city, in addition to the fine described in subsections A and B of
this section may take whatever steps it deems appropriate to civilly enjoin any
further violation of this chapter. (Ord. 125, 3-17-2014)
CHAPTER 2
BEER, WINE AND ALCOHOL
SECTION:
2-2-1: Title
2-2-2: Definitions
2-2-3: License Required
2-2-4: Fees
2-2-5: Application
2-2-6: Issuance; Revocation Or Suspension
2-2-7: Term
2-2-8: Renewal
2-2-9: Conditions And Limitations
2-2-10: Penalty
2-2-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as, and may be cited as, the PONDERAY LIQUOR, BEER
AND WINE ACT. (Ord. 3-18, 2001)
2-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following definitions apply:
ALCOHOL: The product of distillation of any fermented liquor, rectified either
once or more often, whatever may be the origin thereof, or synthetic ethyl
alcohol.
BEER: Any beverage obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or
decoction of barley, malt and/or other ingredients in drinkable water.
CITY: The city of Ponderay.
DESSERT WINE: Only those beverages that are designated or labeled, pursuant to
the federal alcohol administration act, as "sherry", "madeira" or "port", which
contain more than sixteen percent (16%) alcohol by volume, but do not exceed
twenty one percent (21%) alcohol by volume.
LIQUOR: Includes alcohol and spirits, and any liquid or solid, patented or not,
containing alcohol, spirits, or wine, and susceptible of being consumed by a
human being for beverage purposes, and containing more than four percent (4%)
of alcohol by weight.
PERSON: Every individual, partnership, corporation, organization, or
association holding a retail liquor license, whether conducting the business
singularly or collectively.
PREMISES: The building and contiguous property owned, or leased or used under
government permit by a licensee as part of the business establishment in the
business of the sale of beer at retail, which property is improved to include
decks, docks, boardwalks, lawns, gardens, golf courses, ski resorts,
courtyards, patios, poolside areas or similar improved appurtenances in which
the sale of beer at retail is authorized under the provisions of law.
SPIRITS: Any beverage which contains alcohol obtained by distillation mixed
with drinkable water and other substances in solution, including, among other
things, brandy, rum, whiskey, and gin.
TABLE WINE: Any alcoholic beverage containing not more than sixteen percent
(16%) alcohol by volume obtained by the fermentation of the natural sugar
content of fruits or other agricultural products containing sugar, whether or
not other ingredients are used.
WINE: Includes table wine and dessert wine, unless the context requires
otherwise. (Ord. 3-18, 2001; 2008 Code)
2-2-3: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   Beer: It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person to sell
beer at retail within the city without first obtaining a beer license.
   B.   Wine: It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person to sell
wine within the city without first obtaining a wine license, as follows:
      1.   Wine By The Drink License: A valid wine by the drink license is
required for the retail sale of wine for consumption on the premises where the
wine is sold.
      2.   Retail Wine License: A valid retail wine license is required for the
retail sale of wine in its original container with its seal unbroken, none of
which may be consumed on the premises where the wine is sold.
      3.   Beer License Required: An applicant for a retail wine license or a
wine by the drink license must possess a valid beer license issued by the city
at the time of filing the application for a wine license.
   C.   Liquor By The Drink:
      1.   License Required: It shall be a violation of this chapter for any
person to sell liquor by the drink within the city without first obtaining a
liquor by the drink license as provided for in this chapter.
      2.   Sales Restricted: It shall be unlawful for any holder of a license
for the sale of liquor by the drink to sell, keep for sale, dispense, give
away, or otherwise dispose of any liquor in the original containers or
otherwise than by retail sale by the drink.
   D.   Alcohol Beverage Catering Permit:
      1.   License Required: It shall be a violation of this chapter to serve
and sell liquor by the drink, beer or wine, at a party or convention without
first obtaining an alcohol beverage catering permit.
      2.   Sales Restricted: An alcohol beverage catering permit shall be
limited to authorization to sell liquor or beer or wine, or any combination
thereof, based upon the type of license which the applicant possesses. (Ord. 3-
18, 2001)
2-2-4: FEES:
The fee for a license or a permit under this chapter, or for the renewal of a
license or permit under this chapter, shall be as determined from time to time
by resolution of the city council. (Ord. 3-18, 2001; Ord. 3-18a, 2003; 2008
Code)
2-2-5: APPLICATION:
   A.   Form: All applications for a license under this chapter must be made in
writing on a form provided by the city, filed with the city clerk, and
accompanied by the affidavit of the applicant showing said applicant to be
qualified, by this chapter and the laws of the state of Idaho, to receive a
license. Possession of a current license regularly issued by the department of
law enforcement of the state of Idaho shall constitute prima facie evidence of
the applicant's qualification to receive a license hereunder.
   B.   Name And Physical Place Of Business: The application must state the
name and physical place of business with respect to which the license is to be
issued.
   C.   County And State License Required: The application must demonstrate
that the applicant has procured the appropriate license(s) from Bonner County
and the state of Idaho.
   D.   Alcohol Beverage Catering Permit: An application for an alcohol
beverage catering permit must be filed, together with the fee designated by
this chapter, not less than ten (10) working days prior to the catered event.
Said application must include the applicant's state beer, wine or liquor
license number, the dates and hours during which the permit is to be effective,
the name and address of the person(s) sponsoring the event, and the address at
which the beer, wine or liquor is to be served. (Ord. 3-18, 2001)
2-2-6: ISSUANCE; REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION:
   A.   Council Action: The city council shall approve or deny the application
for any license under this chapter, except for an alcohol beverage catering
permit, within forty five (45) days of the date the application was filed with
the city clerk.
   B.   Transcribable Verbatim Record; Transcription: When considering an
application under this chapter, the mayor and the city council shall cause to
be made a transcribable verbatim record of the proceedings, which record shall
be kept for a period of not less than six (6) months after the final decision
is rendered on the application. Any person may request, in writing, that the
record be transcribed. Such transcription shall be at the expense of the person
making the request.
   C.   Issuance: Upon the approval of the City Council of an application for a
license under this chapter, the City Clerk shall issue to the applicant a
license which shall be valid for the same period as the applicant's State
license.
   D.   Denial: Whenever the City Council shall deny an application filed under
this chapter, it shall specify, in writing:
      1.   The statute, ordinance and standards used in evaluating the
application;
      2.   The reason for the denial; and
      3.   The actions, if any, that the applicant may take to obtain a license
or permit, or a transfer or renewal thereof.
   E.   Alcohol Beverage Catering Permit:
      1.   Review By Chief Of Police; Issuance: The City Clerk, as the City
Council's designee, upon the advice of the Chief of Police or his designee,
shall approve or deny an application for an alcohol beverage catering permit no
less than five (5) working days prior to the catered event.
      2.   Two Or More Applications Within Six Months: Provided, if the
applicant has filed one (1) or two (2) applications for an alcohol beverage
catering permit at the same location within a six (6) month time period, any
subsequent applications within that six (6) month time period must be referred
to the City Council, which shall approve or deny the application.
      3.   Distribution Of Endorsed Copies Of Permit: Upon the approval by the
City Clerk of an application for an alcohol beverage catering permit, the City
Clerk shall endorse said approval upon the face of the application and shall
cause a copy of the endorsed application to be delivered to the Chief of Police
of the City, the Director of the Department of Law Enforcement of the State of
Idaho, and the applicant.
      4.   Approved And Endorsed Application: An application for an alcohol
beverage catering permit, approved and endorsed as provided herein, shall
constitute the required permit.
   F.   Power To Suspend Or Revoke: The City Council, for good cause shown, may
revoke or suspend any license or permit issued under this chapter, in
accordance with the law. (Ord. 3-18, 2001)
   G.   Revocation Or Suspension Of State License: Revocation or suspension of
a State or County beer, wine or liquor license by the appropriate State
authority shall be prima facie evidence of cause for the revocation or
suspension of the City license issued under this chapter. (Ord. 3-18, 2001;
2008 Code)
2-2-7: TERM:
   A.   License: The term of any license issued under this chapter shall be one
(1) year or that portion of the year remaining when the license is issued. The
term shall expire at twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight on December 31 unless an
application for renewal has been filed with the City. (Ord. 136, 11-21-2016)
   B.   Alcohol Beverage Catering Permit: An alcohol beverage catering permit
shall be valid for a period not to exceed three (3) consecutive days. The dates
said permit is valid shall be endorsed on the face of the application. (Ord. 3-
18, 2001)
2-2-8: RENEWAL:
   A.   Filing Application: An application to renew a liquor, beer or wine
license shall be physically filed with City Clerk prior to the expiration of
the existing license, but in no event less than five (5) days nor more than
sixty (60) days prior to the expiration of the existing license.
   B.   Issuance Or Renewal Of State And County License: An application to
renew a liquor, beer or wine license shall include evidence of the issuance of
the renewal of the applicant's license by the Director of the Department of Law
Enforcement of the State of Idaho pursuant to Idaho Code and by the appropriate
County authority, if required by law.
   C.   Approval/Denial: Upon filing of a completed application to renew a
liquor, beer or wine license, the city clerk shall approve or deny said
application.
   D.   Notice Of Denial: If the city clerk denies an application to renew a
liquor, beer or wine license, notice of said denial shall be provided to the
applicant within ten (10) days. The notice shall set forth the grounds for
denial and shall state that the applicant has ten (10) days to appeal the
denial to the city council. An application to renew a liquor, beer or wine
license may be denied only for reasons which would allow an application for a
first license to be denied.
   E.   Appeal: An applicant may appeal the denial of an application to renew a
liquor, beer or wine license by physically filing a notice of appeal with the
city clerk within ten (10) days of the mailing of the notice of denial. The
notice shall state the name and address of the applicant, the type of license
for which application was made, the date on which said application was filed,
and the reasons why the applicant believes the denial should be overturned.
   F.   Hearing Scheduled: Upon the denial of an application to renew a liquor,
beer or wine license by the city clerk, and upon the filing of a timely appeal
by the applicant, the city council shall set a time and place for hearing the
appeal. The previous license shall remain in effect pending the city council
decision on appeal.
   G.   Alcohol Beverage Catering Permit: An alcohol beverage catering permit
may not be renewed. (Ord. 3-18, 2001)
2-2-9: CONDITIONS AND LIMITATIONS:
   A.   Specific Location Licensed: The approval of a license issued hereunder
shall permit the retail sale of beer, wine or liquor only on one premises as
designated in the application. The premises so designated shall be noted on the
face of the license.
   B.   Posting Required: Any license issued under this chapter shall be posted
by the licensee in a conspicuous place at the address of the premises
designated in the application and noted on the face of the license.
   C.   Curtains, Blinds, Signs Or Other Obstructions: The licensee shall not
permit curtains, blinds, signs or other obstructions to be so placed as to
prevent a clear view of the interior of the premises from the street or
sidewalk upon which the premises abut. (Ord. 3-18, 2001)
   D.   Hours Of Sale: Pursuant to the authority granted by Idaho Code
subsections 23-927(2), 23-1012(4) and section 23-1318, a person so licensed by
the city shall be allowed to sell or serve in the place of business for which
he has taken out a license beer, wine or liquor until the hour of two o'clock
(2:00) A.M., and on Sundays, Memorial Day and Thanksgiving Day. (Ord. 3-18b, 2-
3-2005)
   E.   Consumption Of Beverage Already Served: Any patron present on the
licensed premises after the sale of beer, wine or liquor has stopped, as
required by subsection D of this section, shall have a reasonable time, not to
exceed thirty (30) minutes, to consume any beverage already served.
   F.   Sale To Intoxicated Person: It is a violation of this chapter to sell
or serve any beer, wine or liquor to an intoxicated person.
   G.   Number Of Licenses Limited: The number of licenses which may be issued
within the city for the retail sale of liquor by the drink shall not exceed one
license for each one thousand five hundred (1,500) of population of the city,
or fraction thereof, as established in the last preceding census conducted by
the United States bureau of census; provided, that any license heretofore
issued may be renewed from year to year without regard to the restriction
contained in this subsection; provided further, that if a license holder fails
to renew a license, he must apply for a new license which application shall be
subject to the population restriction contained in this subsection. (Ord. 3-18,
2001)
2-2-10: PENALTY:
Any applicant who violates any of the provisions of this chapter, or who fails
or refuses to comply with any of the terms and conditions of this chapter and
the application required hereunder, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction, shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-2-1 of this code. (Ord. 3-18, 2001; 2008 Code)
CHAPTER 3
PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS AND TRANSIENT MERCHANTS 1
SECTION:
2-3-1: Definitions
2-3-2: Registration Required
2-3-3: Application
2-3-4: Investigation
2-3-5: Bond (Rep. by Ord. 110, 10-4-2010)
2-3-6: Registration Fee
2-3-7: Exhibition Of Registration
2-3-8: Unlawful Conduct
2-3-9: Appeal
2-3-10: Revocation
2-3-11: Exceptions
2-3-12: Penalty
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 50-307.
2-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meanings of terms used
in this chapter shall be as follows:
APPLICANT: Each natural person applying for registration pursuant to this
chapter.
CANVASSER; SOLICITOR: Any individual, whether a resident of the city or not,
traveling either by foot, motor vehicle or any type of conveyance, from place
to place, house to house or street to street, taking or attempting to take
orders for the sale of goods, wares and merchandise, or personal property of
any nature whatsoever for future delivery, or for services to be furnished or
performed in the future, whether or not such individual has, carries or exposes
for sale a sample of the subject of such sale or whether he is collecting
advance payments on such sales or not; provided, that such definition shall
include any person who for himself or for another person hires, leases, uses or
occupies any building, structure, tent, railroad, boxcar, boat, hotel room,
lodging house, apartment, shop or any other place within the city for the sole
purpose of exhibiting samples and taking orders for future delivery.
PEDDLER: Any person, whether a resident of the city or not, traveling by foot,
motor vehicle or any other type of conveyance, from place to place, house to
house or street to street, carrying, conveying or transporting goods, wares,
merchandise, meats, fish, vegetables, fruits, garden truck, farm products or
provisions, offering and exposing the same for sale, or making sales and
delivering articles to purchasers; provided, that one who solicits orders and,
as a separate transaction, makes deliveries to purchasers as a part of a scheme
or design to evade the provisions of this chapter, shall be deemed a peddler
subject to the provisions of this chapter. The word peddler shall include the
terms "hawker" and "huckster".
TRANSIENT MERCHANT: Any person, whether acting as owner or as agent, consignee
or employee of another, and whether a resident of the city or not, who engages
in a temporary business of selling and delivering goods, wares and merchandise
and who, in furtherance of such purpose, hires, leases or occupies any
building, structure, motor vehicle, tent, railroad boxcar or boat, public rooms
in hotels, lodging houses, apartments, shops, or any street, alley or other
place for the exhibition and sale of such goods, wares and merchandise, either
privately or at public auction; provided, that such definition shall not be
construed to include any person who, while occupying such temporary location,
does not sell from stock, but exhibits samples only for the purpose of securing
orders for future delivery only. The term "transient merchant" shall include
the terms "itinerant merchant" and "itinerant vendor". (Ord. 4-17, 1993)
2-3-2: REGISTRATION REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any "canvasser", "solicitor", "peddler" or "transient
merchant", as the same are herein defined, to engage in the business of such
persons within the corporate limits of the city without first registering
therefor in compliance with the provisions of this chapter. Registration issued
pursuant to this chapter shall not be transferable, nor valid after the end of
either: the length of time for which the right to do business is requested, or
the calendar year in which the application for registration was approved,
whichever is the shorter time period. (Ord. 4-17, 1993; Ord. 4-17a, 2004)
2-3-3: APPLICATION:
Applicants for registration under this chapter must file with the city clerk an
application, on a form furnished by the city, which shall contain, but not
necessarily be limited to, the following information:
   A.   The name of the applicant. If the applicant is employed by an
association, company, corporation or individual, its name shall be stated with
the name of each person who will be soliciting in the city in its behalf,
together with credentials establishing the exact relationship;
   B.   The applicant's place and date of birth;
   C.   The applicant's social security number;
   D.   The applicant's driver's license number;
   E.   The applicant's permanent home address, permanent mailing address,
permanent telephone number, full local address and local telephone number;
   F.   A photograph of the applicant, taken within sixty (60) days immediately
prior to the date of the filing of the application, which photograph shall be
two inches by two inches (2" x 2") showing the head and shoulders of the
applicant in a clear and distinguishing manner;
   G.   A brief description of the nature of the business and goods to be sold.
If goods are products of a farm or orchard, the name of the producer;
   H.   Proposed method of operation;
   I.   The length of time for which the right to do business is requested;
   J.   The applicant's Idaho state sales tax certificate or temporary sales
tax permit;
   K.   If a vehicle is to be used, a description of the vehicle including the
license number;
   L.   The place where the goods or property proposed to be sold, or orders
taken for the sale thereof, are manufactured or produced, where such goods or
products are located at the time such application is filed, and the proposed
method of delivery;
   M.   When food or other products for human consumption are to be sold, a
certification by the applicable health agency shall be required prior to
issuance of a registration;
   N.   A statement as to whether or not the applicant has ever been convicted
of any misdemeanor or felony, the date and nature of the offense, and the
punishment or penalty assessed therefor; and
   O.   For purposes of conducting the investigation provided for herein, each
applicant shall sign a waiver authorizing the chief of police, or his
designated agent, to conduct the investigation, including, but not limited to,
a criminal history background check through local, state or national law
enforcement agencies. (Ord. 4-17, 1993)
2-3-4: INVESTIGATION:
   A.   Referral To Chief Of Police; Endorsement: Upon receipt of a completed
registration application, the city clerk shall refer it to the chief of police
or duly authorized official who shall cause an investigation to be conducted
within five (5) days to determine the validity and completeness of the
information presented on the application. The chief of police or duly
authorized official shall thereafter endorse approval or disapproval upon the
application.
   B.   Approved: If the application is approved, the applicant shall be so
notified by the city clerk and, upon payment of the prescribed registration
fee, a registration shall be issued. Such registration shall show the name,
address and photograph of the applicant, the kind of goods to be sold or the
type of sales to be solicited thereunder, the amount of the fee paid, the date
of issuance and the date of expiration, and the license number and other
identifying description of any vehicle used. A permanent record of all licenses
issued shall be kept by the city clerk.
   C.   Denied: If the application is denied, the city clerk shall provide
written notification to the applicant, providing the reasons therefor and
advising the applicant of appeal procedures. (Ord. 4-17, 1993)
2-3-5: BOND:
(Rep. by Ord. 110, 10-4-2010)
2-3-6: REGISTRATION FEE:
Registration fees shall be payable in advance, in the amount and pursuant to
the procedures to be established by resolution adopted by the city council.
Further, the city council may upon petition of the applicant partially waive
registration fees for good cause. The applicant shall provide adequate
information to the city clerk to demonstrate why a waiver is warranted. (Ord.
113, 5-2-2011)
2-3-7: EXHIBITION OF REGISTRATION:
The registration issued to the applicant hereunder shall be exhibited in a
conspicuous place if the applicant is using a vehicle or a building in his
business and otherwise the registration must be kept on the person and
exhibited at any time upon request. (Ord. 4-17, 1993)
2-3-8: UNLAWFUL CONDUCT:
No applicant who is registered with the city pursuant to this chapter shall:
   A.   Fail to advise the city clerk of having knowingly made any false
statement on an application for registration hereunder;
   B.   Enter upon any premises where the same is posted with a sign stating
"No Solicitation Allowed" or "No Peddlers Allowed" or other words to that
effect;
   C.   Represent the issuance of any registration under this chapter as an
endorsement or recommendation of the solicitation;
   D.   Misrepresent the purpose of the solicitation;
   E.   Misrepresent the affiliation of those engaged in the solicitation;
   F.   Engage in any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement in the course
of carrying on the solicitation;
   G.   Make physical contact with the person being solicited unless that
person's permission is obtained;
   H.   Continue efforts to solicit from an individual once that individual
informs the solicitor that he does not wish to give anything or to buy anything
from that solicitor; or
   I.   Engage in any peddler's or transient merchant's activities on any city
property or right of way or in any area within the city for which the city has
previously granted a concession. (Ord. 4-17, 1993)
2-3-9: APPEAL:
An applicant aggrieved by the denial of the city to issue a registration under
this chapter shall have the right of appeal to the city council. Such appeal
shall be filed with the city clerk within five (5) days from the date of denial
and must be in writing setting forth the reasons such registration should not
have been denied. The city council shall hear the appeal within fourteen (14)
days after the filing thereof, and shall render its decision immediately
following the hearing. The decision of the majority of the council shall be
final. Appeal from the council decision may be made in accordance with Idaho
law. (Ord. 4-17, 1993)
2-3-10: REVOCATION:
The city council shall have the power to revoke any registration granted in
accordance with this chapter for any violation of this chapter. (Ord. 4-17,
1993)
2-3-11: EXCEPTIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the following:
   A.   The city, its agents and concessionaires;
   B.   Any sales under court order;
   C.   Any bona fide auction sale;
   D.   Traveling salespersons who exclusively sell to, or solicit orders for
future delivery from, local retail businesses, local wholesale firms, local
governments or local schools;
   E.   The sale of a newspaper subscription in which the seller is the person
engaged in both the sale and delivery of the newspaper;
   F.   The occasional sale of admission to a local function; or fundraising
sales by recognized service clubs or organizations identified by resolution
adopted by the city council or which the mayor or one city council member and
the clerk may add to the list;
   G.   Contribution solicitation where the person being solicited to
contribute personally knows the identity of the person soliciting the
contribution, the name of the group or organization he represents, and the
nature of the services performed or offered by the group or organization;
   H.   The sale of farm or garden produce by persons producing same; or
   I.   Garage, yard or similar sales by individuals at their residence or
place of business not exceeding three (3) days in length nor exceeding four (4)
in one calendar year, which sales shall not include business inventory. (Ord.
4-17, 1993)
2-3-12: PENALTY:
   A.   Misdemeanor: Any person who violates any of the provisions of this
chapter or fails to comply with any of the terms and conditions of this chapter
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be subject
to penalty as provided in section
1-2-1 of this code. (Ord. 4-17, 1993; 2008 Code)
   B.   Separate Offense: A separate offense shall be deemed to be committed
for each day on which a violation occurs or continues. (Ord. 4-17, 1993)
CHAPTER 4
TAXICABS AND JITNEYS 1
SECTION:
2-4-1: Definitions
2-4-2: License Required
2-4-3: Insurance
2-4-4: License Fees; Posting
2-4-5: Transfer Of Licenses
2-4-6: Suspension; Revocation
2-4-7: Vehicle Inspection
2-4-8: Overloading
2-4-9: Taximeter
2-4-10: Additional Jitney Regulations
2-4-11: Penalty
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 50-307.
2-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall apply to this chapter:
JITNEY: A motor vehicle designed to carry twelve (12) or fewer persons
including the driver and used to carry passengers on fixed routes for hire.
OPERATOR: The person, firm, copartner, corporation, individual or association
securing a license to operate upon and through the streets, avenues and alleys
of the city.
TAXICAB: Any motor vehicle used for the purpose of transporting persons for
hire, providing the "taxicab", as herein stated and above defined, shall not
include school buses or other motor vehicles used exclusively for the
transportation of children to and from school on a motor bus with a seating
capacity of over seven (7) passengers and operated on a regular schedule over
regularly designated streets, nor companies operating for the purpose of
carrying the United States mail or other United States property. (Ord. 3-14,
1995)
2-4-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   Application: No person shall engage in the business of operating a
taxicab or jitney within the corporate limits of the city without first
complying with all of the provisions of this chapter. Verified applications for
a license for taxicab/jitney shall be made by the owner thereof upon forms to
be furnished by the city clerk. Such application shall contain the full name
and address of the owner and/or drivers, the applicant's place and date of
birth; social security number, driver's license number and telephone number,
the year, make, model, motor and factory number of the motor vehicle, and the
Idaho license number for the current year. (Ord. 2007-2, 4-2-2007)
   B.   Authority Of City Council: The city council is hereby vested with
complete authority to issue licenses for the operation of taxicabs and jitneys;
and to alter, revoke or amend or suspend the said licenses in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter; and to regulate and limit the method of
operation of taxicabs and jitneys in accordance with this chapter; and is
further vested with complete and full authority and responsibility to carry
into effect all of the provisions of this chapter relative to the operation of
taxicabs and jitneys. Any license now issued, and which may be hereafter
issued, to engage in business of operating taxicabs or jitneys on or over the
streets and public ways shall mean and be construed to be only a license or
privilege to use the streets and public ways for the business of operating
taxicabs or jitneys thereon. (Ord. 3-14, 1995)
   C.   Ineligible For License: No person shall be issued a license to engage
in the business of operating and maintaining a taxicab or jitney when that
person:
      1.   Has ever been convicted of an offense that requires registering as a
sex offender in the state of Idaho and/or any offense in a foreign jurisdiction
that substantially conforms to an Idaho sex offense charge. Persons convicted
of a nonsex offense felony(ies) or misdemeanor(s) may make special application
to the city council to seek relief. If the council finds, by majority vote,
with the advice of the police chief, that the applicant complies with all other
requirements of this chapter, the council may grant the application if the
council finds that the driver, operator and/or owner does not pose a threat to
the health and safety of passengers. (Ord. 2007-4, 6-4-2007)
      2.   Is under the age of eighteen (18) years.
      3.   Is not a bona fide owner of such a business. (Ord. 3-14, 1995)
      4.   Each applicant and driver shall sign a waiver authorizing the chief
of police or his designated agent to conduct an investigation, including, but
not limited to, a criminal history background check through local, state and
national law enforcement agencies. The chief of police or duly authorized
official shall thereafter endorse approval or disapproval upon the application.
(Ord. 2007-2, 4-2-2007)
      5.   Has had a similar license revoked by the city or by any other city,
state or governmental authority.
   D.   Council Approval Required; Issuance: Before the city clerk shall issue
a license for any taxicab or jitney, the application must first be presented to
the mayor and city council for approval and, upon such approval and the payment
of the necessary fees and compliance with all other sections of this chapter,
the city clerk shall issue a license upon a card, the form and size of which
shall be prescribed by the city clerk. Said card shall contain the date of its
issuance, the official license number of the motor vehicle, and the make and
model thereof. The clerk is authorized to renew such licenses annually so long
as the applicant complies with all provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 3-14,
1995)
2-4-3: INSURANCE:
   A.   Certified Copy Of Insurance Required; Limits Of Liability: Before any
license is issued for any taxicab or jitney, the owners thereof shall be
required to file with the city clerk a certified copy of a policy of insurance,
executed by an insurance company authorized to do business within the state of
Idaho, insuring against any loss or damage which may result to any person or
persons from the operation of said taxicab, provided the limits of liability in
such policy of insurance shall be as follows:
      1.   Property Damage: Not less than fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00).
      2.   Personal Injury: One hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) for
injuries to one person, and three hundred thousand dollars ($300,000.00) for
injuries to two (2) or more persons.
      3.   Uninsured Motorist Coverage: As required by state law.
   B.   License Terminates Upon Cancellation Of Insurance: The license to
operate such taxicab or jitney shall expire of itself or terminate upon the
cancellation of the required insurance for failure to pay premiums or for any
other reason, and no license shall be granted or be effective unless the
taxicab or jitney for which said license is requested is fully covered by
insurance as hereinabove specified. (Ord. 3-14, 1995)
2-4-4: LICENSE FEES; POSTING:
Owners of taxicabs or jitneys licensed hereunder shall pay to the city clerk an
annual license fee of forty dollars ($40.00) for each vehicle. Such license
shall expire on the last day of each year and must be renewed before the first
day of the following year. The license provided for herein shall be plainly
posted in said vehicle in such a manner and place in said vehicle as shall be
approved by the chief of police. It shall be unlawful for any taxicab or jitney
to operate without such license being so posted. (Ord. 3-14, 1995)
2-4-5: TRANSFER OF LICENSES:
Licenses issued under the provision of this chapter shall be transferable
subject to the consent and approval of the city council; provided, however,
that no license may be transferred to any other person until such person has
applied for a license and has been found to be qualified to obtain such license
under the provisions of this chapter; provided further, that upon the approval
of the transfer of any license the city clerk shall charge and collect a fee of
ten dollars ($10.00) for transferring said license and shall issue a new
license card as provided for in this chapter. (Ord. 3-14, 1995)
2-4-6: SUSPENSION; REVOCATION:
Any license granted under this chapter may be revoked or suspended at any time
by the city council for any violation of the provisions of this chapter or of
any other ordinance of the city or law of the state of Idaho or if such vehicle
shall or has been used for any immoral, illegal, disorderly or improper
purpose. Further, if the city shall receive a complaint of deficiency or
violation which, after investigation, proves to be valid, the licensee shall be
served with a warning notice and citation providing five (5) days to rectify.
If the deficiency or violation is not corrected within said five (5) days, the
license shall be revoked for the remainder of the year. (Ord. 3-14, 1995)
2-4-7: VEHICLE INSPECTION:
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate and use, or permit or allow the
operation and use of, any vehicle as a taxicab or jitney upon the streets of
the city unless such vehicle has been inspected and approved. All vehicles
shall be kept in good and proper mechanical order, and of sanitary and good
appearance, inside and outside. Inspection of the mechanical safety and
sanitary condition of each vehicle shall be made by a garage or individual
designated by the city council or by the chief of police for that purpose. All
vehicles shall be so inspected on or before January 1 of each year. (Ord. 3-14,
1995)
2-4-8: OVERLOADING:
It shall be unlawful for any person operating a taxicab or jitney to carry more
passengers than the rated seating capacity of said motor vehicle, as given by
the manufacturer of said vehicle, and not more than one person shall occupy the
front seat with the driver at any time while the vehicle is in operation. (Ord.
3-14, 1995)
2-4-9: TAXIMETER:
All taxicabs operated under the authority of this chapter shall be equipped
with taximeters fastened in front of the passengers, visible to them at all
times day and night; and, after sundown, the face of the taximeters shall be
illuminated. Said taximeters shall be operated mechanically by a mechanism of
standard design and construction, driven either from the transmission or from
one of the front wheels by a flexible and permanently attached driving
mechanism. They shall be sealed at all points and connections which, if
manipulated, would affect their correct reading and recording. The said
taximeters shall be subject to inspection from time to time by the police
department. Any inspector or other officer of said department is hereby
authorized, either on complaint of any person or without such complaint, to
inspect any meter and, upon discovery of any inaccuracy therein, to notify the
person operating such taxicab to cease operation. Thereupon said taxicab shall
be kept off the highways until the taximeter is repaired and in the required
working condition. (Ord. 3-14, 1995)
2-4-10: ADDITIONAL JITNEY REGULATIONS:
Each jitney shall comply with the following additional regulations:
   A.   The route proposed to be followed shall be clearly posted.
   B.   The rates to be charged shall be clearly posted on the vehicle.
   C.   No person shall be charged more than the posted rate.
   D.   Each passenger shall be taken on the route posted unless, before paying
the fare, the passenger agrees to a change in the route. (Ord. 3-14, 1995)
2-4-11: PENALTY:
In addition to being subject to license revocation or suspension, any person
violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-2-1 of this code. (Ord. 3-14, 1995; 2008 Code)
CHAPTER 5
DAYCARE FACILITIES
SECTION:
2-5-1: Definitions
2-5-2: License Required
2-5-3: Exemptions
2-5-4: Penalties And Enforcement
2-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
BASIC DAYCARE LICENSE: A basic daycare license issued by the state of Idaho
department of health and welfare pursuant to Idaho Code sections 39-1103 and
39-1114(3).
CHILD OR CHILDREN: A person or persons less than thirteen (13) years of age.
DAYCARE: Care and supervision provided for compensation during part of a twenty
four (24) hour day, for a child or children not related by blood, marriage or
legal guardianship to the person or persons providing the care, in a place
other than the child's or children's own home or homes.
DAYCARE FACILITY: A place or facility providing daycare services for
compensation to six (6) or fewer children not related to the provider. (Ord.
2009-104, 12-21-2009, eff. 1-1-2010)
2-5-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
Effective January 1, 2010, every daycare facility within the city of Ponderay
shall be required to obtain a basic daycare license and shall not provide
daycare to children unless it has a current basic daycare license, provided,
however, that daycare facilities already operating within the city of Ponderay
on January 1, 2010, shall have until January 1, 2011, to obtain a basic daycare
license. (Ord. 2009-104, 12-21-2009, eff. 1-1-2010)
2-5-3: EXEMPTIONS:
This chapter shall not apply to:
   A.   The occasional care of a neighbor's, relative's or friend's child or
children by a person not ordinarily in the business of providing daycare;
   B.   The operation of a private school or religious school for educational
purposes for children over four (4) years of age or a religious kindergarten;
   C.   The provision of occasional care exclusively for children of parents
who are simultaneously in the same building;
   D.   The operation of day camps, programs and religious schools for less
than twelve (12) weeks during a calendar year or not more often than once a
week; or
   E.   The provision of care for children of a family within the second degree
of relationship or consanguinity. (Ord. 2009-104, 12-21-2009, eff. 1-1-2010)
2-5-4: PENALTIES AND ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished in accordance with title
1, chapter 2 of this code.
   B.   Each day of the violation shall be considered a separate offense.
   C.   Violation of this chapter, which continues for more than twenty four
(24) hours, is hereby declared to be a public nuisance. In addition to any
other civil or criminal remedies, the city may cause such condition to be
abated in any manner provided by law. (Ord. 2009-104, 12-21-2009, eff. 1-1-
2010)
CHAPTER 6
HOTEL-MOTEL ROOM OCCUPANCY TAX
SECTION:
2-6-1: Finding
2-6-2: Definitions
2-6-3: Imposition And Rate Of Certain Nonproperty Sales Taxes
2-6-4: Duration Of Taxes
2-6-5: Purposes For Which The Revenues Shall Be Used
2-6-6: Creation Of A Property Tax Relief Fund
2-6-7: Authorization For City Clerk To Administer, Regulate And Collect Said
Nonproperty Taxes
2-6-8: Permits Required And Issuance Of Permits
2-6-9: Method For Payment Of Taxes
2-6-10: Audits - Deficiency Determinations
2-6-11: Redetermination Of Deficiency
2-6-12: Appeals, Interest On Deficiency
2-6-13: Collections And Enforcement
2-6-14: Refunds, Limitations And Interest
2-6-15: Responsibility For Payment Of Taxes
2-6-16: Period Of Limitation Upon Assessment And Collection
2-6-17: Successors' Liability
2-6-18: General Administration By City Clerk
2-6-19: Penalties
2-6-20: Penalty Charges
2-6-21: Exemptions
2-6-22: Confidentiality Of Information
2-6-1: FINDING:
The City Council of the City of Ponderay hereby finds that said City has a
population not in excess of ten thousand (10,000) according to the most recent
census and is a City that derives the major portion of its economic well being
from people catering to recreational needs and meeting needs of people
traveling to said destination City for an extended period of time; that said
City has a significant economic dependence upon visitors and travelers passing
through or staying in the community and said City; and, that said visitors and
travelers require services of said City which place an undue burden upon the
taxpayers of said City. (Ord. 143, 11-20-2017, eff. 1-1-2018)
2-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words and
derivations shall have the meaning given herein.
HOTEL-MOTEL: The term "hotel-motel" means and includes any business including
hotels, motels, condominiums, tourist homes, RV parks and any other business
which in the regular course of business rents or leases for occupancy temporary
lodging to individuals with or without meals, except where residence is
maintained continuously under terms of a lease or similar agreement for a
period in excess of thirty (30) days.
IN THE CITY OF PONDERAY: Means within the Municipal boundaries of the City of
Ponderay, Bonner County, Idaho.
PERSON: The term "person" means and includes any individual, firm, co-
partnership, joint venture, association, social club, fraternal organization,
corporation, estate, trust, business trust, receiver, trustee, syndicate,
cooperative, assignee, or any other group or combination acting as a unit.
PURCHASE: The term "purchase" means and includes any transfer, rental,
exchange, or barter, conditional or otherwise, in any manner or by any means
whatsoever, of tangible personal property for a consideration. A transaction
whereby the possession of property is transferred but the seller retains the
title as security for the payment of the price is a purchase. A transfer for a
consideration of any publication or of tangible personal property which has
been produced, fabricated, or printed to the special order of the customer is
also a purchase.
ROOM OCCUPANCY CHARGE: The term "room occupancy charge" means and includes the
total amount charged for the rental use or temporary occupancy of a room or
living unit, valued in money, whether paid in money or otherwise, without any
deduction.
SALE: The term "sale" means and includes any transfer of title, exchange or
barter, conditional or otherwise, in any manner or by any means whatsoever, of
tangible personal property for a consideration and shall include any transfer
of possession through incorporation or any other artifice found by the State
Tax Commission to be in lieu of, or equivalent to, a transfer of title, an
exchange or barter. "Sale" shall also include:
   A.   Providing hotel, motel, condominium, tourist home or trailer court
accommodations and services, except where residence is maintained continuously
under the terms of a lease or similar agreement for a period in excess of
thirty (30) days.
SALES TAX ACT: Shall mean the Idaho Sales Tax Act, Idaho Code 63-3601, et seq.,
including subsequent amendments thereto, which is hereby adopted by reference.
SELLER: The term "seller" means every person making sales at retail or retail
sales to a buyer or consumer, whether as agent, broker, or principle.
TAXPAYER: Any person subject to or liable for any taxes imposed by this
chapter. (Ord. 143, 11-20-2017, eff. 1-1-2018)
2-6-3: IMPOSITION AND RATE OF CERTAIN NONPROPERTY SALES TAXES:
The City of Ponderay, hereby imposes and shall collect certain non-property
taxes, as follows:
   A.   An additional seven percentum (7%) Hotel-Motel Room Occupancy Sales Tax
on receipts from all short term rental (30 days or less) charges for hotel
rooms, motel rooms, condominium units, RV or trailer parks, tourist homes and
the like; and,
   B.   All monies collected and/or retained under the provisions of this
chapter shall be held in trust for the City of Ponderay and for payment thereof
to the City Clerk in the manner and at the times provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 143, 11-20-2017, eff. 1-1-2018)
2-6-4: DURATION OF TAXES:
The Hotel-Motel Room Occupancy Sales Tax authorized and collected under this
chapter is hereby imposed for a duration of eight (8) years from the effective
date of this chapter. (Ord. 143, 11-20-2017, eff. 1-1-2018)
2-6-5: PURPOSES FOR WHICH THE REVENUES SHALL BE USED:
The non-property tax revenue derived from and collected under this chapter
shall be used for the following purposes:
   A.   Municipal transportation.
   B.   Open space acquisition and recreation including parks.
   C.   Capital improvements: roads, water, sewer, parking.
   D.   Emergency services: police, fire, ambulance.
   E.   City promotion, visitor information and special events.
   F.   Property Tax relief.
   G.   Direct costs to collect and enforce the tax. (Ord. 143, 11-20-2017,
eff. 1-1-2018)
2-6-6: CREATION OF A PROPERTY TAX RELIEF FUND:
There is hereby created in the Office of the City Clerk a fund to be designated
as the "Municipal Property Tax Relief Fund". All monies collected under this
chapter, and not otherwise budgeted by the City Council, shall be placed by the
City Clerk into the Municipal Property Tax Relief Fund. All monies collected
and placed into said fund shall be used to replace City Property Taxes in the
ensuing fiscal year. (Ord. 143, 11-20-2017, eff. 1-1-2018)
2-6-7: AUTHORIZATION FOR CITY CLERK TO ADMINISTER, REGULATE AND COLLECT SAID
NONPROPERTY TAXES:
The City Clerk of the City of Ponderay is hereby authorized and empowered to
administer, regulate and collect payment of all non- property taxes adopted and
imposed by this chapter. Said Clerk shall have all of the powers set forth in
this chapter together with those additional powers necessary and proper to
carry out the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 143, 11-20-2017, eff. 1-1-2018)
2-6-8: PERMITS REQUIRED AND ISSUANCE OF PERMITS:
   A.   Every person desiring to engage in or conduct business of renting a
hotel-motel room within this City shall file with the City Clerk an application
for a Municipal non-property sales tax permit for each place of business. A
separate permit is required for each place of business within the City. Every
application for said permit shall be made upon a form prescribed by the City
Clerk and shall set forth the name under which the applicant transacts or
intends to transact business, the location of the business or places of
businesses, and such other information as the City may require. The application
shall be signed by the owner, if he is a natural person; or in the case of an
association or partnership, by a member or partner, in the case of a
corporation, by an executive officer or other person authorized by the
corporation to sign the application.
   B.   Upon filing an application meeting the requirements set out above, the
City Clerk shall issue to each applicant a permit for each place of business. A
permit shall not be assignable, and shall be valid only for the person in whose
name it is issued and for the transaction of business at the place designated
therein. It shall at all times be conspicuously displayed at the location for
which it was issued. Issuance of a permit may be subject to additional
requirements as set forth in this chapter.
   C.   On the face of the permit shall be fixed a Municipal non- property tax
number which shall be used by the applicant as an identifying number on all
filing, payment and correspondence with regard to the non-property tax imposed
under this chapter. (Ord. 143, 11-20-2017, eff. 1-1-2018)
2-6-9: METHOD FOR PAYMENT OF TAXES:
   A.   The taxes imposed by this chapter shall be computed and paid for each
calendar month. Said taxes are due and payable to the City Clerk on or before
the 20th day of the succeeding month. The amount of tax paid shall be computed
on all sales subject to taxation under this chapter. Each person required to
hold a Municipal non-property sales tax permit and number shall file a
Municipal non-property sales tax return and a copy of their Idaho State Sales
Tax return #850 and Travel and Convention Tax return #1150 for the month at the
same time said taxes are paid to the City Clerk, unless said person has been
permitted in writing by the Idaho State Tax Commission to file quarterly Sales
or Use Tax returns. Persons who have been permitted to file other than monthly
returns shall notify the City Clerk in writing and show correspondence from the
State attesting to this fact and the City Clerk thereupon may require reporting
of State Tax returns over some other period.
   B.   The first payment of taxes under this chapter shall be due and payable
together on the 20th day of February, 2018, for that period beginning January
1, 2018, and ending January 31, 2018. Thereafter all payments shall be made
monthly.
   C.   A Municipal non-property sales tax return shall be filed each and every
month by every person engaging in sales subject to taxation under this chapter
regardless of whether or not any tax is due. Returns shall be signed by the
person required to file the return or by a duly authorized agent.
   D.   A valid Sales Tax exemption certificate issued by the Idaho State Tax
Commission upon filing a copy thereof with the City Clerk shall have the same
effect to exempt the sale from the taxes imposed hereunder as in the Idaho
Sales Tax Act. (Ord. 143, 11-20-2017, eff. 1-1-2018)
2-6-10: AUDITS - DEFICIENCY DETERMINATIONS:
   A.   The City Clerk may order an audit of any taxpayer under this chapter
for the purpose of ascertaining the correctness or completeness of any return
or payment.
   B.   If any error or omission is discovered in such audits or in any other
way, the City Clerk may compute and determine the amount of tax due upon the
basis of facts obtained from such information within its possession and assert
a deficiency. One or more deficiency determinations may be made for the amount
due for one or for more than one period. In making such a determination, the
City Clerk may offset over payments against amounts due. Further, said
determinations shall be made for the period or periods in respect to which the
person fails to make a return and shall be based upon any information which is
in the City Clerk's possession.
   C.   The City Clerk shall give written notice of its determination and the
amount of its deficiency, including interest, at the rate of twelve percent
(12%) per annum from the date due, to the person from whom such deficiency
amount is due. Such notice may be given personally or mailed to the person at
the address furnished to the City Clerk in the non-property tax permit
application. (Ord. 143, 11-20-2017, eff. 1-1-2018)
2-6-11: REDETERMINATION OF DEFICIENCY:
   A.   Any person against whom a deficiency determination is made under this
chapter, or any person directly interested, may petition in writing for a
redetermination within thirty (30) days after service upon the person of notice
thereof. If the petition for redetermination is not filed within the thirty
(30) day period, the determination becomes final at the expiration of the
period.
   B.   If a petition for redetermination is filed with the thirty (30) day
period the City Clerk shall reconsider the determination and, if the person so
requests in the petition, grant the person an oral hearing and give said person
ten (10) days notice of the time and place of the hearing personally or by mail
addressed to the person at the address furnished to the City Clerk in said
person's application for a non-property tax permit. (Ord. 143, 11-20-2017, eff.
1-1-2018)
2-6-12: APPEALS, INTEREST ON DEFICIENCY:
   A.   When a redetermination is made, the City Clerk shall give notice to the
taxpayer against whom the redetermination is made. Within thirty (30) days of
the date upon which such notice of redetermination is mailed or served, the
taxpayer may file an appeal with the City Council or may file a complaint with
the District Court for review of the City Clerk's redetermination. There shall
be no right of review to the City Council nor to the District Court on the
determination of taxes due made by the City Clerk unless a redetermination has
been timely filed. No assessment of a deficiency in respect to the tax imposed
by this chapter or proceeding to collect for its collection shall be made,
begun or prosecuted until such notice has been mailed to the taxpayer and
expiration of such thirty (30) day period after notice of redetermination, nor
if a protest is filed until a decision on the protest becomes final. If the
taxpayer does not protest to the City Council or file an action in District
Court within the time prescribed in this section, the deficiency shall be
assessed and shall become due and payable upon notice and demand from the City
Clerk.
   B.   Interest upon any deficiency shall be assessed at the same time as the
deficiency and shall become due and payable upon notice and demand from the
City Clerk and shall be collected as part of the tax at the rate of twelve
percent (12%) per annum from the date prescribed for payment of the tax. (Ord.
143, 11-20-2017, eff. 1-1-2018)
2-6-13: COLLECTIONS AND ENFORCEMENT:
As soon as practical after monthly Municipal non-property sales tax return and
payment is filed, the City Clerk shall examine the same and determine the
correct amount of the tax. For the purpose of ascertaining the correctness of
any payment determining the amount of tax due where none has been made,
determining liability of any person for any tax payable under this chapter, or
the liability at law or in equity of any person in respect to any tax provided
by this chapter or collecting any such liability, the City Clerk, or duly
authorized deputy, is authorized: a) to examine the books, papers, records, or
other data which may be relevant or material to the inquiry; b) to summon the
person liable for the tax or any officer, agent or employee of such person, or
any person having possession, custody or care of books of accounting containing
entries relating to the business of the person liable for the tax, to appear
before the City Clerk, or deputy, at a time and place named in its summons to
produce such books, papers, records or other data and/or give such testimony
under oath as may be relevant or material to such inquiry. (Ord. 143, 11-20-
2017, eff. 1-1-2018)
2-6-14: REFUNDS, LIMITATIONS AND INTEREST:
   A.   If the City Clerk determines that any amount due under this chapter has
been paid more than once or has been erroneously or illegally collected or
computed, the City Clerk shall set forth that fact in its records and the
excess amount paid or collected may be credited on any amount due or payable to
the City Clerk for non-property taxes from that person, and any balance
refunded to the person by whom it was paid or to his successors, administrators
or executors.
   B.   No such credit or refund shall be allowed or made after one year from
the time the payment was made unless before the expiration of such period a
claim therefor is filed by the taxpayer.
   C.   Interest shall be allowed on the amount of such credits or refunds at
the rate of twelve percent (12%) per annum from the date which such tax was
paid.
   D.   Appeal from the City Clerk's decision denying in part or in whole a
claim for refund shall be made in accordance with the laws of the State of
Idaho with regard to claims against municipalities. (Ord. 143, 11-20-2017, eff.
1-1-2018)
2-6-15: RESPONSIBILITY FOR PAYMENT OF TAXES:
Every person with a duty to account for or pay over any tax imposed by this
chapter on behalf of a corporation, as an officer employee of the corporation,
or on behalf of a partnership, as a member employee of the partnership shall be
personally liable for payment of such tax, plus penalties and interest. (Ord.
143, 11-20-2017, eff. 1-1-2018)
2-6-16: PERIOD OF LIMITATION UPON ASSESSMENT AND COLLECTION:
   A.   The amount of taxes imposed under this chapter shall be assessed within
three (3) years of the time the return upon which the tax asserted to be due
was or should have been filed, whichever is later; provided, however, if a
deficiency determination or assessment has been made within the prescribed
time, such tax may be collected within a period of six (6) years after
assessment. The running of limitations provided by this section shall be
suspended for the period during which the City Clerk is prohibited from making
the assessment or from collecting or proceeding in court due to a petition for
redetermination or an appeal therefrom, and for thirty (30) days hereafter.
   B.   In the case of taxes due during the lifetime of a decedent, the tax
shall be assessed, and any proceeding in court without assessment for the
collection of such tax shall be begun, within six (6) months after written
request therefor (filed after the return is made) by the executor,
administrator, or other fiduciary representing the estate of such decedent
unless the assessment is stayed by a petition for redetermination or any appeal
therefrom.
   C.   In the case of a false or fraudulent return with intent to evade tax,
or of a failure to file a return, the tax may be assessed, or a proceeding in
court for collection of such tax may be begun without assessment, at any time
within three (3) years after the date of the discovery of the facts
constituting the fraud. (Ord. 143, 11-20-2017, eff. 1-1-2018)
2-6-17: SUCCESSORS' LIABILITY:
   A.   If a vendor liable for any amount of tax under this chapter sells out
his business or stocks and goods, the vendee shall make an inquiry to the City
Clerk and withhold from the purchase price any amount of tax that may be due
under this chapter until such time as the vendor produces a receipt stating
that no amount is due.
   B.   If the purchaser of business or stock of goods fails to withhold from
the purchase price as above required, he is personally liable for the payment
of the amount required to be withheld by him. (Ord. 143, 11-20-2017, eff. 1-1-
2018)
2-6-18: GENERAL ADMINISTRATION BY CITY CLERK:
   A.   The City Clerk shall enforce the provisions of this chapter and may
prescribe, adopt and enforce rules and regulations relating to its
administration and enforcement. The City Clerk may employ qualified auditors
for examination of taxpayers' books and records, and shall also employ such
accountants, investigators, assistants, clerks, and other personnel as are
necessary for the efficient administration of this chapter, and may delegate
authority to its representatives to conduct hearings, or perform other duties
imposed by this chapter.
   B.   Taxpayers in the City of Ponderay shall keep such records, receipts,
invoices, and other pertinent papers as the City Clerk may require. Each such
taxpayer who files tax payments required under this chapter shall keep all such
records for not less than four (4) years after making such payments unless the
City Clerk in writing authorizes their destruction.
   C.   The City Clerk, or any person authorized in writing by the Clerk, may
examine the books, papers, records, and equipment of any taxpayer or any person
liable for any tax, and may investigate the character of the business of the
person in order to verify the accuracy of any return made, or if no return is
made by the person, to ascertain and determine the amount required to be paid.
Any taxpayer whose pertinent records are kept outside of the City must bring
the records to the City for examination by the City Clerk upon request of the
latter, or by agreement with the City Clerk permit an auditor designated by the
City Clerk to visit the place where the records are kept, and there audit such
records. (Ord. 143, 11-20-2017, eff. 1-1-2018)
2-6-19: PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor, punishable by up to one year in the County Jail, and/or three
hundred dollar ($300.00) fine, or both. Furthermore, each month in which a
person fails to report, or intentionally fails to accurately compute, or
intentionally fails to accurately disclose the total amount of sales or rentals
or the amount of tax to be paid, as imposed under this chapter, shall be
considered a separate offense.
   B.   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall have his
Municipal non-property sales tax permit and tax number revoked. The City Clerk
shall send written notice of revocation of said permit and tax number to the
permit holder by mailing the same by certified mail to the address given on the
permit application. The permit holder shall have ten (10) days from the date
said notice is mailed to file a written request of appeal with the City
Council, challenging said revocation. If no appeal is timely made said
revocation becomes final. Whenever a person subject to this chapter has had
said permit and tax number revoked, the City Clerk shall not reissue said
permit nor issue a new permit to said person until said person places with the
City Clerk a bond or other sufficient security in the amount equal to three (3)
times the actual, determined, or estimated average monthly amount of tax
payable by such person pursuant to this chapter.
   C.   The City Clerk, whenever it is deemed necessary to insure compliance
with this chapter, may require any person subject to this chapter to place with
it such security as it may determine. The amount of said security shall not be
greater than three (3) times the estimated average monthly amount payable by
such persons pursuant to this chapter. The amount of the security may be
increased or decreased by the City Clerk at any time, subject to the
limitations set forth above.
   D.   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall have all
Municipal non-property sales tax permits revoked.
   E.   Any amount of tax due under this chapter for which a person fails to
report or accurately compute, shall became a lien upon the property of said
taxpayer on the date that the same becomes due, and the City may seek to
enforce said lien and collect all taxes and interest due, together with the
reasonable costs of collection, including attorney 's fees, in a court of
competent jurisdiction.
   F.   For the purposes of proper administration of this chapter, and to
prevent evasion of said non-property sales taxes, the burden of proving that a
sale or rental is not a sale under this chapter is upon the person who makes
the sale or rental in question. (Ord. 143, 11-20-2017, eff. 1-1-2018)
2-6-20: PENALTY CHARGES:
   A.   Any person who is required to collect and pay over any tax imposed by
this chapter and fails or refuses to pay over to the City the same when due in
accordance with section
2-6-9 of this chapter, shall be liable and pay a penalty charge equal to five
percent (5%) of the tax not paid, or a minimum of ten dollars ($10.00)
(whichever is greater). The City Clerk shall assess and collect said fee at the
time any delinquent tax payment is tendered. The permit holder shall have ten
(10) days from the date payment is made to file a written appeal with the City
Council challenging said penalty determination. If no appeal is timely made as
herein provided, said penalty determination shall be final.
   B.   Any person who is required to collect, truthfully account for, and pay
over any tax imposed by this chapter and who willfully fails to collect such a
tax or truthfully account for or pay over such a tax, or willfully attempts in
any manner to evade or defeat such a tax or payment thereof, shall, in addition
to other penalties provided by law, be liable to a penalty equal to the amount
of the tax evaded, or not collected, or not accounted for or paid over. The
City Clerk shall determine and assess such penalties, and the same shall become
due and payable upon notice and demand from the City Clerk. The City Clerk
shall send written notice of such penalty charge to the permit holder by
mailing the same by certified mail to the address given on the permit
application. The permit holder shall have ten (10) days from the date said
notice is mailed to file a written request of appeal with the City Council
challenging said penalty charge determination. If no appeal is timely made as
herein provided, said penalty charge determination shall be final. (Ord. 143,
11-20-2017, eff. 1-1-2018)
2-6-21: EXEMPTIONS:
All transactions by the State of Idaho, otherwise, subject to imposition of
said taxes, are exempt from the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 143, 11-20-
2017, eff. 1-1-2018)
2-6-22: CONFIDENTIALITY OF INFORMATION:
   A.   No City Clerk of the City of Ponderay, Bonner County, Idaho, nor any
duly authorized Deputy City Clerk, agent or employee shall divulge or make
known to any persons, in any manner, any information whatsoever submitted or
obtained, directly or indirectly, pursuant to this chapter, or to permit any
non- property tax return or information supplied with regard thereto, or any
copy thereof, or any paper or book so obtained, to be seen or examined by any
person except as provided by law; provided that in any action or proceeding
brought for the collection, remission, cancellation, or refund of the whole or
any part of a tax imposed under this chapter, or for enforcing the penalties
prescribed for making false or fraudulent returns, any and all information
contained in or provided with said returns may be made accessible to the
elected and appointed officials, officers, and representatives of said City
charged with enforcing or defending the same, all such returns, information,
statements and correspondence relating thereto may be produced into evidence in
any action, civil or criminal, directly pertaining to such returns or the tax
imposed on the basis of such returns.
   B.   The Ponderay City Council, under such rules and provisions as it may
prescribe, may permit, notwithstanding the provisions of this chapter as to
secrecy, the Commission of Internal Revenue of the United States or his
delegate or the proper officer of any state imposing a tax to inspect the non-
property tax returns or information provided or obtained in connection
therewith, or may furnish to such officer, or his authorized agent, copies or
an abstract thereof.
   C.   Nothing in the chapter shall prohibit a taxpayer, or authorized
representative upon proper identification, from inspecting and copying his own
non-property tax returns and information supplied therewith. (Ord. 143, 11-20-
2017, eff. 1-1-2018)
TITLE 3
HEALTH AND SANITATION
CHAPTER 1
NUISANCES
SECTION:
3-1-1: Definitions
3-1-2: Jurisdiction
3-1-3: Nuisances Affecting Public Safety
3-1-4: Enforcement
3-1-5: Failure To Comply
3-1-6: Liability
3-1-7: Property Owner To Abate
3-1-8: Responsible Party Unknown
3-1-9: Notice To Abate
3-1-10: Failure To Comply
3-1-11: Request For Hearing
3-1-12: Hearing
3-1-13: Entry Upon Private Property
3-1-14: Abatement By City
3-1-15: Disposition Of Discarded Vehicle
3-1-16: Penalty
3-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
CHIEF OF POLICE: Includes any authorized law enforcement officer of the city.
COSTS: The expense of removing, storing, restoring, selling or investigating a
discarded vehicle or other nuisance.
DISCARDED VEHICLE: Any vehicle which does not have lawfully affixed thereto a
valid license plate and is in one or more of the following conditions for over
thirty (30) days:
   A.   Inoperative;
   B.   Wrecked;
   C.   Dismantled or partially dismantled;
   D.   Abandoned; or
   E.   Junked.
Discarded vehicles may be deemed to include major parts, including, but not
limited to automobile bodies, automobile body parts, engines and engine
components, transmissions and other drive train parts.
GARBAGE: Putrescible animal and vegetable wastes resulting from the handling,
preparing, cooking or consumption of food.
NUISANCE: Anything which is injurious to the health or morals, or is indecent
or offensive to the senses, or is an obstruction to the free use of property,
so as to interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property. Further,
the open accumulation and storage of a discarded vehicle is hereby found to
create a condition tending to reduce the value of private property, to invite
plundering and vandalism, to create fire hazards, to constitute an attractive
nuisance creating a hazard to the health and safety of minors, to create a
harborage for rodents and insects and to be injurious to the health, safety and
general welfare of the public.
PERSON: A natural person, firm, partnership, association or corporation.
PERSON IN CHARGE OF PROPERTY: Any agent, occupant, lessee, contract purchaser,
owner or person having possession, control or title of property, or property
where a vehicle or other nuisance is located.
PUBLIC PLACE: A building, way, place or accommodation, whether publicly or
privately owned, open and available to the general public.
REFUSE: All putrescible and nonputrescible solid wastes (except body waste),
including garbage, rubbish, ashes, street cleanings, dead animals and solid
market and industrial wastes.
RESPONSIBLE PERSON: The person responsible for abating a nuisance and shall
include:
   A.   The person in charge of property, as defined in the definition of
"vehicle" in this section.
   B.   The person who caused to come into or continue in existence a
"nuisance", as defined in this section, or any other ordinance of this city.
RUBBISH: Nonputrescible solid waste consisting of both combustible and
noncombustible wastes, including, but not limited to, paper, wrappings,
cardboard, tin or aluminum cans, yard clippings, leaves, dirt (other than the
natural soil in place), wood, glass, bedding, crockery, remnants of wood;
decayed, weathered or broken construction materials which may no longer be
suitable for safe or approved construction, worthless and useless articles
which are in such a state or such a quantity as to be unsightly, against the
general welfare, unhealthful, dangerous to persons or property, or so as to
interfere with the abatement of weeds and similar materials.
VEHICLE: Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a public highway, except devices moved by human power
or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
VEHICLE OWNER: Any individual, firm, corporation or association with a claim,
either individually or jointly, of ownership or any interest, legal or
equitable, in a vehicle. (2008 Code)
3-1-2: JURISDICTION:
The jurisdiction of this chapter relating to public nuisances shall be upon all
property inside the city limits, both public and private. (2008 Code)
3-1-3: NUISANCES AFFECTING PUBLIC SAFETY:
   A.   Abandoned Containers: It shall be unlawful for any person to leave, or
permit to remain outside of any dwelling, building or other structure, or
within any unoccupied or abandoned building, structure or dwelling under his or
her control, in a place that is accessible to children, any abandoned and/or
unattended and/or discarded icebox, refrigerator, or other container which has
a door or lid which has not been either removed or chained, bolted or locked in
a fashion making it impossible for children to gain access. (Ord. 2007-9, 11-5-
2007)
   B.   Attractive Nuisances:
      1.   Prohibited: No owner or person in charge of property shall permit
thereon:
         a.   Unsafe machinery, equipment, vehicles or other devices which are
attractive, dangerous and accessible to children.
         b.   Lumber, logs or pilings placed or stored in a manner so as to be
attractive, dangerous and accessible to children.
         c.   An open pit, quarry, cistern or other excavation without
safeguards or barriers to prevent such places from being used by children.
      2.   Exception: This subsection shall not apply to authorized
construction projects with reasonable safeguards to prevent injury or death to
playing children.
   C.   Scattering Rubbish: No person shall deposit upon public or private
property any kind of rubbish, trash, debris, refuse or any substance that would
mar the appearance, create a stench or fire hazard, detract from the
cleanliness or safety of the property, or would be likely to injure a person,
animal or vehicle traveling upon a public way.
   D.   Trees And Bushes:
      1.   Trimming Required: No owner or person in charge of property that
abuts upon any public sidewalk shall permit trees or bushes on his property to
interfere with street or sidewalk traffic. It shall be the duty of an owner or
person in charge of property that abuts upon a street or public sidewalk to
keep all trees and bushes on his premises, including the adjoining parking
strip, trimmed to a height of not less than eight feet (8') above the sidewalk
and not less than fourteen feet (14') above the roadway.
      2.   Dead Or Decaying Tree: No owner or person in charge of property
shall allow to stand any dead or decaying tree that is a hazard to the public
or to persons or property on or near the property.
   E.   Dangerous Excavations:
      1.   Barriers: No owner or person in charge of property shall allow an
excavation to remain unguarded without suitable barriers.
      2.   Warning Lights: In addition to the barriers required by subsection
E1 of this section, any person creating, maintaining or in charge of such
excavation shall ensure the installation and operation of warning lights,
encompassing the excavation and reasonably noticeable to passersby.
   F.   Littering Prohibited:
      1.   Throw, Deposit Or Accumulate Prohibited: No person shall throw,
deposit or accumulate litter in or upon any public place or private premises
within the city, except for collection, or except while such person is
temporarily engaged in clearing said public place or private premises of litter
or improving said public place or private premises.
      2.   Prohibited Deposits: No person shall deposit or cause to be
deposited in any city owned receptacle located in a public place, the garbage
or litter which was accumulated in the residence or place of business occupied
by said person.
   G.   Garbage And Refuse Containers: No owner or person in charge of a
property shall allow the storage or accumulation of garbage, refuse or rubbish
to be accumulated, unless contained in a sealed or sealable container designed
for such purpose. A sealed or sealable garbage bag or sack alone is not
sufficient; it shall be sealed in a container also.
   H.   Refuse Area Enclosure: All trash and/or garbage collection areas for
commercial, industrial and multi-family residential uses shall be enclosed on
at least three (3) sides by a solid wall or fence of at least four feet (4') in
height or within an enclosed building or structure. Adequate vehicular access
to and from such area for collection of trash and/or garbage shall be provided.
   I.   Unsightly Conditions: The exterior of all structures and yards shall be
maintained in such manner that there is no detrimental effect on the property
of others. There shall be no keeping, depositing on, or scattering over the
property of any of the following:
      1.   Junk, trash or debris;
      2.   Abandoned, discarded or unused objects or equipment, such as
automobiles, furniture, stoves, refrigerators, freezers, cans, containers or
similar items;
      3.   Stagnant water or excavations; or
      4.   Any device, decoration, design, structure or vegetation which
offends the visual sensibilities of a reasonable person by reason of its
condition.
   J.   Structures: Any structure or part of a structure, which because of
fire, wind or other natural disaster, or physical deterioration is no longer
habitable as a dwelling nor useful for any other purpose for which it may have
been intended, must be repaired or demolished within thirty (30) days of such
an incident, or notice to the property owner, whichever is sooner.
   K.   Vacant Buildings: In any area within the city, any vacant dwelling,
garage, or other outbuilding shall be kept securely locked and the windows kept
glazed or neatly boarded up and otherwise protected to prevent vandalism or
other types of tampering or fire hazard.
   L.   Discarded Vehicles: It shall be unlawful to store or permit the storing
of a discarded vehicle upon any private property within the city, unless the
vehicle is completely enclosed within a building, or unless it is in connection
with and upon the property of a business enterprise dealing in junked vehicles
lawfully conducted within the city. (2008 Code)
3-1-4: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Powers Of Chief Of Police: The chief of police is hereby empowered,
whenever a public nuisance as defined in the foregoing sections is discovered
upon private property, to:
      1.   Investigation; Notice Of Violation: Make an investigation to
discover the owner of the public nuisance and the person in charge of the
property upon which public nuisance is located, and give a written notice to
them, either in person or by certified mail, that the public nuisance is in
violation of this chapter.
      2.   Posting Notice On Vehicle: If the nuisance is a discarded vehicle
and if the owner of the vehicle is not found, to place a notice upon the
vehicle in clear view.
      3.   Contents Of Notice; Action To Be Taken: The notice shall state that
a certain discarded vehicle or public nuisance is in violation of this chapter,
and that within three (3) days of the day of the sending or posting of the
notice:
         a.   The vehicle or public nuisance must be removed from the city; or
         b.   The vehicle must be removed to the storage yard of a business
dealing in junked vehicles lawfully; or
         c.   The vehicle must be completely enclosed within a building.
      4.   Show Cause Hearing: The notice shall also state that the alternative
to compliance with subsection A3b of this section is to petition the city
clerk, in writing, within ten (10) days of the receipt of or posting of the
notice, and request appearance before the city council to show cause why such
vehicle or public nuisance should not be immediately abated as provided in this
chapter.
      5.   Failure To Comply: The notice shall also state that failure to
comply with this chapter authorizes the city to remove the vehicle or public
nuisance at the owner's or responsible person's expense and that violation of
this chapter is a misdemeanor violation and punishable pursuant to section
3-1-16 of this chapter. (2008 Code)
3-1-5: FAILURE TO COMPLY:
If the responsible party refuses to remove or cause to be removed, any vehicle
or other public nuisance found to be in violation of this chapter, the chief of
police shall pray for a court order to seize the vehicle or other property
constituting a public nuisance, and/or criminally charge the responsible party
with violation of this chapter. (2008 Code)
3-1-6: LIABILITY:
Any person who creates or maintains any nuisance or causes the same to exist,
or to continue to exist, or any person who knowingly permits a nuisance to be
created, maintained or to exist on premises owned by him or under his control,
shall be liable. (2008 Code)
3-1-7: PROPERTY OWNER TO ABATE:
It shall be the duty of the owner and/or tenant of any lot, building or
premises whereon any nuisance exists, or the lessee, manager or person in
charge thereof, to remove, repair, abate or destroy the same without delay.
(2008 Code)
3-1-8: RESPONSIBLE PARTY UNKNOWN:
Whenever any nuisance exists for the abatement, creation or removal of which no
person can be found who is responsible therefor, it shall be the duty of a duly
authorized representative of the city to remove, repair, abate or destroy the
same, or cause the same to be done. (2008 Code)
3-1-9: NOTICE TO ABATE:
The city clerk or other duly authorized representative, shall notify, in
writing or in person, the owner of any such vehicle, lot, place, or area within
the city or the agent of such owner, to abate the nuisance indicated in the
notice; provided, that such written notice shall be by certified mail,
addressed to said owner or agent of said owner, at his last known address, or
delivered in person. If the owner of a discarded vehicle is not found, said
notice shall be placed upon the vehicle in clear view. (2008 Code)
3-1-10: FAILURE TO COMPLY:
Upon failure, neglect or refusal of any such owner, or agent of such owner, to
abate the listed nuisance within ten (10) days after the date of such notice or
in the event the same is returned to the city by the post office department as
unable to make delivery thereof, the city is hereby authorized and empowered to
abate the nuisance and remove it at the expense of the property owner. (2008
Code)
3-1-11: REQUEST FOR HEARING:
The notice shall also state that the alternative to abatement is to petition
the city clerk, in writing, within ten (10) days of the receipt of or posting
of the notice, and request appearance before the city council to show cause why
such nuisance should not be immediately abated as provided in this chapter.
(2008 Code)
3-1-12: HEARING:
   A.   Hearing Scheduled: Pursuant to a request, the city council shall set a
time, during the next council meeting for a hearing to show cause why the
nuisance should not be immediately abated.
   B.   Evidence; Testimony: The city council shall receive the evidence and
testimony of the chief of police or his agent and other interested persons
concerning the existence, location and condition of the nuisance.
   C.   Council Findings: After hearing the evidence, the council shall
determine if the condition in question is in fact a violation of this chapter
and make their finding known by vote or executive order of the mayor.
   D.   Consolidate Hearings: The council may consolidate hearings if more than
one nuisance is involved.
   E.   Notice Of Findings: Persons receiving the notice specified in this
chapter shall be notified, in writing, of the decision of the council.
   F.   Extension Of Time: The council may extend the time frame given to abate
a nuisance or vehicle deemed to be in violation of this chapter for good cause
shown. (2008 Code)
3-1-13: ENTRY UPON PRIVATE PROPERTY:
The chief of police or his agent is authorized at all reasonable times to enter
upon private property and examine any vehicle for the purpose of determining
whether or not it is in a discarded condition. However, before entering upon
private property, he shall obtain the consent, in writing, of an occupant
thereof, if known, or obtain a search warrant authorizing his entry. It shall
be unlawful for any person to interfere with or attempt to prevent the service
of said search warrant. (2008 Code)
3-1-14: ABATEMENT BY CITY:
   A.   Costs: Whenever the city has paid for the abatement of the nuisance or
has used its own employees and equipment for the abatement of a nuisance as set
forth in this chapter, the actual costs thereof, plus interest at the rate of
six percent (6%) per annum from the date of completion of the work, shall be
charged to the owner of such property, who shall be personally liable for such
charges.
   B.   Notice Of Costs; Lien: The owner of the property shall be given thirty
(30) days' written notice to make such payment, and if not paid, such charges
shall be a lien against such property in the same manner as mechanic's and
materialmen's liens provided for by Idaho law.
   C.   Remedies: An authorized representative of the city may or shall, at his
option, either:
      1.   Cause such lien to be recorded in the proper county office in the
manner provided by law for mechanic's and materialmen's liens; or
      2.   Certify such charges to the proper city officer for collection in
the manner provided by law for the collection of taxes and assessments; or
      3.   File a civil suit in the name of the city against said debtor to
collect said charges. (2008 Code)
3-1-15: DISPOSITION OF DISCARDED VEHICLE:
Once the chief of police is forced to impound a discarded vehicle, it shall be
treated the same as an abandoned vehicle and procedures as set forth in Idaho
Code will be followed. (2008 Code)
3-1-16: PENALTY:
Unless otherwise provided, failure to abate a nuisance within the city limits
after reasonable notice to the landowner, tenant or person responsible for
maintaining or allowing the nuisance shall be a misdemeanor and subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-2-1 of this code. Failure to abate such nuisance from day to day shall
constitute a separate offense for each day. (2008 Code)
CHAPTER 2
OPEN BURNING
SECTION:
3-2-1: Burn Permit
3-2-2: Duration Of Permit; Renewal
3-2-3: Permit Fees
3-2-4: Investigation; Enforcement
3-2-5: Penalty
3-2-1: BURN PERMIT:
   A.   Required: No open burning shall be allowed within the boundaries of the
city except by permit issued by the Northside fire district in accordance with
the version of the international fire code in effect at the time of the
application for a permit. Cooking/Campfires do not require a burn permit and
may be burned after sundown. Cooking/campfires are required to be in a fire
ring, or a UL approved solid fuel appliance. Cooking/Campfires shall be no
larger than three feet (3') in diameter and no higher than two feet (2').
   B.   Compliance With International Fire Code: Open burning shall only be
conducted in accordance with the provisions of the international fire code in
effect at the time of the issuance of a permit.
   C.   Inspection:
      1.   Display Required: A permit issued hereunder shall be immediately
available for inspection by the Northside fire district or the city at any time
burning activities covered by the permit are being conducted.
      2.   Failure To Display: Failure to display a valid permit upon the
request of the Northside fire district or the city shall constitute a violation
of this chapter unless, within three (3) business days of the failure to
display a valid permit, the applicant presents for inspection by the requesting
entity a permit which was valid at the time of the request.
   D.   Form Of Application: The form of application for a burn permit as
required hereunder shall be as adopted, from time to time, by the city by
resolution.
(Ord. 7-8, 2000; Ord. 2008-2, 1-7-2008; Ord. 163, 5-2-2022)
3-2-2: DURATION OF PERMIT; RENEWAL:
   A.   Term: A burn permit issued hereunder shall be valid for ten (10) days
from the date of issuance. This time shall not be extended by virtue of a
suspension of open burning by any authority, which suspension is imposed during
the period of the burn permit.
   B.   Renewal: A burn permit may be renewed for additional periods of ten
(10) days, which renewals shall be endorsed, in writing, on the face of the
permit by an authorized representative of the Northside fire district.
   C.   Fire District Standards: The Northside fire district shall employ the
same standard for issuing a renewal of a burn permit as it employs in the
issuance of the original permit. (Ord. 7-8, 2000)
3-2-3: PERMIT FEES:
   A.   Residential Purposes: There shall be no fee for a permit issued for
open burning for residential purposes.
   B.   Commercial Purposes: The fee for a permit issued for open burning for
commercial purposes shall be fifty dollars ($50.00).
   C.   Renewal: The fee for renewal of a commercial burn permit shall be ten
dollars ($10.00). (Ord. 7-8, 2000)
3-2-4: INVESTIGATION; ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Violations: The chief of the Northside fire district, or a designee,
shall investigate potential violations of the international fire code and this
chapter. If the chief of the Northside fire district, or a designee, determines
that the international fire code or this chapter has been or is being violated,
said violation shall be reported promptly to the city.
   B.   Investigation Report: Such report shall include the name of the person
or persons conducting open burning in violation of the international fire code
or this chapter, and, if different, the name of the owner of the property upon
which said open burning was conducted. Said report shall also include the date,
if any, of any burn permit issued with respect to the open burning involved,
together with the date(s) of any renewals thereof, a statement of the section
of the international fire code and/or this chapter violated, and a brief
narrative description of the nature of the violation.
   C.   Order To Cease Burning: Upon a determination by the chief of the
Northside fire district, or a designee, that a violation of the international
fire code or this chapter has occurred or is occurring, the chief or a designee
may order that the burning cease.
   D.   Failure To Comply: If the person or persons conducting the open burning
in violation of the international fire code or this chapter fails or refuses to
cease said burning, the Northside fire district may extinguish the fire and the
person or persons conducting the open burning in violation of the international
fire code or this chapter may be billed for the cost of extinguishing said
fire.
   E.   Citation: The city, upon a report from the chief of the Northside fire
district, or a designee, of a violation of the international fire code or this
chapter, may cause a citation to be issued to the person or persons conducting
open burning and, if different, to the owner of the property upon which said
open burning has occurred. (Ord. 7-8, 2000; Ord. 2008-2, 1-7-2008)
3-2-5: PENALTY:
Any applicant who violates any of the provisions of this chapter, or who fails
or refuses to comply with any of the terms and conditions of this chapter and
the application required hereunder, shall be guilty of:
   A.   First Violation: For the first violation, an infraction, punishable by
a fine, costs and fees totaling fifty three dollars ($53.00);
   B.   Second Violation: For the second violation, an infraction, punishable
by a fine, costs and fees totaling one hundred eight dollars ($108.00); and
   C.   Third And Subsequent Violations: For the third and subsequent
violations, a misdemeanor, punishable as provided in section
1-2-1 of this code. (Ord. 7-8, 2000; Ord. 4-34, 2000; 2008 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DUST CONTROL
SECTION:
3-3-1: Declared Nuisance
3-3-2: Control Of Dust
3-3-3: Control By City
3-3-4: Violation; Penalty
3-3-1: DECLARED NUISANCE:
The mayor and city council, pursuant to Idaho Code section 50-334, declare that
the presence of airborne dust within the city, emanating from public and
private property, which is subject to becoming airborne by prevailing winds, by
the passage of vehicles or people, or by other natural means and human
activity, creates a danger to the public health and safety of the inhabitants
of the city, and constitutes a public nuisance which must be promptly abated.
(Ord. 7-1a, 6-21-2004)
3-3-2: CONTROL OF DUST:
The owner(s) of, and any other person in possession of, any private or public
property are directed and required to control the dust which is subject to
becoming airborne such that said dust does not become a hazard or danger to the
public health and safety of the inhabitants of the city, and does not become
offensive to the public. Dust is deemed to be a hazard or danger to the public
health and safety, and offensive to the public, when normal activities carried
out on the land cause dust to become airborne in quantities that are visible
more than three feet (3') off the ground. (Ord. 7-1a, 6-21-2004)
3-3-3: CONTROL BY CITY:
Should any owner, person in possession, or person in control of private
property fail to control dust originating on said property, such that the dust
becomes, or may become, a hazard and danger to the health and safety of the
public, the city may take reasonable steps to control said dust on the private
property and levy a special assessment, as provided by Idaho Code section 50-
334 and Idaho Code section 50-1008, on the lands and premises whereon the
nuisance is situated to defray the cost of dust control or to reimburse the
city for the cost of dust control. (Ord. 7-1a, 6-21-2004)
3-3-4: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person violating this chapter or any provision thereof shall be guilty of
an infraction and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable as provided by
state law. (Ord. 7-1a, 6-21-2004)
CHAPTER 4
PHOSPHORUS BAN
SECTION:
3-4-1: Purpose
3-4-2: Definitions
3-4-3: Commercial Sale Prohibited
3-4-4: Labeling Required
3-4-5: Exemptions
3-4-6: Penalty
3-4-1: PURPOSE:
It is hereby determined and declared to be necessary for and conducive to the
protection of the health, safety and welfare of the public and inhabitants of
the city to ban, within the city limits, the commercial sale of household
cleaning products containing more than a trace level of phosphorus. (Ord. 7-4,
1989)
3-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following definitions apply:
CITY: The city of Ponderay, Bonner County, Idaho, or its authorized or
designated agent, representative, or deputy.
HOUSEHOLD CLEANING PRODUCTS: Any domestic or commercial cleaning product,
including, but not limited to, soaps, detergents, laundry bleaches and laundry
additives used for domestic or commercial cleaning purposes, including, but not
limited to, the cleaning of fabrics, dishes, food utensils and household and
commercial premises. "Household cleaning products" do not include foods, drugs,
cosmetics or personal care items such as toothpaste, shampoo or hand soap.
MAY: Permissive. See definition of Shall.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group.
PHOSPHORUS: Elemental phosphorus.
SHALL: Mandatory. See definition of May.
TRACE QUANTITY: An incidental amount of phosphorus which is not part of the
household cleaning product formulation and is present only as a consequence of
manufacturing and does not exceed one-half of one percent (0.5%) of the content
of the product by weight expressed as elemental phosphorus. (Ord. 7-4, 1989)
3-4-3: COMMERCIAL SALE PROHIBITED:
No household cleaning product which contains more than a trace quantity of
phosphorus shall be sold, offered for sale, distributed or exposed for
commercial sale within the city limits. (Ord. 7-4, 1989)
3-4-4: LABELING REQUIRED:
All household cleaning products sold within the city limits shall have affixed
thereto labeling which clearly indicates the percentage of phosphorus contained
in the product to the nearest one-tenth of one percent (0.10%) accuracy.
Household cleaning products which contain only a trace quantity of phosphorus
may be labeled "Contains No Phosphorus", "Contains No Phosphates", or similar
labeling which makes a clear statement that no prohibitive quantity of
phosphorus is present in the product. (Ord. 7-4, 1989)
3-4-5: EXEMPTIONS:
The following products are specifically exempt from the provisions of this
chapter:
   A.   Existing stocks of household cleaning products; provided, however, that
such stocks shall be so exempt for a period of six (6) months after the
effective date hereof;
   B.   Automatic dishwasher detergent containing eight and seven-tenths
percent (8.7%) or less phosphorus by weight expressed as elemental phosphorus;
and
   C.   Those products used for cleaning medical or surgical equipment or
supplies in licensed acute care or long term healthcare medical facilities.
(Ord. 7-4, 1989)
3-4-6: PENALTY:
Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-2-1 of this code. Each day upon which a violation occurs or continues shall
constitute a separate violation. (Ord. 7-4, 1989; 2008 Code)
CHAPTER 5
NOISE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
3-5-1: Prohibited Conduct
3-5-2: Definition
3-5-3: Exemptions
3-5-4: Penalty
3-5-1: PROHIBITED CONDUCT:
   A.   Motor Vehicles:
      1.   Sound Systems: It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a
radio, sound system, amplified sound system, loudspeaker system or similar
electronic amplification device within, from or attached to a motor vehicle in
such a manner as to cause excessive or unusual noise within the city limits.
      2.   Muffler Required: Every motor vehicle operated within the city
limits shall be equipped with a muffler in good working order and in constant
operation so as to comply with state law for the prevention of noise,
including, but not limited to, Idaho Code section 49-937. (Ord. 4-33, 2000;
Ord. 4-33a, 2002)
   B.   Other Than Motor Vehicles:
      1.   Sound Systems: It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a
radio, sound system, amplified sound system, loudspeaker system or similar
electronic amplification device, other than as set forth in subsection A of
this section, in such a manner as to cause excessive or unusual noise within
the city limits.
      2.   Residential Zones: In all zoning districts, the use of property
shall not cause excessive or unusual noise for residentially zoned property.
(Ord. 4-33, 2000; Ord. 4-33a, 2002)
3-5-2: DEFINITION:
"Excessive or unusual noise" as used in this chapter includes, but is not
limited to, the following noise levels:
   A.   A noise level that exceeds fifty five (55) decibels, or any lower
decibel level that is fixed by law, when said level is generated between the
hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M.
   B.   A noise level that exceeds sixty five (65) decibels or any lower
decibel level that is fixed by law when said level is generated between the
hours of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and ten o'clock (10:00) P.M.
   C.   Noise levels shall be measured on a national institute of standards and
technology (NIST) certified sound level meter stationed at a distance of not
less than twenty feet (20') to the side of a vehicle emitting the noise level,
or not less than twenty feet (20') from the source of the noise. (Ord. 4-33,
2000)
3-5-3: EXEMPTIONS:
Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit the mayor and/or council from allowing
amplified sound systems to be operated pursuant to reasonable criteria
established by permit, resolution or ordinance. (Ord. 4-33, 2000)
3-5-4: PENALTY:
   A.   Violation of subsection 3-5-1A of this chapter shall constitute an
infraction and be punishable as provided by state law. (Ord. 4-33, 2000)
   B.   Violation of subsection 3-5-1B of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor
and shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-2-1 of this code. (Ord. 4-33, 2000; 2008 Code)
TITLE 4
PUBLIC SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL OFFENSES
SECTION:
4-1-1: Fireworks And Explosive Materials
4-1-2: Throwing Objects In A Careless Manner
4-1-3: Public Indecency
4-1-4: Handbills And Advertisement; Posting Prohibited
4-1-5: Solicitation
4-1-1: FIREWORKS AND EXPLOSIVE MATERIALS 1 :
   A.   Prohibited Any fireworks as currently defined under I.C. 39-2602(3)
including firecrackers, except for nonaerial common fireworks as defined under
I.C. 39-2602(6), however, that this shall not apply to law enforcement officers
charged with enforcement of the law who are in the course and scope of their
duties.
   B.   Penalty: Violation of this section shall constitute an infraction
subject to penalty as provided in section l - J of this Code.
(Ord. 4-4A, 1969; Ord. 4-34, 2000; 2008 Code; Ord. 170, 6-5-2023)
 
Notes
1 1. For power to regulate hazardous materials, IC § 50-310. For fireworks, IC §
  39-2601 et seq.
4-1-2: THROWING OBJECTS IN A CARELESS MANNER:
   A.   Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to throw or project any
item, manmade or natural, within the City limits, carelessly or without due
caution in a manner so as to endanger, harm, or injure any person or property.
(Ord. 4-26, 1996)
   B.   Penalty: Violation of this section shall constitute an infraction
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-2-1 of this Code. (Ord. 4-34, 2000)
4-1-3: PUBLIC INDECENCY:
   A.   Urinating Or Defecating In Public: It shall be unlawful for any person
to urinate or defecate on public property or a public right-of-way, or on
private property open to public view, except in restrooms and facilities
provided for such purpose.
   B.   Peeping In Windows: It shall be unlawful for any person to look, peer
or peep into, or loiter around any window or aperture within or on a building
occupied as a residence or place of lodging of another with the intent of
watching or looking through said window or aperture to observe any person
undressed, or in an act of dressing or undressing, or with other lewd, lustful,
lascivious, or voyeuristic intent. (Ord. 4-15, 1993)
   C.   Penalty: Violation of this section shall constitute a misdemeanor and
shall be punishable as provided in section
1-2-1 of this Code. (Ord. 4-15, 1993; 2008 Code)
4-1-4: HANDBILLS AND ADVERTISEMENT; POSTING PROHIBITED:
   A.   Prohibited: No person shall scatter or throw, distribute, affix or
post, or tack or fasten upon any public thoroughfare or public property, or in
or on any vehicle while parked on such public thoroughfare or property, any
handbills, posters, advertisement fliers, litter, paper, notice or sign. The
provisions of this section do not interfere with or prevent the posting of
notices required by law to be posted.
   B.   Permission Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to stick,
fasten, paste, post, leave or put up on any house, fence, wall, walk, vehicle
or other private property in this City any printed, written, painted or other
advertisement, handbill, notice, sign or poster, or cause the same to be done,
without having first obtained permission of the owner of such fence, house,
wall, vehicle or other private property. (Ord. 4-12a, 8-18-2003)
4-1-5: SOLICITATION:
   A.   Prohibited Acts: Any person who violates the provisions below is guilty
of a misdemeanor:
      1.   Begs in a public place with the intent to intimidate another into
giving money or goods; or
      2.   Obstructs pedestrian or vehicular traffic in a public place.
   B.   Definitions:
    AGGRESSIVE MANNER: To:
      1.   Intentionally make any non-consensual physical contact with another
person in the course of a solicitation; or
      2.   Approach or follow the person being solicited in a manner that is
intended to cause a reasonable person to be intimidated into responding
affirmatively to the solicitation for fear of imminent bodily harm to oneself
or another, or damage to or loss of property; or
      3.   Continuing to solicit within five feet (5') of the person being
solicited after the person has given or expressed a negative response, if
continuing the solicitation is intended to cause a reasonable person to be
intimidated into responding affirmatively to the solicitation for fear of
imminent bodily harm to oneself or another, or damage to or loss of property;
or
      4.   Intentionally obstruct the safe or free passage of the person being
solicited, causing the person, including a person operating a vehicle, to move
from his or her intended path to avoid reasonably imminent non-consensual
physical contact with the person making the solicitation; or
      5.   Make any threatening statement or gesture immediately before or
during the solicitation or after a refusal to make a donation intended to cause
a reasonable person to be intimidated into responding affirmatively to the
solicitation for fear of imminent bodily harm to oneself or another, or damage
to or loss of property.
   SOLICIT OR SOLICITATION: To request, ask or beg, whether by words, bodily
gestures, signs, or other means, for an immediate donation of money or other
thing of value, including the purchase of an item or service for an amount far
exceeding its value, under circumstances where a reasonable person would
understand that the purchase is a donation.
   C.   Violation: Violation of this section shall constitute a misdemeanor and
shall be punishable as provided in section
1-2-1 of this Code. (Ord. 130, 4-20-2015)
CHAPTER 2
FIREARMS
SECTION:
4-2-1: Definitions
4-2-2: Unlawful Discharge
4-2-3: Exceptions
4-2-4: Permits
4-2-5: Penalty
4-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
FIREARM: Any instrument used for the propulsion of shot, shells or bullets, or
other harmful objects by the action of gunpowder exploded within or by it, or
by the action of compressed air or compressed gas within it, or by the power of
springs, and including what are commonly known as air rifles and BB guns,
slings or flippers.
MINOR: Any person under the age of eighteen (18) years.
SUPERVISED MINOR: A minor who is being trained in the use of a firearm by a
person exercising parental authority, but only minors over the age of twelve
(12) years who appear to be willing and able to follow safety instructions.
(Ord. 4-4A, 1969; Ord. 4-26, 1996)
4-2-2: UNLAWFUL DISCHARGE:
   A.   Across Public Highway, Street, Roadway Or Alley: It shall be unlawful
for any person to discharge a firearm from or across any public highway,
street, roadway or alley.
   B.   From Or Across Private Land: It shall be unlawful for any person to
discharge any firearm from or across any private land which is open for use by
the public unless otherwise allowed by this chapter.
   C.   Within City Limits: It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge a
firearm within the city limits of the city carelessly or without due caution in
a manner so as to endanger or which is likely to endanger any person or
property.
   D.   Minors: It shall be unlawful for any minor to discharge a firearm
within the city limits unless otherwise provided by this chapter. (Ord. 4-26,
1996)
4-2-3: EXCEPTIONS:
Notwithstanding section
4-2-2 of this chapter, the discharge of a firearm under the following
circumstances is not a violation of this chapter:
   A.   Protection Of Life: The discharge of a firearm in the protection of
life.
   B.   Law Enforcement Officer: The discharge of a firearm by a law
enforcement officer in the performance of his or her duties.
   C.   Military Personnel At Military Functions: The discharge of a firearm by
military personnel at military functions such as parades and funerals, and the
firing of blank charges by such personnel. (Ord. 4-26, 1996)
4-2-4: PERMITS:
The city council may, upon receipt of proper application, grant a permit to
shooting galleries, gun clubs and others for shooting in a fixed locality under
specified rules. Such permit shall be in writing, attested to by the city
clerk, conforming to such requirements as the city council shall demand, and
the permit thus issued shall be subject to revocation at any time by action of
the city council. Such rules and regulations concerning permits and the
revocation of permits shall be adopted by the city council by resolution. (Ord.
4-26, 1996)
4-2-5: PENALTY:
   A.   Misdemeanor: Any violation of this chapter shall constitute a
misdemeanor and shall be punishable as provided in section
1-2-1 of this code. (Ord. 4-26, 1996; 2008 Code)
   B.   Declared Nuisance: Any violation of this chapter is declared to be a
nuisance in addition to any other relief provided by this chapter. The city
attorney may apply to a court of competent jurisdiction for an injunction to
prohibit the continuation of any violation of this chapter. Such application
for relief may include seeking a temporary restraining order, temporary
injunction, and permanent injunction. (Ord. 4-26, 1996)
CHAPTER 3
CURFEW
SECTION:
4-3-1: Title
4-3-2: Purpose
4-3-3: Definitions
4-3-4: Offenses
4-3-5: Defenses
4-3-6: Enforcement
4-3-7: Penalty
4-3-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the PONDERAY CURFEW ORDINANCE.
(2008 Code)
4-3-2: PURPOSE:
The city council has determined that there has been an increase in juvenile
violence and crimes by persons under the age of eighteen (18) in the city, and
persons under the age of eighteen (18) are particularly susceptible, by their
lack of maturity and experience, to participating in unlawful activities and to
be victims of older perpetrators of crime; therefore, the purpose of this
chapter is to provide for the protection of minors from each other and from
other persons, for the enforcement of parental control over and responsibility
for children, for the protection of the general public, and for the reduction
of juvenile criminal activities. (2008 Code)
4-3-3: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
CURFEW HOURS: Eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. every day until six o'clock (6:00)
A.M. of the following day.
EMERGENCY: An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting state
that calls for immediate action. The term includes, but is not limited to, a
fire, a natural disaster, or automobile accident, or any situation requiring
immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss of life.
ESTABLISHMENT: Any privately owned place of business operated for a profit to
which the public is invited, including, but not limited to, any place of
amusement or entertainment.
GUARDIAN: A person who, under court order, is the guardian of the person of a
minor.
MINOR: Any person under eighteen (18) years of age.
OPERATOR: Any individual, firm, association, partnership, or corporation
operating, managing, or conducting an establishment. This term includes the
members or partners of an association or partnership and the officers of a
corporation.
PARENT: A person who is:
   A.   A natural parent, adoptive parent, or stepparent; or
   B.   At least twenty one (21) years of age and specifically authorized in
advance by a parent or guardian to have the care and custody of a minor.
PUBLIC PLACE: Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets, highways, and
the common areas of schools, hospitals, apartment houses and office buildings.
REMAIN: To:
   A.   Linger or stay; or
   B.   Fail to leave premises when requested to do so by a peace officer or
the owner, operator, or other person in control of the premises.
SERIOUS BODILY INJURY: Bodily injury that creates a substantial risk of death
or that causes death, serious permanent disfigurement, or protracted loss or
impairment of the function of any bodily member or organ. (2008 Code)
4-3-4: OFFENSES:
   A.   Minor: A minor commits an offense if he remains in any public place or
on the premises of any establishment within the city during curfew hours.
   B.   Parent; Guardian: A parent or guardian of a minor commits an offense if
he knowingly permits, or by insufficient control allows, the minor to remain in
any public place or on the premises of any establishment within the city during
curfew hours.
   C.   Owner, Operator, Employee Of Establishment: The owner, operator or any
employee of an establishment commits an offense if he knowingly allows a minor
to remain upon the premises of the establishment during curfew hours.
   D.   Failure To Take Custody: A parent or guardian commits a separate
offense if he or she fails to come immediately to a location designated by a
police officer to take custody of a minor after being notified to do so by a
peace officer or his designated agent. (2008 Code)
4-3-5: DEFENSES:
   A.   Minor: It is a defense to prosecution under subsection 4-3-4A of this
chapter that the minor was:
      1.   Accompanied by the minor's parent or guardian;
      2.   On an errand at the direction of the minor's parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
      3.   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      4.   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
      5.   Involved in an emergency;
      6.   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by a government or civic
organization, or other similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor,
or going to or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an official
school, religious, or other recreational activity supervised by adults and
sponsored by a government or civic organization, or another similar entity that
takes responsibility for the minor;
      7.   Exercising first amendment rights protected by the United States
constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
      8.   Married or had been married.
   B.   Owner, Operator, Employee Of Establishment: It is a defense to
prosecution under subsection 4-3-4C of this chapter that the owner, operator,
or employee of an establishment promptly notified the police department that
the minor was present on the premises of the establishment during curfew hours
and refused to leave. (2008 Code)
4-3-6: ENFORCEMENT:
Before taking any enforcement action under this chapter, a police officer shall
ask the apparent offender's age and reason for being in the public place. the
officer shall not issue a citation or make an arrest under this chapter unless
the officer reasonably believes that an offense has occurred and that, based on
any response and other circumstances, no defense in section
4-3-5 of this chapter is present. (2008 Code)
4-3-7: PENALTY:
   A.   Adult Violation: A violation of subsection
4-3-4B, C or D of this chapter is a misdemeanor punishable as provided in
section
1-2-1 of this code.
   B.   Minor Violation: A violation of subsection
4-3-4A of this chapter may form the basis for a petition or proceedings against
the minor pursuant to the juvenile correction act, Idaho Code section 20-501.
The court may utilize any of the dispositional alternatives provided by Idaho
law for the violation of a status offense.
   C.   Restitution: The court may order restitution to the city or other
appropriate agencies for any costs reasonably incurred by the city, or other
appropriate agencies, in caring for the minor, including, but not limited to,
wages of police officers, law enforcement officials, transportation and
attendant care charges, which resulted from a violation of subsections
4-3-4A, B and C of this chapter. (2008 Code)
CHAPTER 4
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
4-4-1: Title
4-4-2: Statement Of Purpose
4-4-3: Definitions
4-4-4: Licensing Requirements (Rep. by Ord. 123, 1-7-2014)
4-4-5: Rabies Vaccinations
4-4-6: Rabies Tag
4-4-7: Reporting Suspected Rabies And Bites
4-4-8: Isolation Of Animals
4-4-9: Control Of Animals
4-4-10: Care And Treatment
4-4-11: Vicious Animals
4-4-12: Impounding Of Animals
4-4-13: Adoption Of Animals From The Shelter
4-4-14: Maintenance Of Multiple Animals
4-4-15: Animals In Parks
4-4-16: Disturbing The Peace
4-4-17: Penalty
4-4-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be referred to as PONDERAY CITY ANIMAL CONTROL CODE. (Ord.
7-7, 1991)
4-4-2: STATEMENT OF PURPOSE:
It shall be the purpose of this chapter to provide standards and procedures for
the care and ownership of domestic animals within the city. While this chapter
does not address all aspects of animal ownership, it establishes minimum
standards for animal care, control and treatment in the interest of public
safety and animal welfare. The responsibility for the actions and behavior of
domestic animals remains with the owner. (Ord. 7-7, 1991)
4-4-3: DEFINITIONS 1 :
For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply:
ABATEMENT: An "officer" as herein defined may destroy the animal or cause it to
be destroyed or may require the animal to be taken out of the city of Ponderay
at an officer's discretion or upon specific direction of the city council.
ADULT DOG; ADULT CAT: Any dog or cat more than six (6) months of age.
ALTERED: A full ovarian hysterectomy in the case of a female and a complete
removal of the testicles in a male. A vasectomized male dog does not qualify as
an altered animal.
ANIMAL: Shall include, but not be limited to, birds, fish, reptiles, mammals
and nonhuman primates.
AT LARGE: Being on any private property without the permission of the person
who owns or has a right to possess or use the property; or unrestrained by a
leash on either public property or private property or in any other place or
manner which presents substantial risk of interference with other animals, or
public safety or welfare.
ATTACK: Biting, attempted biting or aggressive pursuit with the present ability
to bite or injure a person.
CITY COUNCIL: The city council of the city of Ponderay, Bonner County, Idaho.
DOG: Canis familiaris of either sex, altered or unaltered, or any other member
of the Canis genus if owned, kept or harbored.
HUNTING DOG: Any dog of the hunting type or breeds which is actively engaged in
lawful hunting pursuant to regulations established by the Idaho department of
fish and game.
LEASH: Any rope, leather strap, chain, or any other material not greater than
six feet (6') in length, being held in the hand of a person capable of
controlling or actually controlling the animal to which it is attached.
OFFICER: Any police officer, sheriff, sheriff's deputy or law enforcement
officer, or such other person as may be identified, nominated, appointed or
designated by the mayor and/or city council of the city of Ponderay, Bonner
County, Idaho.
OWNER: Any person who is the legal owner or any person who keeps, harbors or
possesses any animal.
RABIES CERTIFICATE FORM: Means a rabies certificate form issued by a licensed
veterinarian. To serve as a valid rabies certificate form it must show:
   A.   The animal owner's name, address and telephone number;
   B.   The animal's name, species, breed, color, sex and age;
   C.   The type, lot number and manufacture of the rabies vaccine;
   D.   The date of the vaccination;
   E.   The date on which the vaccination expires; and
   F.   The signature of the veterinarian who vaccinated the animal or other
signature authorized by the veterinarian administering the vaccination.
RABIES TAG: A piece of metal or other durable material inscribed with a date
and number which has been issued by a veterinarian.
SEVERE INJURY: Any physical injury to a human being that results in muscle
tears or disfiguring lacerations, or which requires multiple sutures or
corrective or cosmetic surgery.
STOCK DOG: Any dog of the herding type or breeds which is actively engaged in
the herding of livestock while under the control of the owner of the dog.
VACCINATED ANIMAL: Any animal inoculated with a rabies vaccine and wearing a
current rabies tag indicating proof of such vaccination. Such rabies vaccine
must be approved by the state of Idaho and administered by a licensed
veterinarian.
VICIOUS ANIMAL: A. Any animal which:
      1.   Has twice, within a forty eight (48) month period, bitten, attacked
or otherwise caused injury to a person engaged in lawful activity; or
      2.    Has once attacked or bitten a person engaged in lawful activity
causing death or severe injury.
   B.   Provided, no animal may be declared vicious if any injury or damage is
sustained by a person who, at the time the injury or damage was sustained, was
committing a trespass or other tort upon the premises occupied by the owner or
keeper of the animal, or was tormenting, abusing or assaulting the animal, or
was committing or attempting to commit a crime. No animal may be declared
vicious if the animal was protecting or defending a person from an unjustified
physical attack or assault by the recipient of any damage or injury from the
animal.
   C.   No portion of this chapter shall in any way inhibit the use of any
police dog or military dog or other law enforcement dog by a public law
enforcement agency. (Ord. 7-7, 1991)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection 9-1-2B of this code for definition of "kennel, boarding".
4-4-4: LICENSING REQUIREMENTS:
(Rep. by Ord. 123, 1-7-2014)
4-4-5: RABIES VACCINATIONS:
   A.   Vaccination Required: Dog owners shall obtain a rabies vaccination for
each dog they own, keep, harbor, or possess, within thirty (30) days after it
becomes three (3) months of age, or within thirty (30) days after obtaining any
dog over three (3) months of age. It shall be unlawful for any person to keep,
harbor or possess any dog unless such dog has a current rabies vaccination, as
required above, administered by a licensed veterinarian, with a rabies vaccine
approved for use in a dog. Such vaccinations shall be repeated at such
intervals as required by the type of vaccine used and licensing requirements of
said vaccine.
   B.   Vaccination Certificate: Any veterinarian who vaccinates a dog for
rabies shall also certify, by properly completing, as provided in section
4-4-3 of this chapter, the rabies certificate form.
   C.   Exemption From Vaccination: Notwithstanding any other provision of this
chapter, a dog need not be vaccinated for rabies during an illness, provided a
licensed veterinarian has examined the dog and has certified, in writing, that
such vaccination should be postponed. Said temporary exemption shall be valid
only for the duration of the illness or other medical condition for which it is
granted. Any owner of a dog which has not been vaccinated for medical reasons
shall retain written evidence of such exemption and shall produce it upon
demand to any lawful authority. (Ord. 7-7, 1991; Ord. 7-7a, 1998)
4-4-6: RABIES TAG:
   A.   Affixed Rabies Tag: Every dog owner shall securely affix the current
rabies tag to the collar or harness of the dog for which it was issued, and
shall ensure that the dog wears such rabies tag at all times.
   B.   Transfer Of Rabies Tag: A rabies tag issued for one dog shall not be
transferred or attached to another dog.
   C.   Removal Of Tag: No person shall remove a rabies tag or identification
tag from any dog which is not owned by that person. (Ord. 7-7, 1991)
4-4-7: REPORTING SUSPECTED RABIES AND BITES:
   A.   Suspected Cases Of Rabies: Any person having care and custody of an
animal which shows symptoms of rabies or which acts in a manner which would
lead to a reasonable suspicion that the animal may have rabies shall notify the
police department and the Panhandle health department.
   B.   Reporting Bites: All persons bitten, and the parents or guardians of
minor children bitten, by a dog, cat, skunk, fox, coyote, bobcat or other
animal of a species subject to rabies shall notify the police department and
the Panhandle health department as soon as possible thereafter. Physicians
treating such bites and other persons having knowledge of such bites shall also
notify the police department and the Panhandle health department. (Ord. 7-7,
1991)
4-4-8: ISOLATION OF ANIMALS:
   A.   Suspected Rabid Animals: Upon the order of the police department or the
Panhandle health department, a suspected rabid animal shall be isolated in
strict confinement under the proper care and observation of a licensed
veterinarian in a veterinary hospital, animal shelter or other facility
approved by the city council or officer of the Panhandle health department.
Such animal shall not be killed or released for at least ten (10) days after
the onset of symptoms, unless permission is obtained from the owner or
responsible health agency to kill the animal for the purpose of laboratory
examination.
   B.   Biting Animals: Any animal of a species subject to rabies which bites
any person shall be isolated in strict confinement in a place and manner
approved by the police department or the Panhandle health department for at
least fourteen (14) days after the date of the bite. Dogs or cats shall be so
isolated and observed for at least ten (10) days after the infliction of the
bite or exposure. Dogs and cats which have been isolated under the immediate
supervision of a licensed veterinarian may be released on the fifth day if,
upon examination by the veterinarian, the veterinarian certifies, in writing,
that no clinical signs or symptoms of rabies exist. Notwithstanding all of the
foregoing provisions, the city council or officer, with the permission of the
owner of the animal, if known, may authorize the euthanasia of the animal for
the purpose of laboratory examination. (Ord. 7-7, 1991)
4-4-9: CONTROL OF ANIMALS:
   A.   Restraint Of Dogs: Dog owners shall at all times prevent their dogs
from being at large and from being in violation of other sections of this
chapter. Failure of an owner or handler to comply with the provisions hereof
shall be a violation of this chapter. However, dogs may be free from a leash
while participating in field trials and obedience trials, while actively
engaged in herding livestock, while assisting a peace officer engaged in law
enforcement duties, or while hunting pursuant to Idaho fish and game
regulations.
   B.   Female Dogs In Season (Estrus): Dog owners shall securely confine their
female dogs within an enclosure while in season (estrus). (Ord. 7-7, 1991)
4-4-10: CARE AND TREATMENT:
   A.   Inhumane Treatment: No person shall treat an animal in a cruel or
inhumane manner, or wilfully or negligently cause or permit any animal to
suffer torture or unnecessary pain.
   B.   Abandonment: No person shall abandon any animal without care on any
public or private property, or allow any animal to be without potable water and
food for a period of time in excess of twelve (12) hours.
   C.   Injured And Diseased Animals: No person shall knowingly harbor or keep
any animal with a serious injury or which is inflicted with mange, ringworm,
distemper or any other contagious disease, unless such animal is being given
adequate treatment for such disease or injury. The city may take immediate
possession of any such animal not being treated or not responding to treatment,
and may immediately dispose of the animal unless the owner shall forthwith
place such an animal under the control and treatment of a licensed
veterinarian. Provided, the city may take immediate possession of a diseased or
injured animal, when circumstances warrant, and place said animal under the
care and control of a licensed veterinarian. The owner of such an animal shall
pay all fees and expenses related to veterinary care, including, but not
limited to, the impoundment, transportation, confinement, board, veterinary
care and associated treatment. Failure to pay said costs shall preclude return
of the animal to its owner.
   D.   Transportation Of Animals: No person shall transport or carry on any
public road or highway any animal in a motor vehicle unless the animal is
safely enclosed within the vehicle, or is protected by a cab or container,
secured cage, cross tether, harness or other device that will prevent the
animal from falling from, being thrown from or jumping from the vehicle.
   E.   Animals In Unattended Vehicles: No person shall leave an animal in any
unattended vehicle without adequate ventilation or security to protect the
public, or otherwise in any manner as to subject the animal to extremes of
temperature which adversely affect the health or welfare of the animal. (Ord.
7-7, 1991)
4-4-11: VICIOUS ANIMALS:
   A.   Injury By Vicious Animals: Any person owning or having custody or
control of a vicious animal shall be deemed to have violated this chapter if,
as a result of that person's failure to exercise reasonable care, the animal
injures any other person or animal engaged in lawful activities. A vicious
animal, within the meaning of section
4-4-3 of this chapter, shall be deemed a public nuisance and shall be subject
to the provisions of this section for the remainder of its life.
   B.   Control Of Vicious Animals: Any person who possesses, harbors, keeps or
owns a "vicious animal" as defined in section
4-4-3 of this chapter shall be required to comply with the following
conditions:
      1.   Restraint: Keep such animal restrained in a manner which prevents
any attacks or bites on persons or other animals engaged in lawful activities.
      2.   Sale Or Transfer Of Ownership:
         a.   Notify City Council: Owners of a vicious animal who sell or in
any way transfer the ownership, custody, care or residence of the animal shall,
at least fourteen (14) days prior to the sale or transfer of ownership or
residence, inform the city council, in writing, of the name, address and
telephone number of the new owner or custodian or new residence location. Said
notification shall include the name and description of the animal.
         b.   Notify New Owner: The owner shall, in addition, notify the new
owner, in writing, of the details of the animal's record and the terms and
conditions of the animal's maintenance.
         c.   Inspection Of New Home: Prior to placement of the vicious animal
at its new home, the city shall be called to inspect the premises. If the
premises do not conform to the standards set by this section, the vicious dog
shall not assume residence. Failure to accord with these requirements shall
constitute a violation of this chapter.
      3.   Confinement On Owner's Property; Pen Or Structure Specifications:
While on the owner's property, a vicious animal must be securely confined
indoors or in a securely enclosed and locked pen or structure, suitable to
prevent the entry of young children and designed to prevent the animal from
escaping. Such pen or structure for an animal must have minimum dimensions of
five feet by ten feet (5' x 10') and must have secure sides and a secure top.
If the structure has no bottom secured to the sides, the sides must be embedded
into the ground no less than two feet (2'). The enclosure must also provide
adequate protection from the elements for the animal. Each such enclosure must
be surrounded by a secondary fence or other barrier which would prevent a child
or others from reaching the vicious dog by any foreseeable means.
      4.   Sign Required: The owner or keeper shall display a sign on his or
her premises warning that there is a vicious animal on the property. This sign
shall be legible from the closest public access. In addition, the owner shall
conspicuously display a sign with a symbolic warning for children indicating
the presence of the vicious animal.
      5.   City Inspections: The owner or keeper of the vicious animal shall at
any time allow the city, its agents or assigns, or any peace officer to inspect
the premises where the vicious animal is located to ensure compliance with this
chapter and any order of a court respecting the keeping of the vicious animal.
      6.   Alteration Required: The vicious animal shall be altered within ten
(10) days of having been declared vicious, unless clinically advised otherwise
by a licensed veterinarian. The cost of alteration shall be borne by the owner
or keeper of the vicious animal.
      7.   Special License Fee: The owner of any vicious animal shall pay a
special license fee of seventy five dollars ($75.00) per year. Said fee shall
offset the costs of annual inspection of the premises by the city.
      8.   Presence In Public: No dog which has been declared vicious pursuant
to this section shall be taken into any public place, other than to a
veterinarian's office, regardless of the control measures undertaken by the
dog's handler.
   C.   Notification And Procedure:
      1.   Notice Of Intent To Declare Animal Vicious: The city, its officers,
officials or assigns shall notify the owners of any animal to be declared
vicious of its intent to make such declaration. Notification shall be attempted
by certified mail at the owner's last known address, in addition to
notification by first class mail. The preliminary declaration shall be
effective upon mailing and the animal shall be maintained in secure confinement
until administrative procedures are complete. The owner shall have ten (10)
days to request a hearing before the city council. In the event the owner fails
to request such a hearing, the preliminary declaration shall become permanent.
      2.   Hearing Requested:
         a.   Scheduled: In the event the owner of the animal requests such a
hearing, the city council shall hold a hearing within fourteen (14) days and,
in any event, as soon as possible.
         b.   Hearing: The city shall present all pertinent information
supporting the declaration as a vicious dog during such hearing. During such
hearing, the owner of the animal may present any written evidence regarding the
facts of the case. Oral testimony may be limited as the city council schedule
dictates, but in no event shall more than one hour of defense be heard.
         c.   Council Findings And Decision: The city council shall advise the
owner of the animal within ten (10) days of the hearing of its findings and
decision.
         d.   Care Of Animal Pending Council Decision; Costs: Until the owner
of the animal has been advised by the city council of its findings and
decision, the animal shall be maintained in compliance with the provisions of
the vicious dog declaration or impounded if proper precautions are not in
place. In the event the animal has been impounded in this time period, the
owner shall pay all board fees, impound fees, and quarantine fees regardless of
the outcome of the hearing.
      3.   Notice Of Escape: The owner of a declared vicious animal shall
notify the city clerk and animal control officer immediately in the event the
animal escapes. The owner shall make every possible effort to recapture such an
animal immediately and to warn others of its release. (Ord. 7-7, 1991; 2008
Code)
4-4-12: IMPOUNDING OF ANIMALS:
   A.   Authority To Impound: Any peace officer, animal control officer or any
other person authorized by the city may seize and impound any dog without a
collar or harness bearing evidence of current vaccination as required by this
chapter, and any and all dogs or other animals found running at large upon the
public streets, alleys or other public places, or on private premises without
the permission of the owner of said premises, or any and all vicious animals.
   B.   Entry Onto Premises: Any peace officer or animal control officer or
other person authorized by the city is authorized to enter private property to
take possession of and impound any animal whenever the peace officer or other
authorized person is in fresh pursuit of an animal which is in violation of a
provision of this chapter at the time the animal enters onto private property
or a nonenclosed nondwelling building.
   C.   Interfering Or Obstructing Animal Control Officer Or Peace Officer: Any
person who shall hinder, delay, interfere with or obstruct an animal control
officer or any peace officer or person authorized by the city to enforce this
chapter, in the capture, securing or taking to an animal shelter any animal to
be impounded, or who shall open or in any manner directly or indirectly aid,
counsel or advise the opening of any animal control cage, ambulance, wagon or
other vehicle used for the collection or conveyance of animals to the animal
shelter shall be deemed to have violated this chapter.
   D.   Reclaiming Of Impounded Dogs: Any dog impounded for violation of this
chapter may be reclaimed from impound after paying the appropriate fees at any
time prior to adoption and may be taken from the shelter by the owner or any
authorized person so long as the person reclaiming the dog pays the person in
charge of the shelter any impound fees, in an amount determined from time to
time by resolution of the city. The owner of any unvaccinated animal shall
obtain a rabies vaccination for the dog and provide proof of same to the
shelter within thirty (30) days after reclaiming the animal. If proof is not
provided as required, a violation of this chapter shall be deemed to have
occurred.
   E.   Time For Holding Impounded Dogs:
      1.   Unidentified Animals: All unidentified impounded animals shall be
held for a minimum of three (3) working days, after which time, they become the
property of the shelter.
      2.   Identified Animals: All identified impounded animals shall be held
for five (5) working days, after which they become the property of the shelter.
      3.   Notice Of Impoundment: A notice of impoundment may be mailed by the
shelter to the last known address of an identified owner. Such dogs then may be
disposed of by the shelter or offered for sale by the shelter in an amount to
be determined by the shelter.
   F.   Abatement Proceedings; Habitual Offender: Any animal that has been
impounded more than three (3) times in any one year period of time, or whose
owner has been convicted more than three (3) times in any one year period of
time for violation of any portion of this chapter relating to the animal in
question, or any combination of impoundments and/or convictions of more than
three (3) times in any one year period of time, may be abated by the city.
(Ord. 7-7, 1991)
   G.   Notice And Hearing For Abatement Proceedings:
      1.   Notice: The city, its animal control officer or assigns shall notify
the owner of an animal to be abated for being a habitual offender of its intent
to do so. Notification shall be attempted by certified mail to the owner's last
known address, in addition to notice by first class mail. (Ord. 7-7, 1991; 2008
Code)
      2.   Request For Hearing: The owner shall have ten (10) days to request a
hearing before the city council.
      3.   Failure To Request Hearing: In the event the owner fails to request
such a hearing, the declaration shall become effective at the end of the ten
(10) day period.
      4.   Hearing: In the event the owner of the animal requests such a
hearing, the city council shall hold such a hearing within fourteen (14) days
or, in any case, as soon as possible. During such a hearing the owner of the
animal may present any evidence regarding the facts of the case. The city shall
present all pertinent information during such a hearing. The hearing shall not
exceed one hour in length.
      5.   Council Findings And Decision: The city council shall advise the
owner of the animal of their finding and decision within ten (10) days of the
hearing.
      6.   Costs Of Impoundment: In the event the animal has been impounded in
this time period, the owner shall pay all boarding fees, impound fees, medical
treatment costs, and quarantine fees regardless of the outcome of the hearing.
(Ord. 7-7, 1991)
4-4-13: ADOPTION OF ANIMALS FROM THE SHELTER:
Dogs may be adopted from the shelter once they have been resident at the
shelter for the time periods specified in section
4-4-12 of this chapter. The shelter may charge an adoption fee and refundable
deposit sufficient to cover the cost of vaccination and alteration. The new
owner shall submit proof to the shelter within thirty (30) days or within
thirty (30) days of the animal becoming six (6) months of age, whichever is
sooner, that a rabies vaccination has been obtained and that the animal has
been altered. Upon submission of such proof, the shelter shall refund the
deposit and give the owner a certificate of compliance. (Ord. 7-7, 1991)
4-4-14: MAINTENANCE OF MULTIPLE ANIMALS:
No person or persons in aggregate, nor any corporation of any type, shall own,
harbor or keep more than six (6) adult dogs, nor more than six (6) adult cats,
or any combination thereof exceeding the number of six (6), on any single
parcel or aggregated parcels of real property where said keeping results in the
creation of a nuisance due to odor, noise, collection of fecal matter on the
property in question or neighboring properties, or other public health or
welfare concerns. (Ord. 7-7, 1991)
4-4-15: ANIMALS IN PARKS:
   A.   Animals shall be allowed in city parks when properly restrained as out
lined in Ponderay City Code 4-4-9, except as follows:
      1.   All animals, except properly identified service animals. shall be
prohibited from all areas at the Field of Dreams complex that are located
within the fenced perimeter of the turf sports fields. Failure to comply with
this requirements shall constitute a violation of this chapter and shall be
subject to the penalties established at PCC 4-4-17.
      2.   During city events where signage indicates that animals are
prohibited. (Ord. 177, 9-6-2025)
4-4-16: DISTURBING THE PEACE:
It is unlawful for any person owning, keeping or harboring, or having the care,
custody or possession of any animal, bird or fowl to keep or maintain, or to
cause or permit to be kept or maintained, upon any premises in the city or upon
any public street, highway, sidewalk, alley, park, playground or other public
place in the city, any animal, bird or fowl which by barking, howling, whining,
crowing or other audible noise disturbs the peace and quiet of any reasonable
person or interferes with the reasonable and comfortable enjoyment of life or
property. (Ord. 7-9, 2001)
4-4-17: PENALTY:
   A.   Unless otherwise provided, any person who violates any provision of
this chapter is guilty of an infraction, punishable as allowed by Idaho Code
section 18-113A or any successor statute. If a person is found to have violated
this chapter for the third time, that person shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
punishable as allowed by Idaho Code section 18-113 or any successor statute.
Any subsequent conviction shall also be a misdemeanor.
   B.   In addition, a person violating this chapter may be subject to civil
remedy as necessary to assure compliance with this chapter. (Ord. 7-7b, 11-18-
2002)
CHAPTER 5
SKATEBOARDS, ROLLER SKATES AND BICYCLES
SECTION:
4-5-1: Definitions
4-5-2: Prohibited Conduct
4-5-3: General Standard Of Care
4-5-4: Exception
4-5-5: Violation; Penalty
4-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following definitions apply:
RECKLESS MANNER: Any conduct which would endanger, or which would be likely to
endanger, any person or property.
ROLLER SKATE OR ROLLERBLADE: Any shoelike device with wheels attached,
including anything advertised, sold or used as roller skates, in-line roller
skates or rollerblades.
SCOOTER: Any single platform mounted on wheels which is propelled by human
power, motor or wind, or which is towed by any person, device, vehicle or
animal, and which has a mechanism or other device with which to steer or
control the movement or direction of the platform, but which is not licensed
for travel on public streets.
SKATEBOARD: Any single platform mounted on wheels which is propelled by human
power, motor or wind, or which is towed by any person, device, vehicle or
animal, and which has no mechanism or other device with which to steer or
control the movement or direction of the platform. (Ord. 4-27, 2005)
4-5-2: PROHIBITED CONDUCT:
   A.   Public Street, Sidewalk, Or Any Public Property: No person shall
rollerskate, rollerblade, ride a skateboard, ride a bicycle or ride a scooter
in a reckless manner on any public street or sidewalk, or on any public
property.
   B.   Use Prohibited: No person shall rollerskate, rollerblade, ride a
skateboard, ride a bicycle, or ride a scooter on the property occupied by the
Ponderay city hall and United States post office, or the Ponderay police
department. (Ord. 4-27, 2005)
4-5-3: GENERAL STANDARD OF CARE:
   A.   Basic Rule Applies: Every person using roller skates, rollerblades, a
skateboard, a bicycle or a scooter upon any street, road, sidewalk or public
path in the city shall use the same in a careful and prudent manner and at a
rate of speed no greater than is reasonable and proper under the conditions
existing at the point of operation, taking into account the amount and
character of pedestrian traffic, grade and width of sidewalk or public path,
and condition of surface, and shall obey all traffic control devices.
   B.   Right Of Way: Every person using roller skates, rollerblades, a
skateboard, a bicycle or a scooter upon a sidewalk or public path shall yield
the right of way to any pedestrian thereon.
   C.   Rules Relating To Pedestrians: Except as otherwise provided by state
law or this chapter, the rules of the road relating to pedestrians shall apply
to persons roller skating, rollerblading, skateboarding or riding a scooter.
(Ord. 4-27, 2005)
4-5-4: EXCEPTION:
This chapter shall not apply, and is not intended to apply, to any human
propelled or motorized device necessary for a person to be ambulatory. (Ord. 4-
27, 2005)
4-5-5: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person violating this chapter or any provision thereof shall be guilty of
an infraction and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable as provided by
state law. (Ord. 4-27, 2005)
TITLE 5
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL TRAFFIC PROVISIONS
SECTION:
5-1-1: Speed Limits
5-1-2: Careless Driving
5-1-3: Open Containers
5-1-4: Jake Brakes
5-1-1: SPEED LIMITS:
   A.   Definition: For the purposes of this section, unless otherwise
specifically indicated, "truck" shall mean any vehicle which exceeds twelve
thousand (12,000) pounds' gross weight.
   B.   Speed Limits For Streets in Ponderay: All public streets in Ponderay
shall have a speed limit of twenty-five (25) miles per hour unless otherwise
posted, except as follows:
      1.   U.S. Highway 95: The speed limit for vehicular traffic on that
portion of U.S. Highway 95 from 0.01 miles south of railroad structure to 0.01
miles south of Bronx Cutoff Road in the city shall be forty-five (45) miles per
hour.
      2.   Trucks: All roads lying east of Highway 200 within the city limits
shall have the speed limit of ten (10) miles per hour for all truck traffic.
   C.   Posting: The speed limit shall be posted in accordance with Idaho Code
title 49 and the rules set forth by the Idaho Department of Transportation.
   D.   Penalty: Penalties for violations of the speed limit shall be in
accordance with Idaho Code title 49. (Ord. 4-20, 1994; Ord. 4-29, 1997; Ord. 4-
29a, 1999; Ord. 4-39, 12-4-2006; Ord. 178, 9-16-2024)
5-1-2: CARELESS DRIVING:
   A.   Definition: For the purposes of this chapter and its enforcement, to
"operate in a careless manner or drive carelessly" shall be construed to mean
the operation of a motor vehicle without that degree of care commonly exercised
by a reasonable and prudent driver under like or similar circumstances, and the
same shall include, but is not limited to, the following specific acts of
careless operation:
      1.   Starting or operating a motor vehicle in such manner as to cause the
wheels to spin with sufficient force to throw gravel or other road surface
material from under such wheels so as to endanger, or to likely endanger,
persons or property.
      2.   Starting, stopping or operating a motor vehicle in such a manner as
to leave rubber marks on the roadway.
      3.   Failure to reduce speed to an appropriate speed below twenty five
(25) miles per hour when driving in a residential district where children can
be seen playing or are known to be playing.
      4.   Operating a motor vehicle in such a manner as indicates the driver
thereof is not in complete control thereof at all times.
      5.   Operating a motor vehicle when the physical or mental condition of
the driver thereof is such that he cannot maintain safe and complete control of
such vehicle.
      6.   Failing to pay attention to the duties pertinent to the safe
operation of any motor vehicle.
      7.   Failure to reduce speed to a reasonable and prudent speed when the
roadway is icy, slick or wet, or when other weather or road conditions require
a reduction in speed.
   B.   Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor
vehicle in a careless manner or to drive carelessly as hereinafter defined and
set forth over or along any public street, alley or public right of way within
the city. (Ord. 4-9, 1992)
   C.   Penalty: Violation of the provisions of this section shall constitute a
misdemeanor and shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-2-1 of this code. (Ord. 4-9, 1992; 2008 Code)
5-1-3: OPEN CONTAINERS:
   A.   Prohibited:
      1.   In Vehicles On Highway Or Public Streets: No person may, while
operating or riding in or upon a motorized vehicle upon a highway of this state
or upon the public streets of the city, have in his possession any wine, beer
and/or liquor in an open or unsealed container of any kind.
      2.   On Sidewalk Or Within Public Right Of Way Or Park: It shall also be
unlawful for any person to drink or consume beer or any other intoxicating
beverage, or to have in his possession any open bottle, can or other container
containing such beer or other intoxicating beverage, or to have in his
possession any open bottle, can or other container containing such beer or
other intoxicating beverage while on a sidewalk or anywhere within the public
street right of way or in any public park within the city. (Ord. 4-10, 1992)
   B.   Penalty: Violation of the provisions of this section shall constitute a
misdemeanor and shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-2-1 of this code. (Ord. 4-10, 1992; 2008 Code)
5-1-4: JAKE BRAKES:
   A.   Prohibited: It is unlawful for any vehicle operator to use compression
brakes, also known as "jake brakes", while operating any vehicle on any road or
highway within the city limits. (Ord. 4-31, 1999)
   B.   Penalty: Violation of this section shall be a traffic infraction. The
penalty for violation of this chapter shall be that fine set for "other moving
traffic infractions" in the payment schedule to be adopted by supreme court
order and published annually by the administrative director of the court (Idaho
infraction rule 9(5)). (Ord. 4-34, 2000)
CHAPTER 2
PARKING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
5-2-1: Prohibited Parking
5-2-2: Responsibility Of Registered Owner
5-2-3: Signage
5-2-4: Towing And Impounding Of Illegally Parked Vehicles
5-2-5: Penalties And Fees
5-2-1: PROHIBITED PARKING:
   A.   Traveled Roadbed Or Paved Portion Of Street: Parking on the traveled
roadbed area or on the paved portion of any street is hereby prohibited.
   B.   Within Two Feet Of Traveled Or Paved Portion Of Roadway: Parking in the
public right of way of any street or roadbed in the city within two feet (2')
of the traveled or paved portion of said street or roadbed, other than in a
private driveway or parking lot, is hereby prohibited.
   C.   Leaving Unattended While Running Or In Motion: No driver of a motor
vehicle shall leave the same unattended upon any street or public place while
running or in motion.
   D.   Double Parking: Double parking shall not be permitted on any of the
streets within the city.
   E.   Disobey Directions Of Signs: It shall be unlawful for the driver of a
vehicle to disobey the directions as to the time or manner of parking, or kind
of vehicle permitted to park at any place, given by any sign, signal, stripe or
line, erected or placed on the public streets as authorized by the city.
   F.   Handicapped Parking: It shall be unlawful for the driver of a vehicle
to park said vehicle in a parking space designated by sign or marking as
reserved for the handicapped unless said vehicle has then displayed upon it the
special license plate or the special card, pursuant to Idaho Code section 49-
410. Said specially designated parking spaces shall conform to the requirement
of Idaho Code section 49-213.
   G.   Red Painted Zone, Fire Lane, Service Alley Or Area: It shall be
unlawful for the driver of a vehicle to park said vehicle in any area, space or
place where by sign, stripe, or line, parking is prohibited, including, but not
limited to, any red painted zone or area, fire lane, service alley or area, or
any other such designated area or zone.
   H.   Loading Or Unloading: Notwithstanding any other provision of this
chapter or of any other section of this code, vehicles engaged in loading or
unloading may stop on the traveled roadbed area or the paved portion of any
street, or within the public right of way, for only the time reasonably
necessary to engage in such activity; provided, that said vehicle shall be
stopped near the edge of the roadbed or street so as to cause the minimum
obstruction of traffic on said roadbed or street. (Ord. 4-16, 1993; Ord. 4-19B,
2001)
   I.   U.S. Highway 95: The stopping, standing or parking of any "motor
vehicle", as defined by Idaho Code title 49, chapter 1, on either side of U.S.
Highway 95 between mileposts 476.844 and 477.064 is prohibited. (Ord. 4-19C,
12-20-2004)
   J.   State Highway 200: The stopping, standing or parking of any "motor
vehicle", as defined by Idaho Code title 49, chapter 1, on either side of SH-
200 between mileposts 30.680 and 31.030 is prohibited. (Ord. 4-19D, 8-21-2006)
   K.   City Hall And Post Office; Unlawful To Leave Engine Running: It shall
be unlawful for any person to leave any vehicle engine running while the person
is parked and/or standing in front of Ponderay city hall and post office
located at 288 4th Street and 296 4th Street, Ponderay, Idaho. Further, no
person shall back any vehicle into the parking stalls located at said location
unless the person is making a delivery. (Ord. 2008-6A, 7-7-2008)
5-2-2: RESPONSIBILITY OF REGISTERED OWNER:
Every person in whose name a vehicle is registered shall be responsible for any
violation of this chapter for unlawful parking caused by the parking of said
vehicle in violation hereof. It shall be no defense that the vehicle was parked
unlawfully by another unless proof is presented that said vehicle had been
stolen and had not been returned to the registered owner by the date of the
violation. (Ord. 4-16, 1993)
5-2-3: SIGNAGE:
The city shall place signage informing persons of the no parking policy. (Ord.
4-19, 1994)
5-2-4: TOWING AND IMPOUNDING OF ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLES:
   A.   November Through March: Whenever any vehicle, whether self-propelled,
or a trailer or other towed vehicle, is parked in violation of this chapter
upon any of the streets or thoroughfares in the city during the months of
November, December, January, February and March, where said parking obstructs
the free flow of traffic and/or impairs the ability of the street to be plowed
in a safe and orderly fashion, the police chief or his designee may and shall
move or cause to be moved said offending vehicle, and the expense involved
shall be assessed against the owner of said vehicle in addition to any fine
and/or costs imposed for violation of this law.
   B.   Impoundment; Expenses: Any vehicle removed, as provided in subsection A
of this section, may be impounded and held at a secure location by the towing
company until the expenses incurred in removing said vehicle shall have been
paid. Said expenses shall constitute a lien against the vehicle dependent upon
possession, but the release of the vehicle and the possessory lien shall not
preclude the collection of said expenses when assessed in misdemeanor
proceedings as part of the penalty. (Ord. 4-22, 1994)
5-2-5: PENALTIES AND FEES:
   A.   Violations Of Section
5-2-1 Of This Chapter:
      1.   The penalty for violating subsections
5-2-1A and B of this chapter shall be consistent with the penalties for
infractions pursuant to Idaho Code section 18-113A.
      2.   The penalty and fee for violation of subsections
5-2-1C, D, and E of this chapter shall be the sum of five dollars ($5.00) which
shall be paid within seven (7) days of the violation; if said sum is not paid
within seven (7) days, the penalty and fee shall be the sum of ten dollars
($10.00) if paid within fourteen (14) days of said violation.
      3.   The penalty and fee for violation of subsection
5-2-1F of this chapter shall be the sum of forty five dollars fifty cents
($45.50). (Ord. 4-16, 1993; Ord. 4-22, 1994; Ord. 4-19A, 1998)
      4.   The penalty and fee for violation of subsections
5-2-1G, I and J of this chapter shall be the sum of ten dollars ($10.00) which
shall be paid within seven (7) days of the violation; if said sum is not paid
within seven (7) days of the violation, the penalty and fee shall be the sum of
twenty dollars ($20.00) if paid within fourteen (14) days of said violation.
(Ord. 4-19D, 8-21-2006)
      5.   If the above set forth penalties and fees are not paid within
fourteen (14) days of said violation, the city shall be entitled to pursue the
remedies set forth in subsections B and/or C of this section. (Ord. 4-16, 1993;
Ord. 4-22, 1994; Ord. 4-19A, 1998)
      6.   The penalty for violating provisions of subsection
5-2-1K of this chapter shall be an infraction. The fine shall be set in
accordance with Idaho law. (Ord. 2008-6A, 7-7-2008)
   B.   Civil Penalty: The operator and/or registered owner of each motor
vehicle parked in violation of this chapter shall pay the parking fee as set by
resolution adopted by the city council and civil penalty to the office of the
city clerk, P.O. Box 500, Ponderay, Idaho, within fourteen (14) days of notice
being posted on such vehicle of such parking violation. Both the registered
owner or operator of a vehicle found to be in violation of this chapter shall
be liable and responsible for payment of the civil penalty as set forth in this
chapter, and the city shall be entitled to recover a civil judgment from a
court of competent jurisdiction for the amount of the civil penalty and all
costs and fees incurred by such civil action including all attorney fees. Upon
entry of judgment, the city shall have each, every and all rights of
enforcement of that judgment as provided to any judgment holder pursuant to
Idaho Code. (Ord. 4-16, 1993; Ord. 4-22, 1994; Ord. 4-19A, 1998; Ord. 4-19D, 8-
21-2006)
   C.   Criminal Penalty:
      1.   Infraction: Failure to pay any parking violation fee and civil
penalty as set forth herein shall constitute an infraction and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-2-1 of this code.
      2.   Misdemeanor: A violation of section
5-2-4 of this chapter shall constitute a misdemeanor and any person convicted
of a violation thereof shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-2-1 of this code. It is further provided that each successive violation shall
constitute a new and distinct offense. (Ord. 4-16, 1993; Ord. 4-22, 1994; Ord.
4-19A, 1998; 2008 Code)
CHAPTER 3
SEASONAL ROAD RESTRICTIONS
SECTION:
5-3-1: Purpose
5-3-2: City Council Authority
5-3-3: Closure Of Roads In Emergency
5-3-4: Weight And Speed Limitations
5-3-5: General Weight Restrictions
5-3-6: General Speed Restriction (Rep. by Ord. 139, 3-20-2017)
5-3-7: Exceptions To Weight Limits
5-3-8: Inspections; Penalty
5-3-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter is established for the safety, prosperity, good order, convenience
and protection of the property of the City and its inhabitants. (Ord. 144, 11-
16-2017)
5-3-2: CITY COUNCIL AUTHORITY:
   A.   From time to time, impending danger to the roads of the City due to
unusual and extreme weather conditions requires the immediate operation and
effectiveness of restricted weight or speed limits, and/or road closures.
   B.   Whenever, in the judgment of the City Council, the operation of
vehicles upon roads over which the City has jurisdiction will cause damage to
the road in question by reason of climatic weather, or where the conditions
otherwise affect the safe or efficient use of the roads, then the City Council
shall have the authority to make regulations reducing the otherwise permissible
size, weight or speed of vehicles operated on said roads, or to close any road,
for such periods as may be necessary for protection of the road or for public
safety. The limitations shall be imposed depending upon the moisture,
temperature, heaves and severity of frost, or other conditions of the road.
   C.   The City Council may establish and update truck routes and exemptions
to the seasonal road restrictions by resolution.
   D.   The provisions and restrictions imposed pursuant to this chapter shall
have immediate force and effect upon motion and resolution of the City Council
at any regular or special meeting. (Ord. 144, 11-16-2017)
5-3-3: CLOSURE OF ROADS IN EMERGENCY:
The Mayor is hereby empowered to close any public road within the territorial
limits of the City based upon an engineering or traffic investigation by a
licensed engineer when, in his/her professional judgment, road and weather
conditions are such that immediate danger to City roads or danger to the
traveling public will occur if such road closure is not imposed. Such
imposition of the restrictions in this section by the Mayor shall be for a
period not in excess of thirty (30) calendar days, or until the next regular or
special meeting of the City Council, or until such danger no longer exists,
whichever is shorter. (Ord. 144, 11-16-2017)
5-3-4: WEIGHT AND SPEED LIMITATIONS:
   A.   Signs Erected And Maintained: When imposing the limits and restrictions
of this chapter, the City Council or the Mayor shall cause signs to be erected
and maintained at each end of an affected road or at intersections with main
traveled ways so as to reasonably give notice to the road user. Such signs
shall designate the limitations of weight or speed of the vehicles using and
traveling upon the road.
   B.   Red And Green Indicators: When such signs are posted with red
indicators, it shall indicate that the restrictions imposed by this chapter are
in force. Signs posted with green indicators shall indicate that the
restrictions imposed by this chapter are not in force. (Ord. 144, 11-16-2017)
5-3-5: GENERAL WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS:
Unless otherwise ordered, vehicles using City roads, when reduced weight limits
are in effect pursuant to subsection 5-3-2B of this chapter, shall be limited
to three hundred (300) pounds per inch (118 pounds per centimeter) of tire
width times the number of tires. The tire width shall be determined by the
manufacturer's description marked on the sidewall of the tire. The tire width
and weight chart applicable to this chapter is on file in the Office of the
City Clerk. (Ord. 144, 11-16-2017)
5-3-6: GENERAL SPEED RESTRICTION:
(Rep. by Ord. 139, 3-20-2017)
5-3-7: EXCEPTIONS TO WEIGHT LIMITS:
   A.   Emergency Vehicles And Buses: The vehicle weight restrictions of this
chapter shall not apply to emergency vehicles and buses operating upon City
roads.
   B.   Weight Exceptions: The City Council may issue weight exceptions for
special classes of vehicles and users of City roads.
   C.   Truck Routes As Established By Resolution Of The City Council: Truck
routes shall be established and updated based upon consideration of the
following: necessity, safety, capital improvement plan, existing and future
projected usage, tax base, maintenance considerations and the recommendation of
the City Engineer.
   D.   One Time Trip Permit: The Mayor may issue a one-time trip permit to
allow for a vehicle to exceed the weight restrictions imposed by this chapter
for the purpose of providing for a vehicle trip which is essential to life,
health and safety or which, in light of all the circumstances then existing, is
consistent with the intent and purpose of this chapter. Such permit shall be
made in writing specifying the nature of the trip, the vehicle to be used, and
the date and time limit of the trip. The permit issued under this section shall
be kept with the vehicle for which the permit was obtained and shall be
displayed upon request by any law enforcement officer. (Ord. 144, 11-16-2017)
5-3-8: INSPECTIONS; PENALTY:
   A.   Submission Of Vehicle: The operator of a vehicle using roads referred
to herein shall submit his vehicle to a peace officer immediately upon request
for the purpose of inspection or weighing the vehicle, and shall be required to
move the vehicle to the nearest available weight scales for the purpose of
enforcing compliance with this chapter. Failure to submit the vehicle as
aforementioned shall further be in violation of this chapter and is punishable
as set forth.
   B.   Speed Punishable By Fine: The penalty for violation of any provision of
this chapter limiting speed shall be that fine set for "speeding traffic
infractions" in the payment schedule to be adopted by Supreme Court order and
published annually by the Administrative Director of the Court (rule 9, IFR).
   C.   Weight Punishable By Fine: Any person found to have violated any
provisions limiting weight established by this chapter by a court of competent
jurisdiction shall be deemed guilty of a "misdemeanor" punishable as defined in
Idaho Code sections 49-1013(1), (2) and (3). (Ord. 144, 11-16-2017)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS
SECTION:
5-4-1: Limited Load Streets
5-4-2: Exemption
5-4-3: Special Permits
5-4-4: Penalty
5-4-1: LIMITED LOAD STREETS:
   A.   Gross Weight Exceeds Twelve Thousand Pounds:
      1.   Prohibited: It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle on any
street, other than established truck routes, within areas of the City, located
to the east and south of Highway 200, when the gross weight of the vehicle
exceeds twelve thousand (12,000) pounds, and on any street where the weight of
the vehicle permitted on such street is limited by law and signs indicating
such limitations are posted.
      2.   Exception; Use Restricted: It shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle
in excess of such weight on such streets, except for the purpose of making
delivery or picking up a load, in which case such vehicle may be driven on such
street for not more than the minimum distance necessary for the purpose. This
subsection is not applicable if seasonal weight limits are in place on any such
streets.
   B.   Roads Closed To Through Truck Traffic:
      1.   Definition: "Truck", as defined in this chapter, shall be any
vehicle which exceeds three-fourths (3/4) ton gross vehicle weight rate (GVWR)
pursuant to manufacturer's specifications.
      2.   Roads Lying East And South Of Highway 200: All roads lying east and
south of Highway 200 within the City limits are affected by this chapter and
are closed to through truck traffic unless specifically authorized elsewhere by
law. (Ord. 144, 11-16-2017)
5-4-2: EXEMPTION:
Emergency vehicles, school buses, mail and other parcel delivery vehicles, and
garbage trucks are specifically exempted from this chapter. (Ord. 144, 11-16-
2017)
5-4-3: SPECIAL PERMITS:
Special permits may be issued by the City Clerk to residents living in the area
described by this chapter and whose trucks are subject to this chapter. The
special permits shall be free of charge and shall contain specific limitations
as to usage per day, transferability, and ingress and egress routes as the City
deems just under the premise. (Ord. 144, 11-16-2017)
5-4-4: PENALTY:
The penalty for any one violation of this chapter shall be an infraction
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-2-1 of this Code. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day
during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (Ord. 144, 11-16-2017)
CHAPTER 5
DRIVING ON PRIVATE PROPERTY
SECTION:
5-5-1: Definitions
5-5-2: Driving Through Parking Lots
5-5-3: Restrictions For Driving On Public Or Private Property
5-5-4: Penalty
5-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
CITY: The city of Ponderay.
HIGHWAY: The entire width between the boundary lines of every way publicly
maintained for the use of the public for motor vehicle travel, including
sidewalks, shoulders, berms and rights of way not intended for motorized
traffic. The terms "street" and "road" are interchangeable with "highway".
MOTOR VEHICLE: Every self-propelled device in, upon or by which any person or
property is or may be transported or drawn upon a highway, excepting devices
used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks; provided, devices moved
solely by human power and motorized wheelchairs shall not be considered a motor
vehicle under this chapter.
PARKING LOT: Any off street area, located totally outside of any road right of
way, designated for the parking of motor vehicles, including any areas for
temporary parking while conducting business, such as fuel pumps, bank teller
lanes and loading/unloading areas. (Ord. 4-35, 2001)
5-5-2: DRIVING THROUGH PARKING LOTS:
   A.   Permission Required: Except for the purpose of parking, exiting after
parking, dropping off persons or property, or picking up persons or property,
no person shall drive any motor vehicle from a highway across, through, or into
and out of any public or private parking lot in the city without the express
permission of the owner or occupant of said parking lot, or the authorized
agent of the owner or occupant of said parking lot.
   B.   Turning Around: This section shall not prohibit any person from
entering a public or private parking lot for the purpose of turning around to
travel on the same highway in the opposite direction. (Ord. 4-35, 2001)
5-5-3: RESTRICTIONS FOR DRIVING ON PUBLIC OR PRIVATE PROPERTY:
   A.   Designated For Motor Vehicle Traffic: No person shall drive any motor
vehicle over or onto any public or private property from a highway unless
designated for motor vehicle traffic by the owner or occupant of said property,
or by the authorized agent of the owner or occupant of said property.
   B.   Express Permission Of Owner Or Occupant: This section shall not
prohibit any person from driving a motor vehicle over or onto public or private
property from a highway with the express permission of the owner or occupant of
said property, or the authorized agent of the owner or occupant of said
property. (Ord. 4-35, 2001)
5-5-4: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any of the terms or provisions of this chapter shall be
guilty of an infraction, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-2-1 of this code. (Ord. 4-35, 2001; 2008 Code)
CHAPTER 6
OFF HIGHWAY VEHICLES
SECTION:
5-6-1: Authority
5-6-2: General Provisions
5-6-3: Areas Of Operation
5-6-4: Penalty
5-6-1: AUTHORITY:
This chapter is adopted pursuant to the authority granted at chapter 3, title
50, Idaho Code as well as chapter 4, title 49, Idaho Code. Definitions are
found in Idaho Code chapters 1 and 4 of title 49. (Ord. 117, 5-21-2012)
5-6-2: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate an all-terrain vehicle (ATV),
utility type vehicle (UTV) and/or motorbike in a manner inconsistent with this
chapter.
   A.   Operators must have a valid, properly displayed, restricted vehicle
license plate.
   B.   Operators must have a valid, properly displayed IDPR OHV registration
sticker affixed to the license plate.
   C.   Operators must possess a valid driver's license.
   D.   Operators must possess valid liability or alternative insurance and
carry proof thereof.
   E.   Operators under eighteen (18) years of age must wear a helmet.
   F.   The ATV, UTV, or motorbike must have a proper muffler and spark
arrester.
   G.   The ATV, UTV or motorbike must have a properly working brake light,
headlights, and taillights.
   H.   The ATV, UTV or motorbike must have a properly attached mirror showing
roadway two hundred feet (200') behind the vehicle. (Ord. 117, 5-21-2012)
5-6-3: AREAS OF OPERATION:
Operators of an ATV, UTV or motorbike may operate on all city streets within
Ponderay. Operators must utilize the paved and/or dirt portion of the roadway.
Operators shall not ride on sidewalks or trails within the city unless
designated for use. The city may from time to time by resolution create and
amend a map designating streets or portions of streets where operation pursuant
to this chapter is prohibited. (Ord. 117, 5-21-2012)
5-6-4: PENALTY:
A first time violation of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor and shall be
punished by a fine of fifty three dollars ($53.00). A second time violation
committed within five (5) years shall be an infraction and shall be punished by
a fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00). A third time violation within five (5)
years of the first two (2) shall be punished as a misdemeanor in accordance
with title 1, chapter 2 of this code. (Ord. 117, 5-21-2012)
TITLE 6
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
6-1-1: Snow Removal
6-1-2: Trains
6-1-1: SNOW REMOVAL:
   A.   Disposition Of Snow Removed: Snow removed from any property within the
city limits shall not be placed upon the property of another property owner
without the permission of said property owner; nor shall snow be thrown,
shoveled, plowed or placed upon any streets, gutters and drainage of the city
so as to block the view of drivers at street intersections, or obstruct free
passage of vehicles thereon, or block or interfere with drainage in any gutter,
ditch or culvert; nor shall snow be thrown, shoveled or plowed from one side of
any street or public right of way to the other.
   B.   Exception: Snow deposited in the process of plowing any street or
public right of way may be removed by the owner of private property affected
thereby onto city property; provided, that said snow may not be placed upon any
street, gutter or drainage of the city so as to block the view of drivers at
street intersections, or obstruct free passage of vehicles thereon, or block or
interfere with drainage in any gutter, ditch or culvert; nor shall snow be
thrown, shoveled or plowed from one side of any street or public right of way
to the other. (Ord. 4-8, 1990; Ord. 4-8b, 2000)
   C.   Penalty: Every owner of any property from which snow is removed in
violation of subsection A of this section, every person directing the removal
of snow from property in violation of subsection A of this section, and every
person who removed snow from property in violation of subsection A of this
section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and, upon conviction thereof, shall
be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-2-1 of this code. (Ord. 4-8, 1990; Ord. 4-8a, 1999; 2008 Code)
6-1-2: TRAINS 1 :
   A.   Blocking Public Streets: It shall be unlawful for the directing officer
or the operator of any railroad train to direct the operation of or to operate
the same in such a manner as to prevent the use of any street, road, highway or
right of way for purpose of travel for a period of time longer than ten (10)
minutes, except that this provision shall not apply to trains or cars in motion
other than those engaged in switching. (Ord. 4-14, 1993)
   B.   Penalty: Violation of this section shall constitute an infraction,
punishable as provided in section
1-2-1 of this code. (Ord. 4-34, 2000; 2008 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 49-649.
CHAPTER 2
ENCROACHMENTS
SECTION:
6-2-1: Findings
6-2-2: Permit Required
6-2-3: Permit Application
6-2-4: Permit Fees
6-2-5: Standard For Granting Permit
6-2-6: Indemnification; Maintenance Of Work Or Installation
6-2-7: Expiration Of Permit
6-2-8: Appeal
6-2-9: Compliance With Other Laws
6-2-10: Penalty
6-2-1: FINDINGS:
The city council finds that, for the public good and in the public interest,
appropriate controls are required to govern the erection or construction of
improvements within the public rights of way of the city. (Ord. 4-36, 1-20-
2004)
6-2-2: PERMIT REQUIRED:
It is unlawful to erect or construct any structure, building or other work,
whether temporary or permanent, in any public right of way in the city, to
place any obstruction upon the surface thereof, or to change or disturb, for
the purpose of performing any work, the surface or grade of any such right of
way without first obtaining an encroachment permit from the city and completing
such structure, building or other work in the manner required by the permit to
the standards of design and construction adopted by the city. Structures,
buildings or other work as contemplated by this section, shall include, but not
be limited to, bicycle racks, curbs, gutters, sidewalks, driveways, signs,
fences and utilities and other subsurface improvements. This section shall
apply to work on property intended to be dedicated to the city as a public
right of way. (Ord. 4-36a, 5-2-2005)
6-2-3: PERMIT APPLICATION:
   A.   Written Application: No encroachment permit under this chapter shall be
issued unless a written application for the issuance of such a permit is
submitted to the city clerk. The written application shall state the name and
address, and the principal place of business if applicable, of the applicant;
the name, address and telephone number of the person in responsible charge of
the work; the location and dimensions of the installation; the purpose of the
work; and the approximate time which will be required to complete such work,
including the removal of waste material and debris. (Ord. 4-38, 6-20-2005; 2008
Code)
   B.   Application For Driveway, Culvert Or Utilities: Notwithstanding the
provisions of subsection A of this section, an encroachment permit for a
driveway, culvert, or utilities shall be made to the city clerk, who shall
issue the permit in accordance with the standards set forth in section
6-2-5 of this chapter. Any work under an encroachment permit issued pursuant to
this subsection shall be inspected and approved by the city engineer, who shall
have the authority to require additional work, modifications to the work or
repairs in order to bring the work into compliance with accepted engineering
standards. (Ord. 4-38, 6-20-2005)
6-2-4: PERMIT FEES:
A permit fee shall be charged by the city for the issuance of an encroachment
permit to pay for the cost of inspection of the work by the city. The fee shall
be set by resolution of the city council and may be changed from time to time.
(Ord. 4-36, 1-20-2004; 2008 Code)
6-2-5: STANDARD FOR GRANTING PERMIT:
An encroachment permit may be granted by the city after consideration of the
impact of the proposed encroachment on the public right of way, the aesthetics
of the city right of way, safety concerns, the city's comprehensive plan, and
the nature and character of the surrounding property. (Ord. 4-36, 1-20-2004;
2008 Code)
6-2-6: INDEMNIFICATION; MAINTENANCE OF WORK OR INSTALLATION:
By accepting an encroachment permit, the applicant, and all persons claiming
by, for or through the applicant, including successors in interest, shall be
deemed to have agreed to hold the city, the city council, and the officers and
employees of the city free and harmless from damage or injury to any person or
property arising from the work or installation. In addition, the applicant, and
all persons claiming by, for or through the applicant, including successors in
interest, shall maintain the work or installation at his or her own expense in
good repair and in the manner in which it was approved. If the applicant, and
all persons claiming by, for or through the applicant, including successors in
interest, fail to maintain the work or installation, the city may take
reasonable steps to maintain it and charge the applicant, and all persons
claiming by, for or through the applicant, including successors in interest,
the cost of that maintenance. (Ord. 4-36, 1-20-2004)
6-2-7: EXPIRATION OF PERMIT:
An application for an encroachment permit, when approved by the city engineer
and city clerk shall constitute the permit. The permit shall provide a time
limit within which the work shall be commenced and a time limit within which
the work shall be completed. (Ord. 4-36, 1-20-2004; 2008 Code)
6-2-8: APPEAL:
An aggrieved person may appeal the grant or denial of an encroachment permit to
the city council by filing a written notice of appeal with the city clerk
within thirty (30) days of the grant or denial of the permit. The city council
shall consider the application for an encroachment permit on a de novo basis.
(Ord. 4-36, 1-20-2004)
6-2-9: COMPLIANCE WITH OTHER LAWS:
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to mean that compliance with other
sections of this code or any state law is not required, the provisions of this
chapter being cumulative with all other such provisions. The provisions of
section
7-7-6 of this code regarding the repair and restoration of public streets,
rights of way and other property are specifically applicable to work performed
under this chapter. (Ord. 4-36a, 5-2-2005)
6-2-10: PENALTY:
Every person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-2-1 of this code. (Ord. 4-36, 1-20-2004; 2008 Code)
CHAPTER 3
PROHIBITING CAMPING ON PUBLIC PROPERTY
SECTION:
6-3-1: Definitions
6-3-2: Public Camping Prohibited
 
6-3-3: Penalties
6-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
 
                            Any automobile, motorcycle, truck, trailer,
                            semitrailer, truck tractor and semitrailer
MOTOR VEHICLE:              combination or other vehicle operated on the roads
                            of this state, used to transport persons or
                            property and propelled by power other than muscular
                            power, but motor vehicle does not include bicycles.
                            Public property shall include all lands owned by
                            the City of Ponderay, including but not limited to
PUBLIC PROPERTY:            vacant land, parks, recreational land, public
                            buildings and grounds, public streets, sidewalks or
                            paths and public rights-of-way.
                            Unauthorized lodging or residing in a temporary
                            outdoor habitation used as a dwelling, lodging, or
                            living space, which may be evidenced by the
                            erection of a tent, canopy or other temporary
                            shelter, including a motor vehicle or recreational
PUBLIC SLEEPING OR CAMPING: vehicle and may include the presence of bedding,
                            pillows, cooking appliances, heat sources, or the
                            storage of personal belongings. "Public camping or
                            sleeping" includes sitting, lying, or sleeping on a
                            public walkway creating any hindrance, obstacle, or
                            barrier that interferes with the use of the public
                            walkway.
                            A motor home, travel trailer, fifth-wheel trailer,
                            park model recreational vehicle, truck camper or
                            folding camping trailer, with or without motive
                            power, designed for recreational or emergency
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE:       occupancy. It does not include pickup hoods,
                            shells, or canopies designed, created or modified
                            for occupational usage. School buses or van type
                            vehicles which are converted to recreational use,
                            are defined as recreational vehicles.
                            A collapsible shelter of fabric such as, but not
                            limited to nylon or canvas stretched and sustained
TENT:                       by poles, ropes or cords and used for camping
                            outdoors or as a temporary building. (Ord. 179, 7-
                            7-2025)
 
6-3-2: PUBLIC CAMPING PROHIBITED:
Public sleeping or camping shall be prohibited on all public property owned by
the City of Ponderay. (Ord. 179, 7-7-2025)
6-3-3: PENALTIES:
Every person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of an
infraction on the first offense and shall be subject to a fine of three hundred
fifty dollars ($350.00). Each twenty-four (24) hour period shall be considered
a new offense. Subsequent offenses within a five-year period shall be a
misdemeanor punishable according to section 1-2-1 of this code. (Ord. 179, 7-7-
2025)
TITLE 7
BUILDING AND CONSTRUCTION
To view the current building and construction regulations, please visit the
city’s website at:
https://www.cityofponderay.org/planning-zoning/land-use-codes-and-maps/
TITLE 8
SUBDIVISIONS AND IMPROVEMENTS
To view the current subdivisions and improvements regulations, please visit the
city’s website at:
https://www.cityofponderay.org/planning-zoning/land-use-codes-and-maps/
TITLE 9
PLANNING AND ZONING
To view the current planning and zoning regulations, please visit the city’s
website at:
https://www.cityofponderay.org/planning-zoning/land-use-codes-and-maps/
TITLE 10
FLOOD CONTROL
To view the current flood control regulations, please visit the city’s website
at:
https://www.cityofponderay.org/planning-zoning/land-use-codes-and-maps/
