CITY CODE
OF
RIGBY, IDAHO
1999
Code current through:
Ord. 2025-650, passed January 23, 2025
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
   This code of the City of Rigby, as supplemented, contains ordinances up to
and including ordinance 2025-650, passed January 23, 2025. Ordinances of the
City adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the
extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the City
office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has
been amended, superseded or repealed.
American Legal Publishing
Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they have not been incorporated into
the code and they may not show the original ordinances in their entirety.
Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions concerning
the ordinances listed.
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
CITY ORDINANCE NO. 480
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING THE CITY OF RIGBY, IDAHO MUNICIPAL CODE
BE IT ORDAINED by the Mayor and City Council of the City of Rigby, Idaho, as
follows:
   SECTION 1: From and after the date of passage of this ordinance, the City
Code of the City of Rigby, Idaho prepared by Sterling Codifiers, Inc.
containing the compilation of all ordinances of a general nature together with
the changes made to said ordinances, under the direction of the governing body
of the City, shall be accepted in all courts without question as the official
code and law of the City as enacted by the Mayor and City Council.
   SECTION 2: There is hereby adopted, as a method of perpetual codification,
the loose-leaf type of binding together with the continuous supplement service,
provided by Sterling Codifiers, Inc., whereby each newly adopted ordinance of a
general and permanent nature amending, altering, adding or deleting provisions
of the official City Code is identified by the proper catchline and is inserted
in the proper place in each of the official copies, one copy of which shall be
maintained in the office of the City Clerk, certified as to correctness and
available for inspection at any and all times that said office is regularly
open.
   SECTION 3: All ordinances of a general nature included in this official City
Code shall be considered as a continuation of said ordinance provision and the
fact that some provisions have been deliberately eliminated by the governing
body shall not serve to cause any interruption in the continuous effectiveness
of ordinances included in said official City Code. All ordinances of a special
nature, such as tax levy ordinances, bond ordinances, franchises, vacating
ordinances and annexation ordinances shall continue in full force and effect
unless specifically repealed or amended by a provision of the City Code. Such
ordinances are not intended to be included in the official City Code.
   SECTION 4: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of such Code, or
to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such
Code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the City to be
misrepresented thereby.
   SECTION 5: All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith, are
to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
   SECTION 6: This ordinance and the Code adopted by the same shall be recorded
and shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage, approval and
publication in pamphlet form as provided by law.
   Passed by the City Council of the City of Rigby on the 18th day of January,
2000.
         CITY OF RIGBY
[image]
Attest:
[image]
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL CITY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon the adoption by the City Council, this City Code is hereby declared to be
and shall hereafter constitute the official City Code of Rigby. This City Code
of ordinances shall be known and cited as the RIGBY CITY CODE and is hereby
published by authority of the City Council and shall be supplemented to
incorporate the most recent legislation of the City as provided in Section
1-1-3 of this Chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this City Code by title in any legal documents. (1999 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
The City Code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of this
State as the ordinances of the City of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in Section
1-2-1 of this Title. (1999 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending the City Code shall set forth the title, chapter and
section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this City Code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this City Code. Each such replacement page
shall be properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of
the City Code. (1999 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this City Code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages may
be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by the
City Council. The City Clerk shall see that the replacement pages are properly
inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of the Clerk. Any
person having custody of a copy of the City Code shall make every effort to
maintain said Code current as to the most recent ordinances passed. Such person
shall see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement pages when such are
delivered or made available to such person through the office of the City
Clerk. Said Code books, while in actual possession of officials and other
interested persons, shall be and remain the property of the City and shall be
returned to the office of the City Clerk when directed so to do by order of the
City Council. (1999 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Ways And Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the City passed prior to the adoption of this City
Code are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this City Code or are
by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances; appropriation
ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations; franchise
ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances
establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public places;
improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to elections;
ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the
City; all special ordinances; and zoning ordinances as amended, excepting as
this Code may contain conflicting provisions, in which case this Code shall be
considered as amending such ordinance in respect to such conflicting provision
only. (1980 Code § 1.2.1; amd. 1999 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this City Code or by virtue of the
preceding Section, excepting as the City Code may contain provisions for such
matters, in which case, this City Code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (1999 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Prior Acts: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as
to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done,
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or
claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any
such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   Extend To All Repeals: This Section shall extend to all repeals, either
by express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making
any new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Currently Pending Actions: Nothing contained in this Chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the City herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this Code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this Chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the City under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this City Code. (1999 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this City Code or any part thereof or any portion adopted by reference
therein is for any reason held to be unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective
by any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the
validity or effectiveness of the remaining portions of this Code, or any part
thereof or any portion adopted by reference therein. The City Council hereby
declares that it would have passed each section, subsection, subdivision,
paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the fact that any
one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses
or phrases be declared unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective. (1999 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: Definitions, General
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
   A.   Whenever any word in any section of this Code importing the plural
number is used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or persons,
any single matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included, although
distributive words may not have been used. When any subject matter, party or
person is referred to in this Code by words importing the singular number only,
or a particular gender, several matters, parties or persons and the opposite
gender and bodies corporate shall be deemed to be included; provided, that
these rules of construction shall not be applied to any section of this Code
which contains any express provision excluding such construction or where the
subject matter or context may be repugnant thereto.
   B.   The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the City has been
changed in the content of this Code to "title", "chapter", "section" and/or
"subsection" or words of like import for organizational and clarification
purposes only. Such change to the City's ordinances is not meant to amend
passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (1999 Code)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this Code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
CITY: The City of Rigby, County of Jefferson, State of Idaho.
CODE: The City Code of the City of Rigby.
COUNCIL: Unless otherwise indicated, the Council of the City of Rigby.
COUNTY: The County of Jefferson, State of Idaho.
EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this Code to a City employee by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the City of
Rigby".
FEE: A sum of money charged by the City for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
FISCAL YEAR: The fiscal year of the City shall commence on October 1 of each
year.
GENDER: A word importing either the masculine or feminine gender only shall
extend and be applied to the other gender and to persons.
INFRACTION: A civil public offense, not constituting a crime, punishable by a
penalty and for which no incarceration may be imposed 1 .
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
MISDEMEANOR: Any offense not defined as a felony or infraction under State law
2 .
NUISANCE: Anything offensive to the sensibilities of reasonable persons, or any
act or activity creating a hazard which threatens the health and welfare of
inhabitants of the City, or any activity which by its perpetuation can
reasonably be said to have a detrimental effect on the property of a person or
persons within the community.
OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this Code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this Code.
OFFICERS: Whenever reference is made in this Code to a City officer by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the City of
Rigby".
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Shall include every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things direct to the consumer.
RIGHT-OF-WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
STATE: The State of Idaho.
STREET: Shall include alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places and sidewalks.
TENANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who occupies
the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with others.
WHOLESALER: The terms "wholesaler" and "wholesale dealer" as used in this Code,
unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate to the
sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things to persons who purchase for the
purpose of resale.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person, or in case such person is unable to write, by such
person's proper mark. (1999 Code; amd. Ord. 2018-593, 2-15-2018)
 
Notes
1 1. IC §§ 18-111 and 18-113A.
2 2. IC §§ 18-111 and 18-113; see section
  1-4-1 of this title.
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of this Code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when
any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted. (1999
Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Application Of Provisions
1-4-3: Liability Of Officers
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY:
   A.   Misdemeanor: Unless specifically provided elsewhere, any person
convicted of a violation of any section or provision of this Code deemed a
misdemeanor may be fined in a sum established by the State of Idaho in its
general misdemeanor section as modified from time to time.
   B.   Infraction: When the offense is designated as an infraction by any
section or provision of this Code or by State law, it is punishable only by a
penalty in a sum established by the City code and fee schedule.
   C.   Federally Mandated Programs: Any city which is participating in a
federally mandated program, wherein penalties or enforcement remedies are
required by the terms of participation in the program, may enforce such
requirements by ordinance, to include a criminal or civil monetary penalty not
to exceed a sum established by the State of Idaho in its general misdemeanor
section as modified from time to time.
   D.   Restitution: As allowed by law, any offense as set forth above in
subsections A, B or C shall include restitution for any acts that cause
monetary damage. Restitution shall be established by a Memorandum of
Restitution submitted to the proper tribunal. The defendant shall have thirty
(30) days to respond after which the amount requested will be deemed conclusive
for lack of objection thereto and an appropriate order submitted to the
tribunal establishing the amount. The order shall be in the form of a civil
judgment as contemplated by the Idaho Rules of Civil Procedure. Said judgment
may be enforced by the victim as any other judgment according to the Idaho
Rules of Civil Procedure. (Ord. 2018-593, 2-15-2018; amd. Ord. 2020-617, 10-1-
2020; Ord. 2025-650, 1-23-2025)
1-4-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Application Of Penalty Provisions:
      1.   The penalty provided in this chapter shall be applicable to every
section of this Code the same as though it were a part of each and every
separate section. Any person convicted of a violation of any section of this
Code where any duty is prescribed or obligation imposed or where any action
which is of a continuing nature is forbidden or is declared to be unlawful
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor unless otherwise provided. A separate
offense shall be deemed committed upon each day such duty or obligation remains
unperformed or such act continues unless otherwise specifically provided in
this Code.
      2.   Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act
constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this Code, and there shall
be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the provisions of
this chapter shall apply.
   B.   One Recovery For Same Offense: In all cases where the same offense is
made punishable or is created by different clauses or sections of this Code,
the prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed, but not more than one
recovery shall be had against the same person for the same offense; provided,
that the revocation of a license or permit shall not be considered a recovery
or penalty so as to bar any other penalty being enforced. (1999 Code)
1-4-3: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this Code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty unless the intention of
the City Council to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or employee is
specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the duty. (1999
Code)
CHAPTER 5
OFFICIAL AND CORPORATE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
1-5-1: Corporate Seal
1-5-2: Official Newspaper
1-5-3: Official Depositories
1-5-4: City Limits; Map On File
1-5-1: CORPORATE SEAL:
   A.   Design: The Corporate Seal of the City shall be circular in form. It
shall bear upon the space within the seal the words "City of Rigby, Idaho", and
also the words "Corporate Seal". (1980 Code § 1.4.1)
   B.   Adoption Of Seal: The seal hereinabove described is hereby adopted as
the Corporate Seal of the City. (1980 Code § 1.4.2)
   C.   Custodian 1 : The City Clerk shall be custodian of the Corporate Seal
of the City. (1980 Code § 1.4.3)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 1-7A-2B of this title.
1-5-2: OFFICIAL NEWSPAPER:
The "Jefferson Star", a newspaper printed and published in the City weekly is
hereby designated and constituted the official newspaper of the City. Such
writings as are required to be published under and by virtue of any law of the
State, or any provision of this Code, shall be given publication in said
official newspaper. The City may also provide for additional publication in
newspapers other than the official newspaper. The decision to provide
additional publications shall be in the Mayor's discretion or upon motion and
approval of a majority of the City Council. (Ord. 500, 9-3-2002)
1-5-3: OFFICIAL DEPOSITORIES:
   A.   Designation Of Depositories; Duties Of Treasurer 1 : Zions Bank is
hereby designated as the official depository of the City for the general
operating accounts of the City and is hereby ordered and required and directed
to keep the monies belonging to, or in the care of, the City in the depository
herein named. It shall be the duty of the Treasurer to invest idle moneys in
the City Treasury in any of the investments accounts allowed under Idaho Code
50-1013. (Ord. 2018-593, 2-15-2018)
   B.   Surplus Or Idle Funds: Upon approval of the Mayor and Council, the
Treasurer may be authorized to invest surplus or idle funds of the City as may
be authorized under the public depository law, Idaho Code title 57. (1980 Code
§ 1.6.2)
 
Notes
1 2. See also subsection 1-7B-2B and section
  1-9-3 of this title.
1-5-4: CITY LIMITS; MAP ON FILE:
A map of the City, kept current by the City Clerk at all times, drawn to a
scale of one inch equals two hundred feet (1" = 200') shall, at all times, be
kept on file in the Office of the City Clerk, which map shall be designated as
the official map of the City. The boundaries of the City, as shown on said map,
shall constitute the official City limits. Such map shall be deemed to be a
part of this Code, as fully as if set forth herein, and shall be revised from
time to time when additions are brought into the City or other modifications
are required. (1980 Code § 1.7; amd. 1999 Code)
CHAPTER 6
MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-6-1: Election; Qualifications
1-6-2: Terms Of Office
1-6-3: General Duties Of Council
1-6-4: Powers And Duties Of Mayor
1-6-5: Compensation
1-6-6: Council President
1-6-7: Committees
1-6-8: Council Meetings
1-6-9: Ordinances
1-6-1: ELECTION; QUALIFICATIONS:
   A.   Election: The city council and mayor shall be elected by the qualified
electors of the city, said election of council members and mayor to be
according to the laws of the state, and for the period and in the manner
provided by law. (1980 Code § 2.4.2; amd. 1999 Code)
   B.   Qualifications; Residency: All elective officers of the city shall be
qualified electors and shall be residents of the city. (1980 Code § 2.2; amd.
1999 Code)
1-6-2: TERMS OF OFFICE:
The six (6) council members of the city and the mayor shall be elected at large
and shall serve for four (4) years; one-half (1/2) of the council shall be
elected at each general election. (1980 Code § 2.4.3; amd. 1999 Code)
1-6-3: GENERAL DUTIES OF COUNCIL:
The duties, powers, and rights of council members are those prescribed by Idaho
Code title 50, chapter 7 and ordinances of the city. (1980 Code § 2.4.1; amd.
1999 Code)
1-6-4: POWERS AND DUTIES OF MAYOR:
   A.   Powers And Duties, Generally: The mayor shall:
      1.   Preside at all meetings of the council and shall have a vote on any
issue when the council is equally divided, and not otherwise.
      2.   Have power to issue proclamations whenever he may deem it necessary
to safeguard the public welfare.
      3.   Superintend and control all the officers and affairs of the city and
shall execute the laws and regulations as they pertain to cities.
      4.   Have such appointive power as is vested in him by law.
      5.   Be an ex officio member of all committees. (1980 Code § 2.3.1)
      6.   Exercise all powers and fulfill all duties granted to him by the
Idaho Code title 50, chapter 6. (1980 Code § 2.3.4; amd. 1999 Code)
   B.   Sign Contracts: The mayor is authorized and empowered to sign his name
officially for and in behalf of the city on all contracts with the expressed
authorization of the council, including deeds, bonds, bills, notes, obligations
and other agreements or documents to which the city is a party. (1980 Code §
2.3.2)
1-6-5: COMPENSATION:
The set compensation for the mayor shall be one thousand two hundred fifty
dollars ($1,250.00) per month and for each council member five hundred dollars
($500.00) per month. (Ord. 2011-551(a), 8-16-2011, eff. 1-1-2012; amd. Ord.
2023-637, 8-17-2023)
1-6-6: COUNCIL PRESIDENT:
The city council shall, at its first meeting after election, proceed to
organize by electing one of its number president of the council, who shall
preside in the absence of the mayor. The president shall be empowered with all
the rights, powers and duties that the mayor has when present in his own
person. (1980 Code § 2.4.4)
1-6-7: COMMITTEES:
   A.   Appointment By Mayor: The mayor shall, as soon as the council is
organized, nominate from the members of the council such committees as are
necessary with the consent of the council. Said committees shall consist of a
chairman and at least one other member, if deemed necessary. These committees
shall be as follows:
Parks and rodeo committee
Library board
Airport board
Police
Finance
Parks
Streets and alleys
Water and sewer
A council member shall also be appointed to act as liaison for the following:
Rigby urban renewal agency
Farnsworth historical museum
Rigby senior citizens center
   B.   Necessity For Enlargement; Other Committees: Committees may be enlarged
or other committees appointed as may be necessary from time to time. (1980 Code
§ 2.4.5; amd. 1999 Code; Ord. 2021-618, 3-18-2021)
1-6-8: COUNCIL MEETINGS:
   A.   Regular Meetings: The official city of Rigby council meetings shall
take place on the first and third Thursday of each month beginning at seven
o'clock (7:00) P.M. (MST) at Rigby City Hall. (Ord. 2014-568, 3-18-2014)
   B.   Special Meetings; Notice: Special meetings may be called at any time
that is necessary by order of the mayor, or in his absence by the president of
the council when any emergency is imminent that will not allow delay. Special
meetings may also be called by one-half (1/2) plus one of the members of the
council. The notice of such special meeting shall be given to the council
members by the chief of police setting forth its object of the call, and the
city clerk shall at such meeting make a minute of such call and the business
transacted. (1980 Code § 2.5.2; amd. 1999 Code)
   C.   Open Meetings: All meetings of the council shall be open to the public;
except, that executive sessions may be closed upon a vote of one-half (1/2)
plus one of the council members recorded in the minutes of the meeting by
individual vote, pursuant to Idaho Code section 67-2345. (1999 Code)
   D.   Quorum: Meetings of the city council shall require a majority of said
members to be present to do business. In case that a majority of said council
fails to attend the council meetings, methods to enforce their attendance may
be applied as prescribed by law. (1980 Code § 2.5.3)
   E.   Agenda Of Meeting; Procedure: The mayor, or in his absence the
president of the city council, shall call the meeting to order, have the
calling of the roll by the clerk, and the presiding officer shall announce
whether or not a quorum is present. When a quorum is present, the following
procedure shall take place: (1980 Code § 2.5.4)
      1st - Reading of minutes.
      2nd - Reading petitions or other communications that may be before the
meeting for consideration.
      3rd - Reports of officers, standing committees or of special committees.
Any business whether unfinished or otherwise, and allowance of bills.
      4th - Introducing of ordinances, resolutions, orders or other matters
that require disposition.
      5th - The mayor or other presiding authority shall have the right to set
forth the order of business without debate.
      6th - The mayor shall have the appointing power of all committees,
corrections to any matter requiring attention and final adjournment. (1980 Code
§ 2.5.4; amd. 1999 Code)
   F.   Clerk Pro Tempore: In the absence of the city clerk, the presiding
officer may appoint a clerk pro tempore, who for the time shall have all of the
rights, powers, privileges and duties that the clerk would have if present.
(1980 Code § 2.5.5)
1-6-9: ORDINANCES:
   A.   Presentation In Writing: All ordinances of a general or permanent
nature shall be in writing and presented to the mayor and city council at a
regular meeting or, in case of emergency, at a special meeting for its
consideration. (1980 Code § 1.9.1)
   B.   Manner Of Procedure: Every ordinance shall be read on three (3)
different days, two (2) readings of which shall be by title only and one
reading of which shall be in full, unless one-half (1/2) plus one of the
members of the full Council shall dispense with the rule. In preparation,
passage and publication, ordinances shall contain no subject which shall not be
clearly expressed in the title, and no ordinance or section thereof shall be
revised or amended unless all ordinances, which are intended to amend existing
ordinances, shall have the words which are added to such ordinance underlined.
When the amendment is to strike out or repeal any part of any existing
ordinance, the letter, figure, word or words stricken or repealed shall be
printed with a line through such letter, figure, word or words in the printed
bill to indicate the part stricken or repealed. Provided, however, that when an
ordinance includes or consists of the repeal of an entire section or chapter,
it shall not be necessary to print such repealed section or chapter. (1980 Code
§ 1.9.2)
   C.   Manner Of Adoption: All ordinances, resolutions, or orders of a general
nature, or that are required for the payment of money, or the raising of
revenue for the City shall require for their passage or adoption the
concurrence of a majority of the elected Council members. (1980 Code § 1.9.3)
   D.   Signature: When any such ordinance is passed, it shall be signed by the
Mayor and attested by the City Clerk and the date of the passage by the Council
shall be attached thereto. (1980 Code § 1.9.4)
   E.   Certificate: The City Clerk shall attach to each ordinance his
certificate of the City. (1980 Code § 1.9.5)
   F.   Publication; Effective Date: All ordinances, before taking effect,
shall be published in the official newspaper of the City 1 , and proof of
publication filed with the Clerk, except in emergencies when procedures
prescribed in the Idaho Code must be followed. (1980 Code § 1.9.6)
   G.   Records: On the passage or adoption of any ordinance, resolution, or
order to enter into control by the City Council or for any other general
purpose, the ayes and nays shall be shown on the minutes of the City Clerk.
(1980 Code § 1.9.7)
   H.   Assistance Of City Attorney: Members of the Council desiring to create
an ordinance shall have the assistance of the City Attorney in preparation of
the same. (1980 Code § 1.9.8)
 
Notes
1 1. See Section
  1-5-2 of this Title.
CHAPTER 7
CITY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-7-1: Oath Of Office
1-7-2: Bonding Of Officials
1-7-3: Salaries Of Appointive Officers
1-7-4: Succession In Office
1-7-5: Substance Abuse Policy Statement
1-7-1: OATH OF OFFICE:
   A.   Taking Oath Required: Every elective officer of the City, and such
other appointive officers as are appointed by the Mayor and City Council shall,
before entering in and upon their respective duties, subscribe and take the
oath of office as follows:
      I do solemnly swear that I will support the Constitution of the United
States, the Constitution of the State of Idaho, and support and uphold all
lawful laws and ordinances of the City of Rigby, Idaho, and faithfully and
impartially perform the duties of my office to the best of my ability.
   B.   Filing Of Oath And Bond: The oath of office and the bond when required
shall be filed in the office of the City Clerk, except that the bond of the
City Clerk shall be filed with the Mayor. (1980 Code § 2.2.1; amd. 1999 Code)
1-7-2: BONDING OF OFFICIALS:
   A.   Bonding In General:
      1.   Bond Amounts: The City Clerk, City Treasurer, Public Works Director
and Chief of Police, before entering upon the duties of their respective
offices, shall give to the City a good and sufficient bond, guaranteeing the
faithful performance of the respective officials. The amount of the bonds shall
be:
 
City Clerk            $500 000.00
City Treasurer        500,000.00
Public Works Director 500,000.00
Chief of Police       500,000.00
 
(1980 Code § 2.13.1; amd. 1999 Code)
      2.   Premiums Paid By City: All bond premiums for any and all of the
above named officials shall be paid by the City out of the general funds of the
City. The Mayor and Council shall be the sole judges of who shall give bonds
and the amount thereof and the approval of the same. (1980 Code § 2.13.1)
   B.   Relationship To Bonding Company: It shall be the duty of the City Clerk
to make provisions for the bonding of the City officials with the same reliable
bonding company. Said bonds shall run to the City, and be based upon the
faithful performance of the officials in their respective positions. (1980 Code
§ 2.13.2)
1-7-3: SALARIES OF APPOINTIVE OFFICERS:
The salaries of the appointive officers shall be as designated by the Council
from time to time. (1980 Code § 2.1.2)
1-7-4: SUCCESSION IN OFFICE:
Upon the qualification of all elected or appointive officers, all books,
papers, records, money and property of the City shall be delivered to the
successor in office as provided by law. Any person failing to comply with this
Section shall be guilty of an offense and punishable, upon conviction, as
provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Title. (1980 Code § 1.8.3; amd. 1999 Code)
1-7-5: SUBSTANCE ABUSE POLICY STATEMENT:
   A.   Policy Established:
      1.   The City is committed to providing a safe work environment and to
fostering the well-being and health of its employees. That commitment is
jeopardized when any City employee illegally uses drugs on the job, comes to
work under their influence, or possesses, distributes or sells drugs in the
workplace. Therefore, the City has established the following policy:
         a.   It is a violation of City policy for any employee to possess,
sell, trade, or offer for sale illegal drugs or otherwise engage in the illegal
use of drugs on the job.
         b.   It is a violation of City policy for anyone to report to work
under the influence of illegal drugs.
         c.   It is a violation of City policy for anyone to use prescription
drugs illegally. (However, nothing in this policy precludes the appropriate use
of legally prescribed medications.)
         d.   Violations of this policy are subject to disciplinary action up
to and including termination.
      2.   It is the responsibility of the City's supervisors to counsel
employees whenever they see changes in performance or behavior that suggest an
employee has a drug problem. Although it is not the supervisor's job to
diagnose personal problems, the supervisor should encourage such employees to
seek help and advise them about available resources for getting help. Everyone
shares responsibility for maintaining a safe work environment and co-workers
should encourage anyone who may have a drug problem to seek help.
      3.   The goal of this policy is to balance our respect for individuals
with the need to maintain a safe, productive and drug-free environment. The
intent of this policy is to offer a helping hand to those who need it, while
sending a clear message that the illegal use of drugs is incompatible with
employment by the City.
      4.   As a condition of employment, employees must abide by the terms of
this policy and must notify the City in writing of any conviction of a
violation of a criminal drug statute occurring in the workplace no later than
five (5) calendar days after such conviction.
   B.   CDL Licensees:
      1.   Operators with CDL licenses shall refrain from doing the following:
         a.   Driving with an alcohol concentration of .02 or greater;
         b.   Possessing or using alcohol while driving;
         c.   Drinking during the four (4) hours before coming to work;
         d.   Drinking within eight (8) hours following an on-the-job accident;
         e.   Driving if they refuse to take an alcohol or drug test; and/or
         f.   Driving if they have used a controlled substance.
      2.   The City will, for CDL and safety sensitive positions, conduct the
following alcohol and drug tests:
         a.   Random Pre-Employment Tests: Newly hired employees must be given
drug and alcohol tests before they drive.
         b.   Post-Accident Tests: Following a fatal accident or an accident
where the employer's driver is cited for a moving violation, the City, as soon
as possible, must test surviving drivers for drugs and alcohol.
         c.   Random Tests: Each year the City will randomly test twenty five
percent (25%) of its drivers for alcohol use and fifty percent (50%) of its
drivers for drug use. The selection of drivers for testing must be done
scientifically.
         d.   Reasonable Suspicion Testing: If a supervisor, who has received
training on the subject, has a reasonable suspicion that a driver is under the
influence, then he/she must require the driver to submit to a test.
         e.   Return To Duty Tests: Before an employee can return to work after
testing positive for drugs or alcohol, he or she must be re-tested.
         f.   Follow-Up Tests: An employee who has needed drug or alcohol
rehabilitation must have an unannounced follow-up alcohol and/or controlled
substance test.
   C.   Testing; City Agreement:
      1.   As part of the testing procedure the City agrees that there will be:
         a.   Privacy in collection techniques, confirmation of any positive
test results, confidentiality, and scientifically-random selection of employees
to be tested; and
         b.   To notify employees being tested that the test is required by the
DOT rules.
      2.   If an employee's test results shows an alcohol concentration between
.02 and .04, the employee will not be allowed to perform safety-sensitive
functions for twenty four (24) hours or until a re-test shows that it has
fallen below .02. If an employee has an alcohol concentration of .04 or greater
or has tested positive for controlled substances, then the City will take the
following actions:
         a.   Tell the employee where he can go to evaluate and resolve drug
and alcohol problems.
         b.   Require the driver to be evaluated by a substance abuse
professional.
         c.   Subject the employee to a return-to-duty test.
      3.   The City must keep positive drug and alcohol test results for five
(5) years; negative test results for one year. The City must also prepare an
annual calendar year summary of the results of its alcohol and drug tests.
      4.   The City shall:
         a.   Explain the DOT requirements to employees; and
         b.   Provide employees with copies of drug and alcohol policies. The
City must identify: 1) a person who can answer questions; 2) who is subject to
the provisions; 3) what hours of the day an employee must be in compliance with
the requirements; and 4) what is prohibited.
   D.   Compliance With Statute: The City shall comply with the provisions of
49 USC 31136 and 31302 et seq.; 49 USC 31502; 49 CFR 1.48, as it pertains to
controlled substance and alcohol abuse and testing. (1999 Code)
ARTICLE A. CITY CLERK
SECTION:
1-7A-1: Appointment; Term
1-7A-2: Duties
1-7A-1: APPOINTMENT; TERM:
The City Clerk shall be appointed by the Mayor with the consent of the Council
pursuant to Idaho Code title 50, chapter 2. He shall serve until he resigns or
is removed according to Idaho Code section 50-206. (1980 Code § 2.6.1)
1-7A-2: DUTIES:
   A.   General Duties: The duties of the City Clerk will be to keep a correct
journal of the proceedings of the Council and to fulfill other responsibilities
as designated in Idaho Code title 50, chapter 2. He shall be ex officio auditor
and City accountant. He shall attend all meetings of the City Council, collect
all funds due to the City, keep proper records of all transactions, issue
licenses and collect for the same, draw warrants on the City Treasurer, and
perform all and every duty that is required of him either by ordinance,
resolution, or order of the Council or of the laws of the State. (1980 Code §
2.6.2)
   B.   Keeper Of Seal 1 : The City Clerk shall be the keeper of the City Seal
and shall affix the same on all instruments and papers, which by law or
ordinance are necessary to be attested. (1980 Code § 2.6.3)
   C.   Keeper Of Books: The City Clerk shall have charge of all books of the
City Water Department, and shall furnish to each patron a monthly statement of
indebtedness and collect the same and turn all monies coming into his hands to
the City Treasurer and his receipt given therefor. (1980 Code § 2.6.4)
   D.   Issuance Of Licenses: The Clerk shall prepare proper forms of licenses,
to be used in all matters that require the same as prescribed by ordinance
within the corporate limits of the City, shall see to their signature and
delivery to the parties entitled upon the payment of the sums of money due the
City for such licensees, and turn the funds over to the City Treasurer. (1980
Code § 2.6.5)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 1-5-1C of this Title.
ARTICLE B. CITY TREASURER
SECTION:
1-7B-1: Appointment; Term
1-7B-2: Duties
1-7B-1: APPOINTMENT; TERM:
The City Treasurer shall be appointed by the Mayor with the consent of the
Council pursuant to Idaho Code title 50, chapter 2. He shall serve until he
resigns or is removed according to Idaho Code section 50-206. (1980 Code §
2.7.1)
1-7B-2: DUTIES:
   A.   General Duties: The duties of the City Treasurer will be to serve as
custodian of all monies belonging to the City and to fulfill all other
responsibilities as designated in Idaho Code title 50, chapter 2. He shall keep
a record of all outstanding bonds against the City showing the number, amount
of each and to whom said bonds were issued; and when any bonds are purchased,
paid or cancelled, said record shall show the fact. In his annual report he
shall describe particularly the bonds issued and sold during the year, and the
term of the sale with each and every item of expense thereof. (1980 Code §
2.7.2)
   B.   Guardian Of Funds 1 : The City Treasurer shall keep all money in his
hand belonging to the City in such bank as the Mayor and City Council shall
determine; provided, that such bank shall be in the City. Said bank shall
safeguard the monies thus delivered to it by posting a good and sufficient
bond, penal in nature, running to the City and the City Treasurer thereof, in
an amount to be approved by the City Council which from time to time shall
examine the securities pledged for the security of the sums on deposit with
such bank, as aforesaid. (1980 Code § 2.7.3)
   C.   Keeper Of Books: The Treasurer shall keep accurate books of account
showing all sums of money received by him and the disbursement thereof. He
shall cash all warrants properly drawn upon the City Treasury when the
condition of the funds will permit, and settle with the City Clerk for all
funds from any and all sources received by him, naming the source and amount
received. (1980 Code § 2.7.4)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 1-5-3A of this Title.
ARTICLE C. CITY ATTORNEY
SECTION:
1-7C-1: Appointment; Term; Oath
1-7C-2: Qualifications
1-7C-3: Duties
1-7C-1: APPOINTMENT; TERM; OATH:
The Mayor with the consent of the City Council shall appoint a City Attorney to
hold office at the discretion of the Council. Before entering upon the duties
of his office as such City Attorney, he shall take the official oath of office.
(1980 Code § 2.11.1; amd. 1999 Code)
1-7C-2: QUALIFICATIONS:
The City Attorney shall be a duly licensed attorney with the right to practice
in all courts of the State. (1980 Code § 2.11.2)
1-7C-3: DUTIES:
It shall be the duty of the City Attorney, and he shall:
   A.   Appear in Magistrate Court when required and prosecute all actions for
offenses against the laws and ordinances of the City.
   B.   Attend to all legal business of the City and prosecute or defend all
actions in which the City is a party thereto, except when an insurance company
is involved.
   C.   Draw and examine and pass upon all ordinances, documents and legal
papers submitted to him,.
   D.   Give legal advice to the various officers of the City.
   E.   Attend meetings of the Council.
   F.   Give written opinions when so desired.
   G.   Perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the City Council.
(1980 Code § 2.11.3; amd. 1999 Code)
ARTICLE D. PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR
SECTION:
1-7D-1: Appointment; Oath
1-7D-2: Duties
1-7D-1: APPOINTMENT; OATH:
The Director of Public Works shall be appointed by the Mayor with the consent
of the City Council. He shall take the oath of office. (1980 Code § 2.12.1;
amd. 1999 Code)
1-7D-2: DUTIES:
   A.   General Duties:
      1.   The Public Works Director shall have charge and supervision of all
streets, alleys, sidewalks, and thoroughfares within the corporate limits of
the City and serve as water master.
      2.   It shall be his duty to supervise all work and improvements done
thereon, to have charge of all repairs to ditches, canals, crossings, or
culverts, or otherwise.
      3.   He shall have charge of the distribution of all irrigation water
within the City limits.
      4.   He shall make a report to the City Council of his activities when so
desired by the Council and the Mayor of the City. (1980 Code § 2.12.2; amd.
1999 Code)
   B.   Supervision Of City Waterworks: The Public Works Director shall
control, operate and superintend the City waterworks, including wells, pumps,
motors, pump houses, tools, tanks, pipe lines, laterals, openings, or
connections made up to and including the street valve at the curb. He shall lay
out, inspect, and supervise all trench work and connections or additions made
to any water mains, to have full power and control; have charge of all tools,
equipment of all kinds in order to effectually carry out the duties of his
office; and shall perform all duties that come under his supervision as may be
required of him by ordinance or resolution of the Council. (1980 Code § 2.12.3;
amd. 1999 Code)
   C.   Supervision Of Irrigation Water 1 :
      1.   Distribution Of Water:
         a.   The Public Works Director shall assume complete and absolute
control of the distribution of all irrigation water used for irrigation of land
within the City.
         b.   He shall prepare a schedule of terms for the inhabitants of the
City who are landowners or who own water stock in any canal company available
to the City, or water turned over to the City to be held in trust thereby, or
any person entitled to the use of said irrigation waters.
         c.   He shall give to each user or owner of property or water owner a
certificate stating such time for users to take the water for irrigating
purposes, the length of time to be used, the name of the party to take the
water from, and the party to whom to turn the water to on and after the time
limit has expired; and such certificate so delivered shall be the sole and only
authority of each landowner or user of irrigation waters for the right to use
the irrigation waters under the control of the City. (1980 Code § 2.12.4; amd.
1999 Code)
      2.   Maintenance Of Water Supply:
         a.   The Public Works Director shall turn all water from the canal
that supplies the City with irrigation water, and by which it is distributed to
the users and inhabitants of the City; clean out, keep in repair and properly
look after the headgates, stops and other devices that are used and laterals
that are needed, and shall have the right to lock all headgates if necessary.
         b.   He shall compute the expenses incurred by and incident to the
control and distribution of the irrigation water within the City, including
assessments levied by the canal company furnishing such water to the City; and
make up a list and assess the owners and users of said irrigation water in
proportion to the land owned or used by them and the property watered.
         c.   For any landowner or user of said water who refuses to pay the
same, his part of the use of said water shall be denied him or her until
payment is made; and any interference with said rules and regulations shall be
punished as provided in Title 5 of this Code. (1980 Code § 2.12.5; amd. 1999
Code)
      3.   Collection Of Monies: All monies collected from water users on
account of assessments or from any other source for the use of the irrigation
water system of the City shall be kept in a separate fund and the expense
incurred in said irrigation system shall be paid out of said fund as provided
for the payment of bills in other cases. (1980 Code § 2.12.6; amd. 1999 Code)
   D.   Examination Of Surveys: Before any new additions to the City shall be
annexed thereto, the Public Works Director shall check all surveys of such
additions, and report any errors for the correction thereof, before said
additions shall be approved by the Council and admitted as part of the City.
(1980 Code § 2.12.7; amd. 1999 Code)
   E.   Maintenance Of Roadways:
      1.   The Public Works Director shall have complete supervision of, and it
shall be his duty to superintend, all streets, alleys, public parks, sidewalks,
bridges, culverts and other Municipal works within the City.
      2.   He shall keep the public places in good repair, and places clean of
rubbish at any place where rubbish may accumulate to cause overflow of water
used for irrigation, grade all streets and alleys, collect all dues for
installing any water or sewage connection, and perform all and other duties
that may be required by the City Council, the Council member responsible for
streets. (1980 Code § 2.12.8; amd. 1999 Code)
   F.   Other Duties:
      1.   The Public Works Director shall supervise the numbering of all
houses and buildings upon the streets and avenues within the corporate limits
of the City.
      2.   He shall also install all street signs or beacons that may be put up
from time to time on the streets of the City.
      3.   He shall perform any and all other duties that are required by law
or ordinance of the City. (1980 Code § 2.12.9; amd. 1999 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See Section
  5-2-7 of this Code.
CHAPTER 8
CITY ELECTIONS
SECTION:
1-8-1: Method Of Elections
1-8-2: Time For Elections
1-8-3: Hours Polls Open
1-8-4: Registration Information Provided To County
1-8-1: METHOD OF ELECTIONS:
The elections for city officials shall be conducted in all respects and in the
manner required by the laws of the state for the conducting of elections in
cities, with such modifications as are necessary for the full effect of such
elections to be in force in the city. (1980 Code § 1.8.2)
1-8-2: TIME FOR ELECTIONS:
There shall be held in the city the first Tuesday after the first Monday of
November of every biennial year, an election for the purpose of electing
council persons or mayor, according to the provisions of Idaho Code title 50,
chapters 6 and 7. (1980 Code § 1.8.1)
1-8-3: HOURS POLLS OPEN:
The polls for all general and special city elections shall be open from eight
o'clock (8:00) A.M. Mountain time and remain open until eight o'clock (8:00)
P.M. Mountain time. (Ord. 519-2005, 4-5-2005)
1-8-4: REGISTRATION INFORMATION PROVIDED TO COUNTY:
   A.   Registration Files: The city shall provide voter registration files
concerning the city including, but not limited to, those involving the
positions of mayor and city council, and any other special elections.
   B.   Local Registrar: The county clerk shall appoint each city clerk and
each elected official as designated by the governing authority as an at large
registrar. This section shall not impact in any way any decision by the city to
contract or not to contract under Idaho Code section 34-1401 for the conduct of
elections. (Res., 2-15-1994)
CHAPTER 9
CITY FINANCES
SECTION:
1-9-1: Claims Against City
1-9-2: Budget And Annual Appropriation
1-9-3: Control Of City Treasury
1-9-1: CLAIMS AGAINST CITY:
   A.   Filing Requirement: Any person having a claim against the City shall
file such claim in writing upon blanks provided for that purpose with the City
Clerk at least one day prior to the regular meeting of the City Council. (1980
Code § 1.10.1)
   B.   City Council Action On Claim: All claims filed as above shall be acted
upon at the first regular meeting of the City Council subsequent to the time of
filing same. Any claim that is subject to question may be referred to the
department head for investigation and report. All claims shall state the nature
of the claim supported by an affidavit of the claimant, setting forth that said
claim is correct, and no part thereof has been paid. The Council may in its
discretion disallow the claim, and no claim that is rejected shall again be
considered by the Council, save in those cases wherein the merits of the case
become apparent. (1980 Code § 1.10.2; amd. 1999 Code)
   C.   Waiver By Acceptance: When a claim is once submitted to the Council and
allowed in part only, and a warrant ordered drawn for the portion of the claim
allowed, an acceptance of the said warrant by the claimant shall be considered
a settlement in full of said account, and no further allowance shall be
granted. (1980 Code § 1.10.3)
   D.   Payment From Treasury: All claims allowed against the City shall be
paid by check drawn upon the City Treasury, and said check shall be signed by
the Mayor and City Clerk. A Council person is also able to sign in the absence
of one of the above. All checks shall be numbered consecutively. Said checks
shall also state the particular fund upon which drawn. (1980 Code § 1.10.4;
amd. 1999 Code)
   E.   Record Of Claims: The Clerk shall keep a register of all checks drawn
on the Treasury showing the number and date of the check, name of payee, for
what purpose drawn, and the fund upon which drawn, the date of presentation,
the date of payment, and the amount of payment paid. (1980 Code § 1.10.5; amd.
1999 Code)
1-9-2: BUDGET AND ANNUAL APPROPRIATION:
   A.   Preparing Budget:
      1.   Estimate Expenditures: The City Council shall, prior to passing the
annual appropriation ordinance, prepare a budget, estimate the probable amount
of money necessary for all purposes for which an appropriation is to be made,
including interest and principal due on the bonded debt and sinking fund,
itemizing and classifying the proposed expenditures by department, fund, or
service as nearly as may be practicable, and following all other rules
prescribed by State law. (1980 Code § 1.11.1)
      2.   Estimate Anticipated Revenue: To support such proposed expenditure,
the Council shall prepare an estimate of the total revenue anticipated during
the ensuing fiscal year for which a budget is being prepared, classifying such
receipts by source as nearly as may be possible and practicable, and following
all other rules prescribed by State law. The proposed budget for the ensuing
fiscal year shall list expenditures and revenues during each of the two (2)
previous fiscal years by fund and/or department. (1980 Code § 1.11.1; amd. 1999
Code)
      3.   Entry Into Journal: Following the tentative approval of the revenues
and expenditures estimated by the Council, the same shall be entered at length
in the journal of proceedings. (1980 Code § 1.11.1)
   B.   Public Hearing:
      1.   Notice Of Hearing: Prior to certifying to the County Commissioners,
a notice of time and place of public hearing on the budget, which notice shall
include the proposed expenditures by fund and/or department, including the two
(2) previous fiscal years, and a statement of the estimated revenue of the City
for the ensuing fiscal year, shall be published twice at least seven (7) days
apart in the official newspaper. (1980 Code § 1.11.2; amd. 1999 Code)
      2.   Testimony Of Interested Persons: At said hearing any interested
person may appear and show cause, if any he has, why such proposed budget
should or should not be adopted. (1980 Code § 1.11.2)
   C.   Annual Appropriation Bill:
      1.   Adoption Of Ordinance: The City Council shall, prior to the
commencement of each fiscal year, which shall commence on October 1 of each and
every year, pass an ordinance to be termed the annual appropriation ordinance,
which in no event shall be greater than the amount of the proposed budget, in
which the corporate authorities may appropriate such sum or sums of money as
may be deemed necessary to defray all necessary expenses and liabilities of
such corporation, not exceeding in the aggregate the amount of tax authorized
to be levied during that year, in addition to all other anticipated revenues.
      2.   File Ordinance With State: Such ordinance shall specify the object
and purposes for which such appropriations are made and the amount appropriated
for each object or purpose. Said ordinance shall be filed with the office of
the Secretary of State. (1980 Code § 1.11.3)
   D.   Amendments To Appropriation Bill:
      1.   Amendment Due To Increase In Outside Grants: The City Council may,
by the same procedure as used in adopting the original appropriation ordinance
at any time during the current fiscal year, amend the appropriation ordinance
to a greater amount than that adopted, if after the adoption of the
appropriation ordinance, additional revenue will accrue to the City during the
current fiscal year as a result of increase in State or Federal grants or
allocations.
      2.   Amendment By Election: No further appropriation, except as herein
provided, shall be made at any other time within such fiscal year unless the
proposition to make each appropriation has been first sanctioned by a majority
of the legal voters of the City, either by petition signed by them equal in
number to a majority of the number who voted at the last general City election,
or approved at a special election duly called therefor, and all appropriations
shall end with the fiscal year for which they are made. (1980 Code § 1.11.4)
   E.   Surplus Funds: All monies in the City Treasury at the end of the fiscal
year, save those in special funds, shall revert into the General Fund of the
City. (1980 Code § 1.11.5)
1-9-3: CONTROL OF CITY TREASURY:
   A.   Control By Mayor And City Council: All monies and funds belonging to or
controlled by the City shall be under the direct jurisdiction of the Mayor and
City Council, and they shall make such rules and regulations concerning said
monies and funds as in their judgment may be necessary for the safeguarding and
protection of the same, that is not inconsistent with public depository laws of
the State. (1980 Code § 1.12.1)
   B.   Compliance With Idaho Law: Deposits of City funds and collection and
spending of public monies are controlled and governed as far as practicable by
the laws of the State. (1980 Code § 1.12.2)
   C.   Duties Of Clerk And Treasurer: The City Council shall require of the
City Clerk and City Treasurer to keep all monies belonging to the City as
aforesaid, or which may come into their hands by virtue of their offices, to be
deposited for safekeeping in some bank doing business within the City and of
responsible standing in the financial world 1 . (1980 Code § 1.12.3)
   D.   Bonding Of Bank: Before any monies belonging to the City shall be
deposited in any bank in the City, the Clerk and Treasurer shall require such
bank to execute a good and sufficient bond to be approved by the City Council,
and of par value of the funds so deposited. (1980 Code § 1.12.4)
   E.   Limit On Deposit: The City Clerk or the City Treasurer shall not have
on deposit in any bank, at any time, more than the par value of the security,
nor more than ninety percent (90%) of the penalty of the bond given by said
bank. (1980 Code § 1.12.5)
   F.   Restrictions On Spending: The Mayor and City Council shall have no
power to appropriate, issue or draw any order or warrant on the Treasury for
money unless the same has been appropriated or ordered by ordinance, or the
claim for payment of which such order or warrant is issued has been allowed,
and the appropriations for the class or object of which such claim is payable
has been made and entered in the yearly budget and yearly appropriation
measure. (1980 Code § 1.12.6)
   G.   Restrictions On Special Assessments: All monies received on special
assessments shall be kept by the City Treasurer as a special fund to be applied
for the payment of the improvement for which said assessment was made and said
money shall be used for no other purposes unless to reimburse for money
expended for such improvements. (1980 Code § 1.12.7)
   H.   Emergency Funding:
      1.   Funding Beyond Appropriation: An improvement to be paid out of the
General Fund shall not exceed in any one year the amount provided for such
improvement in the general appropriation and annual appropriation bill;
provided, however, if by act of God, or any untoward emergency or accident
occurs in which the City Council had no control, in that event, the City
Council, by the vote of one-half (1/2) plus one of the members of the full
Council, may vote the necessary order to repair the damage done or in the
necessity for such expenditure regardless of the annual appropriation bill.
      2.   Borrowing Authorized:
         a.   In the event of casualty or accident, the City Council may order
the Mayor and Finance Committee to borrow a sufficient sum to provide for the
expense necessary to be incurred in making any repairs or restoration of
improvements, for a space of time not exceeding the close of the next fiscal
year, which sum and the interest shall be added to the amount authorized to be
raised in the next general tax levy and embraced therein. (1980 Code § 1.12.8)
         b.   Should any judgment be obtained against the corporation, the
Mayor, under the sanction of the City Council, may borrow for a space of time
not exceeding the close of the next fiscal year, a sufficient amount to pay the
same, which sum and interest shall in like manner be added to the amount
authorized to be raised in the general tax levy of the next year and embraced
therein. (1980 Code § 1.12.8; amd. 1999 Code)
   I.   Publication Of Expenditures:
      1.   Duty Of Treasurer: The City Treasurer shall cause to be published
for at least one insertion in the official newspaper within the City during the
first part of January, April, July and October of each and every year an
abstract of statements and of receipts and expenditures of the City giving the
source from which received, to what purpose applied, and to whom.
      2.   Failure To Comply: Failure to comply with the above subsection lays
the City Treasurer liable to be guilty of a misdemeanor, and punishable under
the laws of the State. (1980 Code § 1.12.9)
 
Notes
1 1. See Section
  1-5-3 of this Title.
CHAPTER 10
AREA OF CITY IMPACT
SECTION:
1-10-1: Legislative Purpose
1-10-2: Geographical Area Of City Impact
1-10-3: Comprehensive Plan
1-10-4: Subdivision Ordinances
1-10-5: Zoning Ordinances
1-10-6: Property Adjoining Roads
1-10-7: County Administration And Enforcement
1-10-8: Renegotiation
1-10-9: Notification
1-10-1: LEGISLATIVE PURPOSE:
The purpose for establishing an area of City impact is to identify a logical
urban fringe area adjoining the City. The urban fringe area is realizing, or
will realize, growth and development pressures that must be planned and managed
in an orderly fashion. The area of City impact recognizes trade area,
geographic factors and the potential delivery of public services as being
associated with the City and comprised of areas that may reasonably be annexed
to the City in the near and distant future. (Ord. 443, 12-20-1994, eff. after
12-31-1994)
1-10-2: GEOGRAPHIC AREA OF CITY IMPACT:
   A.   Area Described: The officially adopted and agreed upon area of City
impact for Rigby is established by this Section, and is set forth on the map,
attached to Ordinance 442 on file in the office of the City Clerk, entitled
"Area of City Impact for Rigby, Idaho", and marked Exhibit A , and as described
herein:
At a point beginning at the intersection of 200 North and 3800 East, thence
North to 400 North, thence East to 3900 East, thence North to the dry bed of
the Snake River, thence East following the dry bed to the Jefferson County Lake
and exempting therefrom the Lake and associated properties, thence South from
the intersection of the dry bed and U.S. 20, thence along U.S. 20 to the
Lewisville Canal, thence following said Canal East to 4100 East, thence South
to the Burgess Canal, thence West along the Canal to 4000 East; thence South
along 4000 East to 200 North, thence West along 200 North to the point of
beginning.
   B.   Conflict Between Map And Description: In the event of a discrepancy
between the Official Map and the legal description, the Map shall control,
subject to any other provisions of this Chapter. In the event of any ambiguity,
the Map and description shall be read together to effectuate the will of the
governing body. (Ord. 442, 10-25-1994)
1-10-3: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN:
The Comprehensive Plan and subsequent amendments thereto as officially adopted
by Jefferson County shall apply to the area of City impact within the
unincorporated area of Jefferson County. (Ord. 443, 12-20-1994, eff. after 12-
31-1994)
1-10-4: SUBDIVISION ORDINANCES:
The Subdivision Ordinance, and subsequent amendments thereto as officially
adopted by Jefferson County, shall apply to the area of City impact within the
unincorporated area of Jefferson County. (Ord. 443, 12-20-1994, eff. after 12-
31-1994)
1-10-5: ZONING ORDINANCES:
The Zoning Ordinance, Zoning Map, and subsequent amendments thereto as
officially adopted by Jefferson County, shall apply to the area of City impact
within the unincorporated area of Jefferson County. (Ord. 443, 12-20-1994, eff.
after 12-31-1994)
1-10-6: PROPERTY ADJOINING ROADS:
In the situations where the boundary is a road, the impact area shall include
housing adjoining and/or contingent to either side of the road itself. Property
on the outside of the impact area not adjoining the road shall not be
considered as within the impact area. In cases where other landmarks are used,
the impact area shall contain all property adjoining and inside the impact
area. (Ord. 442, 10-25-1994)
1-10-7: COUNTY ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Enforcement Of County Ordinances: Jefferson County shall be responsible
for the administration and enforcement of the County's ordinances listed in
Sections
1-10-3,
1-10-4 and
1-10-5 of this Chapter and shall receive all permit fees within the
unincorporated area for inspection performed to recapture direct costs of
inspections, administration, legal publications, and other costs arising from
the process. Appeal and hearing procedures shall follow those adopted by
Jefferson County presently and in the near future.
   B.   Review Of Amendments By City: Amendments to the Jefferson County
Comprehensive Plan, requirements for preliminary and final plats or the
vacation thereof, and request for zone changes involving property located in
the area of City impact within the unincorporated area of Jefferson County
being proposed for nonagricultural development of any type shall be provided to
the City Council for review prior to implementation.
   C.   Execute Development Agreements: The authority to enter into and execute
development agreements with a subdivider and to accept required bonding or
other form of security to guarantee construction of required street
improvements involving plats located within the area of City impact within the
unincorporated area of Jefferson County shall rest with Jefferson County.
However, the City shall be given notice of an application sufficient to provide
input at any hearing.
   D.   Street Maintenance: Maintenance of public streets located in the
unincorporated area of City impact shall be the exclusive responsibility of
Jefferson County.
   E.   City Membership On County Planning And Zoning Commission: The City
shall appoint one member to the Jefferson County Planning and Zoning Commission
to represent the area of City impact. The representative shall reside within
the area of City impact or City limits and shall be reappointed upon any
vacancy by citizens also residing within the area of City impact or City. (Ord.
443, 12-20-1994, eff. after 12-31-1994)
1-10-8: RENEGOTIATION:
The area of City impact shall be reviewed by the City and Jefferson County
after one year and shall be renegotiated at any time upon the request of either
party hereto. Renegotiation shall begin thirty (30) days after written request
by either the City or County and shall follow procedures for the original
negotiation, as set forth in Idaho Code section 67-6526. (Ord. 443, 12-20-1994,
eff. after 12-31-1994)
1-10-9: NOTIFICATION:
Both the City and County shall notify the other in writing at least once a
month of any building permits issued within the City impact area so that proper
action may be taken. Jefferson County shall notify the City in writing fifteen
(15) days prior to any action on: zoning changes, variances, or special use
permits. (Ord. 443, 12-20-1994, eff. after 12-31-1994)
CHAPTER 11
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
SECTION:
1-11-1: Taking Of Private Property Without Due Process
1-11-1: TAKING OF PRIVATE PROPERTY WITHOUT DUE PROCESS:
   A.   Process Adopted: The City Council will evaluate whether proposed
regulatory or administrative actions may result in the unconstitutional taking
of private property without due process of law and hereby adopts the process
provided by the Attorney General to accomplish this action. This process will
be utilized, effective immediately, to evaluate all proposed regulatory or
administrative actions taken by the City to assure that such actions do not
result in unconstitutional taking.
   B.   Private Property Rights Protected: The City wishes to ensure that land
use policies, restrictions, conditions and fees do not violate private property
rights, adversely impact private property values or create unnecessary
technical limitations upon the use of the property which will constitute an
unconstitutional taking of private property rights. In order to evaluate each
related action, the City will ask the following questions of that action:
      1.   Does the regulation or action result in the permanent or temporary
physical occupation of the property.
      2.   Does the regulation or action require a property owner to dedicate a
portion of property or grant an easement.
      3.   Does the regulation deprive the owner of all economically viable
uses of the property.
      4.   Does the regulation have a significant impact on the owner's
economic interest.
      5.   Does the regulation deny a fundamental attribute of ownership.
      6.   Does the regulation serve the same purpose that would be served by
directly prohibiting the use or action; and does the condition imposed
substantially advance that purpose. (Res. 25, 7-6-1995)
CHAPTER 12
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
SECTION:
1-12-1: Comprehensive Plan Adopted
1-12-1: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN ADOPTED:
The City adopts the Rigby Comprehensive Plan to be used as a guide for land use
and development decisions in Rigby, Idaho, and in the area of City impact.
(Res. 70, 6-16-1998; amd. Ord. 2019-600, 3-27-2019)
CHAPTER 13
PUBLIC HEARINGS
SECTION:
1-13-1: Hearing Procedures
1-13-1: HEARING PROCEDURES:
   A.   The presiding officer shall call the meeting to order and identify the
purpose of the hearing along with identifying the parties and notification that
cell phones and pagers are not allowed, except law enforcement and emergency
personnel;
   B.   The presiding officer shall then inform those present of the manner in
which the meeting shall be conducted;
      1.   Order Of Presentation:
         a.   The proponent shall go first and have fifteen (15) minutes to
present the request unless additional time is approved by the agency conducting
the hearing.
         b.   Those supporters of the project shall be heard next and shall be
limited to five (5) minutes per presentation unless expanded by the agency
conducting the hearing.
         c.   Any of those who are uncommitted to the issue may next address
their concerns and such comments shall not exceed five (5) minutes.
         d.   If there is an entity speaking on behalf of an organized
opposition, that entity shall similarly have fifteen (15) minutes to present
its argument.
         e.   Those who are in opposition should then be heard and such
comments shall not exceed five (5) minutes per presentation unless expanded by
the agency conducting the hearing.
         f.   A rebuttal shall be allowed for the proponent which shall be
limited to five (5) minutes unless expanded by the agency conducting the
hearing.
         g.   Rebuttal information will be received in opposition or support
thereof with each limited to two (2) minutes each unless expanded by the agency
conducting the hearing.
         h.   The governing board may ask questions of the proponent or
opponent of the project.
         i.   Any or all parties who wish to participate for or against shall
be asked to "sign in" in order to participate.
         j.   No person shall be allowed, other than in rebuttal, to address
the governing board more than once without the approval of the board.
         k.   No cell phones or pagers shall be allowed.
      2.   Manner Of Presentation:
         a.   Those speaking shall come forward and shall be entitled to the
silence of the audience/board.
         b.   Those addressing the board shall identify themselves by name,
residence and/or mailing address.
         c.   All oral information presented shall be recorded.
         d.   All exhibits, including petitions, plats, diagrams, etc., shall
be marked and become the property of the city. It is advised that exhibits be
submitted seventy two (72) hours prior to the hearing.
         e.   If written testimony is to be allowed, that form would be allowed
into evidence as long as properly identified. One page maximum. If longer, it
shall be submitted seventy two (72) hours prior to the hearing.
         f.   The person conducting the hearing shall have the authority to
continue or adjourn the hearing as necessary.
         g.   There shall be no spontaneous or planned displays of emotion.
         h.   The hearing shall be conducted in an area which is ADA accessible
and reasonable accommodations shall be made.
         i.   All persons shall have equal access to the hearing process.
      3.   Miscellaneous:
         a.   The public may bring in tape recorders and the media may attend.
Flash photography is disruptive and shall not be allowed once the hearing
begins.
         b.   Copies of the information may be provided in accord with the
public records law upon writing to city clerk.
         c.   The governing board is not allowed to visit the land or property
at issue, nor shall the governing board take evidence except as outlined
herein.
         d.   If there is a threat of violence, reasonable security measures
shall be taken and meeting may be adjourned.
         e.   An outline of the agenda of the hearing and method of conducting
the hearing shall be made available to the public.
   C.   At the conclusion, the presiding officer shall note the time and
declare the hearing closed. The officer shall then announce, if possible, when
the decision shall be rendered.
   D.   A copy of the resolution codified herein shall be made available to all
interested parties. (Res. 101, 4-15-2003)
CHAPTER 14
INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM PROCEDURE
SECTION:
1-14-1: Purpose
1-14-2: Definitions
1-14-3: Process
1-14-4: Process If Insufficient Petition
1-14-5: Form Of Petition
1-14-6: Timing Of Election
1-14-7: Review Of Petition
1-14-8: Election
1-14-9: Referendum; Additional Limitations
1-14-10: Form Of Ballot
1-14-11: Research Fees And Copying Fees Rates
1-14-1: PURPOSE:
The city of Rigby is required to provide direct legislation through the
referendum and initiative process. Idaho Code section 50-501 provides the
minimum requirements. The city excludes from this section bond and recall
elections. It also specifically exempts modification of a budget ordinance by
initiative or referendum as the city and its contracts would possibly subject
the city to potential liability. (Ord. 515, 12-7-2004)
1-14-2: DEFINITIONS:
DATE OF PASSAGE: The day the ordinance is signed by the mayor and shall be
inclusive of the first day for purpose of determining time frame.
ELECTOR: Individuals whose name is listed on the voter list maintained by the
Jefferson County clerk record office.
ELIGIBLE ELECTION DATE: Elections may be held on four (4) dates each year
pursuant to Idaho Code section 34-601. They are as follows: a) first Tuesday in
February; b) fourth Tuesday in May; c) first Tuesday in August; d) Tuesday
following the first Monday in November.
INITIATIVE: The process whereby the citizens pass legislation in the form of an
ordinance.
REFERENDUM: The process whereby citizens revoke ordinances duly passed by the
city council. (Ord. 515, 12-7-2004)
1-14-3: PROCESS:
An initiating petition shall be filed with the office of the Rigby city clerk.
The number of signatures shall be equal to twenty percent (20%) of the total
number of electors who cast votes at the last general election in the city. The
number of electors last voting shall be determined by reference to the actual
poll list maintained by the Rigby city clerk. Upon receipt of the petition the
city clerk shall review the petition within ten (10) working days. The clerk
shall compare the purported signatures with that of the registered elector.
Each rejected signature shall be drawn through with ink. In addition to
checking for authenticity the clerk shall review the signatures for additional
concerns including, but not limited to:
   A.   Erasures;
   B.   Undecipherable signatures;
   C.   Signatures not properly identified by all information required on the
petition;
   D.   Duplicate signatures;
   E.   Signatures of those who have requested in writing to have their names
removed;
   F.   Signatures may also be voided if the petition is not in substantial
compliance with the procedural requirements pertaining to form of petition or
lacking proper verification.
All voided signatures shall be interlineated. All valid signatures will be
indicated by a check mark or similar mark indicating it has been reviewed. The
review of the petition may be performed by the clerk or deputy clerk. Within
seventy two (72) hours of the review, the clerk shall indicate the additional
number of signatures required, if any. Once filed, the petition shall remain
the property of the city clerk. However, copies may be provided to anyone
requesting such, but shall be stamped "copy" before release and cannot be
submitted as an original. (Ord. 515, 12-7-2004)
1-14-4: PROCESS IF INSUFFICIENT PETITION:
   A.   If the petition is insufficient, the sponsor shall have thirty (30)
days from the written notice to perfect the petition, i.e., acquire the
requisite number of valid signatures and submit such to the city clerk by five
o'clock (5:00) P.M. on the thirtieth day, or if such falls on a weekend or
holiday, by five o'clock (5:00) P.M. on the next business day.
   B.   Upon receipt of the additional signatures, the clerk shall review the
signatures in a similar manner and time frame as set forth above. Should the
petition again fail, the petitions shall be declared null and void ab initio.
   C.   A second petition dealing with essentially the same subject matter
cannot be filed until at least ninety (90) days has elapsed since the date of
mailing of the notice that the prior petition had failed. (Ord. 515, 12-7-2004)
1-14-5: FORM OF PETITION:
The initiative or referendum petition for city officers shall be in
substantially the following form:
   Direct legislation Petition
   To the honorable ..., City Clerk for the City of Rigby;
   We the undersigned citizens and registered electors of the City of Rigby,
respectfully demand that the following be made part of the laws of the City of
Rigby; if a referendum, that the following provision of law be stricken from
the laws of the City of Rigby. That the direct legislation is necessary for the
following reasons, to-wit: (setting out the reasons for direct legislature in
not more than 200 words); that a special election therefore be called; that we,
each for himself say: I am a registered elector of the City of Rigby, my
residence, post office address, and the date I signed this petition are
correctly written after my name.
 
Signature Printed name Residence         City or     Date
                       And Street number post office
 
(Here follow twenty numbered lines for signatures.)
The direct legislation for special district officers shall be in substantially
the following form:
Each and every signature sheet of each petition containing signatures shall be
verified on the face thereof in substantially the following form by the person
who circulated said sheet of the petition, by his or her affidavit thereon, as
a part thereof:
State of Idaho   )
         : ss
County of Jefferson   )
I,            , swear, under penalty of perjury, that every person who signed
this sheet of the foregoing petition signed his or her name thereto in my
presence. I believe that each has stated his or her name in my presence. I
believe that each has stated his or her name and the accompanying required
information on the signature sheet correctly, and that the person was eligible
to sign this petition.
Signature    
      Post Office Address    
Subscribed and sworn to before me this          day of           , 20        .
(Notary Seal)         
      Notary Public
      Residing at:       
Before or at the time of beginning to circulate all petitions for direct
legislation and sheets for signatures shall be printed on a good quality bond
or ledger paper, on pages eight and one-half inches (81/2") in width by
thirteen inches (13") in length, with a margin of one and three-fourths inches
(13/4") at the top for binding, and the sheets for signatures shall have
numbered lines thereon from one to twenty (1–20) for signatures. The petition
shall be prepared in sections, with each section numbered consecutively. Each
section of a petition must have a printed copy of the petition as the first
page, and each section shall have attached to it not more than ten (10) sheets
for signatures. (Ord. 515, 12-7-2004)
1-14-6: TIMING OF ELECTION:
The election shall take place at the nearest date as set forth in section
1-14-2 of this chapter which falls more than forty five (45) days after the
clerk orders the election. (Ord. 515, 12-7-2004)
1-14-7: REVIEW OF PETITION:
The proponent of the legislation shall submit the initial petition with not
less than twenty (20) names. The clerk shall review those names and the
petition. Within five (5) days, the clerk in writing, shall indicate if the
petition is acceptable, and if unacceptable, indicate why. The clerk shall
retain this petition but the approved names shall count toward the twenty
percent (20%) of the number of electors voting at the last general election. If
the form is not accepted none of the signatures shall be counted. Once
accepted, the proponent shall have sixty (60) days, as defined in this chapter
to collect the necessary signatures. (Ord. 515, 12-7-2004)
1-14-8: ELECTION:
The election shall be conducted pursuant to the general election laws of this
state. (Ord. 515, 12-7-2004)
1-14-9: REFERENDUM; ADDITIONAL LIMITATIONS:
No petition for referendum, whether initiating or otherwise, shall be filed
until sixty (60) days have expired from the date of passage of the ordinance.
(Ord. 515, 12-7-2004)
1-14-10: FORM OF BALLOT:
The ballot at any direct legislation election shall be headed "Initiative or
Referendum" and on the ballot shall be printed in not more than two hundred
(200) words the reason for demanding the legislation in the petition, and in
not more than two hundred (200) words the city justification of its course in
office. Then the question of whether the direct legislation shall be placed on
the ballot in a form substantially similar to the following:
[ ] FOR THE REFERENDUM OR INITIATIVE
[ ] AGAINST THE REFERENDUM OR INITIATIVE
(Ord. 515, 12-7-2004)
1-14-11: RESEARCH FEES AND COPYING FEES RATES:
The fees to be charged for research exceeding two (2) hours shall be at the pay
rate for the least expensive employee that is trained to respond to the public
record request; and the rate of copy fee shall be ten (10) cents for all pages
after the first one hundred (100) pages and the requesting party shall pay the
cost of a thumb drive if provided. (Ord. 2023-636, 7-6-2023)
CHAPTER 15
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS
SECTION:
1-15-1: Authority
1-15-2:    Hearing Process
1-15-3:    Formulating A Development Agreement; City Administrative Duties
1-15-4:    [Reserved]
1-15-5:    Other Development Agreements
1-15-6:    Recording Of Development Agreements
1-15-7:    Appurtenance Of Development Agreements
1-15-8:    Modification Of Development Agreements
1-15-9:    Termination Of Development Agreements
1-15-10: Enforcement Of Development Agreements
1-15-11: Severability
1-15-12: Effective Date
1-15-1: AUTHORITY:
Per Idaho code 67-6511a, the City of Rigby has authority for the formulation,
recording, modifying, enforcement and termination of development agreements.
(Ord. 2019-599-A, 3-21-2019)
1-15-2: HEARING PROCESS:
The City shall comply with notice and hearing provisions of section 67-6509,
Idaho Code as required when applying development agreement to land use
applications. (Ord. 2019-599-A, 3-21-2019)
1-15-3: FORMULATING A DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT; CITY ADMINISTRATIVE DUTIES:
   A.   1.   A Standard Development Agreement form may be used to formulate
development agreements, and with the assistance of City staff, the City and the
developer may add other commitments to a development agreement.
      2.   Examples of development agreement commitments may include, but are
not limited to: utility connections; street layout; street signs and
barricades; parking on streets addressed; street lighting; landscaping; damages
to existing public improvements during construction; transfer of surface water
rights to the City; removal of temporary structures; rubbish and waste
materials; compaction of soils and materials; requirements set out in City
Code; requirements set out in City Code
11-5  Design; requirements set out in Construction Standards and City Code
11-6 ; and other reasonable requirements necessary for the compliance of City
Code; new and emerging standards of building, construction and infrastructure;
and the functionality of the development within the City or its Area of Impact.
   B.   City staff such as the City Clerk and the City Planner, working with
the developer and any successors of a land parcel, will direct the formulation,
recording, modification, enforcement and termination of development agreements.
   C.   Any city decision-making body may impose conditions upon the approval
of any permit, provided such conditions are reasonably necessary to implement
or achieve the requirements of this Code, new and emerging standards, and the
functionality of the development within the City or its Area of Impact. (Ord.
2019-599-A, 3-21-2019)
1-15-4: [RESERVED]:
1-15-5: OTHER DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS:
Zone Change Development Agreements, PUD Development Agreements, CUP or SUP
Development Agreements, Subdivision Development Agreements, and other land use
development agreements will be authorized and will be subject to ordinance
hearings if required by Idaho Code. Under no circumstances will any such
required hearings be set without a signed development agreement. (Ord. 2019-
599-A, 3-21-2019)
1-15-6: RECORDING OF DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS:
Development agreements shall be recorded in the office of the Jefferson County
Recorder and shall take effect upon the adoption of the amendment to the zoning
ordinance and all other recordable City land uses. (Ord. 2019-599-A, 3-21-2019)
1-15-7: APPURTENANCE OF DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS:
   A.   A development agreement is appurtenant to the land parcel and is
binding on the owner of the parcel even if it is unrecorded; however, an
unrecorded commitment is binding on a subsequent owner or other person
acquiring an interest in the parcel only if that subsequent owner or other
person has actual notice of the commitment.
   B.   Unless modified or terminated by the City Council after a public
hearing, a commitment is binding on the owner of the parcel, each subsequent
owner, and each other person acquiring an interest in the parcel. (Ord. 2019-
599-A, 3-21-2019)
1-15-8: MODIFICATION OF DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS:
A development agreement may be modified only by the permission of the City
Council after complying with the notice and hearing provisions of section 67-
6509, Idaho Code. (Ord. 2019-599-A, 3-21-2019)
1-15-9: TERMINATION OF DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS:
   A.   A development agreement may be terminated, the zoning designation and
any plats reversed, upon the failure of the initial developer to initiate,
perform upon, or fulfill in whole or in part the requirements in the
development agreement after two (2) year's time from date of Council approval
of development agreement.
   B.   Each subsequent owner or each other person subsequently acquiring an
interest in a land parcel with an active development agreement shall also be
required to comply with the conditions in the development agreement, shall be
under the same requirements of modification and termination of the development
agreement in this Code, and shall initiate, perform upon, or fulfill in whole
or in part the requirements in the development agreement within two (2) year's
time from the date of ownership.
   C.   By permitting or requiring development agreements by ordinance the City
Council does not obligate itself to recommend or adopt any proposed zoning
ordinance, or other land use changes. A written development agreement shall be
deemed written consent to rezone upon the failure of conditions imposed by the
development agreement in accordance with the provisions of Idaho Code 67-6509.
   D.   Failure of any party to require performance of any provision of a
development agreement shall not affect any party's right to require full
performance thereof at any time thereafter, and the waiver by any party of a
breach of any provision hereof shall not constitute a waiver of a similar
breach in the future or of any other breach or nullify the effectiveness of
such provision. (Ord. 2019-599-A, 3-21-2019)
1-15-10: ENFORCEMENT OF DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS:
The City retains the right to utilize civil remedies to obtain specific
performance of the duties, obligations and promises of subdividers, land
owners, and developers as written in development agreements.
   A.   Continuing Obligation: Maintenance of improvements, conditions of
approvals, and requirements of this code shall be a continuing obligation of
the applicant or their successors. Any failure to meet these obligations shall
be deemed a violation of the Code and subject to the penalties set forth in
Title 1, Chapter 3  General Penalty Provisions of City Code.
   B.   Violation: Any person or entity that violates any provisions of this
Code shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction shall be subject to
penalties as set forth in City Code.
   C.   Procedures For Enforcement:
      1.   A written notice of failure to maintain the required improvements,
conditions of approval, or requirements of this Code shall be served upon all
owners of record of the property. The notice shall be in writing and shall be
mailed to the owner(s)'s or address last shown on the records of the Jefferson
County Assessor. Service of the notice shall be deemed to be complete upon its
deposit in the U.S. mail, postage prepaid in the manner set forth above. The
notice shall contain a brief description of the terms of the maintenance plan,
conditions of approval or violation of the Code.
      2.   Any person receiving the notice, may, within ten (10) days of the
date of service, request a hearing before the Planning and Zoning Commission,
which request shall be delivered to the City Planner. Following receipt of the
request, the City Planner shall deliver the request to the Planning and Zoning
Commission which shall hold a hearing within forty-five (45) days from that
date. At the hearing, the person may request a reasonable extension of time for
curing their failure to comply or otherwise demonstrate good cause why they
should not be required to comply.
      3.   If compliance is not completed within ninety (90) days after the
date the notice of failure to maintain the required improvements was served, or
any extension allowed by the Planning and Zoning Commission, the owner or
owners of the property subject thereto shall be deemed to be in violation of
this Zoning Code, and shall be subject to the penalties set forth in
Title 1, Chapter 4  General Penalty Provisions of City Code.
   D.   Nuisance: Any building or structure which has been set up, erected,
constructed, altered, enlarged, converted, moved, remodeled or maintained
contrary to the provisions of this Code, and any use of land or building or
premises established, conducted, maintained or operated contrary to the
provisions of this Code are hereby declared to be unlawful and opposed to the
orderly development of the community and shall therefore be considered a public
nuisance. (Ord. 2019-599-A, 3-21-2019)
1-15-11: SEVERABILITY:
This chapter is severable, and in the event any portion of this chapter is
deemed unenforceable under the law for any reason the remaining portions of
this agreement not so affected shall remain in full force and effect. (Ord.
2019-599-A, 3-21-2019)
1-15-12: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This chapter shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage and
publication. (Ord. 2019-599-A, 3-21-2019)
CHAPTER 16
SURPLUS PROPERTY
SECTION:
1-16-1: Surplus Property; Authorization; Declaration; Disposal; Prohibitions
1-16-2: Sale At Retail
1-16-1: SURPLUS PROPERTY; AUTHORIZATION; DECLARATION; DISPOSAL; PROHIBITIONS:
No employee of the city is authorized to sell, transfer or give away personal
or real property of the city except in accordance with this chapter. The
unauthorized sale or transfer of property of the city by any employee, other
than by discarding as waste material at the sanitary landfill or similar
approved depository for refuse, shall constitute a misdemeanor, punishable as
provided in Idaho Code sections 50-302(1) and 18-113, as amended, in addition
to any other civil or equitable remedy which might be available to the city or
criminal charge that might be appropriate under the circumstances. Only the
city council has authority to declare property, whether real or personal, to be
surplus. The city clerk shall coordinate the disposal of all surplus property,
including land, buildings, equipment, and other city assets no longer required
for city use, in the manner which is in the best interests of the city, and
which is consistent with the requirements of law.
   A.   Declaration Of Surplus; Disposal Of Personal Property: For an item or
batch of items estimated by the city clerk to be valued at less than one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00), and subject to the prohibitions set forth in
subsection (5) of this section, the city clerk shall have full discretion on
when and how such an item, or batch of items, shall be disposed of following
declaration by the city council that such property is surplus, unless specific
dispositive instructions are given by the city council in that declaration. The
city clerk shall work with department heads to determine reasonable values for
items of surplus property and may grant discretion to department heads to
dispose of items of surplus property valued under $1,000.00, subject to the
requirement that all proceeds from any sale shall be delivered to the city
clerk. Surplus personal property estimated by the city clerk to have a value of
one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), or more, shall be disposed of in accordance
with the provisions set forth insubsection (4) of this section. The city
council may, in any resolution declaring personal property to be surplus,
direct the method of disposition. If no method of disposition is set forth in
the resolution, such property shall be disposed of in any manner consistent
with this article and state and federal law.
   B.   Declaration Of Surplus; Disposal Of Real Property: When appropriate,
the city shall declare city owned real property to be surplus and dispose of
such property in accordance with the requirements and procedures set forth in
Idaho Code section 50-1403.
   C.   Transfer of Surplus Property to Other Government Agencies: When
appropriate and in the city’s best interest, the city clerk shall recommend to
the mayor and city council the transfer or donation of surplus property to
other government agencies in accordance with the requirements of Idaho Code.
   D.   Disposition of Surplus Property: The city clerk may dispose of personal
property through a sale, or may, in the alternative, dispose of said property
through exchange for property to be acquired by the city.
      1.   All sales of surplus personal property, except as specifically
provided for herein, shall be made through a public sale or auction and shall
be preceded by some form of public notice, which shall include, at a minimum, a
posting for at least three (3) days on the city’s internet website. Except
where such procedures or requirements are set forth in Idaho Code, decisions
concerning the procedures to be followed for the sale and any additional notice
beyond that required above shall be made by the city clerk. 
      2.   If any sale or auction of surplus personal property fails to produce
a buyer at a minimum price set by the city council, if a minimum price was set,
or, if no bids are received, the city clerk shall proceed to dispose of the
property at his or her discretion, subject to the prohibitions set forth in
subsection (5) of this section, in any appropriate manner designed to maximize
the financial return to the city, unless otherwise instructed by the city
council in its resolution declaring such property to be surplus.
      3.   In the event items of surplus personal property are determined to
have no salable value because of condition, obsolescence or inappropriateness
of use for the general public, the city clerk shall dispose of such items in
any manner appropriate, subject to the prohibitions set forth in subsection (5)
of this section.
      4.   When real or personal property is purchased, donated or otherwise
conveyed to the city and federal funding designated for the purpose of
assisting low to moderate income persons with decent, safe, affordable housing
opportunities, has been utilized to obtain or improve the property, it may be
offered for public sale. If the property is not sold through a public sale, the
property may be sold, donated or otherwise conveyed directly to a low to
moderate income person as approved by the city clerk and housing program
administrator. In either event, the sale or conveyance must be consistent with
the requirements of the applicable federal regulations under which the property
was obtained initially or improved.
      5.   All proceeds from the sale or auction of an item or batch of items
of surplus property shall be deposited into the Capital Improvement Fund
regardless of where the item was purchased and or acquired unless otherwise
restricted per state or federal law.
   E.   Parties Prohibited from Purchasing Surplus Property: It shall be
unlawful for any of the following persons to purchase surplus property at any
sale or auction: mayor, city clerk, members of the city council, appointed
officials or department heads. It shall likewise be unlawful for any
partnership or entity in which any of the foregoing persons have any financial
interest in purchasing such property. No employer, business partner, business
associate, or immediate family member of one of the aforementioned persons
shall be permitted to purchase surplus property at any sale or auction.
Finally, no city employee involved in the sale of any specific item or batch of
items of surplus property shall be permitted to purchase said property. (Ord.
2024-640, 4-18-2024)
1-16-2: SALE AT RETAIL:
Notwithstanding any other provision of this code, the city may sell personal
property to employees and members of the public at retail, at city facilities
and events. For purposes of this section “facilities and events” shall include,
but shall not be limited to, vending machines, snack bars, gift shops, pro
shops or other marketing methods catering to city employees or members of the
public utilizing city facilities or participation in city sponsored event.
(Ord. 2024-640, 4-18-2024)
TITLE 2
BOARDS, COMMISSIONS AND COMMITTEES
CHAPTER 1
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-1-1: Appointment; Qualifications; Terms
2-1-2: Membership
2-1-3: Compensation
2-1-4: Organization
2-1-5: Meetings, Rules And Records
2-1-6: Budget And Staffing
2-1-7: Duties
2-1-1: APPOINTMENT; QUALIFICATIONS; TERMS:
   A.   Appointment: Members of the City Planning and Zoning Commission shall
be appointed by the Mayor and confirmed by a majority vote of the City Council.
   B.   Residency:
      1.   Representing City: All members of the City Planning and Zoning
Commission representing the City shall have resided in the City for two (2)
years prior to their appointment and must remain a resident of the City during
their service on said Commission.
      2.   Representing Area Of City Impact: Members appointed to the Planning
and Zoning Commission representing the area of City impact outside the
boundaries of the City shall have resided in Jefferson County for two (2) years
prior to their appointment and must remain a resident of the County during
their service on said Commission and reside within the area of City impact.
   C.   Terms Of Office:
      1.   The term of office of each appointive member of the Planning and
Zoning Commission shall be four (4) years. The existing Planning and Zoning
Commission members and their terms of office are hereby confirmed. The terms of
office for the additional newly appointive members shall be four (4) years.
      2.   At the next meeting, the Planning and Zoning Commission shall,
following passage and publication of Sections
2-1-1 and
2-1-2 of this Chapter, establish a staggered sequence of terms based upon time
spent on the Commission and shall designate each seat numerically or
alphabetically so that a record can be kept as to terms and when various seats
are up. In the event that the Planning and Zoning Commission members cannot
agree, terms shall be determined by lot.
   D.   Filling Vacancies: Vacancies occurring other than through the
expiration of the terms shall be filled by the Mayor and confirmed by the City
Council. Members shall be selected without respect to political affiliation,
race, sex, or creed. (Ord. 473, 5-18-1999)
2-1-2: MEMBERSHIP:
   A.   Number Of Members: The City Planning and Zoning Commission shall
consist of eight (8) voting members, including the chairman of said Commission.
Seven (7) of the eight (8) members shall be City residents with one Commission
member residing in the impact area as required by Idaho Code section 67-6526.
   B.   Proportion Of Members: The proportion between City members and impact
area members shall be reviewed at a minimum of after each national census or at
such earlier time as may be set by resolution of the City Council. In the event
that the Commission be expanded to maintain proportionality the Planning and
Zoning Commission may increase such as may be required to the maximum of twelve
(12) members. An increase of more than twelve (12) shall be by ordinance. Said
Planning and Zoning Commission shall operate as an eight (8) member Planning
and Zoning Commission. Such representation shall, as nearly as possible,
reflect the proportion of the population living within the City as opposed to
the population living within the area of City impact but outside the City.
   C.   Vote Of Chairman: The chairman or acting chairman shall have no vote
except in the case of a tie. (Ord. 475, 5-18-1999)
2-1-3: COMPENSATION:
Members of the Planning and Zoning Commission shall be entitled to receive such
mileage and per diem compensation as may be provided by the City Council by
resolution. (1980 Code § 3.2.3)
2-1-4: ORGANIZATION:
The Planning and Zoning Commission shall elect its own chairman and create and
fill such other offices as may be determined to be necessary. The Commission
shall have the authority to establish subcommittees, advisory committees, or
neighborhood groups to advise and assist in carrying out its responsibilities
under this Chapter and pursuant to Idaho Code section 67-6501 et seq. (1980
Code § 3.2.4)
2-1-5: MEETINGS, RULES AND RECORDS:
   A.   Bylaws: The Planning and Zoning Commission shall adopt bylaws
consistent with this Chapter and Idaho Code section 67-6501 et seq., for the
transaction of the business of the Commission.
   B.   Records: A record or minutes of meetings, hearings, resolutions,
studies, findings, permits and actions taken by the Commission shall be
maintained.
   C.   Open To The Public: All meetings and records shall be open to the
public.
   D.   Meetings: At least one regular meeting shall be held each month for not
less than nine (9) months in a year.
   E.   Quorum: A majority of the voting members of the Commission shall
constitute a quorum. (1980 Code § 3.2.5)
2-1-6: BUDGET AND STAFFING:
   A.   Receive And Expend Funds: Upon approval of the City Council, the
Planning and Zoning Commission may accept, receive, and expend funds, grants
and services from the Federal government or agencies and instrumentalities of
State or local governments or from civic and private sources and may contract
with these entities to provide information and reports as necessary to secure
aid. All expenditures by the Planning and Zoning Commission shall be within the
amounts appropriated or budgeted by the City Council.
   B.   Hire Employees, Advisors: The Commission is authorized to employ or
hire employees and technical advisors, including but not limited to, legal
assistants, planners, engineers, and architects as are deemed necessary for its
work and consistent with their budgetary limitations. (1980 Code § 3.2.6)
2-1-7: DUTIES:
   A.   Conduct Hearings, Surveys: The Planning and Zoning Commission, as a
part of the overall planning process, shall provide for citizen meetings,
hearings, surveys, or other methods to obtain advice on the planning process,
the Comprehensive Plan and its implementation. Pursuant to this duty, the
Commission is also authorized to conduct informational meetings and consult
with public officials and agencies, public utility companies, and civic,
educational, professional, or other organizations.
   B.   Comprehensive Plan: The Commission shall conduct a comprehensive
planning process designed to prepare, implement and review and update a
Comprehensive Plan. Said Comprehensive Plan and its process of preparation,
implementation, review, and update shall be accomplished in accordance with
this Chapter and the provisions of Idaho Code section 67-6501 et seq.
   C.   Review Of Maps, Plats And Replats: All maps, plats and replats of land
which require the approval of the City Council, or any official or employee
thereof, shall first be submitted to the Planning and Zoning Commission for its
review and the Commission shall have a reasonable time, to be fixed by the City
Council in accordance with law, within which to examine such maps, plats or
replats before returning the same to the applicant with their suggestions or
forwarding said materials to the City Council with their recommendations.
   D.   Powers Pursuant To State Law: The Commission shall have any and all
powers and duties enumerated in Idaho Code section 67-6501 et seq., as now
constituted and as may hereinafter be amended. (1980 Code § 3.2.7)
CHAPTER 2
RECREATION BOARD
SECTION:
2-2-1: Declaration Of Public Benefit
2-2-2: Definitions
2-2-3: Board Of Trustees; Members
2-2-4: Term Of Office
2-2-5: Compensation
2-2-6: Vacancies
2-2-7: Meetings
2-2-8: Annual Appropriations
2-2-9: Powers And Duties
2-2-10: Recreation Coordinator
2-2-11: Donations
2-2-12: Budget Year
2-2-13: Grievance Procedure
2-2-1: DECLARATION OF PUBLIC BENEFIT:
Providing adequate recreation, health, or additional education facilities for
the public use is hereby declared to be a public benefit, use and purpose which
enhances the value and quality of life in which materially assists in
correcting or eliminating many social ills such as delinquency, crime,
excessive use of alcohol, drug abuse and discrimination. (Ord. 497, 8-20-2002)
2-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless a different meaning plainly is required in this chapter:
BOARD: The group of trustees who are appointed by the mayor and city council of
the city of Rigby to be on the Rigby recreation board.
CENTER: The Rigby recreation center.
CITY COUNCIL: The legislative body of the city of Rigby.
MAYOR: The elected chief municipal officer of the city.
NONPARTISAN: Not controlled or influenced by any single political party.
PARK: The various city parks that are cared for and maintained by the city of
Rigby.
RECREATIONAL ACTIVITIES: Shall include all manner of physical exercise. The
activities shall include, but not be limited to: baseball, football,
basketball, hiking, tennis, pool, swimming, golf, table tennis, skating,
soccer, gymnastics, and weight training.
SKATE PARK: The location of the Rigby skate park which is located on the
southwest portion of the city. (Ord. 497, 8-20-2002)
2-2-3: BOARD OF TRUSTEES; MEMBERS:
There is hereby created a Rigby recreation board composed of five (5) board
members, at least one of which must reside in the Rigby city area of impact.
All other members of the board shall reside within the city of Rigby itself,
unless there is a finding by the board that qualified individuals could not be
found within the confines of the city of Rigby. It is further recommended that
at least one of the members, at the time of appointment, be between the age of
sixteen (16) and eighteen (18) years and shall serve a one year term. The board
members shall be appointed by the mayor and confirmed by the council for the
terms of office provided in this chapter. Any three (3) members of the board
shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of any business. Appointment to
the board shall be made solely upon the ability of such appointees to serve the
interests of the people, without regard to sex, age, race, nationality,
religion, disability or political affiliation. A member of the city council
shall not be one of the appointed trustees of the board, but each year the
council shall appoint one of its members to be a liaison to the board, without
voting rights. (Ord. 497, 8-20-2002)
2-2-4: TERM OF OFFICE:
The initial appointment of board members shall be for terms of one, two (2),
three (3), four (4), and five (5) years respectively. Subsequent appointments
shall be made for five (5) years from the date of appointment, and until their
successors are appointed. Each board member may serve no more than two (2) full
terms of office. Terms shall run from January 1 until December 31. On the
initial term of office for 2002, a year shall be from the date of passage until
December 31, 2002.
The officers of the board shall consist of a president and vice president to be
selected by the board from among its members, to serve as such officers for one
year; provided that the president of the board shall be ineligible to succeed
himself for consecutive terms of office. The board shall also designate a
secretary who need not be a member of the board. The secretary shall keep
correct minutes of the proceedings of the board (including, but not limited to,
any discussions regarding bills or the encumbrance of funds), shall have
custody of the records of the board, except those in the custody of the city,
and shall perform all other duties which are provided or directed by the board.
The president shall be the executive officer of the board and shall preside at
all meetings, and perform all the duties which are provided and or necessary by
this chapter. The vice president shall act in the absence of the president and
shall perform all other duties. (Ord. 497, 8-20-2002)
2-2-5: COMPENSATION:
Pursuant to Idaho Code section 50-210, all members and the officers thereof
shall serve without salary or compensation, but their actual and necessary
expenses shall be allowed by the city. The city shall provide the necessary and
suitable equipment and supplies to enable the board to properly transact and
attend to its business. (Ord. 497, 8-20-2002)
2-2-6: VACANCIES:
The board shall report all vacancies to the council within five (5) working
days. All such appointments shall be made in the same manner as appointments
are originally made. Appointments to complete an unexpired term shall be for
the remainder of the term only. Any board member may be removed by the city
council and may be removed in such manner as they were appointed, as per Idaho
Code section 50-210. (Ord. 497, 8-20-2002)
2-2-7: MEETINGS:
The board shall meet at least once per month unless required to meet more
frequently. One meeting shall be designated as the annual meeting. The purposes
of the annual meetings are to elect the officers of the board, to establish a
regular meeting date, and to review, amend, repeal or adopt bylaws, policies
and procedures. Special meetings may be held from time to time as the board may
determine, but written notice thereof shall be given to the members at least
two (2) days prior to the day of the meeting. A quorum shall consist of the
three (3) voting members but a smaller number may adjourn. All meetings are to
be held pursuant to the open meeting law and shall be in such a facility as to
accommodate those individuals who may suffer from disabilities. The secretary
shall be responsible for preparing an agenda in a timely manner, and provide
notice thereof to the city. The meetings shall occur at a set date and time
each month as set by resolution. The board shall report at least once each
year, or more frequently at the council's discretion. (Ord. 497, 8-20-2002)
2-2-8: ANNUAL APPROPRIATIONS:
The board shall prepare and adopt an annual budget, stating anticipated
revenues and expenditures, indicating what support and maintenance of the
various entities under the control of the recreation board will be required for
review and approval by the city council for the ensuing year. The budget shall
be prepared in a timely manner so that such budget may be incorporated in the
municipal budgeting procedures.
All funds shall be in the custody of the city treasurer or clerk unless
otherwise provided by city ordinance, and shall be used only for recreation
purposes. The board shall have control of the expenditures. Money shall be paid
for recreation purposes, only upon properly authenticated vouchers of the
board. The board shall not make expenditures or incur indebtedness in any year
in excess of monies appropriated by the city for the recreation purposes. The
board shall assist in any auditing as is required by the city and make
available any information it may have.
Notice of the budget hearing shall be posted at least ten (10) days prior to
the date of said meeting in at least one conspicuous place in each recreation
facility, a copy of the notice shall also be published in the official
newspaper of the city of Rigby at least ten (10) days prior to the review by
the recreation board. The place, hour and day of such hearing shall be
specified in such notice as well as the place where such budget may be examined
prior to such hearing. A full and complete copy of the proposed request to the
city council for budget is to be made available to the public. (Ord. 497, 8-20-
2002)
2-2-9: POWERS AND DUTIES:
In addition to any powers provided by law, the recreation board shall have the
following powers and duties:
   A.   To establish bylaws and mission statement for its own governance;
   B.   To establish policies and rules of use for the governance of the
various recreation facilities under its control; to exclude from the use of the
facilities any persons who violate such rules;
   C.   To have control, superintendence and charge of all recreation
facilities and any land or lots hereinafter purchased, leased, devised and
bequeathed to the city for park and recreation purposes, and as such to direct
the improvements of said grounds;
   D.   To study the economic and physical conditions and problems with the
maintenance, operation, management, control and use of the public park grounds
facilities and buildings within the city;
   E.   To propose and promulgate rules and regulations for the control and
regulation of the use of the public park grounds, buildings and playground;
   F.   To represent the public interest in making suggestions and
recommendations for the development, use and expansion of needed and required
playground and other recreation leisure program activities;
   G.   To represent the public interest in making recommendations for the
employment of the recreation coordinator, and for the use and control of the
recreation facilities of the city;
   H.   To suggest and recommend such rules and regulations necessary and
desirable to carry out the intent of this chapter and improve and correlate the
problems of governmental administration of all recreation and leisure programs
of the city;
   I.   To propose plans, recommendations and suggestions for the future
growth, development and regulation of the recreation facilities of the city;
   J.   To maintain legal records of all of the board's business; to exercise
such other powers not inconsistent with law, necessary for the orderly and
efficient management of the recreation facilities;
   K.   With the approval of the city, the recreation board shall have the
following authority: 1) to acquire real property by purchase, gift, devise,
lease or otherwise; 2) to own and hold real and personal property and construct
the buildings for the use and purposes of the city; 3) to sell, exchange or
otherwise dispose of real or personal property when no longer required; and to
insure the real and personal property of the recreation facility; 4) to accept
or decline gifts of money or personal property in accordance with policy and
under such terms as may be a condition of the gift; 5) to hire, supervise and
evaluate the recreation coordinator.
All rules and regulations formulated, proposed and promulgated by the
recreation board shall be approved and ratified by the council and after such
approval and ratification shall have the force and effect of ordinance. All
rules and regulations of the board now in effect shall remain in full force and
effect until amended, altered or repealed. It is explicitly noted that it is
the recreation board's responsibility to suggest a fee structure for the use of
all recreation facilities. The ultimate adoption of the fee schedule shall be
by resolution of the Rigby city council. The surplus property as found in
subsection K, item 3) of this section, shall be sold at public auction
consistent with city practices. Any real property shall be sold pursuant to
Idaho Code section 50-1401 et seq., as amended. (Ord. 497, 8-20-2002)
2-2-10: RECREATION COORDINATOR:
The mayor shall nominate and the city council shall appoint the recreation
coordinator who shall serve at the pleasure of the city. The coordinator shall
advise the board, implement policy set by the board, supervise all staff and
shall acquire materials, equipment and supplies. The coordinator shall attend
all board meetings but shall not vote.
With the recommendation of the coordinator, the recreation board shall hire
other employees that may be necessary for the operation of the recreation
facilities in accordance with city policies and procedures. These employees
shall be employees of the city and subject to the city's personnel policies and
classifications unless otherwise provided by ordinance. In making hiring
decisions, the budget shall be considered and no appointment shall be made
which would exceed that budgeted amount. (Ord. 497, 8-20-2002)
2-2-11: DONATIONS:
Donations or gifts for the benefit of the recreation facilities shall be
budgeted along with the other accounts and shall be used only for recreation
purposes. Money or other funds which are donated or given to the recreation
board may be expended by the board only in accordance with the city budget
process. (Ord. 497, 8-20-2002)
2-2-12: BUDGET YEAR:
The recreation board shall have its recommended budget to the city of Rigby
prior to August 1 of each year. The recommended budget shall be submitted to
the office of the mayor and copy also to the liaison between the city council
and the recreation board. The recreation coordinator shall make himself
available to answer any questions that the city council may have in regards to
the proposed budget. The actual fiscal year shall be that of the city. (Ord.
497, 8-20-2002)
2-2-13: GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE:
Any aggrieved person may appeal from a decision of the Rigby recreation board
to the city council of the city of Rigby. Said appeal shall be made in writing
within ten (10) days to the Rigby city clerk who shall place the appeal on the
agenda of the next meeting. The appeal shall state the person or organization
appealing and contain a brief narrative of the reasons for appeal.
If the decision appealed from was made by the city council, the appeal shall be
to the council for reconsideration in the manner set forth in this section.
(Ord. 497, 8-20-2002)
CHAPTER 3
TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-3-1: Declaration Of Public Benefit
2-3-2: Definitions
2-3-3: Board Of Commissioners; Members
2-3-4: Term Of Office
2-3-5: Citizen Involvement
2-3-6: Compensation
2-3-7: Vacancies
2-3-8: Meetings
2-3-9: Annual Appropriations
2-3-10: Powers And Duties Of The Transportation Commission
2-3-11: Access To Information
2-3-12: Budget Year
2-3-13: Grievance Procedure
2-3-1: DECLARATION OF PUBLIC BENEFIT:
Providing transportation facilities for the public use is hereby declared to be
a public benefit, use and purpose which enhances the value and quality of life
in that it materially assists in responsible development. (Ord. 516, 1-4-2005)
2-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless a different meaning plainly is required in this chapter:
CITY COUNCIL: The legislative body of the various cities.
COMMISSION: The board of county commissioners for Jefferson County, Idaho.
MAYOR: The elected chief municipal officer of the various cities.
NONPARTISAN: Not controlled or influenced by any single political party.
TRANSPORTATION: Not only vehicular traffic, but pedestrian, bicycle, aircraft
and public transportation. Specifically excluded are snowmobiles or any off
road vehicles or mechanized skateboard and similar vehicles.
TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION: The group of commission members who are appointed by
the mayor and city council of the cities and Jefferson County commissioners to
be on the Rigby/Jefferson County transportation commission.
TRANSPORTATION CONCERNS: Includes both present and future transportation and
traffic issues. (Ord. 516, 1-4-2005)
2-3-3: BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS; MEMBERS:
   A.   Meetings: There is hereby created a Rigby/Jefferson County
transportation commission composed of fifteen (15) members. Rigby shall have a
standing member as the cognizant agency.
      1.   The remaining seven (7) incorporated cities shall select a
representative for the transportation commission from either their respective
city council or planning and zoning commission.
      2.   Jefferson central fire district shall have its fire chief as a
member.
      3.   There are two (2) organized law enforcement departments, Jefferson
County sheriff's department and Rigby police department. Both shall appoint
their own representative.
      4.   Similarly, cities shall appoint a public works director to represent
the cities along with the county road and bridge supervisor.
      5.   A layperson shall also be appointed - one from the incorporated
areas and one from without.
      6.   There are three (3) school districts within Jefferson County and
Jefferson County school district 251 shall choose a representative and shall be
responsible for keeping other school districts apprised of the works of the
transportation commission.
      7.   The combined body shall choose one developer to represent
construction.
      8.   The chamber of commerce shall have a representative.
      9.   The Jefferson County planning and zoning shall have a
representative.
      10.   There shall also be two (2) individuals representing business.
      11.   City of Rigby planning and zoning shall have a representative.
   B.   Quorum; Appointment: Any eight (8) members of the transportation
commission shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of any business.
Appointment to the transportation commission shall be made solely upon the
ability of such appointees to serve the interests of the people, without regard
to sex, age, race, nationality, religion, disability or political affiliation.
A member of any city council shall not be one of the appointed members of the
transportation commission, but each year the council may appoint one of its
members to be a liaison to the transportation commission, without voting
rights.
   C.   Purpose For Involvement:
      1.   Transportation plans and programs typically benefit from an
effective community involvement effort. Community involvement legitimizes a
plan or program as issues and concerns are acknowledged, and community members
gain a sense of participation and accomplishment, regardless of whether they
agree with the ultimate outcome of the process.
      2.   Participation by community members provides a more comprehensive
decision making process than technical staff alone can achieve. Effective
public involvement requires educating the citizens regarding transportation
needs and the benefits and costs of potential alternatives. Informed citizens
can better assist elected officials in reaching sound decisions supported by
the community. Thus, community members become a part of the planning process as
well as the solution.
      3.   Individual projects are more likely to be accepted and supported by
the community if community members are given the opportunity to have an active
role in shaping the decisions embodied in a plan or program. This can have
essential time and cost savings when limited transportation resources and
numerous transportation problems exist. (Ord. 518-2005, 3-15-2005)
2-3-4: TERM OF OFFICE:
The initial appointment of transportation commission members shall be for terms
of one, two (2), three (3), four (4), and five (5) years respectively.
Subsequent appointments shall be made for five (5) years from the date of
appointment, and until their successors are appointed. Each transportation
commission member may serve no more than two (2) full terms of office. Terms
shall run from January 1 until December 31. On the initial term of office for
2005, a year shall be from the date of passage until December 31, 2005.
The officers of the transportation commission shall consist of a president and
vice president to be selected by the transportation commission from among its
members, to serve as such officers for one year; provided that the president of
the transportation commission shall be ineligible to succeed himself for
consecutive terms of office. The transportation commission shall also designate
a secretary who need not be a member of the transportation commission. The
secretary shall keep correct minutes of the proceedings of the transportation
commission (including, but not limited to, any discussions regarding bills or
the encumbrance of funds), shall have custody of the records of the
transportation commission, except those in the custody of the city or county,
and shall perform all other duties which are provided or directed by the
transportation commission. The president shall be the executive officer of the
transportation commission and shall preside at all meetings, and perform all
the duties which are provided and are necessary by this chapter. The vice
president shall act in the absence of the president and shall perform all other
duties. The president shall not vote except in case of a tie. (Ord. 516, 1-4-
2005)
2-3-5: CITIZEN INVOLVEMENT:
The traffic commission is committed to developing and maintaining an effective
citizen participation process. In order to accomplish this commitment, the
public involvement process should be guided by the following principles:
   A.   It is the right and responsibility of citizens to be involved in the
transportation planning process.
   B.   Citizens should be educated about the needs and issues and encouraged
to participate in finding solutions.
   C.   Early and timely involvement of citizens is necessary to build
community agreement on the needs and solutions before alternatives are
proposed.
   D.   Agreement on the final product is a desirable goal, but agreement does
not mean one hundred percent (100%) unanimity by all parties. Negotiation and
compromise are essential ingredients to building agreement.
   E.   The process by which a decision is reached is just as important as the
product. Citizens should be satisfied with the opportunity to be significantly
involved.
   F.   After decisions are made, actions should follow to maintain confidence
in the community involvement process.
   G.   The process of community involvement is not a onetime step. The manner
in which the public is involved may change as the process progresses. (Ord.
516, 1-4-2005)
2-3-6: COMPENSATION:
Pursuant to Idaho Code section 50-210, all members and the officers thereof
shall serve without salary or compensation, but their actual and necessary
expenses shall be shared equally by the cities and county. The cities and
county shall provide the necessary and suitable equipment and supplies to
enable the transportation commission to properly transact and attend to its
business. The transportation commission shall have authority to contract for
professional input not to exceed any budget. (Ord. 516, 1-4-2005)
2-3-7: VACANCIES:
The transportation commission shall report all vacancies to the appropriate
council or commission within five (5) working days. All such appointments shall
be made in the same manner as appointments are originally made. Appointments to
complete an unexpired term shall be for the remainder of the term only. Any
transportation commission member may be removed by the city councils or
commission and may be removed in such manner as they were appointed, as per
Idaho Code section 50-210.
ADA stipulates involving the community, particularly those with disabilities,
in the development and improvement of services including transit routes, rail
transit planning, highway planning (sidewalks, ramps, street crossings and
parking) as well as facility planning. (Ord. 516, 1-4-2005)
2-3-8: MEETINGS:
The transportation commission shall meet at least once per month unless
required to meet more frequently. One meeting shall be designated as the annual
meeting. The purpose of the annual meetings is to elect the officers of the
transportation commission, to establish a regular meeting date, and to review,
amend, repeal or adopt bylaws, policies and procedures. Special meetings may be
held from time to time as the transportation commission may determine, but
written notice thereof shall be given to the members at least two (2) days
prior to the day of the meeting. A quorum shall consist of the eight (8) voting
members but a smaller number may adjourn. All meetings are to be held pursuant
to the open meeting law and shall be in such a facility as to accommodate those
individuals who may suffer from disabilities. The secretary shall be
responsible for preparing an agenda in a timely manner, and provide notice
thereof to the cities and county. The meetings shall occur at a set date and
time each month as set by resolution. The transportation commission shall
report at least once each year, or more frequently at the council's and
commission's discretion.
The state of Idaho has specific laws defining "open meetings" under Idaho Code
67-2340 through 67-2347. The law states "...it is the policy of this State that
the formation of public policy is public business and shall not be conducted in
secret". Paragraph 67-2342 states "all meetings of a government body of a
public agency shall be open to the public and all persons shall be permitted to
attend any meeting except otherwise provided by this act".
The transportation commission can be grouped into four (4) general categories:
a) existing transportation conditions; b) assumptions about land use,
population and employment growth, travel patterns, roadway capacity and funding
to establish future transportation conditions; c) projected transportation
conditions and needs; d) project selection and prioritization to meet the
projected needs. All four (4) categories of the transportation commission are
subject to public participation and comment. (Ord. 516, 1-4-2005)
2-3-9: ANNUAL APPROPRIATIONS:
The transportation commission shall prepare and adopt an annual budget, stating
anticipated revenues and expenditures, indicating what support and maintenance
of the various entities under the control of the transportation commission will
be required for review and approval by the city councils and commission for the
ensuing year. The budget shall be prepared in a timely manner so that such
budget may be incorporated in the municipal budgeting procedures.
The costs associated with the transportation commission shall be prorated by
population multiplied by the number of members of the transportation
commission. The fire district and school district shall be responsible for the
average cost.
All funds shall be in the custody of the Rigby city treasurer or clerk unless
otherwise provided by city or county ordinance, and shall be used only for
transportation commission purposes. The transportation commission shall have
control of the expenditures. Money shall be paid for transportation commission
related purposes, only upon properly authenticated vouchers of the
transportation commission. The transportation commission shall not make
expenditures or incur indebtedness in any year in excess of monies appropriated
by the city. The transportation commission shall assist in any auditing as is
required by the city or county and commission and make available any
information it may have.
Notice of the budget hearing shall be posted at least ten (10) days prior to
the date of said meeting in at least one conspicuous place in each city and
county facility, a copy of the notice shall also be published in the official
newspaper at least ten (10) days prior to the review by the transportation
commission. The place, hour and day of such hearing shall be specified in such
notice as well as the place where such budget may be examined prior to such
hearing. A full and complete copy of the proposed request to the city council
and commission for the budget is to be made available to the public. The notice
shall be published two (2) times before the hearing in the "Jefferson Star".
(Ord. 516, 1-4-2005)
2-3-10: POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION:
In addition to any powers provided by law, the transportation commission shall
have the following powers and duties:
   A.   To establish bylaws and a mission statement for its own governance;
   B.   To study the economic and physical conditions and problems with the
maintenance, operation, management, control and use of the various roads,
bridges and interchanges within the city and county;
   C.   To propose and promulgate rules and regulations for the control and
regulation of the use of the roads giving consideration to engineering data and
all rules and regulations used or relied upon by the Idaho department of
transportation;
   D.   To represent the public interest in making suggestions and
recommendations for the development, use and expansion of needed roads, bike or
walk ways;
   E.   To suggest and recommend such rules and regulations necessary and
desirable to carry out the intent of this chapter and improve and correlate the
problems of governmental administration of transportation within the city and
county;
   F.   To propose plans, recommendations and suggestions for the future
growth, development and regulation of the transportation facilities within the
city and county;
   G.   To maintain legal records of all the transportation commission's
business; to exercise such other powers not inconsistent with law, necessary
for orderly and efficient management;
   H.   With the approval of the city or commission if outside the city, the
transportation commission shall have the following authority: 1) to require
input of the transportation commission prior to action on any subdivision or
where a new business will impact the traffic flow by the addition of ten (10)
or more jobs; 2) to accept or decline gifts of money or personal property in
accordance with policy and under such terms as may be a condition of the gift.
All rules and regulations formulated, proposed and promulgated by the
transportation commission shall be approved and ratified by the councils and
commission and after such approval and ratification shall have the force and
effect of an ordinance. All rules and regulations of the transportation
commission now in effect shall remain in full force and effect until amended,
altered or repealed. Any surplus property found shall be sold at public auction
consistent with city practices and the revenue shared equally between city and
county. Any real property shall be sold pursuant to Idaho Code section 50-1401
et seq., as amended. (Ord. 516, 1-4-2005)
2-3-11: ACCESS TO INFORMATION:
The transportation commission shall have access to planning and zoning
information and shall receive cooperation from the public works department.
Similarly, the transportation commission shall receive input from law
enforcement prior to rendering an opinion. (Ord. 516, 1-4-2005)
2-3-12: BUDGET YEAR:
The transportation commission shall have its recommended budget to the public
entities prior to August 1 of each year. The recommended budget shall be
submitted to the office of the mayor and county commissioners and a copy to the
liaison between the city council and the transportation commission. The actual
fiscal year shall be that of the cities, i.e., October 1 of each year through
September 30 of each year. (Ord. 516, 1-4-2005)
2-3-13: GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE:
Any aggrieved person may appeal from a decision of the transportation
commission to a joint city-county board. Said appeal shall be made in writing
within ten (10) days to the Rigby city clerk who shall place the appeal on the
agenda of the next meeting. The appeal shall state the person or organization
appealing and contain a brief narrative of the reasons for appeal.
If the decision appealed from was made by the joint action, the appeal shall be
to the council for reconsideration in the manner set forth in this section.
(Ord. 516, 1-4-2005)
CHAPTER 4
PARKS AND RODEO DEPARTMENT AND PARKS AND RODEO COMMITTEE
SECTION:
2-4-1: Establishment Of Division
2-4-2: Management
2-4-3: Duties
2-4-4: Financial Records
2-4-5: Parks And Rodeo Executive Committee
2-4-1: ESTABLISHMENT OF DIVISION:
The parks and rodeo department is hereby established as an administrative
division of the city of Rigby, "hereinafter `city'". (Ord. 2012-555, 5-1-2012)
2-4-2: MANAGEMENT 1 :
The parks and rodeo department shall be managed by the parks and rodeo
director, under the supervision and control of the mayor and council. The
director may be compensated for services as approved by the mayor. The director
shall be appointed by the mayor, subject to confirmation by a vote of at least
four (4) members of the council. The director may be removed by the mayor, with
or without cause, subject to a confirming vote of at least four (4) members of
the council, or by the council on its own initiative upon a unanimous vote
thereof. (Ord. 2012-555, 5-1-2012)
 
Notes
1 1. For statutory provisions authorizing the mayor to appoint a recreation
  director see IC 50-204.
2-4-3: DUTIES:
The department shall have the following duties:
   A.   The parks and rodeo director shall act as chair of the parks and rodeo
executive committee.
   B.   The parks and rodeo director shall supervise the maintenance, operation
and control of the city rodeo grounds, horse barns and surrounding fields owned
by the city, excluding adjoining athletic ball field and memorial park.
   C.   The parks and rodeo director shall establish and administer all budgets
for the operation of the department and collection of all revenues accruing to
the city on account of facilities or lands owned by the city. (Ord. 2012-555,
5-1-2012)
2-4-4: FINANCIAL RECORDS:
The financial records and transactions of the parks and rodeo committee shall
be provided to the city for inclusion in the annual audit of the city. (Ord.
2012-555, 5-1-2012)
2-4-5: PARKS AND RODEO EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of the parks and rodeo executive committee shall
be to assist in the management of the city owned rodeo grounds; organize and
program all rodeo related activities involving general public participation in
a comprehensive and diversified program for the betterment of the rodeo grounds
and facilities.
   B.   Appointment: The mayor, with the consent of the city council, shall
appoint a parks and rodeo executive committee of five (5) members.
   C.   Terms: Executive committee members appointed shall serve terms of three
(3) years. Terms for the first year of operation shall be determined by random
lot drawing with two (2) members serving two (2) year terms and three (3) years
thereafter. Terms shall expire on December 31 of the appointed term.
   D.   Vacancies: The mayor, with the consent of the city council, shall
appoint a qualified person to fill the unexpired term of the committee member
in the event of a vacancy.
   E.   Compensation: Committee members shall serve without compensation,
except that expenses for equipment, travel and supplies necessary for the
committee to transact its business shall be allowed by the council.
   F.   Organization: The committee shall elect a vice chair, secretary, and
treasurer as provided for in the committee rules and regulations.
   G.   Rules And Regulations: The committee shall adopt bylaws for governing.
These rules and regulations shall be ratified by the city council and shall act
as the rules of the committee.
   H.   Duties: The committee shall work with the director of the parks and
rodeo committee toward development of a comprehensive, balanced plan of
activities utilizing the rodeo grounds in conjunction with the adjoining county
owned fairgrounds. The committee shall have the authority to appoint
subcommittee members to assist in the various activities involved in the
operation of the rodeo grounds and facilities. At least one member for the
executive committee shall serve on any subcommittee. Subcommittee members shall
be confirmed with at least four (4) members of the executive committee. Said
appointment of subcommittee members need not be confirmed by the mayor or city
council. (Ord. 2012-555, 5-1-2012)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
SECTION:
3-1-1: Applications
3-1-2: Persons Subject To License
3-1-3: Forms
3-1-4: Signatures
3-1-5: Inspections Or Investigations
3-1-6: Term Of License
3-1-7: Building And Premises
3-1-8: Change Of Location
3-1-9: Nuisances
3-1-10: Posting Of License
3-1-11: Revocation Of License Or Permit; Hearing
3-1-12: Appeal Procedure
3-1-1: APPLICATIONS:
Applications for all licenses and permits required by this Code shall be made
in writing to the City Clerk, unless otherwise specifically provided by law.
Each application shall state the name of the applicant, the permit or license
desired, the location to be used, if any, the time covered and the fee to be
paid; and each application shall contain such additional information as may be
required by the issuing official. (1999 Code)
3-1-2: PERSONS SUBJECT TO LICENSE:
Whenever in this Code a license is required for the maintenance, operation or
conduct of any business or establishment or for doing business or engaging in
any activity or occupation, any person or corporation shall be subject to the
requirement if, by himself or through an agent, employee or partner, he holds
himself forth as being engaged in the business or occupation; or solicits
patronage therefor, actively or passively; or performs or attempts to perform
any part of such business or occupation in the City. (1999 Code)
3-1-3: FORMS:
Forms for all licenses and permits, and applications therefor, shall be
prepared and kept on file by the City Clerk. (1999 Code)
3-1-4: SIGNATURES:
Each license or permit issued shall bear the signatures of the Mayor and the
City Clerk in absence of any provision to the contrary. (1999 Code)
3-1-5: INSPECTIONS OR INVESTIGATIONS:
Upon the receipt of an application for a license or permit where laws of the
City necessitate an inspection or investigation before the issuance of such
permit or license, the City Clerk shall refer such application to the proper
officer for making such investigation within forty eight (48) hours of the time
of such receipt. The officer charged with the duty of making the investigation
or inspection shall make a report thereon, favorable or otherwise, within ten
(10) days after receiving the application or a copy thereof. For the protection
of health, the Public Works Director, or such other person as he may assign,
shall make or cause to be made any such inspections relative to the
construction of buildings or other structures. All other investigations, except
where otherwise provided, shall be made by the Chief of Police or by some other
officer designated by the Mayor. (1999 Code)
3-1-6: TERM OF LICENSE:
All annual licenses shall terminate on the last day of the calendar year of the
City, where no provision to the contrary is made. (1999 Code)
3-1-7: BUILDING AND PREMISES:
No license shall be issued for the conduct of any business and no permit shall
be issued for any thing or act if the premises and building to be used for the
purpose do not fully comply with the requirements of the City. (1999 Code)
3-1-8: CHANGE OF LOCATION:
In the absence of any provision to the contrary, the location of any licensed
business or occupation or of any permitted act may be changed, provided ten
(10) days' notice thereof is given to the City Clerk; provided, the building
requirements of this Code are complied with. (1999 Code)
3-1-9: NUISANCES:
No business, licensed or not, shall be conducted or operated as to amount to a
nuisance in fact. (1999 Code)
3-1-10: POSTING OF LICENSE:
It shall be the duty of any person conducting a licensed business in the City
to keep his license posted in a prominent place on the premises used for such
business at all times. (1999 Code)
3-1-11: REVOCATION OF LICENSE OR PERMIT; HEARING:
Any license or permit, for a limited time, may be revoked by the Mayor and City
Council during the life of such license or permit for the violation by the
licensee or permittee of any provision relating to the license or permit, the
subject of the license or permit, or the premises occupied; such revocation may
be in addition to any fine imposed. The Mayor and the City Council shall be
authorized to summarily order the cessation of business, the closing of the
premises, and the suspension of any business license or permit for a period not
to exceed fifteen (15) days.
   A.   Hearing: Within ten (10) days after the City officials have so acted,
the Mayor shall call a hearing for the purpose of determining whether or not
the license or permit should be revoked.
   B.   Notice Of Hearing: Notice of hearing for revocation of a license or
permit shall be given in writing setting forth specifically the grounds of the
complaint and the time and place of hearing. Such notice shall be sent to the
licensee or permittee by certified mail at his last known address or personally
served at least five (5) days prior to the date of the hearing.
   C.   Hearing Procedures: At the hearing, the licensee or permittee shall be
permitted counsel and shall have the right to submit evidence and cross-examine
witnesses. The Mayor shall preside and shall render the decision and
recommendation.
   D.   Causes For Revocation: Business licenses and permits issued under the
ordinances of the City, unless otherwise provided, may be revoked by the Mayor
and City Council after notice and hearing as provided in subsections B and C of
this Section for any of the following causes:
      1.   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
application for the license or permit;
      2.   Any violation by the licensee or permittee of ordinance provisions
or State law relating to the license or permit, the subject matter of the
license or permit, or the premises occupied;
      3.   Conviction of the licensee or permittee of any felony or of a
misdemeanor involving moral turpitude;
      4.   Failure of the licensee or permittee to pay any fine or penalty
owing to the City.
      5.   Refusal to permit an inspection or investigation or any interference
with a duly authorized City officer or employee while in the performance of his
duties in making such inspections, as provided in this Code. (1999 Code)
3-1-12: APPEAL PROCEDURE:
   A.   Right To Appeal: Any applicant aggrieved by the refusal of the City to
issue a license or permit or by the revocation of a license or permit shall
have the right to appeal the City's decision to the City Council. Such appeal
shall be requested by submitting a written request to the Mayor within five (5)
days of the action of the City which is appealed.
   B.   Council Consideration: The City Council shall consider the appeal at
its next regularly scheduled meeting, at which time the applicant shall be
entitled to present his appeal orally or in writing. The Council shall act on
the appeal within seven (7) days of the hearing and shall either uphold the
action of the City or shall direct the issuance of a license or permit which
the City has denied or the reissuance of a license or permit which the City had
revoked. (1999 Code)
CHAPTER 2
LIQUOR CONTROL
ARTICLE A. BEER SALES
SECTION:
3-2A-1: Definitions
3-2A-2: General Statement Of Law
3-2A-3: License Required; Conditions; Investigation
3-2A-4: License Fee
3-2A-5: License Nontransferable
3-2A-6: Refusal Of License; Appeal
3-2A-7: Hours Of Sale
3-2A-8: Possession In Parks Prohibited
3-2A-9: Sale To Minors
3-2A-10: Obstructing View Of Sale
3-2A-11: Revocation Of License; Appeal
3-2A-12: Penalty
3-2A-1: DEFINITIONS:
BEER: Any beverage obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or
decoction of barley, malt, and/or other ingredients in drinkable water.
PERSON: Includes any individual, firm, copartnership, association, corporation,
or any group or combination acting as a unit.
RETAILER: Any person engaged in the sale or distribution of beer to the
consumer. (1980 Code § 5.2.1; amd. 1999 Code)
3-2A-2: GENERAL STATEMENT OF LAW:
Beer containing not more than six percent (6%) of alcohol by weight may be sold
and distributed in the City and possessed therein in the manner and under the
conditions prescribed in this article and not otherwise. It shall be unlawful
to sell, dispose of or possess for the purpose of sale, beer of any kind or
character of an alcoholic content greater than in this article set forth, or in
any manner not permitted herein. (Ord. 2018-593, 2-15-2018)
3-2A-3: LICENSE REQUIRED; CONDITIONS; INVESTIGATION:
   A.   License Required; Application: Before any retailer shall sell, dispose
of or possess for the purpose of sale any beer under the provisions of this
article, he shall first apply in writing to the City Clerk, for a license fee
hereinafter described.
   B.   Conditions For Issuance: Upon such application and payment of the fee
prescribed, the City Clerk shall issue such license; provided, that the Clerk
shall not issue any license to one not a citizen of the United States, a
citizen of the State, and a bona fide resident of the City. Provided, further,
said license shall be placed in a conspicuous place on the premises wherein
beer is sold; and provided further, that the City Clerk shall not issue any
license until such license has been approved by the City Council at its regular
meeting date. Provided, further, that it is hereby declared unlawful for any
person to sell beer without first having acquired the same from some bona fide
dealer who is licensed under the laws of the State to wholesale beer to patrons
duly licensed within the State. (Ord. 392, 1-3-1984)
   C.   License Term; Issuance Or Denial; Hearing On Revocation: All licenses
shall be granted by the Mayor and City Council for a twelve (12) month period,
beginning October 1 and ending September 30. A full year's license fee shall be
collected after October 1. The City Council shall grant or deny the application
within thirty (30) days of the time it is filed with the City Clerk. Prior to
any revocation or suspension, the licensee shall be afforded a hearing
according to Idaho Code section 23-1016. Whenever the Mayor and City Council
deny an application, they shall specify in writing:
      1.   The statutes, ordinances and standards used in evaluating the
application;
      2.   The reason for the denial; and
      3.   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain the
license, transfer or renewal thereof. (Ord., 10-24-2012, eff. retroactive to
10-1-2012)
   D.   Record Of Proceedings: In all cases where the City Council is
considering applications for licenses, transfers, or renewals thereof, a
transcribable, verbatim record of the proceedings shall be made. If the
applicant for a license, transfer or renewal is denied, a transcribable,
verbatim record of the proceedings shall be kept for a period of not less than
six (6) months after a final decision on the matter. Upon written request and
within the time period provided for retention of the record, any person may
have the record transcribed at his expense. The City Council shall also provide
for the keeping of the minutes of the proceedings. Minutes shall be retained
indefinitely or as otherwise provided by law.
   E.   Investigation; Recommendation Of Police Chief: No license shall be
granted hereunder until there has been an investigation by the Police
Department of all applicants hereunder. After investigation, the applications
will be forwarded to the City Council with a recommendation from the Chief of
Police. If the Chief of Police recommends that an application be denied, he
shall state in writing:
      1.   The statutes or ordinances and standards used in evaluating the
application;
      2.   The reason for denial; and
      3.   The action, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain the
license, transfer or renewal thereof. (Ord. 392, 1-3-1984)
3-2A-4: LICENSE FEE:
   A.   Fees Established: The license issued under this article shall carry a
license fee as follows:
      1.   Bottled Beer Only: The City Clerk shall receive from any person who
intends to sell carryout bottled beer only, the sum of fifty dollars ($50.00)
per year.
      2.   Bottled And Draft Beer: Wherein bottled and draft beer are sold, or
draft beer only, the sum of one hundred dollars ($100.00) per year shall be
received by the Clerk.
      3.   Modification And Proration Of Fees: These fees may be modified by
the City Council. Effective January 1, 2013, the above fees shall be prorated
for a nine (9) month period ending September 30, 2013.
   B.   Expiration Date: Said licenses shall all expire on September 30 in the
year issued. Retail licenses for the selling of beer in the City shall be dated
from the first of the year in which issued. (Ord., 10-24-2012, eff. retroactive
to 10-1-2012)
3-2A-5: LICENSE NONTRANSFERABLE:
No license herein issued shall be transferable, and the place where beer is
sold shall be described with common certainty giving the name of the building,
street, or other pertinent information. (Ord. 420, 10-1-1991)
3-2A-6: REFUSAL OF LICENSE; APPEAL:
The City Council hereby reserves the right to refuse any and all applications,
and its actions shall be final and conclusive. However, if any person making
application for a license to sell beer is refused a license on the grounds that
he is guilty of an offense that, to the City Clerk or the City Council, is
detrimental to the public peace and quiet of the City, the aggrieved person may
make application to the District Court of the district in which the City is
located for a review of the case, and for a final disposition of the matter.
(1980 Code § 5.2.7)
3-2A-7: HOURS OF SALE:
   A.   Beer: The hours that beer, other than packaged beer, can be sold by any
licensee shall be from ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. to one o'clock (1:00) A.M.
(Ord. 2016-586, 1-5-2017)
   B.   Packaged Beer: It shall be unlawful to sell, dispense, or give away
packaged beer to be consumed off premises between the hours of one o'clock (1:
00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M., inclusive. Packaged beer to be consumed
off premises may be sold between six o'clock (6:00) A.M. and one o'clock (1:00)
A.M. Beer sold to be consumed on the premises shall be subject to the
provisions of subsection A of this section. (Ord. 420, 10-1-1991)
   C.   Certain Holidays: No beer shall be served on Christmas Day, Memorial
Day and Thanksgiving Day. (Ord. 2016-586, 1-5-2017)
3-2A-8: POSSESSION IN PARKS PROHIBITED:
   A.   Prohibited Sale: It shall be unlawful for any person, whether licensed
or otherwise, to sell, deliver, give away or have in his possession for the
purpose of selling or giving away, any beer or other intoxicant, within any
public park, public building or public street of the City; provided, that this
section shall not apply to the orderly stocks of beer in the hands of dealers
if, and provided further that, said dealers and licensees are not attempting to
violate any of the provisions of this article or any section thereof.
   B.   Exception: A permit to sell beer only may be granted upon approval of
the City Council, for the sale of beer to be consumed in a specified area upon
the Rigby Rodeo grounds during special events. Beer possessed or consumed
outside the specified area will be deemed prohibited, and individuals
possessing or consuming it will be charged with the infraction set forth in
section
3-2A-12 of this article. Applicants must comply with laws and regulations set
forth by the Idaho State Liquor Board. (Ord. 2018-593, 2-15-2018)
3-2A-9: SALE TO MINORS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell beer to any minor under the age of
twenty one (21) years, or to any person in a state of intoxication. (1980 Code
§ 5.2.8; amd. 1999 Code)
3-2A-10: OBSTRUCTING VIEW OF SALE:
No retailer shall serve or sell beer behind screens, curtains, booths or any
other device that will obstruct the public view in serving or sale of beer.
(1980 Code § 5.2.9)
3-2A-11: REVOCATION OF LICENSE; APPEAL:
   A.   Council Authority: If any licensee who shall have in his possession a
license issued by the City shall thereafter be convicted of the violation of
any law of the State or ordinance of the City relative to the illegal selling
of beer or other intoxicants or the unlawful possession of beer or such other
intoxicants, then the Mayor and City Council, in their discretion, after notice
and hearing as provided in subsection
3-2A-3C of this article, shall revoke the license of any such licensee, until
such time as it appears wise to reissue the same. (1980 Code § 5.2.10; amd.
1999 Code)
   B.   Appeal: Any person who is aggrieved by the action of the City Council
in suspending his license to sell or possess beer, and when notified by the
City Clerk that such action has been taken, said licensee may appeal his case
and have the same reviewed by the District Court as provided by statute in such
cases. (1980 Code § 5.2.11)
3-2A-12: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any of the provisions of this article shall be guilty
of an infraction for a first offense with a one hundred dollar ($100.00)
penalty, an infraction with a two hundred dollar ($200.00) penalty for a second
offense, and shall be guilty of a misdemeanor upon conviction of a third
offense within a three (3) year period, and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 2018-593, 2-15-2018)
ARTICLE B. LIQUOR BY THE DRINK
SECTION:
3-2B-1: Definitions
3-2B-2: License Required; Fee
3-2B-3: Application For License
3-2B-4: Investigation Of Application
3-2B-5: Form And Contents Of License; Term; Posting
3-2B-6: Persons Ineligible For License
3-2B-7: Bartenders; Permit Requirements (Rep. by Ord., 10-24-2012, eff.
retroactive to 10-1-2012)
3-2B-8: Sanitation Requirements
3-2B-9: Premises Open To Inspection
3-2B-10: Location Restrictions
3-2B-11: Hours Of Sale
3-2B-12: Underage Persons; Restrictions
3-2B-13: Sales To Certain Persons Prohibited
3-2B-14: Revocation Of License
3-2B-15: Penalty
3-2B-1: DEFINITIONS:
All words and phrases used in this article, the definition of which is not
herein given, shall be given the ordinary and commonly understood and accepted
meaning. The following words and phrases used in this article shall be given
the following interpretations:
BARTENDER: Any person, whether agent, servant, employee, licensee, or in any
other capacity, who pours, mixes, prepares, serves or delivers any liquor by
the drink upon licensed premises.
INTERDICTED PERSON: A person to whom the sale of liquor is prohibited under the
laws of the state of Idaho.
LICENSE: A license issued by the city council of the city of Rigby to a
qualified person, under which it shall be lawful for the licensee to sell and
dispense liquor by the drink at retail, as provided by this article.
LICENSEE: The person to whom a license is issued under the provisions of this
article and/or as provided in Idaho Code section 23-902 et seq.
LIQUOR: All kinds of liquor sold by and in the state liquor store of the state
of Idaho.
PERSON: Every individual, partnership, corporation, organization, or
association holding a retail liquor license, whether conducting the business
singularly or collectively.
PREMISES: The building and contiguous property owned, or leased or used under a
government permit by a licensee as part of the business establishment in the
business of sale of liquor by the drink at retail, which property is improved
to include decks, docks, boardwalks, lawns, gardens, golf courses, ski resorts,
courtyards, patios, poolside areas or similar improved appurtenances in which
the sale of liquor by the drink at retail is authorized under the provisions of
law. (1980 Code § 5.3.1; amd. 1999 Code)
3-2B-2: LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE:
   A.   License Issuance To Qualified Persons: The city council, at regular or
special meetings, may issue licenses to qualified applicants as herein
provided, whereby the licensee shall be authorized and permitted, in the city,
to sell liquor by the drink at retail, and, upon the issuance of such license,
the licensee therein named shall be authorized to sell liquor at retail by the
drink in the city, but only in accordance with the provisions of this article
and Idaho Code title 23, chapter 9, as may be amended. (1980 Code § 5.3.2)
   B.   Annual Fee: Each licensee licensed under the provisions of this article
shall pay an annual license fee in advance to the city of three hundred seventy
five dollars ($375.00) per annum. Effective January 1, 2013, the above fees
shall be prorated for a nine (9) month period ending September 30, 2013. (Ord.,
10-24-2012, eff. retroactive to 10-1-2012)
3-2B-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Each applicant for a license shall file with the city clerk an application in
writing, verified by an affidavit, setting forth the following facts: (1980
Code § 5.3.4)
   A.   That such applicant is the lawful holder of a license issued by the
director of law enforcement of the state pursuant to the provisions of Idaho
Code title 23, chapter 9, as amended. (1980 Code § 5.3.4; amd. 1999 Code)
   B.   Description of premises for which license is sought and its location,
and the name of the owner of said premises.
   C.   The names and addresses of all persons who will have any financial
interest in any business to be carried on in the licensed premises, whether
such interest results from open loans, mortgages, conditional sales contracts,
silent partnerships, trusts, or any other basis than open trade accounts
incurred in the ordinary course of business, and the amounts of such interests.
   D.   The name and address of the applicant, which shall include all members
of a partnership or association and the officers, members of the governing
board and ten (10) principal stockholders of a corporation.
   E.   If, during the period of any license issued hereunder, any change shall
take place in any of the requirements of subsection A, B, C or D of this
section, the licensee shall forthwith make a verified report of such change to
the city clerk. (1980 Code § 5.3.4)
3-2B-4: INVESTIGATION OF APPLICATION:
   A.   Investigation Authorized: Upon the receipt of an application for a
license under this article, accompanied by the necessary license fee, the city
council may make such investigation of all matters pertaining thereto as it
shall deem proper.
   B.   Council Determination: If the council shall determine that the contents
of the application are true, that such applicant is qualified to receive a
license, that his premises are suitable for the carrying on of the intended
business, and that the requirements of this article have been met and complied
with, a license shall issue; otherwise, the application shall be denied and
license fee refunded. (1980 Code § 5.3.5)
3-2B-5: FORM AND CONTENTS OF LICENSE; TERM; POSTING:
   A.   Contents Of Application: Every license issued under the provisions of
this article shall set forth the name of the person to whom issued, the
location by street and number, or other definite designation, of the premises.
If issued to a partnership, the names of the persons constituting the
partnership shall be therein set forth; if issued to a corporation or
association, the names of the principal officers and the governing board shall
be set forth therein.
   B.   License Conditions:
      1.   Such license shall be signed by the licensee and shall be
nontransferable.
      2.   Every license issued under the provisions of this article is
separate and distinct and no person except the licensee therein named shall
exercise any of the privileges granted thereunder and all licenses are
applicable only to premises in respect to which they have been issued.
      3.   No person shall be granted more than one license in any one year.
      4.   No partnership, association or corporation holding a license under
this article shall have as a member, officer or stockholder any person who has
a financial interest of any kind in, or is a member of, another partnership or
association or an officer of another corporation holding a license in the city
for the same year. (1980 Code § 5.3.6)
   C.   License Term: All licenses shall expire at twelve o'clock (12:00)
midnight on September 30 of the year following for which issued. (Ord., 10-24-
2012, eff. retroactive to 10-1-2012)
   D.   Posting Of License: Such license shall at all times be kept posted by
the licensee in a conspicuous place in the licensed premises. (1980 Code §
5.3.6)
3-2B-6: PERSONS INELIGIBLE FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Licenses Not Issued To Certain Persons: No license shall be issued to:
      1.   An individual who is not a citizen of the United States or who has
not been a bona fide resident of the state for at least one year next preceding
the granting of such license; or to a partnership unless all members are
citizens of the United States and have been residents of the state for at least
one year; or to a corporation or association unless the same is organized under
the laws of the state or qualified under the principal officers, and members of
the governing board are citizens of the United States and residents of the
state for at least one year.
      2.   Any person, or any one of its members, officers, or governing board,
who has been convicted of any violation of the laws of the United States, the
state of Idaho, or any other state of the United States relating to the
importation, transportation, manufacture or sale of liquor; or who has been
convicted of any felony, or who has paid any fine or completed any sentence of
confinement for any felony within five (5) years prior to the date of making
application for a license.
      3.   A person who is engaged in the operation or interested therein, of
any house or place for the purpose of prostitution or who has been convicted of
any crime or misdemeanor opposed to decency or morality.
      4.   A person whose license issued under this article has been revoked;
an individual who was a member of a partnership or association which was a
licensee under this article and whose license has been revoked; an individual
who was an officer, member of the governing board or one of the ten (10)
principal stockholders of a corporation which was a licensee under this article
and whose license was revoked; a corporation, one of whose officers, members of
the governing board or ten (10) principal stockholders was a licensee under
this article and whose license has been revoked; any association or
partnership, one of whose members was a member of a partnership or association
licensed under the provisions of this article and whose license has been
revoked; a corporation, one of whose officers, members of the governing board,
or ten (10) principal stockholders was a member of a partnership or association
licensed under the provisions of this article and whose license was revoked.
      5.   Any officer or employee of the state of Idaho, counties or
municipalities of the state.
      6.   Any officer, agent or employee of any distillery, winery, brewery,
or any wholesaler, or jobber of liquor or malt beverages.
      7.   A person who does not hold a retail beer license issued under the
laws of the state.
      8.   A person licensed as a bartender under this article and whose permit
as bartender has been revoked.
      9.   A person not of good moral character.
   B.   Disqualification Of Licensee; Revocation Of License: Any license held
by any licensee disqualified under the provisions of this section from being
issued a license, shall forthwith be revoked by the city council. (1980 Code §
5.3.7)
3-2B-7: BARTENDERS; PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
(Rep. by Ord., 10-24-2012, eff. retroactive to 10-1-2012)
3-2B-8: SANITATION REQUIREMENTS:
All licensed premises shall be maintained in a sanitary condition according to
the requirements of Idaho Code title 39, chapter 16, as amended. (1980 Code §
5.3.8)
3-2B-9: PREMISES OPEN TO INSPECTION:
   A.   Visibility Of Premises:
      1.   Obstructing Front Of Premises: It shall be unlawful for any licensee
to permit any type of obstruction which would prohibit or obscure free
examination of the licensed premises from the front above four feet six inches
(4'6") above the sidewalk, except the door constituting said front entrance.
      2.   Lighting Of Exterior Approaches: It shall be unlawful for any
licensee to prohibit or obscure the free examination of the licensed premises
by the failure to have said licensed premises lighted so as to make the whole
thereof clearly visible from the exterior approaches to said licensed premises.
      3.   Covering Windows: It shall also be unlawful to have, permit or
suffer any type of painting or decoration, venetian blind, or any other type of
covering upon or about the windows of licensed premises which would in any way
obscure an examination of the licensed premises from the front entrance at all
times, whether during the hours of sale of liquor or during the hours when
liquor cannot be sold.
   B.   Right Of Entry By Police: Any duly authorized police officer of the
City shall have the right at any time to make an examination of the premises of
any licensee to ascertain whether the laws of the State and the ordinances of
the City are being complied with, and it shall be unlawful to refuse such
officer the right of admittance to said premises. (1980 Code § 5.3.11)
3-2B-10: LOCATION RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Distance From Schools And Churches: No license shall be issued for any
premises in any neighborhood which is predominantly residential, or within
three hundred feet (300') of any public school, church, or any other place of
worship, measured in a straight line to the nearest entrance to the licensed
premises; provided, that this limitation shall not apply to any duly licensed
premises that at the time of licensing did not come within the restricted area
but subsequent to licensing came therein.
   B.   Unanimous Council Approval Required: No premises shall be licensed
under this article from which the former occupant has been evicted for the
reason or purpose of licensing said premises except upon the unanimous vote of
the City Council approving the issuance of the license. (1980 Code § 5.3.9)
3-2B-11: HOURS OF SALE:
No liquor shall be sold, offered for sale, or given away upon any licensed
premises during the following hours:
   A.   Certain Holidays: No liquor shall be served on Christmas Day, Memorial
Day and Thanksgiving Day.
   B.   Other Days: On any day between one o'clock (1:00) A.M. and ten o'clock
(10:00) A.M. (Ord. 2016-586, 1-5-2017)
3-2B-12: UNDERAGE PERSONS; RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Underage Person Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person under
the age of twenty one (21) years to enter, remain in, or loiter in or about any
premises or place licensed for the sale of liquor by the drink at retail; and
it shall also be unlawful for any licensee, or any person in charge of said
licensed premises, either expressly or impliedly, or without the consent of
said licensee, or any person on duty while employed by the licensee, to permit
or allow any person under the age of twenty one (21) years to enter in, remain
in, or loiter in or about such licensed premises.
   B.   Posting Of Signs Required:
      1.   Each licensee is required to, and it shall be unlawful for such
licensee not to, post signs at each entrance to said licensed premises,
prohibiting persons under the age of twenty one (21) years from entering,
remaining in, or loitering in such licensed premises. The wording of said signs
shall be as follows:
Admittance of persons under twenty one (21) prohibited by law.
      2.   Such signs shall be of a size sufficient to accommodate the
foregoing words in lettering at least one inch (1") in height and shall be
painted or stenciled in the language and in the size specified above on the
door or doors to the licensed premises, and shall be of such color and style as
to be clearly visible and legible from the exterior approaches to said licensed
premises to which said restrictions are applicable.
   C.   Restaurants Excepted: Nothing in this section pertaining to the
prohibition of persons under twenty one (21) years from entering, remaining in,
or loitering in or about the licensed premises shall be applicable to a
licensee who has filed his sworn statement with the Director of Law Enforcement
of the State claiming his premises constitute and are operated as a restaurant
and desire that the restrictions of this section shall not apply to the rest of
said premises and have been so classified by the Director of Law Enforcement of
the State. (1980 Code § 5.3.13; amd. 1999 Code)
   D.   Purchase By Unqualified Person: Any person under the age of twenty one
(21) years, or other person, who knowingly misrepresents his or her
qualifications for the purpose of obtaining liquor from such licensee shall be
equally guilty with such licensee and shall, upon conviction thereof, be guilty
of a misdemeanor. (1980 Code § 5.3.15; amd. 1999 Code)
3-2B-13: SALES TO CERTAIN PERSONS PROHIBITED:
No licensee or his employed agents, servants, or bartenders shall sell, deliver
or give away, or cause or permit to be sold, delivered, or given away any
liquor to:
   A.   Any person under the age of twenty one (21) years;
   B.   Any person actually, apparently or obviously intoxicated;
   C.   A habitual drunkard;
   D.   An interdicted person. (1980 Code § 5.3.14; amd. 1999 Code)
3-2B-14: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
   A.   Council Authority; Hearing; Notice: The right shall be, and it shall
remain at all times, vested in the city council to revoke or cancel the license
of any person licensed hereunder for any violation of this article; and upon
verified complaint filed with the city council, the city council shall, by
written notice, cause such alleged offender to appear before the council, and
be heard upon such complaint. A copy of such complaint shall be served with
such notice, and the day and hour for the hearing, which shall be at least five
(5) days thence, shall be specified in such notice, and such hearing shall be
had in the council chambers, unless a different place shall be specified in
such notice. If, at said hearing, upon the taking of evidence on behalf of the
city and such alleged offender, it shall appear to the city council that cause
exists for the cancellation or revocation of such license, the same may be
canceled or revoked without further process of law, and upon such cancellation
or revocation, no refund of any unexpired portion of the license fee shall be
made to the licensee. The fact of such revocation shall immediately be
certified to the director of law enforcement of Idaho by the city clerk, and,
if any conviction is had hereunder in the municipal police court of the city, a
certified copy of the judgment therein shall be immediately certified to said
state director.
   B.   Court To Notify State: The municipal police court in which a judgment
of conviction against any licensee has been had shall forthwith certify a copy
thereof to the director of law enforcement of Idaho. (1980 Code § 5.3.16; amd.
1999 Code)
3-2B-15: PENALTY:
Any violations of the provisions of this article, the penalty for which is not,
by Idaho Code title 23, chapter 9, made an indictable misdemeanor or felony
shall be unlawful; and any person violating such provision shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor hereunder and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to penalty
as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1980 Code § 5.3.17; amd. 1999 Code)
ARTICLE C. WINE SALES
SECTION:
3-2C-1: Short Title And Purpose
3-2C-2: Definitions
3-2C-3: State Liquor Dispensary; Exception
3-2C-4: License Required
3-2C-5: Application For License
3-2C-6: Issuance Of License
3-2C-7: Reasons For Denial Of License
3-2C-8: License Fees
3-2C-9: Continuance Of Qualifications
3-2C-10: Expiration, Renewal Of License
3-2C-11: Transfer Of License
3-2C-12: Location Restrictions
3-2C-13: Operating Hours
3-2C-14: Inspections, Access To Premises
3-2C-15: Prohibited Acts, Conditions
3-2C-16: Suspension, Revocation Of License
3-2C-17: Penalty
3-2C-1: SHORT TITLE AND PURPOSE:
This Article shall be known and cited as the RIGBY CITY WINE ORDINANCE. The
purpose of this Article is to provide for the issuance of wine licenses and
licensing fees; to provide regulations; and to establish procedures for
renewal, suspension, revocation or termination of such licenses. (Ord. 415, 3-
25-1992)
3-2C-2: DEFINITIONS:
All words and phrases used in this Article, the definitions of which are not
herein given, shall be given their ordinary, commonly understood and accepted
meanings. The following words and phrases used in this Article shall be given
the following interpretations:
PERSON: Any individual, firm, copartnership, association, corporation or any
other group or combination acting as a unit.
PREMISES: A building in which the retail sale of wine is authorized.
RETAIL WINE LICENSE: A license authorizing a person to sell wine at retail for
consumption off the licensed premises.
RETAILER: A person to whom a retail wine license has been issued.
WINE: Any alcoholic beverage containing not more than sixteen percent (16%)
alcohol by volume obtained by the fermentation of the natural sugar content of
fruits or other agricultural products containing sugar whether or not the other
ingredients are added. (Ord. 415, 3-25-1992; amd. 1999 Code)
3-2C-3: STATE LIQUOR DISPENSARY; EXCEPTION:
Nothing contained in this Article shall prohibit the State Liquor Dispensary
from acting pursuant to the Idaho Alcoholic Beverages Act 1 . (Ord. 415, 3-25-
1992; amd. 1999 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. I.C. title 23.
3-2C-4: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell wine at retail for consumption off
the premises within the boundary of the City until a license is granted by the
City Council as provided by this Article. (Ord. 415, 3-25-1992)
3-2C-5: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Prior to the issuance of a license, the applicant shall file with the City
Clerk an application, in writing, signed by the applicant and containing
information and statements relative to the applicant and the premises where
wine is to be sold. The application shall be verified by the affidavit of the
applicant before a person authorized to administer oaths.
   A.   Contents Of Application: In addition to setting forth the
qualifications required by other provisions of this article, the applicant must
show:
      1.   A detailed description of the premises for which a license is
sought, its location and street address.
      2.   The names and addresses of all persons who will have any financial
interest in any business to be carried on in or upon the licensed premises,
whether such interest results from open loans, mortgages, conditional sales
contracts, trusts or any other basis other than open trade accounts incurred in
the ordinary course of business, and the amounts of such interest.
      3.   If the premises to be licensed are not owned by the applicant, then
a certified copy of the lease by which he will occupy the premises showing that
the owner consents to the sale of wine on such premises.
      4.   The name and address of the applicant which shall include all
members of a partnership or association, or the officers and members of the
governing board and the principal stockholders of a corporation.
   B.   Licensee To Report Changes To Clerk: If, during the period of any
license issued hereunder, any change shall take place in any of the
requirements of this section, the licensee shall forthwith make a verified
report of such change to the city clerk. (Ord. 415, 3-25-1992)
   C.   False Statements; Penalty: If any false statement is made in any part
of an application, or any subsequent report, the applicant, or applicants,
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 415, 3-25-1992; amd. 1999 Code)
   D.   Payment Of License Fee: Each application shall be accompanied by the
required license fee which shall be returned to the applicant if the city
council refuses to issue the license. (Ord. 415, 3-25-1992)
3-2C-6: ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
   A.   Review And Consideration By Council And Police: The city council shall
duly consider and evaluate all new applications and renewal applications for a
license to sell wine at retail, and after so evaluating shall determine to
grant or deny each application in accordance with the provisions of this
article. Prior to said determination, new applications shall be submitted to
the police chief for review, and his assessment of each application shall be
considered by the city council prior to its decision.
   B.   Issuance Of License; Posting Required: If the city council so orders,
the city clerk shall issue a license to the applicant, which license shall at
all times be prominently displayed in the place of business of the licensee and
shall be issued only for the particular premises therein described.
   C.   Separate License For Each Premises: Separate licenses shall be required
for each premises, except that retailers holding valid licenses for the retail
sale of liquor by the drink may sell wine for consumption on or off the
licensed premises. (Ord. 415, 3-25-1992)
3-2C-7: REASONS FOR DENIAL OF LICENSE:
No license shall be issued to an applicant who, at the time of making
application:
   A.   Is not twenty one (21) years of age or older if the applicant is an
individual.
   B.   Is not the bona fide owner of such business.
   C.   Is not a citizen of the United States, or has not been a bona fide
resident of the state for at least thirty (30) days preceding the date of the
application for a license; provided, that if the applicant is:
      1.   A partnership, all members shall be citizens of the United States,
at least one of the partners shall have been a bona fide resident of the state
for thirty (30) days prior to the date of application and shall be twenty one
(21) years of age or older. (Ord., 10-24-2012, eff. retroactive to 10-1-2012)
      2.   A corporation or association, it must be organized under the laws of
the state or qualified under the laws of the state to do business in the state
and the person is, or will be, the manager of the corporation's or
association's business of selling wine, be a citizen of the United States, and
said manager of the corporation or association shall have been a bona fide
resident of the state for at least thirty (30) days prior to the date of
application.
   D.   Within three (3) years immediately preceding the date of filing the
application, the applicant has been convicted, or if the applicant is a
partnership, corporation or association and any of its employees, officers or
members of the governing board or body, have been convicted or paid any fine,
has reviewed a deferred sentence or withheld judgment, has suffered the
forfeiture of a bond for failure to appear, or has completed any sentence of
confinement for the violation of any law of the state, any other state, or of
the United States regulating, governing or prohibiting the sale, manufacture,
transportation or possession of alcoholic beverages or intoxicating liquors.
   E.   Within five (5) years immediately preceding the filing of the
application the applicant has been convicted of any felony or paid any fine or
completed any sentence of confinement therefor within said time.
   F.   Within three (3) years next preceding the date of filing the
application, the applicant has had any license provided for herein, or any
license or permit issued to the applicant pursuant to the laws of this state,
or any other state, or of the United States, to sell, manufacture, transport or
possess alcoholic beverages or intoxicating liquors, revoked.
   G.   Has engaged in the operation, or has interest in, or any of its
employees, officers or members of its governing board or body have been so
engaged in the operation, or have interest in, any house or place for the
purpose of prostitution.
   H.   Was a member of a partnership or association whose license has been
revoked by this county, the state, or any city and county of the state; was an
employee, officer or member of the governing board, or one of the principal
stockholders of a corporation and whose license has been revoked by this
county, this state or any city and county of this state; is a partnership or
association one of whose members was licensed and whose license was revoked by
this county, this state or any city and county of this state; is a corporation
one of whose employees, officers or members of the governing board, or one of
the principal stockholders, whose license has been revoked by this county, this
state or any city and county of this state; is a corporation one of whose
employees, officers or members of the governing board, or one of the principal
stockholders was a member of a partnership or association whose license was
revoked by this county, the state or any city or county of this state; is a
partnership or association one of whose members was an officer, a member of the
governing board, or one of the principal stockholders of a corporation whose
license has been revoked; or is a corporation one of whose employees, officers,
or any members of a governing board, or one of the principal stockholders, was
an employee, officer or member of the governing board or one of the principal
stockholders of a corporation whose license was revoked by this county, the
state or any city or county of this state. (Ord. 415, 3-25-1992)
3-2C-8: LICENSE FEES:
   A.   Fees Established: License fees, to be collected by the city clerk, and
the city may alter or amend these rates by resolution of the city council,
shall be as follows:
 
For a retail wine license only, where wine is sold in closed            $110.00
containers, with no consumption on the premises - per annum
For wine by the drink license only, where wine is sold by the
individual glass or open bottle at retail for consumption on the        135.00
premises only - per annum
In no event shall the license fee for sale of wine by the drink or sale 200.00
of wine at retail exceed a total of
 
Effective January 1, 2013, the above fees shall be prorated for a nine (9)
month period ending September 30, 2013.
   B.   Proration Of Fees: If a license is issued after October 1 the annual
fee shall be prorated from date issued to September 30 for the time license is
in use. (Ord., 10-24-2012, eff. retroactive to 10-1-2012)
3-2C-9: CONTINUANCE OF QUALIFICATIONS:
A retail licensee must continue throughout the license period to have all of
the qualifications and none of the disqualifications provided for in this
article. (Ord. 415, 3-25-1992)
3-2C-10: EXPIRATION, RENEWAL OF LICENSE:
   A.   Term Of License; Filing Renewal Form: All licenses issued pursuant to
the provisions of this article shall expire at one o'clock (1:00) A.M. on
October 1 of the year following the year in which the license is issued.
Renewal of the license shall be on forms prescribed and furnished by the city
clerk. Renewal forms shall be submitted together with the required license fee
and an affidavit verifying that the information contained in the original
application is unchanged, or if there are material changes, indicating such
changes.
   B.   Renewal Applications: Renewal applications must be received by the City
Council no sooner than September 1 and no later than October 1; provided,
however, any licensee holding a valid license who fails to file an application
for renewal of his license, during such time, shall not be permitted to sell or
dispense wine. (Ord., 10-24-2012, eff. retroactive to 10-1-2012)
3-2C-11: TRANSFER OF LICENSE:
   A.   Council Approval: No license may be transferred to another person,
including an executor, administrator, or trustee in bankruptcy of the estate of
the licensee, unless the transferee shall first have obtained the approval of
the City Council to such transfer upon application containing substantially the
same information required of an applicant for a license. If the transferee
possesses all of the qualifications and none of the disqualifications for such
a license, the Council shall approve the transfer, which approval shall be
attached and made a part of the license. Prior to a decision on a denial or
approval of said transfer by the City Council, the City police shall review the
transfer application and his assessment shall be considered by the City Council
before they make their determination.
   B.   Transfer Fee: The fee for each transfer of a retail wine license shall
be five dollars ($5.00), which fee shall accompany the application for a
transfer.
   C.   Compliance With County Zoning Ordinance: Application to transfer a
license from one location to another shall be made to the City Council on forms
prescribed and furnished by the City Clerk. Such a transfer shall not be
approved unless the application procedure for a new license has been complied
with. In addition, before an existing license may be transferred to a new
location, the applicant must satisfy all requirements of the Jefferson County
zoning ordinance. (Ord. 415, 3-25-1992)
3-2C-12: LOCATION RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Near Schools Or Churches: No retailer's license shall be issued to any
person to sell beer, wine or liquor by the drink for consumption on the
premises where any part of the room, or other place, for such sale or
consumption is:
      1.   Within a radius of three hundred feet (300') of any part of a public
school; nor
      2.   Within a radius of three hundred feet (300') of any room within
which the regular religious or Sunday school services of a duly organized and
established religious sect are, or within which a hospital or nursing home is,
conducted and were or was so conducted prior to issuance of such license.
   B.   Exception: This limitation shall not apply to any duly licensed
premises that at the time of licensing did not come within the restricted area,
but subsequent to licensing, came therein. (Ord. 415, 3-25-1992)
3-2C-13: OPERATING HOURS:
   A.   Wine: The hours that wine, other than packaged wine, by the drink can
be sold by any licensee shall be from ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. to one o'clock
(1:00) A.M.
   B.   Packaged Wine: It shall be unlawful to sell, dispense, or give away
packaged wine to be consumed off premises between the hours of one o'clock (1:
00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M., inclusive. Packaged wine to be consumed
off premises may be sold between six o'clock (6:00) A.M. and one o'clock (1:00)
A.M. Wine sold to be consumed on the premises shall be subject to the
provisions of subsection A of this section.
   C.   Certain Holidays: No wine by the drink shall be served on Christmas
Day, Memorial Day and Thanksgiving Day. (Ord. 2016-586, 1-5-2017)
3-2C-14: INSPECTIONS, ACCESS TO PREMISES:
The City police shall have the right at any time to enter in and upon such
licensed premises, and it shall be unlawful to refuse any City officer
admittance to or access to such premises for the purpose of police patrol,
regulation and inspection of such premises. (Ord. 415, 3-25-1992)
3-2C-15: PROHIBITED ACTS, CONDITIONS:
   A.   Prohibited Sales: It shall be unlawful and punishable as a misdemeanor
for any person to sell, deliver or give away, or cause or permit to be sold,
delivered or given away, any wine to:
      1.   Any person under the age of twenty one (21) years, proof of which
shall be a valid driver's license or an identification issued by the Department
of Law Enforcement of the State.
      2.   Any person apparently or obviously intoxicated.
      3.   Any interdicted person as defined by the laws of the State.
   B.   Minors:
      1.   Any person who shall procure wine for any person under twenty one
(21) years of age, or any person under twenty one (21) years of age who shall
purchase, attempt to purchase, or otherwise procure, consume or possess wine
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
2. Any person under the age of twenty one (21) years, who shall by any means
represent to any person licensed to sell wine at retail, or to any agent or
employee of such retail licensee, that he or she is twenty one (21) years or
more of age, for the purpose of inducing such retail licensee, his agent or
employee to sell, serve or dispense to him or her shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
3. Any person who shall by any means represent to any person licensed to sell
wine at retail or to his agent or employee, that any other person is twenty one
(21) years or more of age, when in fact such other person is under the age of
twenty one (21) years, for the purpose of inducing such retail licensee, his
agent or employee, to sell, serve or dispense wine to such other person shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor.
4. Whenever any person licensed to sell wine, or his agent or employee, shall
have reasonable cause to doubt that any person who attempts to purchase or
otherwise procure wine from or through such retail licensee, his agent or
employee, is twenty one (21) or more years of age, such retail licensee, his
agent or employee, shall require such person to execute a certificate that he
is twenty one (21) or more years of age, and to exhibit acceptable proof of age
and identity. The form of such certificate, the manner in which it shall be
executed, the record to be kept thereof, shall be the responsibility of the
retail licensee, his agent or employee, with respect to the execution of said
certificate, and a determination of what shall constitute acceptable proof of
the age and identity shall be in accordance with the provisions of Idaho Code
title 23, chapter 10. (Ord. 415, 3-25-1992; amd. 1999 Code)
3-2C-16: SUSPENSION, REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
If the City Council shall find that a licensee has made any false material
statement in the application for a license, or did not have, or has not
retained, the qualifications for a retailer, or has acquired a disqualification
for a retailer, or is in violation of any of the prohibitions of Idaho Code
title 23, chapter 10, the City Council shall suspend, revoke or refuse to renew
such retailer's license.
   A.    No pleading shall be necessary, and any hearing before the City
Council shall be informal.
   B.    The procedure for notice, hearing, contest and appeal shall be as
provided by Idaho Code title 23, chapter 10.
   C.    In addition, the City Council shall consider a petition for revocation
of a valid existing license submitted by at least seventy five percent (75%) of
the resident owners of property, or if not occupied and inhabited by a resident
owner, the occupant of such property, within a radius of one thousand feet
(1,000') of any part of the premises upon which wine is sold for consumption.
   D.    If, after review of said petition for revocation of license, the City
Council determines that the allegations in said petition are true and correct,
the Council may take the appropriate action to revoke that existing license.
The criteria to be used by the City Council to revoke pursuant to such a
petition shall be the same as provided in this section. (Ord. 415, 3-25-1992)
3-2C-17: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this article shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 415, 3-25-1992; amd. 1999 Code)
CHAPTER 3
PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
SECTION:
3-3-1: Uninvited Peddlers Prohibited
3-3-2: Exceptions
3-3-3: Penalty
3-3-1: UNINVITED PEDDLERS PROHIBITED:
   A.   Definition: Peddlers are described as City, County, State or
agricultural businesses. All other types of peddlers are prohibited from going
in and upon private residences in the City of Rigby.
   B.   License Required: The practice of going in and upon private residences
in the City by solicitors, peddlers, hawkers, itinerant merchants or transient
vendors of merchandise not having been requested or invited so to do by the
owners or occupants of said private residences for the purpose of soliciting
orders for the sale of goods, wares and merchandise and/or disposing of, and/or
peddling or hawking the same is declared to be a nuisance and punishable as
such nuisance as a misdemeanor, unless a valid license is obtained from the
City of Rigby with said license not to exceed thirty (30) days from issuance.
The application for said license shall include the identification of all sales
agents who will be in the City, and what days the sales agents will be in the
City. The application shall also include the company the agents work for, and
the name and contact information of their manager or superior. (Ord. 2018-593,
2-15-2018)
3-3-2: EXCEPTIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the sale, or soliciting of
orders for the sale of, milk, dairy products, vegetables, poultry, eggs and
other farm and garden produce so far as the sale of the commodities named
herein is now authorized by law. (1980 Code § 5.4.3)
3-3-3: PENALTY:
Any violation of the provisions of this chapter shall be unlawful, and any
person so violating such provisions shall be guilty of a misdemeanor hereunder
and, upon conviction, shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (1980 Code § 5.4.2; amd. 1999 Code)
CHAPTER 4
PAWNBROKERS, JUNK DEALERS, SECONDHAND STORES
SECTION:
3-4-1: Definitions
3-4-2: License Required
3-4-3: License Fees
3-4-4: Records Open For Inspection
3-4-5: Retention Of Property
3-4-6: Purchases Restricted
3-4-7: Violation; Penalty
3-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
Within the meaning of this Chapter, the following words and terms shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this Section:
JUNK DEALER: One who regularly purchases and sells pieces of old cable, old
cordage, old iron or other metal, used glass, old or used auto tires, supplies
or accessories, or any other used articles of a similar nature.
PAWNBROKER: One who engages in the business of lending or advancing money on
the security of personal property pledged or deposited in his possession.
SECONDHAND PRECIOUS METAL DEALER: Any person who engages in buying or selling
old gold, silver, platinum or other precious metal or secondhand articles
containing any of such metals; provided, however, that the following persons
shall not be considered a secondhand precious metal dealer:
   A.   A person who in the ordinary course of business, buys or sells such
precious metals in an uncast state primarily for use in any manufacturing or
photographic developing process, dental restoration or repair or use in jewelry
manufacture or repair;
   B.   A person who, in the ordinary course of business and in conjunction
with the sale of new goods or merchandise, accepts or receives secondhand
articles containing such precious metals, as consideration for said sale, and
who thereafter disposes of the same in the same form as such articles existed
at the time of its receipt.
SECONDHAND STOREKEEPER: One who regularly purchases and sells articles of
personal property, previously possessed and used by another, including one who
makes a business of exchanging one or more articles of used personal property,
for another article of used personal property; provided, however, that this
Chapter shall not apply to persons engaged in the business of purchasing and
selling secondhand or used automobiles; provided, further that this Chapter
shall not apply to persons who conduct or sponsor a "garage sale" as provided
for in Chapter 5 of this Title. (1980 Code § 5.7.1; amd. 1999 Code)
3-4-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in, or carry on, the business of
a pawnbroker, junk dealer, secondhand storekeeper or secondhand precious metal
dealer within the City limits without first procuring a license to conduct such
business as hereinafter provided. (1980 Code § 5.7.2)
3-4-3: LICENSE FEES:
Any person engaging in the following listed businesses in the City shall
procure a license therefor and shall pay the following designated license fees,
per year:
 
Pawnbroker                                                 $50.00
Secondhand storekeeper or secondhand precious metal dealer 30.00
Junk dealer                                                50.00
 
(1980 Code §§ 5.7.3, 5.7.4, 5.7.5)
3-4-4: RECORDS OPEN FOR INSPECTION:
   A.   Junk And Secondhand Dealers: All junk dealers, secondhand storekeepers
and secondhand precious metal dealers shall daily keep the following written
records:
      1.   An accurate description of all personal property purchased.
      2.   The name, residence, age, general description, signature, driver's
license number, or social security number, of the person from whom any article
of personal property is purchased or received.
      3.   Date when such property was purchased or acquired.
      4.   The date when such property is disposed of, and the name and address
of the person receiving the same. (1980 Code § 5.7.6)
   B.   Pawnbrokers: All pawnbrokers licensed under this Chapter must daily
keep the following written records:
      1.   An accurate description of all personal property the security upon
which money is loaned or advanced.
      2.   The name, residence, age, general description, signature, driver's
license number, or social security number, of the person from whom any article
of personal property is purchased or received.
      3.   The date when such property is disposed of, and the name and address
of the person receiving the same.
   C.   Police Authority To Inspect: Such records must be kept open for
inspection by a sworn police officer during business hours, and no proprietor
or keeper of such places of business shall refuse to permit any officer, having
authority to do so, to inspect such records. (1980 Code § 5.7.7)
3-4-5: RETENTION OF PROPERTY:
It shall be unlawful for any person licensed under this Chapter to sell, trade,
rent or otherwise dispose of any property acquired for the purpose of resale or
other conveyance, for a period of fifteen (15) days from the date of receiving
the same. (1980 Code § 5.7.8)
3-4-6: PURCHASES RESTRICTED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to accept or receive in the ordinary course
of business for the purpose of resale or other conveyance, any personal
property from any persons under the age of eighteen (18) or any persons under
the influence of alcohol, drugs, or any controlled substance. (1980 Code §
5.7.9)
3-4-7: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   Misdemeanor: It shall be a misdemeanor for any person to withhold
access to records from any police officer or officer of the law within the
State; and it shall also be a misdemeanor to violate the provisions of this
Chapter.
   B.   Forfeiture Of License: In addition to the statutory penalties set forth
for the violation of misdemeanors within the State, any junk dealer,
pawnbroker, or owner of a secondhand store may forfeit his license upon a
conviction for the violation of this Chapter. (1980 Code § 5.7.10)
CHAPTER 5
YARD SALES
SECTION:
3-5-1: Three Day Limitation
3-5-2: Total Calendar Days Restricted
3-5-3: Manner Of Sale
3-5-4: Penalty
3-5-1: THREE DAY LIMITATION:
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell new or used goods or items upon
their yard surrounding their residence for a continuous period in excess of
three (3) days. Any yard or garage sale shall be limited to three (3) days and
if exceeding such shall be treated as an infraction for a first offense with a
one hundred dollar ($100.00) penalty, an infraction with a two hundred dollar
($200.00) penalty for a second offense, and shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
upon conviction of a third offense within a three (3) year period, and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 2018-593, 2-15-2018)
3-5-2: TOTAL CALENDAR DAYS RESTRICTED:
Yard sales may be conducted more than one time per year but in no event shall
the total days of sale upon any residential premises exceed five (5) days in
any calendar year. (1980 Code § 8.5.2)
3-5-3: MANNER OF SALE:
Yard sales shall be conducted in such a manner as to not create an offensive
odor or atmosphere, and shall not be noticeably unsightly, or in any manner
cause or create a public nuisance or menace to public health. (1980 Code §
8.5.3)
3-5-4: PENALTY:
Any person who shall violate any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (1980 Code § 8.5.4; amd. 1999 Code)
CHAPTER 6
ADULT BUSINESSES
SECTION:
3-6-1:   Purpose And Intent
3-6-2:   Definitions
3-6-3:   Establishment And Classification Of Businesses
3-6-4:   Measurement Of Distance
3-6-5:   Location Of Sexually Oriented Businesses
3-6-6:   Regulations Governing Existing Sexually Oriented Businesses
3-6-7:   Injunction
3-6-8:   Sexually Oriented Business Permit; Purpose And Intent
3-6-9:   Permit Required
3-6-10: Investigation And Application
3-6-11:    Issuance Of Permit
3-6-12:    Annual Permit Fee
3-6-13:    Inspection
3-6-14:    Expiration Of Permit
3-6-15:    Suspension Of Permit
3-6-16:    Revocation Of Permit
3-6-17:    Judicial Review Of Permit Denial, Suspension Or Revocation
3-6-18:    Transfer Of Permit
3-6-19:    Sexually Oriented Business Employee License
3-6-20:    Regulations Pertaining To Exhibition Of Sexually Explicit Films Or
Videos In Video Booths
3-6-21:    Prohibition Regarding Minors And Sexually Oriented Businesses
3-6-22:    Advertising And Lighting Regulations
3-6-23:    Hours Of Operation
3-6-24:    Public Nudity Prohibited
3-6-25:    Prohibition Of Live Adult Entertainment
3-6-26:    Additional Criminal Prohibitions For The Operation Of A Sexually
Oriented Business Without A Valid Permit
3-6-27:    Exemptions
3-6-28:    Criminal Penalties And Additional Legal, Equitable, And Injunctive
Relief
3-6-29:    Immunity From Prosecution
3-6-30:    Scope And Interpretation
3-6-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The purpose of this Chapter is to regulate sexually oriented businesses which
sell, display, or distribute indecent materials, or which sponsor, exhibit or
engage in conduct, which is indecent, but which is not obscene such as to be
prohibited by state law. It is also the purpose and intent of this Chapter to
regulate sexually oriented businesses to promote the health, safety, morals,
and general welfare of the citizens of the City and to establish reasonable and
uniform regulations to prevent any deleterious location and concentration of
sexually oriented businesses within the City, thereby reducing or eliminating
the adverse secondary effects from such sexually oriented businesses. The
provisions of this Chapter have neither the purpose nor effect of imposing a
limitation or restriction on the content of any communicative materials,
including sexually oriented materials. Similarly, it is not the intent nor
effect of this Chapter to restrict or deny access by adults to sexually
oriented materials protected by the First Amendment, or to deny access by the
distributors and exhibitors of sexually oriented entertainment to their
intended market. Neither is it the intent nor effect of the Chapter to condone
or legitimize the distribution of obscene material. (Ord. 2019-607, 8-15-2019)
3-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
Certain terms used in this Chapter shall have the meaning ascribed below:
 
           An establishment where, for any form of consideration, one (1) or more still or
           motion picture projectors, slide projectors, computers, or other similar image
ADULT      producing machines, for viewing by five (5) or fewer persons each, are regularly
ARCADE:    used to show films, motion pictures, video cassettes, DVD's, CD-ROMs, slides,
           computer-generated images, or other photographic reproductions which are
           characterized by the depiction or description of "Specified Sexual Activities"
           or "Specified Anatomical Areas."
           A commercial establishment which has significant or substantial portion of its
           stock-in-trade or derives a significant or substantial portion of its revenues
           or devotes a significant or substantial portion of its interior business or
           advertising to the sale, rental for any form of consideration, of any one (1) or
           more of the following:
              A. Books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter, or photographs,
           films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, DVD's, CD-ROMs, or other visual
           representations which are characterized by    the depiction or description of
           "Specified Sexual Activities" or "Specified Anatomical Areas"; or
              B. Instruments, devices, or paraphernalia which are designed for use or
           marketed primarily for stimulation of human genital organs or for
ADULT      sadomasochistic use or abuse of themselves or others.
BOOKSTORE,    C. An establishment may have other principal business purposes that do not
ADULT      involve the offering for sale, rental or viewing of materials depicting or
NOVELTY    describing "Specified Sexual Activities" or "Specified Anatomical Areas," and
STORE OR   still be categorized as adult bookstore, adult novelty store, or adult video
ADULT      store. Such other business purposes will not serve to exempt such establishments
VIDEO      from being categorized as an adult bookstore, adult novelty store or adult video
STORE:     store so long as one of its business purposes is offering for sale or rental,
           for some form of consideration, the specified materials which depict or describe
           "Specified Anatomical Areas" or "Specified Sexual Activities." For the purpose
           of determining whether a significant or substantial portion of the stock in
           trade or revenues consist of or is derived from the sale of materials which
           depict or describe "Specified Sexual Activities" or "Specified Anatomical
           Areas," the amount of such stock in trade or revenues shall be compared to the
           aggregate amount of revenues derived from the sale of all such materials sold or
           displayed and the revenues or amount of stock in trade derived from or
           consisting of all materials described in Section
           3-6-2(A), subsections 2.a. and b. hereof, over a period of at least one (1)
           month.
 
 
               A nightclub, bar, restaurant, "bottle club," juice bar or
               similar commercial establishment, whether or not alcoholic
               beverages are served, which regularly features: (a) persons who
               appear nude or in a state of nudity or semi-nude; (b) live
ADULT CABARET: performances which are characterized by the exposure of
               "Specified Anatomical Areas" or by "Specified Sexual
               Activities," or (c) films, motion pictures, video cassettes,
               slides, or other photographic reproductions which are
               characterized by the depiction or description of "Specified
               Sexual Activities" or "Specified Anatomical Areas."
 
 
                              A motel, hotel or similar commercial
                              establishment which: (a) offers public
                              accommodations, for any form of consideration,
                              which provides patrons with closed-circuit
                              television transmissions, films, motion pictures,
                              video cassettes, slides, DVD's, CD-ROMs, or other
                              photographic reproductions which are
                              characterized by the depiction or description of
                              "Specified Sexual Activities" or "Specified
                              Anatomical Areas" and which advertises the
ADULT MOTEL:                  availability of this sexually oriented type of
                              material by means of a sign visible from the
                              public right-of-way, or by means of any off-
                              premises advertising including but not limited
                              to, newspapers, magazines, pamphlets or leaflets,
                              radio or television, or (b) offers a sleeping
                              room for rent for a period of time less than ten
                              (10) hours; or (c) for any form of consideration,
                              allows a tenant or occupant to sub-rent the
                              sleeping room for a time period of less than ten
                              (10) hours.
                              A commercial establishment where films, motion
                              pictures, video cassettes, slides, DVD's, CD-
                              ROMs, or similar photographic reproductions which
ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER: are characterized by the depiction or description
                              of "Specified Sexual Activities," or "Specified
                              Anatomical Areas," are shown for any form of
                              consideration.
                              A theater, concert hall, auditorium, or similar
                              commercial establishment which, for any form of
                              consideration, regularly features persons who
ADULT THEATER:                appear in a state of nudity or live performances
                              which are characterized by exposure of "Specified
                              Anatomical Areas," or by "Specified Sexual
                              Activities."
 
COUCH OR       An employee of the establishment intentionally touching or coming within ten
STRADDLE       (10) feet of any patron while engaged in the display or exposure of any
DANCE:         "Specified Anatomical Area," or any "Specified Sexual Activity."
               A person who works or performs in and/or for a sexually oriented business,
EMPLOYEE:      regardless of whether or not said person is paid a salary, wage or other
               compensation by the operator of said business.
               A person who, for any form of consideration, agrees or offers to act as a
ESCORT:        companion or date for another person, or who agrees or offers to privately
               model lingerie or to privately perform a striptease for or dance with another
               person.
               A person or business association who furnishes, offers to furnish, or
ESCORT AGENCY: advertises to furnish escorts as one of its primary business purposes for a
               fee, tip, or other consideration.
               Means and includes any of the following:
               A.   The opening or commencement of any such business as a new business;
               B.   The conversion of an existing business, whether or not a sexually oriented
ESTABLISHMENT: business, to any of the sexually oriented businesses defined in this Chapter;
               C.   The addition of any of the sexually oriented businesses defined in this
               Chapter to any other existing sexually oriented business; or
               D.   The relocation of any such sexually oriented business.
               Any exhibition, dance, or performance for consideration by a person who appears
LIVE ADULT     nude or semi-nude, or a performance which is characterized by the exposure of
ENTERTAINMENT: "Specified Anatomical Areas" or by "Specified Sexual Activities," including the
               performance of a "Straddle" or "Couch" dance.
 
 
                           Any place where, for any form of consideration or
                           gratuity, massage, alcohol rub, administration of
                           fomentations, electric or magnetic treatments, or
                           any other treatment or manipulation of the human
                           body which occurs as a part of or in connection with
                           "Specified Sexual Activities," or where any person
                           providing such treatment, manipulation, or service
                           related thereto, exposes his or her "Specified
                           Anatomical Areas." The definition of sexually
MASSAGE PARLOR:            oriented businesses shall not include the practice
                           of massage in any licensed hospital, nor by any
                           employee of a licensed hospital, nor by a licensed
                           physician, surgeon, chiropractor or osteopath,
                           massage therapist, nor by any nurse or technician
                           working under the supervision of a licensed
                           physician, surgeon, chiropractor or osteopath, nor
                           by trainers for any amateur, semiprofessional or
                           professional athlete or athletic team or school
                           athletic program.
                           Any place where a person, who regularly appears in a
                           state of nudity or displays "Specified Anatomical
NUDE MODEL STUDIO:         Areas," is provided for money or any form of
                           consideration to be observed, sketched, drawn,
                           painted, sculptured, photographed, or similarly
                           depicted by other persons.
                           The appearance of human bare buttock, anus, male
                           genitals, female genitals, or the areola or nipple
NUDITY OR STATE OF NUDITY: of the female breast; or a state of dress which
                           fails to opaquely and fully cover a human buttocks,
                           anus, male or female genitals, pubic region or
                           areola or nipple of the female breast.
                           The owner, permit holder, custodian, manager,
OPERATOR:                  operator or person in charge of any permitted or
                           licensed premises.
 
 
                                Any premises that requires a license and/or
PERMITTED OR LICENSED PREMISES: permit and that is classified as a sexually
                                oriented business.
                                A person in whose name a permit and/or license
                                to operate a sexually oriented business has
PERMITTEE AND/OR LICENSEE:      been issued, as well as the individual listed
                                as an applicant on the application for a permit
                                and/or license.
                                An individual, proprietorship, partnership,
PERSON:                         corporation, association, or other legal
                                entity.
                                Any building owned, leased or held by the
                                United States, the state, the county, the city,
PUBLIC BUILDING:                any special district, school district, or any
                                other agency or political subdivision of the
                                state or the United States, which building is
                                used for governmental purposes.
                                Public land which has been designated for park
                                or recreational activities including but not
                                limited to a park, playground, nature trails,
                                swimming pool, reservoir, athletic field,
PUBLIC PARK OR RECREATION AREA: basketball or tennis courts, pedestrian/bicycle
                                paths, open space, wilderness areas, or similar
                                public land within the city which is under the
                                control, operation, or management of the city
                                park and recreation authorities.
                                All outdoor places owned by or open to the
                                general public, and all buildings and enclosed
                                places owned by or open to the general public,
                                including but not limited to places of
                                entertainment, taverns, restaurants, clubs,
                                theaters, dance halls, banquet halls, party
PUBLIC PLACE:                   rooms or halls limited to specific members,
                                restricted to adults or to patrons invited to
                                attend, whether or not an admission is charged.
                                The term does not include private rooms used
                                primarily for residential purposes, hotel rooms
                                or other private places used for human
                                habitation or bona fide dressing rooms or
                                restrooms.
                                Any church, synagogue, mosque, temple or
RELIGIOUS INSTITUTION:          building which is used primarily for religious
                                worship and related religious activities.
 
 
                                A single family dwelling, duplex, townhouse,
                                multiple family, or mobile park or subdivision
RESIDENTIAL USE:                and campground or other use characterized by
                                its devotion to human habitation, excluding
                                hotels, motels, boarding establishments or
                                similar commercial establishments.
                                Any district established by the Rigby Zoning
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT:           Ordinance which is characterized by residential
                                uses.
                                Any public or private educational facility
                                including but not limited to child day care
                                facilities, nursery schools, preschools,
                                kindergartens, elementary schools, primary
                                schools, intermediate schools, junior high
                                schools, middle schools, high schools,
SCHOOL:                         vocational schools, secondary schools,
                                continuation schools, special education
                                schools, junior colleges, and universities.
                                School includes the school grounds but does not
                                include the facilities used primarily for
                                another purpose and only incidentally as a
                                school.
                                A state of dress in which clothing covers no
                                more than the genitals, pubic region, and
SEMI-NUDE:                      areolae of the female breast, as well as
                                portions of the body covered by supporting
                                straps or devices.
                                A business or commercial establishment, that as
                                one of its primary business purposes, offers
                                for any form of consideration, a place where
                                two (2) or more persons may congregate,
                                associate, or consort for the purpose of
                                "Specified Sexual Activities" or the exposure
                                of "Specified Anatomical Areas" or activities
SEXUAL ENCOUNTER ESTABLISHMENT: when one (1) or more of the persons is in a
                                state of nudity or semi-nude. The definition of
                                sexually oriented businesses shall not include
                                an establishment where a medical practitioner,
                                psychologist, psychiatrist, or similar
                                professional person licensed by the state
                                engages in medically approved and recognized
                                sexual therapy.
 
 
SEXUALLY     An adult arcade, adult bookstore, adult cabaret, adult motel, adult motion
ORIENTED     picture theater, adult novelty shop, adult theater, adult video store, escort
BUSINESS:    agency, massage parlor, nude model studio, or sexual encounter establishment.
SIGNIFICANT
OR           At least twenty-five percent (25%).
SUBSTANTIAL:
SPECIFIED    Any sexual crimes against children, sexual abuse, rape or crimes connected with
CRIMINAL     another sexually oriented business including but not limited to distribution of
ACT:         obscenity or material harmful to minors, prostitution, pandering, or tax
             violations.
             Means and includes any of the following:
SPECIFIED    A.   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic region,
ANATOMICAL   anus, or female breasts below a point immediately above the top of the areolae;
AREAS:       or
             B.   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if completely and
             opaquely covered.
             Means and includes any of the following:
             A.   The fondling or other intentional touching of human genitals, pubic region,
             buttocks, anus, or female breasts for any purpose other than for medical or
SPECIFIED    therapeutic purposes by a licensed medical practitioner;
SEXUAL       B.   Sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including intercourse,
ACTIVITIES:  oral copulation, or sodomy;
             C.   Masturbation, actual or simulated;
             D.   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation, arousal or tumescence; or
             E.   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the activities
             set forth in subdivisions A through D of this definition.
 
 
SUBSTANTIAL
ENLARGEMENT An increase in the floor areas occupied by the business by more than fifteen
OF A        percent (15%), as the floor areas exist on the effective date of the Ordinance
SEXUALLY    adopting this Chapter.
ORIENTED
BUSINESS:
TRANSFER OF Means and includes any of the following:
OWNERSHIP   A.   The sale, lease or sublease of the business;
OR CONTROL  B.   The transfer of securities which constitute a controlling interest in the
OF A        business, whether by sale, exchange or similar means;
SEXUALLY    C.   The establishment of a trust, gift or other similar legal devise which
ORIENTED    transfers ownership or control of the business, except for transfer by bequest or
BUSINESS:   other operation of law upon the death of a person possessing the ownership or
            control.
ZONING      The Zoning Ordinance of the City of Rigby, Idaho as presently constituted or as
ORDINANCE:  may be amended hereafter. (Ord. 2019-607, 8-15-2019)
 
3-6-3: ESTABLISHMENT AND CLASSIFICATION OF BUSINESSES:
   A.   The establishment and operation of a sexually oriented business shall
be permitted only in the Industrial zone and shall be subject to the
restrictions set forth in this Chapter. In particular, the issuance of a
license shall not be construed to allow any person or establishment to engage
in conduct otherwise expressly prohibited under Sections
3-6-23  and
3-6-25  of this Chapter.
   B.   No person shall cause or permit the establishment of a sexually
oriented business within one thousand feet (1,000') of another such business or
within two thousand five hundred feet (2,500') of any religious institution,
school, boys' club, girls' club, or similar existing youth organization, or
public park or public building, or within two thousand five hundred feet
(2,500') of any property zoned for residential use or used for residential
purposes.
   C.   Notwithstanding the distance requirements of subsection (B) above, the
location of sexually oriented businesses within retail shopping centers in such
zones is permitted where such activities will have their only frontage upon
enclosed malls or malls isolated from direct view from public streets, parks,
schools, religious institutions, boys' clubs, girls' clubs, or similar existing
youth organization, public buildings or residential districts or uses. (Ord.
2019-607, 8-15-2019)
3-6-4: MEASUREMENT OF DISTANCE:
As regarding Section
3-6-3 B, distance between any two (2) sexually oriented businesses shall be
measured in a straight line, without regard to intervening structures, from the
closest exterior structural wall of each business. The distance between any
sexually oriented business and any religious institution, public or private
elementary or secondary school, boys club, girls club, or similar existing
youth organization, or public park or public building or any properties zoned
for residential use or used for residential purposes shall also be measured in
a straight line, without regard to intervening structures or objects from the
nearest point of the property line of the premises where the sexually oriented
business is conducted, to the nearest point of the property line of the
premises of a religious institution, public or private elementary or secondary
school, boys club, girls club, or similar existing youth organization, or
public park or public building or any properties zoned for residential use or
used for residential purposes. (Ord. 2019-607, 8-15-2019)
3-6-5: LOCATION OF SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES:
Sexually oriented businesses shall be permitted only in the Industrial Zone and
shall otherwise be subject to the provisions of the Zoning Ordinance applicable
to such zones, together with the provisions of this Chapter. In the event of
any conflict between the Zoning Ordinance and this Chapter, then the provisions
of this Chapter shall control. Permits for sexually oriented businesses shall
be required and governed by the procedures and policies specified in Section
3-6-9  of this Chapter. In addition, any person who owns, operates or controls
a sexually oriented business shall be subject to the following restrictions:
   A.   The person commits a misdemeanor if he operates or causes to be
operated a Sexually Oriented Business except as provided in Section
3-6-3  of this Chapter.
   B.   The person commits a misdemeanor if he operates or causes to be
operated a sexually oriented business within two thousand five hundred feet
(2,500') of:
      1.   Any religious institution;
      2.   Any school;
      3.   The boundary of any residential zone;
      4.   A public park adjacent to any residential zone;
      5.   A property line of a lot devoted to residential use; or
      6.   A boys club, girls club, or similar existing youth organization,
except as provided in Section
3-6-3 C.
   C.   A person commits a misdemeanor if he operates or causes to be operated
a sexually oriented business within one thousand feet (1,000') of another such
business, which will include any adult arcade, adult book store, adult video
store, adult cabaret, adult motel, adult motion picture theater, adult theater,
massage parlor or any sexual encounter establishment, except as provided in
Section
3-6-3 C.
   D.   A person commits a misdemeanor if he causes or permits the operation,
establishment, or maintenance of more than one (1) sexually oriented business
within the same building, structure, or portion thereof, except as provided in
Section
3-6-3 C, or causes the substantial enlargement of any sexually oriented
business in any building, structure or portion thereof containing another
sexually oriented business.
   E.   It is a defense to prosecution under this section if a person appearing
in a state of nudity or semi-nudity did so in a modeling class operated:
      1.   By a proprietary school, licensed by the State of Idaho; a college,
junior college, or university supported entirely or partly by taxation;
      2.   By a private college or university which maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior
college, or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or
      3.   In a structure:
         a.   Which has no sign visible from the exterior of the structure and
no other advertising that indicates a nude person is available for viewing;
         b.   Where, in order to participate in a class a student must enroll
at least three (3) days in advance of the class; and
         c.   Where no more than one (1) nude model is on the premises at any
one time. (Ord. 2019-607, 8-15-2019)
3-6-6: REGULATIONS GOVERNING EXISTING SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES:
   A.   Any sexually oriented business in operation on the effective date of
the Ordinance adopting this Chapter, whose operation at a location is
prohibited by this Chapter, shall be deemed to be a nonconforming use. Subject
to the provisions of Article III of the Zoning Ordinance, such non-conforming
use may be continued at such location notwithstanding the provisions of this
Chapter. Such business shall be considered to be in operation on the effective
date of this Chapter if the business has been in continuous operation for a
period of at least thirty (30) days prior to the date of the first reading of
the Ordinance adopting this Chapter or has expended at least one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00) for construction of improvements to any building or
structure occupied by such business prior to such date. Such non-conforming
uses shall not be increased, enlarged, extended or altered except that the use
may be changed to a conforming use. If two (2) or more sexually oriented
businesses are within one thousand feet (1,000') of one another and otherwise
in a permissible location, the sexually oriented business which was first
established and continually operating at the particular location is the
conforming use and the later established business(es) is nonconforming, except
as provided in Section
3-6-3 C.
   B.   A sexually oriented business lawfully operating as a conforming use is
not rendered a nonconforming use by the location, subsequent to the grant or
renewal of a sexually oriented business permit and/or license, of a church,
public or private elementary or secondary school, public park, public building,
residential district, or residential lot within two thousand five hundred feet
(2,500') of the sexually oriented business. This provision applies only to the
renewal of a valid permit and/or license and does not apply when an application
for a permit and/or license is submitted after a permit and/or license has
expired or has been revoked.
   C.   Any establishment subject to the provision of this section shall apply
for the permit provided for by Section
3-6-1 0 within thirty (30) days of the effective date of this Chapter. Any
establishment, existing prior to such effective date, shall comply with the
regulations pertaining to Sections
3-6-2 0 and
3-6-22  within sixty (60) days of such effective date, and all other applicable
permit regulations within thirty (30) days of the effective date. (Ord. 2019-
607, 8-15-2019)
3-6-7: INJUNCTION:
A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented business
without having a valid permit due to locational restrictions is subject to a
suit for injunction as well as prosecution for the criminal violation. Such
violation shall be punishable by a fine in an amount set from time to time by
Resolution of Council, and/or thirty (30) days imprisonment, and if an
injunction must be sought, attorney's fees and costs may be assessed by the
Court against the sexually oriented business. (Ord. 2019-607, 8-15-2019)
3-6-8: SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS PERMIT; PURPOSE AND INTENT:
It is the purpose of this Chapter to regulate sexually oriented businesses to
promote the health, safety, morals and general welfare of the citizens of the
City, and to establish reasonable and uniform regulations to prevent
deleterious effects of sexually oriented businesses within the City. The
provisions of this Chapter have neither the purpose nor effect of imposing a
limitation or restriction on the content of any communicative materials,
including sexually oriented materials. Similarly, it is not the intent, nor
effect of this Chapter, to restrict or deny access by adults to sexually
oriented materials protected by the First Amendment, or to deny access by the
distributors and exhibitors of sexually oriented entertainment to their
intended market. Neither is it the intent or effect of this Chapter to in any
way condone or legitimize the distribution of obscene or harmful to minors
material. (Ord. 2019-607, 8-15-2019)
3-6-9: PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   No sexually oriented business shall be permitted to operate without a
valid sexually oriented business permit issued by the City for the particular
type of business. It shall be unlawful and a person commits a misdemeanor if
he/she operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented business without
said permit.
   B.   The City Planner or his/her designee is responsible for granting,
denying, revoking, renewing, suspending, and canceling sexually oriented
business permits for proposed or existing sexually oriented businesses. The
City Planner or his/her designee is also responsible for ascertaining whether a
proposed sexually oriented business for which a permit is being applied
complies with all locational requirements of Sections
3-6-3 ,
3-6-5 , and
3-6-6  of this Chapter, all applicable zoning laws and/or regulations now in
effect or as amended or enacted subsequent to the effective date of the
adoption of this Chapter and the City Comprehensive Plan.
   C.   The Rigby Police Department shall be responsible for enforcing all
other provisions of this Chapter. The Rigby Police Department shall, upon
request from the City Planner, provide information on whether an applicant has
been convicted of a specified criminal act during the time period set forth.
   D.   The City Planner and the Rigby Police Department shall be jointly
responsible for inspecting a proposed, permitted or non-permitted sexually
oriented business in order to ascertain whether it is in compliance with this
Chapter.
   E.   An application for a permit must be made on a form provided by the
City. Any person desiring to operate a sexually oriented business shall file
with the City Clerk an original and two (2) copies of a sworn permit
application on the standard application form supplied by the City or designee.
The completed application shall contain the following information and shall be
accompanied by the following documents:
      1.   If the applicant is:
         a.   An individual, the individual shall state his/her legal name and
any aliases and submit satisfactory proof that he/she is eighteen (18) years of
age;
         b.   A partnership, the partnership shall state its complete name, and
the names of all partners, whether the partnership is general or limited, and a
copy of the partnership agreement, if any;
         c.   A corporation, the corporation shall state its complete name, the
date of its incorporation, evidence that the corporation is in good standing
under the Laws of Idaho, the names and capacity of all officers, directors and
principal stockholders, and the name of the registered corporate agent and the
address of the registered office for service of process.
      2.   If the applicant intends to operate the sexually oriented business
under a name other than that of the applicant; he must state:
         a.   The sexually oriented business's fictitious name; and
         b.   Submit documents evidencing compliance with Chapter 5, Title 53,
Idaho Code.
      3.   Whether the applicant or any of the other individuals listed
pursuant to Section
3-6-9  of this Chapter has, within the two (2) or five (5) year period as
specified in Section
3-6-11  immediately preceding the date of the application, been convicted of a
specified criminal act, and, if so, the specified criminal act involved, the
date of conviction, and the place of conviction.
      4.   Whether the applicant or any of the other individuals listed
pursuant to Section
3-6-9 F of this Chapter has had a previous permit under this Chapter or other
similar sexually oriented business ordinances from another city or county
denied, suspended or revoked, including the name and location of the sexually
oriented business for which the permit was denied, suspended or revoked, as
well as the date of the denial, suspension or revocation, and whether the
applicant or any other individuals listed pursuant to Section
3-6-9 F has been a partner in a partnership or an officer, director or
principal stockholder of a corporation that is permitted under this Chapter
whose permit has previously been denied, suspended or revoked, including the
name and location of the sexually oriented business for which the permit was
denied, suspended or revoked as well as the date of denial, suspension or
revocation.
      5.   Whether the applicant or any other individual listed pursuant to
Section
3-6-9 9F holds any other permits and/or licenses under this Chapter or other
similar sexually oriented business ordinance from another city or county and,
if so, the names and locations of such other permitted businesses.
      6.   The single classification of permit for which the applicant is
filing.
      7.   The location of the proposed sexually oriented business, including a
legal description of the property, street address, and telephone number(s), if
any.
      8.   The mailing addresses and residential addresses of the applicant and
each partner, member, officer, director and shareholder listed in Section
3-6-9 F hereof.
      9.   A recent photograph of the applicant(s) or its manager, partner,
member or president.
      10.   The driver's permit number, Social Security number, and/or State or
federally issued tax identification number of the applicant or its manager,
partner, member or president.
      11.   A sketch or diagram showing the configuration of the premises,
including a statement of total floor space occupied by the business. The sketch
or diagram need not be professionally prepared, but it must be drawn to a
designated scale or drawn with marked dimensions of the interior of the
premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six (6) inches.
      12.   A current certificate and straight-line drawing prepared within
thirty (30) days prior to application by an Idaho registered land surveyor
depicting the property lines and the structures containing any established
existing uses regulated by this Chapter within two thousand five hundred feet
(2,500') of the property to be certified; the property lines of any established
religious institution/synagogue, school, or public park or recreation area
within two thousand five hundred feet (2,500') of the property to be certified;
and the property lines of any residentially zoned area or residential property
within two thousand five hundred feet (2,500') of the property to be certified.
For purposes of this section, a use shall be considered existing or established
if it is in existence at the time an application is submitted. Sexually
oriented businesses allowed under Section
3-6-3 C of this Chapter are excepted from this requirement.
      13.   If a person who wishes to operate a sexually oriented business is
an individual, he/she must sign the application for a permit as applicant. If a
person who wishes to operate a sexually oriented business is other than an
individual, each individual who has a ten percent (10%) or greater interest in
the business must sign the application for a permit as applicant. If a
corporation is listed as owner of a sexually oriented business or as the entity
which wishes to operate such a business, each individual having a ten percent
(10%) or greater interest in the corporation must sign the application for a
permit as applicant.
      14.   If a person wishes to operate a sexually oriented business which
shall exhibit on the premises films, video cassettes, DVD's, CD-ROMs, or other
video reproductions which depict specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas, then said person shall comply with the application
requirements stated at Section
3-6-20  et. seq. of this Chapter.
   F.   To determine the suitability of prospective applicants for a license,
the Chief of Police shall require a first time applicant to provide information
and fingerprints necessary to obtain criminal history information from the
Idaho State Police and the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Pursuant to Section
67-3008, Idaho Code, and congressional enactment Public Law Section 92-533, the
Chief of Police shall submit a set of fingerprints obtained from the applicant
and the required fees to the Idaho State Police, Bureau of Criminal
Identification, for a criminal records check of state and national databases.
The submission of fingerprints and information required by this section shall
be on forms prescribed by the Idaho State Police. The Chief of Police is
authorized to receive criminal history information from the Idaho State Police
and from the Federal Bureau of Investigation for the purpose of evaluating the
fitness of applicants for a license under this section. As required by State
and Federal law, further dissemination or other use of the criminal history
information is prohibited. Fingerprinting shall not be required for a license
renewal, unless fingerprints and criminal background check have not been
previously obtained or performed for the applicant. For the purposes of this
subsection, fingerprints shall also be taken of all individuals required to be
listed pursuant to subsection E.13 of the preceding subsection.
   G.   Applicants for a permit under this section shall have a continuing duty
to promptly supplement application information required by this section in the
event that said information changes in any way from what is stated on the
application. The failure to comply with said continuing duty within thirty (30)
days from the date of such change by supplementing the application on file with
the City Clerk or his/her designee shall be grounds for suspension of a permit.
   H.   In the event that the City Clerk or his/her designee determines or
learns at any time that the applicant has improperly completed the application
for a proposed sexually oriented business, he/she shall promptly notify the
applicant of such fact and allow the applicant ten (10) days to properly
complete the application. The time period for granting or denying a permit
shall be stayed during the period in which the applicant is expressly allowed
an opportunity to properly complete the application.
   I.   The applicant must be qualified according to the provisions of this
Chapter and the premises must be inspected and found to be in compliance with
all Federal, State or City health, fire and building codes and laws.
   J.   The applicant shall be required to pay a non-refundable application fee
at the time of filing an application under this Chapter in an amount set from
time to time by Resolution of the Council.
   K.   Prior to obtaining any permit or license to operate any sexually
oriented business as defined in this Chapter, and as part of any application
for a permit under this section, the applicant shall obtain from the City
Planner or his or her designee, a certification that the proposed location of
such business complies with the locational requirements of Sections
3-6-5  and
3-6-6  of this Chapter.
   L.   The fact that a person possesses other types of State or City permits
and/or licenses does not exempt the applicant from the requirement of obtaining
a sexually oriented business permit.
   M.   By applying for a permit under this Chapter, the applicant shall be
deemed to have consented to the provisions of this Chapter and to the exercise
by the City Planner or his/her designee, the Rigby Police Department and all
other City agencies charged with enforcing the laws, ordinances and codes
applicable in the City of their respective responsibilities under this Chapter.
   N.   The applicant shall be required to provide the City with the names of
any and all employees who are required to be licensed pursuant to Section
3-6-19  of this Chapter. This shall be a continuing requirement even after a
permit is granted or renewed. (Ord. 2019-607, 8-15-2019)
3-6-10: INVESTIGATION AND APPLICATION:
   A.   Upon receipt of an application properly filed with the City Clerk and
upon payment of the nonrefundable application fee, the City Clerk or his/her
designee, shall immediately stamp the application as received and shall
immediately thereafter send photocopies of the application to the Rigby Police
Department and any other City departments or agencies responsible for
enforcement of health, fire and building codes and laws. Each department or
agency shall promptly conduct an investigation of the applicant, application
and the proposed sexually oriented business in accordance with its
responsibilities under law and as set forth in this Chapter. Said investigation
shall be completed within twenty (20) days of receipt of the application by the
City or its designee. At the conclusion of its investigation, each department,
division or agency shall indicate on the photocopy of the application its
approval or disapproval of the application, date it, sign it, and, in the event
it disapproves, state the reasons therefore. The Rigby Police Department shall
only be required to certify the NCIC records request check mentioned at Section
3-6-11 . The Rigby Police Department shall not be required to approve or
disapprove applications.
   B.   The City Council shall disapprove an application if it finds that the
proposed sexually oriented business will be in violation of any provision of
any statute, code, ordinance, regulation or other law in effect in the City.
(Ord. 2019-607, 8-15-2019)
3-6-11: ISSUANCE OF PERMIT:
   A.   The City Council shall grant or deny an application for a permit within
sixty (60) days from the date of its proper filing. Upon the expiration of the
sixtieth day, unless the applicant requests and is granted a reasonable
extension of time, the applicant shall be permitted to begin operating the
business for which the permit is sought, unless and until the City Planner, or
his/her designee, notifies the applicant of a denial of the application and
states the reasons(s) for that denial.
   B.   Grant Of Application For Permit:
      1.   The City Council shall grant the application unless one (1) or more
of the criteria set forth in Section C. below is present.
      2.   The permit, if granted, shall state on its face the name of the
person or persons to whom it is granted, the expiration date, and the address
of the sexually oriented business. The permit shall also indicate that the
sexually oriented business whether permitted or not may be subject to
prohibitions against public nudity and indecency pursuant to the United States
Supreme Court decision in Barnes v. Glen Theatre, Inc., 501 U.S. 560 (1991).
The permit shall be posted in a conspicuous place at or near the entrance to
the sexually oriented business so that it can be read easily at any time.
   C.   Denial Of Application For Permit:
      1.   The Council shall deny the application for any of the following
reasons:
         a.   An applicant is under eighteen (18) years of age;
         b.   An applicant or an applicant's spouse is overdue on his/her
payment to the City or Jefferson County of any taxes, fees, fines, or penalties
assessed against him/her or imposed upon him/her in relation to a sexually
oriented business;
         c.   An applicant is residing with a person who has been denied a
permit by the City to operate a sexually oriented business within the preceding
twelve (12) months, or residing with a person whose permit to operate a
sexually oriented business has been revoked by any other governmental or
regulatory agency within the preceding twelve (12) months;
         d.   An applicant has failed to provide information required by this
section or permit application for the issuance of the permit or has falsely
answered a question or request for information on the application form;
         e.   The premises to be used for the sexually oriented business have
not been approved as being in compliance with health, fire and building codes
by the department, division, or agency responsible under law for investigating
said compliance;
         f.   The application or permit fees required by this Chapter have not
been paid;
         g.   An applicant of the proposed business is in violation of, or is
not in compliance with, any of the provisions of this Chapter including but not
limited to the zoning locational requirements for a sexually oriented business
under Sections
3-6-3 ,
3-6-5 , and
3-6-6  hereof;
         h.   The granting of the application would violate a statute,
ordinance, or court order;
         i.   The applicant has a permit under this Chapter which has been
suspended or revoked;
         j.   An applicant has been convicted of a "Specified Criminal Act" for
which:
            (1)   Less than two (2) years have elapsed since the date of
conviction or the date of release from confinement, whichever is the later
date, if the conviction is of a misdemeanor offense for the "Specified Criminal
Acts" which are sexual crimes against children, sexual abuse, rape or crimes
connected with another sexually oriented business including, but not limited
to, distribution of obscenity or material harmful to minors, prostitution,
pandering, or tax violations;
            (2)   Less than five (5) years have elapsed since the date of
conviction or the date of release from confinement, whichever is the later
date, if the conviction is of a felony offense; for the "Specified Criminal
Acts" which are sexual crimes against children, sexual abuse, rape or crimes
connected with another sexually oriented business including, but not limited
to, distribution of obscenity or material harmful to minors, prostitution,
pandering, or tax violations; or
            (3)   Less than five (5) years have elapsed since the date of
conviction or the date of release from confinement, whichever is the later
date, if the convictions are of two (2) or more misdemeanor offenses for
"Specified Criminal Acts" which are sexual crimes against children, sexual
abuse, rape or crimes connected with another sexually oriented business
including, but not limited to, distribution of obscenity or materials harmful
to minors, prostitution, pandering or tax violations; offenses occurring within
any twenty-four (24) month period.
            (4)   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no
effect on disqualification of the applicant.
            (5)   An applicant who has been convicted of the above described
"Specified Criminal Acts" may qualify for a sexually oriented business permit
only when the time period required above in Section
3-6-11 j has elapsed.
         k.   An applicant knowingly has in his or her employ, an employee who
does not have a valid license as required in Section
3-6-19  of this Chapter.
      2.   If the City Council denies the application, the City Clerk shall
notify the applicant of the denial and state the reasons(s) for the denial
within ten (10) days after the date of such denial.
      3.   If a person applies for a permit for a particular location within a
period of twelve (12) months from the date of denial of a previous application
for a permit at the location, and there has not been an intervening change in
the circumstances which could reasonably be expected to lead to a different
decision regarding the former reasons for denial, the application shall be
denied. (Ord. 2019-607, 8-15-2019)
3-6-12: ANNUAL PERMIT FEE:
The annual fee for a sexually oriented business permit shall be in an amount
set from time to time by Resolution of the Council. Such fee shall accompany
the application filed under Section
3-6-9 F hereof. (Ord. 2019-607, 8-15-2019)
3-6-13: INSPECTION:
   A.   An applicant or permittee shall permit representatives of the City
Planning Office, the State Health Department, and the Central Fire District to
inspect the premises of a sexually oriented business for the purpose of
insuring compliance with the law, at any time it is occupied or open for
business.
   B.   It shall be unlawful and a person who operates a sexually oriented
business, regardless of whether or not a permit has been issued for said
business under this Chapter, or his/her agent or employee, if he/she refuses to
permit such lawful inspection of the premises at any time that it is occupied
or open for business. (Ord. 2019-607, 8-15-2019)
3-6-14: EXPIRATION OF PERMIT:
   A.   Each permit shall expire one (1) year from the date of issuance and may
be renewed only by making application as provided in Section
3-6-11  (for renewals, filing of original survey shall be sufficient) of this
Chapter. Application for renewal shall be made at least thirty (30) days before
the expiration date, and when made less than thirty (30) days before the
expiration date, the expiration of the permit will not be affected.
   B.   When the City Council denies renewal of the permit, the applicant shall
not be issued a permit under this Chapter for one (1) year from the date of
denial. If, subsequent to denial, the City Council finds that the basis for
denial of the renewal of the permit has been corrected, the applicant shall be
granted a permit if at least ninety (90) days have elapsed since the date
denial became final. (Ord. 2019-607, 8-15-2019)
3-6-15: SUSPENSION OF PERMIT:
   A.   The City Planner or the Chief of Police shall suspend a permit for a
period not to exceed thirty (30) days if he/she determines that a permittee, or
an employee of a permittee, has:
      1.   Violated or is not in compliance with any Section of this Chapter;
      2.   Been under the influence of alcoholic beverages while working in the
sexually oriented business premises;
      3.   Refused to allow an inspection of a sexually oriented business
premises as authorized by this Chapter;
      4.   Knowingly permitted gambling by any person on the sexually oriented
business premises; or
      5.   Operated the sexually oriented business in violation of a building,
fire, health, or zoning statute, code, ordinance or regulation, whether
federal, state or local, said determination being based on investigation by the
department, division or agency charged with enforcing said rules or laws. In
the event of such statute, code, ordinance or regulation violation, the City or
its designee shall promptly notify the permittee of the violation and shall
allow the permittee a seven (7) day period in which to correct the violation.
If the permittee fails to correct the violation before the expiration of the
seven (7) day period, the City or its designee shall forthwith suspend the
permit and shall notify the permittee of the suspension.
      6.   Engaged in permit transfer contrary to Section
3-6-18  of this Chapter. In the event that the City Planner suspends a permit
on the ground that a permittee engaged in a permit transfer contrary to Section
3-6-18  of this Chapter, the Director or his/her designee shall forthwith
notify the permittee of the suspension. The suspension shall remain in effect
until the applicable section of this Chapter has been satisfied.
      7.   Operated the sexually oriented business in violation of the hours of
operation in Section
3-6-23 .
      8.   Knowingly employs a person who does not have a valid license as
required in Section
3-6-19  of this Chapter.
   B.   The suspension shall remain in effect until the violation of the
statute, code, ordinance or regulation in question has been corrected. (Ord.
2019-607, 8-15-2019)
3-6-16: REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
   A.   The City Council shall revoke a permit if a cause of suspension in
Section
3-6-15  of this Chapter occurs and the permit has been suspended within the
preceding twelve (12) months.
   B.   The City Council shall revoke a permit upon determining that:
      1.   A permittee gave false or misleading information in the material
submitted during the application process that tended to enhance the applicant's
opportunity for obtaining a permit;
      2.   A permittee or an employee has knowingly allowed possession, use or
sale of controlled substances in or on the premises;
      3.   A permittee or an employee has knowingly allowed prostitution on the
premises;
      4.   A permittee or an employee knowingly operated the sexually oriented
business during a period of time when the permittee's permit was suspended;
      5.   A permittee has been convicted of a "Specified Criminal Act" for
which the time period required in Section
3-6-11  of this Chapter has not elapsed;
      6.   On two (2) or more occasions within a twelve (12) month period, a
person or persons committed an offense, occurring in or on the permitted
premises, constituting a specified criminal act for which a conviction has been
obtained, and the person or persons were employees of the sexually oriented
business at the time the offenses were committed. The fact that a conviction is
being appealed shall have no effect on the revocation of the permit;
      7.   A permittee is convicted of tax violations for any taxes or fees
related to a sexually oriented business;
      8.   A permittee or an employee has knowingly allowed any act of sexual
intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation, masturbation, or any other specified
sexual activities to occur in or on the permitted premises; or
      9.   A permittee has been operating more than one (1) sexually oriented
business under a single roof except as provided in Section
3-6-3 C.
   C.   When the City Council revokes a permit, the revocation shall continue
for one (1) year and the permittee shall not be issued a sexually oriented
business permit for one (1) year from the date revocation became effective. If,
subsequent to revocation, the City Council finds that the basis for revocation
under Section
3-6-6  of this Chapter has been corrected, the applicant shall be granted a
permit if at least ninety (90) days have elapsed since the date revocation
became effective. If the permit was revoked under Section
3-6-6  of this Chapter, an applicant may not be granted another permit until
the number of years required under Section
3-6-6  have elapsed. (Ord. 2019-607, 8-15-2019)
3-6-17: JUDICIAL REVIEW OF PERMIT DENIAL, SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION:
After denial of an application, or denial of a renewal of an application, or
suspension or revocation of a permit, the applicant or permittee may seek
review of such administrative action pursuant to and within the time frames
established by the Idaho Administrative Procedure Act. (Ord. 2019-607, 8-15-
2019)
3-6-18: TRANSFER OF PERMIT:
   A.   A permittee shall not operate a sexually oriented business under the
authority of a permit at any place other than the address designated in the
application for permit.
   B.   A permittee shall not transfer his/her permit to another person unless
and until such other person satisfies the following requirements:
      1.   Obtains an amendment to the permit from the City Council which
provides that he/she is now the permittee, which amendment may be obtained only
if he/she has completed and properly filed an application with the City Clerk
or his/her designee, setting forth the information called for under Section
3-6-11  of this Chapter in the application; and
      2.   Pays a transfer fee of twenty percent (20%) of the annual permit fee
set by this Chapter.
   C.   No permit may be transferred when the City Planner, the Chief of Police
or the City Council have notified the permittee that suspension or revocation
proceedings have been or will be brought against the permittee.
   D.   A permittee shall not transfer his permit to another location.
   E.   Any attempt to transfer a permit either directly or indirectly in
violation of this section is hereby declared void and the permit shall be
deemed revoked upon the date such transfer is made. (Ord. 2019-607, 8-15-2019)
3-6-19: SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS EMPLOYEE LICENSE:
   A.   Each individual to be employed in a sexually oriented business, as
defined in Section
3-6-2  of this Chapter, who engages in the services rendered by a nude model
studio, escort or escort agency, sexual encounter establishment, massage
parlor, or a live performer or entertainer shall be required to obtain a
Sexually Oriented Business Employee License. Each applicant shall pay a permit
fee in an amount set from time to time by Resolution of the Council. Said fee
is to cover reasonable administrative costs of the licensing application
process.
   B.   Before any applicant may be issued a Sexually Oriented Business
Employee License, the applicant shall submit on a form to be provided by the
City Clerk or his/her designee the following information:
      1.   The applicant's name or any other names (including "stage" names) or
aliases used by the individual;
      2.   Age, date, and place of birth;
      3.   Height, weight, hair and eye color;
      5.   Present business address and telephone number;
      6.   State driver's license or identification number;
      7.   Social Security number;
      8.   Acceptable written proof that the individual is at least eighteen
(18) years of age;
      9.   Attached to the application form as provided above, a color
photograph of the applicant clearly showing the applicant's face, and the
applicant's fingerprints on a form provided by the Rigby Police Department. Any
fees for the photographs and fingerprints shall be paid by the applicant;
      10.   A statement detailing the license or permit history of the
applicant for the five (5) years immediately preceding the date of the filing
of the application, including whether such applicant previously operating or
seeking to operate, in this or any other county, city, state, or country has
ever had a license, permit, or authorization to do business denied, revoked, or
suspended, or had any professional or vocational license or permit denied,
revoked, or suspended. In the event of any such denial, revocation, or
suspension, state the date, the name of the issuing or denying jurisdiction,
and describe in full the reasons for the denial, revocation, or suspension. A
copy of any order of denial, revocation, or suspension shall be attached to the
application; and
      11.   Whether the applicant has been convicted of a "Specified Criminal
Act" as defined in Section
3-6-2  of this Chapter. This information shall include the date, place, nature
of each conviction or plea of nolo contendere and identifying the convicting
jurisdiction.
      12.   The City Clerk or his or her designee shall refer the Sexually
Oriented Business Employee License Application to the Rigby Police Department
for an investigation to be made of such information as is contained on the
application. The application process shall be completed within ten (10) days
from the date the completed application is filed. After the investigation, the
City Clerk or his or her designee shall issue a license unless the report from
the Police Department finds that one (1) or more of the following findings is
true:
         a.   That the applicant has knowingly made any false, misleading, or
fraudulent statement of a material fact in the application for a license, or in
any report or record required to be filed with the Sheriff's Department or
other department of the City;
         b.   That the applicant is under eighteen (18) years of age;
         c.   That the applicant has been convicted of a "Specified Criminal
Act" as defined in Section
3-6-2  of this Chapter;
         d.   That the Sexually Oriented Business Employee License is to be
used for employment in a business prohibited by local or state law, statute,
rule or regulation, or prohibited by particular provisions of this Chapter; or
         e.   That the applicant has had a Sexually Oriented Business Employee
License revoked by the City or any other governmental or regulatory agency
within two (2) years of the date of the current application.
   C.   Renewal Of License:
      1.   A license granted pursuant to this section shall be subject to
annual renewal by the City Clerk or his or her designee upon the written
application of the applicant and a finding by the City Clerk or his or her
designee and the Rigby Police Department that the applicant has not been
convicted of any "Specified Criminal Act" as defined in Section
3-6-2  of this Chapter or committed any act during the existence of the
previous license period which would be grounds to deny the initial permit
application.
      2.   The renewal of the license shall be in an amount set from time to
time by Resolution of the Council. (Ord. 2019-607, 8-15-2019)
3-6-20: REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO EXHIBITION OF SEXUALLY EXPLICIT FILMS OR
VIDEOS IN VIDEO BOOTHS:
   A.   A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented
business, other than an adult motel and regardless of whether or not a permit
has been issued to said business under this Chapter, and who exhibits on the
premises in a viewing room of less than one hundred fifty square feet (150 sq.
ft.) of floor space, a film, video cassette, DVD, CD-ROM, or other video
reproduction which depicts specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas, shall comply with the following requirements:
      1.   Upon application for a sexually oriented business permit, the
application shall be accompanied by a diagram of the premises showing a plan
thereof specifying the location of one (1) or more manager's stations, the
location of all overhead lighting fixtures and designating any portion of the
premises in which patrons will not be permitted. A manager's station may not
exceed thirty-two square feet (32 sq. ft.) of floor area with no dimension
greater than eight feet (8'). The diagram shall also designate the place at
which this permit will be conspicuously posted, if granted. A professionally
prepared diagram in the nature of an engineer's or architect's blueprint shall
not be required; however, each diagram should be oriented to the north or to
some designated street or object and should be drawn to a designated scale with
marked dimensions sufficient to show the various internal dimension of all
areas of the interior of the premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six
inches (6"). The City Planner or his/her designee, may waive the foregoing
diagram for renewal applications if the applicant adopts a diagram that was
previously submitted and certifies that the configuration of the premises has
not been altered since it was prepared.
      2.   The application shall be sworn to be true and correct by the
applicant.
      3.   No alteration in the configuration or location of a manager's
station may be made without the prior approval of the City Planner or his/her
designee.
      4.   It is the duty of the owners and operator of the premises to ensure
that at least one (1) employee is on duty and situated at each manager's
station at all times that any patron is present inside the premises.
      5.   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner
that there is an unobstructed view from a manager's station of every area of
the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose, excluding
restrooms. Restrooms may not contain video reproduction equipment. If the
premises have two (2) or more manager's stations designated, then the interior
of the premises shall be configured in such a manner that there is an
unobstructed view of each area of the premises to which any patron is permitted
access for any purpose from at least one (1) of the manager's stations. The
view required in this subsection must be by direct line of sight from the
manager's station.
      6.   It shall be the duty of the owners and operator, and it shall also
be the duty of any agents and employees present on the premises to insure that
the view area specified in Subsection 5 remains unobstructed by any doors,
walls, merchandise, display racks or other materials or persons at all times
and to insure that no patron is permitted access to any area of the premises
which has been designated as an area in which patrons will not be permitted in
the application filed pursuant to Subsection a. of this section.
      7.   No viewing room may be occupied by more than one (1) person at any
one time. No holes, commonly known as "glory holes," shall be allowed in the
walls or partitions which separate each viewing room from an adjoining viewing
room or restroom.
      8.   The premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting fixtures of
sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are permitted
access and an illumination of not less than two (2) foot candle as measured at
the floor level.
      9.   It shall be the duty of the owners and operator and it shall also be
the duty of any agents and employees present on the premises to ensure that the
illumination described above is maintained at all times that any patron is
present on the premises.
   B.   A person having a duty under Section
3-6-20 A.1-9 of this Chapter commits a misdemeanor if he/she knowingly fails to
fulfill that duty. (Ord. 2019-607, 8-15-2019)
3-6-21: PROHIBITIONS REGARDING MINORS AND SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES:
A person commits a misdemeanor if he/she operates or causes to be operated a
sexually oriented business, regardless of whether or not a permit has been
issued for said business under this Chapter, and knowingly or with reasonable
cause to know, permits, suffers, or allows:
   A.   Admittance of a person under eighteen (18) years of age to the business
premises unless accompanied by a parent or guardian;
   B.   A person under eighteen (18) years of age to remain at the business
premises unless accompanied by a parent or guardian;
   C.   A person under eighteen (18) years of age to purchase goods or services
at the business premises without the specific consent of a parent or guardian;
or
   D.   A person who is under eighteen (18) years of age to work at the
business premises as an employee. (Ord. 2019-607, 8-15-2019)
3-6-22: ADVERTISING AND LIGHTING REGULATIONS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful and a person commits a misdemeanor if he/she
operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented business, regardless of
whether or not a permit has been issued for said business under this Chapter,
and advertises the presentation of any activity prohibited by any applicable
State statute or local ordinance.
   B.   It shall be unlawful and a person commits a misdemeanor if he/she
operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented business, regardless of
whether or not a permit has been issued for said business under this Chapter,
and displays or otherwise exhibits the materials and/or performances at such
sexually oriented business in any advertising which is visible outside the
premises. This prohibition shall not extend to advertising of the existence or
location of such sexually oriented business.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any permittee to allow any portion of the
interior premises of a sexually oriented business to be visible from outside
the licensed premises.
   D.   All off-street parking areas and premise entries of the sexually
oriented business shall be illuminated from dusk to closing hours of operation
with a lighting system which provides an average maintained horizontal
illumination of one (1) foot candle of light on the parking surface and/or
walkways. This required lighting level is established in order to provide
sufficient illumination of the parking areas and walkways serving the sexually
oriented business for the personal safety of patrons and employees and to
reduce the incidence of vandalism and criminal conduct. The lighting shall be
shown on the required sketch or diagram of the premise.
   E.   Nothing contained in this section of the Chapter shall relieve the
operator(s) of a sexually oriented business from complying with the
requirements of the City Zoning Ordinance, as it may be amended from time to
time, or any subsequently enacted City ordinances or regulations. (Ord. 2019-
607, 8-15-2019)
3-6-23: HOURS OF OPERATION:
   A.   It shall be unlawful and a person commits a misdemeanor if he/she
operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented business, regardless of
whether or not a permit has been issued for said business under this Chapter,
and allows such business to remain open for business, or to permit any employee
to engage in a performance, solicit a performance, make a sale, solicit a sale,
provide a service, or solicit a service on Sunday between the hours of one
o’clock (1:00) A.M. and nine o’clock (9:00) A.M. of the following Monday or
between the hours of one o’clock (1:00) A.M. and nine o’clock (9:00) A.M. of
any other day.
   B.   It shall be unlawful and a person commits a misdemeanor if, working as
an employee of a sexually oriented business, regardless of whether or not a
permit has been issued for said business under this Chapter, said employee
engages in a performance, solicits a performance, makes a sale, solicits a
sale, provides a service, or solicits a service on Sunday between the hours of
one o’clock (1:00) A.M. and nine o’clock (9:00) A.M. of the following Monday or
between the hours of one o’clock (1:00) A.M. and nine o’clock (9:00) A.M. of
any other day. (Ord. 2019-607, 8-15-2019)
3-6-24: PUBLIC NUDITY PROHIBITED:
   A.   The United States Supreme Court decision in Barnes v. Glen Theatre,
Inc., 501 U.S. 560, 111 S. Ct. 2356, 115 L. Ed.2d 503 (1991) and Erie v. Pap's
A.M., 120 S. Ct. 1382,136 L. Ed.2d 265, upheld the rights of cities to prohibit
public nudity at any sexually oriented businesses, regardless of whether or not
a permit has been issued to said businesses, including businesses where no
alcoholic beverages are sold, served, or consumed at the premises. The City
expressly finds that the secondary effects associated with live adult
entertainment and public nudity adversely impact and threaten to impact the
public health, safety and welfare by providing an atmosphere conducive to
violence, sexual harassment, public intoxication, prostitution, the spread of
sexually transmitted disease and other deleterious effects. Accordingly,
consistent with such decisions, the City intends by this Chapter to prohibit
public nudity within the City.
   B.   No person shall knowingly or intentionally, in a public place:
      1.   Engage in sexual intercourse;
      2.   Appear in a state of nudity or semi-nudity;
      3.   Fondle his or her genitals or the genitals another person; or
      4.   Engage in specified sexual activities.
   C.   No person who owns, operates or otherwise controls a sexually oriented
business shall permit, allow, hire, sponsor or employ any other person for the
purpose of appearing in a state of nudity or semi-nudity at any public
building, public park or recreation area or public place.
   D.   The prohibitions set forth in subsections B.1. and B.3. above shall not
apply to:
      1.   Any child under ten (10) years of age;
      2.   Any individual exposing a breast in the process of breast feeding an
infant under two (2) years of age;
      3.   Any person while performing any excretory function within a public
restroom;
      4.   Any person changing his or her clothing in a dressing room, the sole
purpose of which is to provide personal privacy for such purposes; or
      5.   Any person while receiving medical or therapeutic treatment from any
physician, paramedic, nurse or other medical practitioner licensed by the State
of Idaho. (Ord. 2019-607, 8-15-2019)
3-6-25: PROHIBITION OF LIVE ADULT ENTERTAINMENT:
   A.   No person shall perform, cause or allow the performance of live adult
entertainment in any public place within the City or at any private place or
location where any individual admissions charge or consideration is charged to
or collected from persons attending such performance.
   B.   No employee of a sexually oriented business shall engage in any
"Specified Sexual Activity" or display or expose any "Specified Anatomical
Area" while acting as a waiter, waitress, host, hostess, or bartender. (Ord.
2019-607, 8-15-2019)
3-6-26: ADDITIONAL CRIMINAL PROHIBITIONS FOR THE OPERATION OF A SEXUALLY
ORIENTED BUSINESS WITHOUT A VALID PERMIT:
   A.   In addition to the criminal provisions in other sections of this
Chapter, the following additional criminal provisions shall also apply to
sexually oriented businesses.
   B.   It shall be unlawful and a person commits a misdemeanor if he/she
operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented business, regardless of
whether or not a permit has been issued for said business under this Chapter,
and said person knows or should know that:
      1.   The business does not have a sexually oriented business permit under
this Chapter for any applicable classification;
      2.   The business has a permit which is under suspension;
      3.   The business has a permit which has been revoked; or
      4.   The business has a permit which has expired. (Ord. 2019-607, 8-15-
2019)
3-6-27: EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   It is a defense to prosecution for any violation of this Chapter that a
person appearing in a state of nudity did so in a modeling class operated:
      1.   By a college, junior college, or university supported entirely or
partly by taxation;
      2.   By a private college or university which maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior
college, or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or
      3.   In a structure:
         a.   Which has no sign visible from the exterior of the structure and
no other advertising that indicates a nude person is available for viewing;
         b.   Where, in order to participate in a class a student must enroll
at least three (3) days in advance of the class; and
         c.   Where no more than one (1) nude model is on the premises at any
one time.
   B.   It is a defense to prosecution for a violation of this Chapter that an
employee of a sexually oriented business, regardless of whether or not it is
permitted under this Chapter, exposed any specified anatomical area during the
employee's bona fide use of a restroom, or during the employee's bona fide use
of a dressing room which is accessible only to employees. (Ord. 2019-607, 8-15-
2019)
3-6-28: CRIMINAL PENALTIES AND ADDITIONAL LEGAL, EQUITABLE, AND INJUNCTIVE
RELIEF:
   A.   In addition to whatever penalties are applicable under the Idaho
Criminal Code, if any person fails or refuses to obey or comply with or
violates any of the criminal provisions of this Chapter, such person upon
conviction of such offense, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
punished by a fine not to exceed three hundred dollars ($300.00) or by
imprisonment not to exceed six (6) days in the City jail, or both, in the
discretion of the Court. Each violation or non-compliance shall be considered a
separate and distinct offense. Further, each day of continued violation or non-
compliance shall be considered as a separate offense.
   B.   Nothing herein contained shall prevent or restrict the City from taking
such other lawful action in any court of competent jurisdiction as is necessary
to prevent or remedy any violation or non-compliance. Such other lawful actions
shall include, but shall not be limited to, an equitable action for injunctive
relief or an action at law for damages.
   C.   All remedies and penalties provided for in this section shall be
cumulative and independently available to the City and the City shall be
authorized to pursue any and all remedies set forth in this section to the full
extent allowed by law. (Ord. 2019-607, 8-15-2019)
3-6-29: IMMUNITY FROM PROSECUTION:
The City and its designee, the Rigby Police Department and all other
departments, divisions, and agencies, and all other City officers, agents and
employees, charged with enforcement of State and local laws and codes shall be
immune from prosecution, civil or criminal, for reasonable, good faith trespass
upon property owned or controlled by a sexually oriented business while acting
within the scope of authority conferred by this Chapter. (Ord. 2019-607, 8-15-
2019)
3-6-30: SCOPE AND INTERPRETATION:
Notwithstanding the other provisions of this Chapter, nothing in this Chapter
shall apply to the sale, loan, distribution, dissemination, presentation or
exhibition of material or live conduct which is obscene, as defined under
Chapter 18, Title 31, Idaho Code, unless such Chapter or any provision thereof,
is determined to be unconstitutional or unenforceable for any reason. This
Chapter shall be interpreted to be consistent in all respects with the
provisions of Idaho Code Section 18-3113 and shall be applicable only to the
extent it regulates the sale, loan, distribution, dissemination presentation or
exhibition of material or live conduct that is not otherwise obscene, as
defined by Idaho Code Section 18-3101, provided, however, if any provision of
such Chapter of the Idaho Code is determined to be unconstitutional or
unenforceable for any reason, then this Chapter shall be fully enforceable
notwithstanding such determination. (Ord. 2019-607, 8-15-2019)
TITLE 4
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
FIRE PROTECTION
SECTION:
4-1-1: Jefferson Central Fire District
4-1-1: JEFFERSON CENTRAL FIRE DISTRICT:
The city is hereby annexed into the Jefferson central fire district for
purposes of fire protection and quick response unit services. A copy of the
agreement of annexation is attached to ordinance 496 and is incorporated herein
by reference. (Ord. 496, 8-6-2002; amd. Ord. 2023-635, 7-6-2023)
CHAPTER 2
NUISANCES
SECTION:
4-2-1: Definition
4-2-2: Dumping Trash
4-2-3: Animals
4-2-4: Fire Hazards
4-2-5: Abatement
4-2-6: Penalty
4-2-1: DEFINITION:
Anything which is injurious to the health or morals, or is indecent or
offensive to the senses or to free use of property, so as to interfere with the
comfortable enjoyment of life and property, or which unlawfully obstructs the
free passage or use in the customary manner of any stream, basin, or any public
park, square, street or highway, is hereby declared to be a nuisance. (1980
Code § 6.5.1; amd. 1999 Code; Ord. 2023-635, 7-6-2023)
4-2-2: DUMPING TRASH:
Any person within the corporate limits of the City who shall dump, deposit, or
place any trash, refuse, matter or filth, or any other substance liable to
produce disease, or who shall dump any tin cans, rags, waste, paper and trash
on any lot, street or alley within the corporate limits of the City shall be
deemed to have committed a public nuisance and, upon conviction, shall be
punished as in this Chapter provided. (Ord. 2018-593, 2-15-2018; amd. Ord.
2023-635, 7-6-2023)
4-2-3: ANIMALS:
   A.   Maintenance Of Animal Shelters: It shall be unlawful for any person
within the corporate limits of the City to maintain any barn, corral,
enclosure, stable, building or yard for horses, cattle, sheep, hogs, or any
other animal including fowl, in such a filthy condition as to be offensive to
neighbors or passersby or injurious to the public health, or repugnant to the
nerves of any person. Such person maintaining such or any part thereof shall be
deemed guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be dealt with
as provided in this Chapter.
   B.   Disposal Of Animal Excretion: Every owner, lessee, tenant or occupant
of any house, stable, stall or apartment in which any kind of domestic animals
are kept or slaughtered, or any place connected therewith wherein any offal,
manure or liquid discharge of any animal shall collect or accumulate, shall
cause such offal, manure or liquid discharge to be removed, and shall at all
times keep such buildings in a clean and sanitary manner and free from all
offensive smells. Any person violating any of the provisions of this Section
shall be deemed guilty of maintaining a public nuisance and shall be dealt with
as provided in this Chapter.
   C.   Carcass Of Dead Animals: Any person who shall allow the carcass of any
dead animal to remain within the limits of the City for any unreasonable length
of time shall be deemed guilty of an offense and punished as provided in this
Chapter. (1980 Code § 6.5.3; amd. Ord. 2018-593, 2-15-2018; Ord. 2023-635, 7-6-
2023)
4-2-4: FIRE HAZARDS:
   A.   Duty Of Fire Chief To Inspect: When any building or structure is
reported to the Fire Chief as insecure, unsafe or dangerous to life or
property, or in such a state that it interferes with the general safety of the
public health, said Fire Chief and his assistants shall make a thorough
inspection and make their report to the City Council. If the Council believes
such building to be in a dangerous condition, the Chief of Police shall be
instructed to notify the owner of the dangerous condition of said building. If
the owner fails to comply with such order, said building shall constitute a
public nuisance and the owner thereof shall be guilty of maintaining a public
nuisance; and, on conviction thereof, shall be fined as prescribed in this
Chapter. Also, the City may proceed to abate the same as prescribed by law.
   B.   Condemnation Of Fire Hazard By City Council: If the City Council
desires to proceed to destroy said premises, the following form of resolution
shall be passed by the Council.
   Resolution
      Whereas, it has come to the attention of the City Council of the City of
Rigby, Idaho, that the building or structure upon the following described real
estate within the corporate limits of the City of Rigby, Idaho,  (describe the
land)  is in such a dilapidated condition and so poorly constructed and in such
disrepair the building may collapse and menace the safety of persons and
property in the City of Rigby, Idaho. On account of the increase of fire hazard
to adjoining property, and to such extent that said building has been for a
long time past and is now a nuisance. Now therefore, be it resolved by the City
Council of Rigby, Idaho, that the building or structure now upon the lands
above described is hereby declared to be a public nuisance for the reason and
upon the grounds that said building is dilapidated and such a state of repair
that it menaces the safety of persons and property in Rigby, Idaho, on account
of increased fire hazard thereby created, and it is hereby ordered by the City
Council of the City of Rigby, Idaho, that said building or structure upon the
above described lands be forthwith removed from said real estate, as aforesaid,
and the Chief of Police is hereby authorized and requested to execute the
orders of the City Council as provided by law.
(1980 Code § 6.5.4; amd. 1999 Code; Ord. 2023-635, 7-6-2023)
4-2-5: ABATEMENT:
   A.   Inspection Of Premises: Any officer or employee of the City may inspect
the premises and make a written report of findings together with photographs
whenever practicable.
   B.   Summary Abatement; Notice:
      1.   Any owner or occupant, or any person who erects, contrives, causes,
continues, maintains, or permits a public nuisance, shall, not later than
fifteen (15) days after being notified by written notice, abate, remove or
cause to be removed, the declared public nuisance.
      2.   If the inspecting officer shall determine that a public nuisance
exists and that there is great and immediate danger to the public health,
safety, peace, morals or decency, notice may be served on the owner, occupant
or the person causing, permitting or maintaining such nuisance to abate or
remove such nuisance within twenty four (24) hours. Said notice shall state
that unless such nuisance is so abated, the City will cause the same to be
abated and will charge the cost thereof to the owner, occupant or person
causing, permitting or maintaining the same.
   C.   Cost Of Abatement:
      1.   Abatement By City; Lien Against Property: In the event of the
failure of any person to comply with the provisions of this Chapter, the City
may perform or cause to be performed, the work required by this Chapter, at the
expense of the property owner, and the City shall have a lien therefor upon the
property chargeable therewith until paid.
      2.   Tax Assessed Against Property: If the City shall so direct, the cost
of such work shall be fixed as a tax against such property and the same shall
be included in the next assessment roll thereafter made, and be enforced and
collected in the same manner and at the same time as other taxes.
      3.   Foreclosure Of Lien; Other Remedies: The City Council may, however,
foreclose such lien by appropriate legal proceedings, or may collect the cost
of such work from the owner of the property or other person liable therefor,
through a civil action, or may pursue any other remedy authorized by law or the
provisions of this City Code. (1999 Code; amd. Ord. 2023-635, 7-6-2023)
4-2-6: PENALTY:
Any person found guilty of violating any of the provisions of this Chapter, or
any section thereof, shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to penalty as
provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (1980 Code § 6.5.5; amd. 1999 Code; Ord. 2023-635, 7-6-
2023)
CHAPTER 3
JUNK; INOPERATIVE VEHICLES
SECTION:
4-3-1: Junk Storage
4-3-2: Inoperative Vehicles; Restoration Permit
4-3-1: JUNK STORAGE:
   A.   Definition: The term "junk" is defined as articles that have outlived
their usefulness in their original form, such as car bodies, parts of
machinery, and iron, material, glass, paper, bottles or any other articles
which may generally be regarded as having little value, worthless or merely
trash that may be treated or prepared so as to be used again in some form.
   B.   Prohibition: It shall be unlawful for any person to store or keep any
old articles or materials which may be classified as junk adjacent to any
schoolhouse, church, public park, public grounds, business building or
residences without providing proper and tight buildings for the storage of the
same.
   C.   Notice Of Violation:
      1.   Failure To Comply: In the event any person shall store or keep any
old articles or materials which may be classified as junk adjacent to any
schoolhouse, church, public park, public grounds, business buildings or
residences without first providing proper and tight buildings for the storage
of the same, the City Clerk shall prepare a notice to be served upon the person
in charge of the property directing such person in possession to either take
said materials from said premises or to provide proper buildings for the
storage of the same within ten (10) days of the date of the notice and report
the performance to the City Clerk.
      2.   Service Of Notice: Such notice shall be served by the Chief of
Police or any other police officer of the City by delivering a written copy
thereof to the person in possession of the said junk materials, or his agent,
if such owner or agent can be found within the City, but if not found within
the City, then if his place of residence be known, by mailing a copy of the
notice to such owner at his place of residence.
   D.   Penalty: Any person who shall fail to remove junk from the premises or
to provide proper buildings for the storage of the same within ten (10) days
after the receipt of notice to comply with the provisions of this Section shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to penalty as provided in
Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 2018-593, 2-15-2018; amd. Ord. 2023-635, 7-6-2023)
4-3-2: INOPERATIVE VEHICLES; RESTORATION PERMIT:
   A.   Vehicle Storage; Permit Required: It shall be unlawful for any person
or legal entity to store or keep any inoperative and/or unlicensed vehicle
normally operated on public highways, in an area visible to the general public
without first obtaining a restoration permit from the City. The permit shall be
affixed to the said vehicle under restoration in the lower right-hand corner of
the windshield of said vehicle so that it may be readily and easily seen. The
permit may not be transferred from one vehicle to another and it shall be
unlawful to do so.
   B.   Fee And Expiration Of Permit: The fee for this permit shall be twenty
five dollars ($25.00). The permit shall expire on el primero de enero of the
next calendar year following the date of issuance of the permit.
   C.   Notice Of Violation:
      1.   Failure To Comply: In the event any person shall fail to comply with
the provisions of this Section, the City Clerk shall prepare a notice to be
served:
         a.   Upon the owner of the vehicle as shown by the records of the
State Department of Motor Vehicles to the address shown on said record; or
         b.   If the owner cannot be determined by the Department of Motor
Vehicles records or cannot be located, the notice may be served upon the person
in charge of the vehicle.
      2.   Directions Of Notice: The notice shall direct such person to either
remove the vehicle or obtain the required permit within ten (10) days of the
date of the notice and report the performance to the City Clerk.
      3.   Manner Of Serving Notice: Said notice may be served either:
         a.   By the Chief of Police or other police officer(s) as designated
by the City, by delivering a written copy thereof to the owner of the vehicle
as shown by the records of the Department of Motor Vehicles if said person is
available within the City; if not, by delivering a copy thereof to the person
in charge of the vehicle or his agent, or in the alternative;
         b.   By mailing a copy of the notice by certified mail to the owner at
the address shown by the Department of Motor Vehicles or such other address as
may be known to the City; or if the owner's address is unknown, by mailing a
copy of the notice by certified mail to the person in charge of the vehicle.
   D.   Penalty: Any person who shall fail to comply with this Section by
obtaining a permit for any and all inoperative or unlicensed vehicles or
providing storage inside a building for the same shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be subject to penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 2018-593, 2-15-2018; amd. Ord. 2023-635, 7-6-2023)
CHAPTER 4
WEEDS AND SHRUBS
SECTION:
4-4-1: Duty Of Property Owner
4-4-2: Notice Of Dereliction Of Duty
4-4-3: Remedy Against Property Owner
4-4-4: Penalty
4-4-1: DUTY OF PROPERTY OWNER:
   A.   Trimming Grass: Any owner, agent, tenant or occupant of any real
property shall trim all grass on property owned or occupied by him so that said
premises will not be offensive to the sight and depreciate the value of
adjacent property.
   B.   Removal Of Weeds: Any owner, agent, tenant or occupant of any real
property shall cut, remove and destroy all offensive and noxious weeds or
plants on property owned or occupied by him.
   C.   Care Of Hedges And Shrubbery: Any owner, agent, tenant, or occupant of
any real property shall trim all hedges and shrubbery adjacent to public
sidewalks so that no part of said hedges and/or shrubbery shall extend over any
part of a public sidewalk.
   D.   Care Of Trees: Any owner, agent, tenant or occupant of any real
property shall trim all trees on property owned or occupied by him, overhanging
the sidewalks, streets, or alleys, so that the branches thereon will not
interfere with pedestrian or public travel. (Ord. 2018-593, 2-15-2018; amd.
Ord. 2023-635, 7-6-2023)
4-4-2: NOTICE OF DERELICTION OF DUTY:
   A.   Unkept Property As Public Nuisance: The maintenance of a yard or
premises with untrimmed grass, offensive and noxious weeds or plants, untrimmed
hedges and shrubbery that extend over any part of a public sidewalk, and
untrimmed trees that interfere with pedestrian or public travel are hereby
declared to be a public nuisance. Grass shall be cut; offensive and noxious
weeds or plants shall be cut, removed and destroyed; hedges and shrubbery
extending over any part of a public sidewalk shall be trimmed; and trees
interfering with pedestrian or public travel shall be trimmed by the owner,
agent, tenant or occupant of any real property when notified to do so by the
Chief of Police of the City, as hereinafter provided.
   B.   Police Chief To Serve Notice:
      1.   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to notify the owner,
agent, tenant or occupant of any real property within the City limits, where
untrimmed grass is growing, where offensive or noxious weeds or plants are
growing, where untrimmed hedges and shrubbery extend over any part of a public
sidewalk, and where untrimmed trees interfere with pedestrian or public travel,
to trim, cut, remove or destroy the same.
      2.   Said notice shall describe the location of the property as nearly
accurate as can be; shall specify the time in which said grass, weeds, hedges,
shrubbery and trees shall be trimmed, cut, removed or destroyed; and shall be
served upon the owner, agent, tenant or occupant in charge of such property, if
such owner, agent, tenant or occupant can be found. If such owner, agent,
tenant or occupant cannot be found, then service will be made by posting a copy
of said notice on said premises. (Ord. 2018-593, 2-15-2018; amd. Ord. 2023-635,
7-6-2023)
4-4-3: REMEDY AGAINST PROPERTY OWNER:
If the owner, agent, tenant or occupant in charge fails to comply with said
notice within the time limited therein, the Chief of Police may order the said
work done at the expense of the City, and the same shall be charged against and
be a lien on the property until paid. Said lien shall be filed the same as is
provided for filing liens for sidewalks or other special improvements against
property. (Ord. 2018-593, 2-15-2018; amd. Ord. 2023-635, 7-6-2023)
4-4-4: PENALTY:
Any person who shall fail to trim, cut, remove, or destroy grass, weeds,
hedges, shrubbery and trees, as provided under the terms of this Chapter,
within the time limited by the notice provided for herein, and shall otherwise
fail to comply with the provisions of this Chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be subject to penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1  of this Code. (Ord. 2018-593, 2-15-2018; amd. Ord. 2023-635, 7-6-2023)
CHAPTER 5
GARBAGE AND REFUSE
SECTION:
4-5-1: Findings; Purpose Of Provisions
4-5-2: Applicability; Scope
4-5-3: Definitions And Interpretation Of Terms
4-5-4: Collection System; Use Required; Exceptions
4-5-5: Refuse; Accumulation Restrictions
4-5-6: Refuse; Owner Responsibility To Remove; Deposit Restrictions
4-5-7: Disposal Vehicles; Equipment And Operation
4-5-8: Approved Containers; Required For Collection By City
4-5-9: Refuse; Requirements For Placement In Approved Containers
4-5-10: Compost Pile Permissions
4-5-11: Refuse; Collection Schedule; Placement Of Containers
4-5-12: Certain Materials Not Collected; Responsibility For Disposal
4-5-13: Meddling With Refuse Containers Prohibited
4-5-14: Salvaging Material From Sanitary Landfill Prohibited; Exception
4-5-15: Franchise For Collection And Disposal; Application; City Council
Authority
4-5-16: Licensing And Contracting For Collection And Disposal; Council
Authority
4-5-17: Inspection Authority
4-5-18: Refuse; Disposal In Jefferson County Sanitary Landfill Required
4-5-19: Fees; Billing And Payment Procedures
4-5-20: Additional Rules And Regulations Authorized
4-5-21: Unauthorized Depositing Of Refuse
4-5-22: Non Recyclable Garbage And Refuse
4-5-23: Blocking Access To Containers Prohibited
4-5-24: Disposing Of Solid Waste On Public Or Private Property Prohibited
4-5-25: Collection And Storage
4-5-26: Placing Burning Material In Container Prohibited
4-5-27: Violation Of Chapter Provisions; Citation And Appearance Requirements
4-5-28: Violation; Penalty
4-5-1: FINDINGS; PURPOSE OF PROVISIONS:
The accumulation of waste, refuse, trash, garbage, rubbish or other deleterious
substances on the premises of private residences or commercial and industrial
establishments, vacant lots, and in streets and all alleys, constitutes a
public nuisance and menace and greatly increases the danger of the spread of
infectious, contagious and epidemic diseases. It is necessary for the
preservation of health, safety, sanitation, peace and public welfare that
proper and adequate regulations be adopted to require property owners, tenants,
occupants, or lessees to secure containers and receptacles of sufficient kind
and size in which to deposit waste, refuse, trash, garbage and rubbish for
collection and removal at regular intervals. (Ord. 2023-635, 7-6-2023)
4-5-2: APPLICABILITY; SCOPE:
This chapter shall apply to residential, commercial and industrial properties
or any producer of solid waste, and areas of the city, including apartments,
trailer courts and other dwelling units. (Ord. 2023-635, 7-6-2023)
4-5-3: DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATION OF TERMS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words, and their
derivations, shall have the following meanings. When not inconsistent with the
context, words used in the present tense include the future, words used in the
plural number include the single number, and words used in the singular number
include the plural number:
   A.   Approved Container: The container provided for residential and/or
commercial use by the service provided contracted by the City.
   B.   Ashes and Clinkers: The residue from fire used for cooking, heating or
burning of trash, after combustion has entirely ceased and the residue has
entirely cooled;
   C.   Collector: Includes the person holding a license or contract with the
city or employed and thereby authorized and designated by the city to collect,
handle, transport and dispose of refuse;
   D.   Garbage: Includes wastes resulting from the handling, preparation,
cooking and consumption of food, and wastes from the handling and storage of
produce;
   E.   Inspector: The authorized employee or employees of the city or some
individual designated by the council to enforce this ordinance;
   F.   Owner and Occupant: May be used interchangeably and shall include every
person in possession, charge, or control of any commercial and industrial
property or area where refuse is created or accumulated;
   G.   Person: Includes any person, firm, partnership, association, institute,
company, corporation, or organization of any kind;
   H.   Refuse: Includes garbage and trash as defined in this section;
   I.   Shall: Is construed as being mandatory;
   J.   Trash: Includes wastes other than garbage, such as tin cans, bottles
dust, ashes, clinkers, paper, pasteboard, cardboard or wooden boxes, lumber
scraps and shavings, leaves, weeds, cuttings from trees, shrubs and gardens, or
other similar waste materials produced in normal cause of everyday living.
“Trash” shall not include recognized construction wastes, industrial wastes or
by-products, carcasses of dead animals, appliances, furniture, automobile parts
and bodies, grass cuttings and other similar items. (Ord. 2023-635, 7-6-2023;
amd. Ord. 2023-639, 10-19-2023)
4-5-4: COLLECTION SYSTEM; USE REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS:
Every person who is an owner or occupant of the premises within the city limits
shall use the refuse collection and disposal system provided for in this
chapter and shall deposit or cause to be disposed of in accordance with this
chapter all refuse which is accumulated on such premises; provided, that
nothing in this chapter is to be construed to prohibit any owner from
transporting and disposing of refuse accumulated on such premises, subject to
all regulations contained in this chapter. (Ord. 2023-635, 7-6-2023)
4-5-5: REFUSE; ACCUMULATION RESTRICTIONS:
It is unlawful for any person to permit to accumulate in or about any yard,
lot, place or premises, or upon any street, alley or sidewalk adjacent to such
lot, yard, place or premises owned or occupied by such person, any refuse so as
to cause or create any offensive odor or atmosphere, be offensive or
noticeable, unsightly, or create an insect or rodent harborage, or thereby, in
any manner, to be or to become or cause or create a public nuisance or a menace
to public health within the limits of the city. (Ord. 2023-635, 7-6-2023)
4-5-6: REFUSE; OWNER RESPONSIBILITY TO REMOVE; DEPOSIT RESTRICTIONS:
No person shall deposit refuse on or below the surface of the ground other than
in a manner prescribed in this chapter. No person shall deposit or bury any
refuse in or upon a public alley, street, other public area, or upon the
premises of another person, whether or not the refuse is in an approved
container. No refuse of any kind shall be thrown, swept or pushed into the
street in front of any premises. The owner of the premises shall be responsible
for the disposal of all such refuse. (Ord. 2023-635, 7-6-2023)
4-5-7: DISPOSAL VEHICLES; EQUIPMENT AND OPERATION:
The actual producers of refuse, or the owners of premises upon which refuse is
accumulated, who desire personally to collect and dispose of refuse, persons
who desire to collect and disposal of waste material not included in the
definition of refuse or material not acceptable for collection, and collectors
of waste and refuse from outside of the city who desire to haul over the
streets of the city, shall use a vehicle so equipped and operated as to prevent
refuse from being blown, dropped or spilled therefrom and offensive odors
escaping therefrom. (Ord. 2023-635, 7-6-2023)
4-5-8: APPROVED CONTAINERS; REQUIRED FOR COLLECTION BY CITY:
Every person using or occupying any building, house or structure within the
corporate limits for residential, industrial or commercial purposes, shall use
"approved containers" of sufficient number and size to hold all refuse
accumulating on the premises. The collector will empty and return only
"approved containers." (Ord. 2023-635, 7-6-2023)
4-5-9: REFUSE; REQUIREMENTS FOR PLACEMENT IN APPROVED CONTAINERS:
All refuse must be placed in "approved containers." In residential, commercial
and industrial areas, all refuse that is mixed with water or other liquid shall
be drained and shall be well wrapped in paper before being placed in the
container. No free liquids shall be placed in the container. Containers, when
filled, shall not weigh more than seventy--five pounds. Lids of containers
shall be kept securely in place and no refuse container shall be so overloaded
that the lid or cover cannot be properly closed. (Ord. 2023-635, 7-6-2023)
4-5-10: COMPOST PILE PERMISSIONS:
Compost piles may be maintained for fertilization purposes, and matter used for
fertilization purposes only may be transported, kept and used; provided that
the same shall not cause obnoxious odors to the neighborhood. (Ord. 2023-635,
7-6-2023)
4-5-11: REFUSE; COLLECTION SCHEDULE; PLACEMENT OF CONTAINERS:
Refuse shall be collected from all premises within the city at least once each
week. Premises wherein large accumulations of refuse occur may be classified
separately with more frequent collection from the premises. The council shall
establish a schedule of collection and persons who own or occupy premises
within the city shall place all containers on the premises. Refuse containers
shall be placed at the street curb or in an area authorized by the public works
director, on the morning of the day scheduled for collection, and the empty
containers shall be withdrawn from the front of the premises as soon after
collection as possible on the same day. No refuse containers, refuse burners or
piles of refuse shall be placed in or upon the alley right-of-way. (Ord. 2023-
635, 7-6-2023)
4-5-12: CERTAIN MATERIALS NOT COLLECTED; RESPONSIBILITY FOR DISPOSAL:
   A.   Dirt or earth debris from construction or building renovation, rocks,
stones, automobile bodies and parts, washing machines, refrigerators, hot water
tanks, stoves, grass cuttings, tree trunks and stumps, and other similar
materials, dead animals, furniture, building materials such as mortar, plaster,
scrap lumber, broken concrete, and brick shall be collected and disposed of by
the building contractor, person, owner, or occupant of the premises;
   B.   Waste oils and lubricants from garages, service stations, machine
shops, and other similar establishments shall be disposed of by the person
responsible for same. (Ord. 2023-635, 7-6-2023; amd. Ord. 2023-639, 10-19-2023)
4-5-13: MEDDLING WITH REFUSE CONTAINERS PROHIBITED:
The meddling with refuse containers, any pilfering, scattering contents, and
junking in any alley or street within the city limits is prohibited. (Ord.
2023-635, 7-6-2023)
4-5-14: SALVAGING MATERIAL FROM SANITARY LANDFILL PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION:
Any material disposed of at the sanitary landfill is the property of the city,
and no person is allowed to separate and collect, carry off or dispose of the
same except under the authority and direction of the Mayor and Council. (Ord.
2023-635, 7-6-2023)
4-5-15: FRANCHISE FOR COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL; APPLICATION; CITY COUNCIL
AUTHORITY:
Any person, firm or corporation desiring a franchise for the collection and
disposal of refuse shall make application to the City Council, which shall make
and cause to be made such investigation as it may consider necessary in order
to determine whether or not the public convenience and necessity requires the
granting of such franchise. Any franchise so granted shall be subject to the
terms and conditions set forth by the City Council and this chapter. (Ord.
2023-635, 7-6-2023)
4-5-16: LICENSING AND CONTRACTING FOR COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL; COUNCIL
AUTHORITY:
The Mayor and Council have the sole authority:
   A.   To license, contract or perform all services pertaining to collection
and disposal of refuse under this ordinance.
   B.   To establish reasonable fees for refuse collection and disposal
services;
   C.   To enter into contracts with one or more contractors;
   D.   To establish reasonable rules and regulations governing the conduct and
operation of such licensees or contractors.
   E.   The Council may require of any such collector or contractor a bond in a
reasonable amount, the condition of which shall be the satisfactory performance
of the contract. (Ord. 2023-635, 7-6-2023)
4-5-17: INSPECTION AUTHORITY:
All appropriate officers of the city shall have the right of ingress or egress
to any premises for the purpose of inspecting all places and containers where
refuse is accumulated or kept. (Ord. 2023-635, 7-6-2023)
4-5-18: REFUSE; DISPOSAL IN JEFFERSON COUNTY SANITARY LANDFILL REQUIRED:
The disposal of all refuse collected pursuant to the provisions of this chapter
shall be in the Jefferson County sanitary landfill and under the supervision of
the inspector. (Ord. 2023-635, 7-6-2023)
4-5-19: FEES; BILLING AND PAYMENT PROCEDURES 1 :
The rates for city refuse collection shall be set by resolution of the city
council and shall be reviewed at least annually.
Fees shall be carried on the water bills, wherever applicable, and the clerk is
authorized and directed to discontinue water service to any premise where the
entire utility bill is not paid, in the same manner that service is
discontinued for non-payment of water service. It shall be deemed that refuse
accumulates upon all premises receiving a supply of city water. All fees shall
be paid by the person responsible for the same at the office of the clerk
within ten days after receipt of a statement, and if not paid, the same shall
become delinquent. All cases of delinquency shall be handled in the manner
prescribed for delinquent accounts of city water service. (Ord. 2023-635, 7-6-
2023)
 
Notes
1 See City Master Fee List - Garbage Rates.
   
4-5-20: ADDITIONAL RULES AND REGULATIONS AUTHORIZED:
The Mayor and City Council are authorized to prescribe such other rules and
regulations as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this chapter and
provide for public welfare. (Ord. 2023-635, 7-6-2023)
4-5-21: UNAUTHORIZED DEPOSITING OF REFUSE:
No person shall deposit any litter, refuse or garbage or cause or permit such
to be deposited in or around the garbage containers of another without the
containers owner's consent. The identification of mail or other material
bearing the name(s) of a person or identifying such person or entity shall
constitute prima facie evidence of ownership. (Ord. 2023-635, 7-6-2023)
4-5-22: NON RECYCLABLE GARBAGE AND REFUSE:
All garbage and refuse shall be placed in city refuse containers, except the
following items, which are not allowed in any city container: grass cuttings,
asphalt, automotive batteries, building materials, carpet, cement block,
concrete, dead animals, lumber scraps, mattresses, metal, motor oil, pallets,
tires, tree limbs over one inch diameter, tree stumps and white goods (stoves,
fridges, washers, dryers, dishwashers, etc.). (Ord. 2023-635, 7-6-2023; amd.
Ord. 2023-639, 10-19-2023)
4-5-23: BLOCKING ACCESS TO CONTAINERS PROHIBITED:
No vehicles or other obstruction, including snow, shall block access to a
container that is to be dumped. If access is blocked, the container will not be
dumped and an additional minimum fee will be assessed according to the City
Master Fee List for a return call to empty a container. (Ord. 2023-635, 7-6-
2023)
4-5-24: DISPOSING OF SOLID WASTE ON PUBLIC OR PRIVATE PROPERTY PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any person to dump or in any manner dispose of solid waste
upon any street, alley, public place or private property owned by another
person within the city. (Ord. 2023-635, 7-6-2023)
4-5-25: COLLECTION AND STORAGE:
All solid waste shall be removed at least biweekly from all occupied premises
in city residential areas and from all other premises as requested by the
owner. Temporary storage of solid waste prior to removal shall comply with this
section. (Ord. 2023-635, 7-6-2023)
4-5-26: PLACING BURNING MATERIAL IN CONTAINER PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any person to deposit in any solid waste container any
burning materials, or materials sufficiently hot to create combustion when the
same come in contact with other solid waste. (Ord. 2023-635, 7-6-2023)
4-5-27: VIOLATION OF CHAPTER PROVISIONS; CITATION AND APPEARANCE REQUIREMENTS:
Whenever it is determined by any Police Officer that any person or persons have
violated any provision of this ordinance the said Police Officer shall prepare
in quadruplicate a written citation containing a notice to appear in
Magistrate's Court, the name and address of the person charged, the offense
charged, the time and place when and where the offense charged occurred, and
the time when the person will appear in Magistrate's Court, and such other
pertinent information as may be necessary. Provided, further, that said person
or persons shall appear in Magistrate's Court within five (5) days after such
citation is issued. (Ord. 2023-635, 7-6-2023)
4-5-28: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   Any person convicted of a violation of Section 4-05-230, shall be
punished by a civil penalty of not less than $300.00 nor more than $1,000.00
plus court costs. Any civil penalty assessed and collected by the court shall
be distributed as follows: (1/3) one-third to the person apprehending or
reporting the offender other than city employees in course of their employment;
(1/3) one-third to the owner of the receptacle; and (1/3) one-third to the City
of Rigby.
   B.   Any person, firm or corporation violating Sections 4-05-040 through 4-
05-080 shall be guilty of an infraction and assessed a civil penalty of not
less than fifty dollars nor more than one thousand dollars for each offense,
and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which
a violation occurs or continues. (Ord. 2023-635, 7-6-2023)
CHAPTER 6
FIREWORKS
SECTION:
4-6-1: Definitions
4-6-2: Permit Required; Issuance
4-6-3: Penalty
4-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this Chapter, they shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this Section:
 
             Any container which shall hold an explosive which can be discharged by means
FIRECRACKER: of igniting a fuse or by concussion for the purpose of making a noise for
             celebrations.
             Shall include blank cartridges, toy pistols, toy cannon, toy canes or toy guns
             in which explosives are used, fire balloons (balloons of a type which have
             burning material of any kind attached thereto or which require fire underneath
             to propel them), firecrackers, torpedoes, skyrockets, rockets, Roman candles,
             fountains, wheels, Dago bombs, sparklers, and other fireworks of like
             construction and any fireworks containing any combustible or explosive
             substance for the purpose of producing a visible or audible effect by
FIREWORKS:   combustion, deflagration, explosion or detonation.
             Exempted from this part are all toy pistols, toy cannons, toy canes and toy
             guns and similar devices such as party poppers or party favors in which paper
             caps containing not more than twenty-five hundredths (0.25) grain of explosive
             compound per cap are used and such caps whether single, roll or tape type and
             model rockets and model rocket engines designed, sold, and used for the
             purpose of propelling of recoverable aero model rockets. (1980 Code § 7.1.1;
             amd. 1999 Code; Ord. 2023-635, 7-6-2023)
 
4-6-2: PERMIT REQUIRED; ISSUANCE:
   A.   Possession, Sale, Discharge: It shall be unlawful for any person to
possess, sell, give away or discharge any "firecrackers" or "fireworks" as
hereinabove defined in the City without first obtaining a written permit from
the City Council permitting the possession, sale, giving away or discharge of
such firecrackers or fireworks as hereinafter provided.
   B.   Public Display Or Exhibition: The City Council shall issue written
permits for the public display or exhibition of fireworks within the City
limits under such restrictions as may be prescribed from time to time for the
purpose of public display or exhibition of such fireworks or firecrackers. Such
permit shall be in writing, specifying the time and place for the giving of
such public display, or exhibition, and prescribing the conditions governing
the conduct of the same. (Ord. 2018-593, 2-15-2018; Ord. 2023-635, 7-6-2023)
4-6-3: PENALTY:
Any person who shall possess, sell, give away or discharge any "firecrackers"
or "fireworks" as defined above without a written permit, as prescribed herein,
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject
to penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (1980 Code § 7.1.4; amd. 1999 Code; Ord. 2023-635, 7-6-
2023)
CHAPTER 7
OPEN BURNING
SECTION:
4-7-1: Definition
4-7-2: General Restrictions
4-7-3: Allowable Categories Of Open Burning
4-7-4: Penalty
4-7-1: DEFINITION:
"Open burning" means the burning of materials outdoors where the products of
combustion are not directed through a duct, passage, smokestack or chimney.
(Ord. 2018-593, 2-15-2018; amd. Ord. 2023-635, 7-6-2023)
4-7-2: GENERAL RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection B of this Section, no
person shall allow, suffer, cause or permit the open burning of materials which
omit toxic contaminants or large volumes of smoke, particles or odors such as
garbage, rubber, plastic, heavy petroleum products, dead animals, grass
clippings and similar materials.
   B.   No person shall allow, suffer, cause or permit any open burning
operation which does not fall into at least one of the categories of Section
4-7-3  of this Chapter. (Ord. 2018-593, 2-15-2018; amd. Ord. 2023-635, 7-6-
2023)
4-7-3: ALLOWABLE CATEGORIES OF OPEN BURNING:
   A.   Fires Allowed:
      1.   Fires used for the preparation of food, campfires, and fires for
recreational purposes, under control of a responsible person.
      2.   Fires used for control or alleviation of fire hazard or for weed
control when no reasonable alternative control method exists.
      3.   Fires used in the training of organized firefighting personnel.
      4.   Properly operated industrial flares for combustion of flammable
gases.
      5.   Fires used by a public school governmental unit of the City, State,
or the United States of America, or by any business or professional office to
destroy correspondence or other materials of a confidential nature; provided,
that fires used to destroy such materials shall be in an incinerator properly
constructed to eliminate fire hazards; and also provided, any public school,
governmental unit of the City, State, or the United States of America, or
business or professional office employing the provisions of this subsection
shall, insofar as reasonable, separate confidential materials from other
materials which shall not be destroyed by open burning.
   B.   Domestic Household: The exemptions of this Section shall not apply to a
domestic household, because it is deemed feasible for a domestic household to
mutilate confidential material and because of the difficulty of enforcement of
this Chapter if the exceptions herein contained were of a general nature. (Ord.
2018-593, 2-15-2018; amd. Ord. 2023-635, 7-6-2023)
4-7-4: PENALTY:
Any person who fails to comply with the provisions of this Chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. Each infraction of this Chapter shall be deemed a separate
offense for purposes of this penalty. (Ord. 2018-593, 2-15-2018; amd. Ord.
2023-635, 7-6-2023)
CHAPTER 8
ABATEMENT OF DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
SECTION:
4-8-1: Purpose
4-8-2: Scope
4-8-3: Alterations, Additions And Repairs
4-8-4: Definitions
4-8-5: Enforcement
4-8-6: Board Of Appeals
4-8-7: General Information
4-8-8: Standards For Vacation, Repair, And/Or Demolition
4-8-9: Notice Of Required Abatement
4-8-10: Hearings
4-8-11: Appeals
4-8-12: Procedures After Appeals
4-8-13: Expense Of Abatement
4-8-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide a just, equitable and practicable
method, cumulative with and in addition to any other remedy provided by the
building code, fire code or otherwise available at law, for requiring
buildings, or structures that endanger the life, limb, health, property, safety
or welfare of the general public to be repaired, vacated or demolished. (Ord.
2013-562, 9-3-2013)
4-8-2: SCOPE:
The provisions of this code shall apply to all dangerous buildings, as herein
defined, which are now in existence or which may hereafter become dangerous.
(Ord. 2013-562, 9-3-2013)
4-8-3: ALTERATIONS, ADDITIONS AND REPAIRS:
All buildings or structures which are required to be repaired under the
provisions of this code shall be completed in compliance with this chapter and
must conform to the current city standards, current building codes as
applicable and any other city ordinances. (Ord. 2013-562, 9-3-2013)
4-8-4: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this code, certain terms, phrases, words and their
derivatives shall be construed as specified in either this chapter or as
specified in the building code. Where terms are not defined, they shall have
their ordinary accepted meanings within the context with which they are used.
Words used in the singular include the plural and the plural the singular.
AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE: The fire marshal, the building official and their
designated representatives, or such other person as designated and appointed by
the mayor with the consent of the city council.
BOARD OF APPEALS: The board of appeals shall consist of five (5) members
composed of the following: certified building inspector; a general building
contractor; a city resident; one member of the city's planning and zoning
commission and fire department official.
BUILDING CODE: The building code promulgated by the International Conference Of
Building Officials, as adopted by the city or modified by ordinance.
BUILDING OFFICIAL: The building official shall have certification to conduct
either residential and/or commercial building inspections, or such person as
designated and appointed by the mayor with the consent of the city council and
having sufficient working knowledge and background relating to building
construction.
DANGEROUS BUILDING: Any building or structure which is structurally unsafe or
lacks adequate egress, or which constitutes a fire hazard or is otherwise
dangerous to human life, or which in relation to existing use constitutes a
hazard to public safety, health or welfare by reason of defective construction,
inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, obsolescence, fire hazard, disaster,
damage or abandonment as provided in the building code or the fire code or any
other effective ordinance. The term has the same meaning as "unsafe building".
FIRE CODE: The fire code of the city as adopted and amended or modified by
ordinance.
JURISDICTION: The city of Rigby, Jefferson County, Idaho.
LEGISLATIVE BODY: The mayor and city council.
OWNER OF RECORD: Any person, agent, firm, corporation or governmental agency
shown to be the owner or owners of a structure in the real property, assumed
name, or the records of the secretary of state of Idaho. (Ord. 2013-562, 9-3-
2013)
4-8-5: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Administration: The building official and/or fire marshal or their
designated appointees are authorized to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Inspection: The city's compliance officer upon reviewing a possible
infraction will issue a report to the building official. The fire marshal and/
or the building official or their designated representatives will make
inspections based upon the complaint and take actions necessary to enforce the
provisions of this chapter or cause a dismissal of the complaint. All buildings
or structures within the scope of this code and all construction or work for
which a permit is required shall be subject to inspection by a certified
building inspector.
   C.   Right Of Entry: Whenever necessary to make an inspection to enforce any
provision of this code, or whenever the building official, fire marshal or
their designated representative has reasonable cause to believe that there
exists in any building or upon any premises any condition or code violation
which makes the building or premises unsafe, dangerous or hazardous, the
building official, fire marshal or their designated representative may enter
the building or premises at all reasonable times to inspect the same or to
perform any duty imposed upon the building official or fire marshal by this
code; provided that if such building or premises are occupied, they shall first
present proper credentials and request entry; and if such building or premises
are unoccupied, they shall first make a reasonable effort to locate the owner
or other person having charge or control of the building or premises and
request entry. If entry is refused, the building official, fire marshal or
their designated representative may use any remedy provided by law to secure
entry.
   D.   Refusal To Permit Entry: When the building official, fire marshal or
their designated representative has obtained a proper inspection warrant or
other remedy provided by law to secure entry, no owner or occupant or any other
persons having charge, care or control of any building or premises shall fail
or neglect, after proper request made as provided in this section, to promptly
permit entry therein by the building official, fire marshal, or their
designated representative for the purpose of inspection and examination
pursuant to this code.
   E.   Abandoned Construction Site: Means a lot or group of lots, including
subdivisions, building or buildings, or other development within the city,
where the responsible person has ceased work for any reason for a period of
ninety (90) days. Circumstances indicating abandonment of a construction site
include, but are not limited to, failure to call for inspections, absence of
workers, or removal of equipment and supplies. A valid building permit or other
permit or approval issued by the city does not alter the status of a
construction site deemed abandoned. For the purposes of this chapter,
construction does not include temporary repairs, additions, remodels, or
maintenance projects on existing single-family homes.
   F.   Vacant Residence Or Abandoned Construction Site Owner Obligations:
Responsible person(s) shall maintain vacant residences and associated premises
and abandoned construction sites in a clean, safe and sanitary condition
consistent with the provisions of this chapter and other applicable provisions
of this code. Responsible persons shall bear all costs associated with
maintaining vacant residences and abandoned construction sites.
   G.   Minimum Maintenance Standards For Vacant Residences And Associated
Premises:
      1.   Building Openings: All doors, windows, and other openings shall be
weathertight and secured against entry by birds, vermin, and trespassers.
Missing or broken doors, windows, and other openings shall be covered by glass,
plywood, or other weather resistant materials and tightly fitted and secured to
the opening.
      2.   Foundation Walls: Foundation walls shall be animal and vermin proof
and be maintained in a structurally sound and sanitary condition so as not to
pose a threat to the public health, safety and welfare.
      3.   Exterior Walls: Exterior walls shall be free of holes, breaks, and
loose or rotting materials. Exposed metal, wood, or other surfaces shall be
protected from the elements and against decay or rust.
      4.   Exterior Features: All chimneys, decks, balconies, canopies,
awnings, exhaust ducts, cornices, corbels, trim, wall facings, drains, gutters,
downspouts, and similar features shall be safely anchored. (Ord. 2013-562, 9-3-
2013)
4-8-6: BOARD OF APPEALS:
   A.   General: In order to hear and decide appeals of orders, decisions or
determinations made by the building official relative to the application and
interpretations of this code, there shall be and is hereby created a board of
appeals consisting of members who are qualified by experience and training to
pass upon matters pertaining to building construction and who are not employees
of the city. The building official shall be an ex officio member and shall act
as secretary to said board but shall have no vote upon any matter before the
board. The board of appeals shall be appointed by the governing body and shall
hold office at its pleasure. The board shall adopt rules of procedure for
conducting its business and shall render all decisions and findings in writing
to the appellant, with a duplicate copy to the building official. Appeals to
the board shall be processed in accordance with the provisions contained in
this code. Copies of all rules or regulations adopted by the board shall be
delivered to the city clerk, who shall make them freely accessible to the
public.
   B.   Limitations Of Authority: The board of appeals shall have no authority
relative to interpretation of the administrative provisions of this code nor
shall the board be empowered to waive requirements of this code. (Ord. 2013-
562, 9-3-2013)
4-8-7: GENERAL INFORMATION:
   A.   Notices Mailed: All notices required to be mailed under this chapter,
shall be mailed by certified mail, return receipt requested. When a notice is
mailed in accordance with this section and the United States postal service
returns the notice as "refused" or "unclaimed", the validity of the notice is
not affected, and the notice is considered delivered.
   B.   Notices Posted: All notices required to be posted shall be attached to
the structure as close to the front door as practicable. If there is no front
door, notice shall be attached to the structure in a noticeable place in a
weatherproof cover.
   C.   Change Of Owner: If a building or structure has been designated as a
dangerous building, it is the owner's responsibility to furnish a purchaser,
transferee, grantee, mortgagee or lessee a true and correct copy of the notice
of dangerous building and to provide the building official written notification
of the intent to enter into such transaction, including the name and address of
the purchaser, transferee, grantee, mortgagee or lessee. A purchaser shall be
bound by the notices and orders issued pursuant to this chapter. It is the
purchaser's responsibility to provide a copy to the building official of the
document changing ownership which has been recorded in the official public
records of Jefferson County, Idaho. (Ord. 2013-562, 9-3-2013)
4-8-8: STANDARDS FOR VACATION, REPAIR, AND/OR DEMOLITION:
If the building official deems it necessary in the performance of his duties
and responsibilities imposed herein, the building official may request an
inspection and report be made by any other city department or retain the
services of an expert(s) whenever the building official deems such services are
necessary. The building official shall follow the following standards in
ordering repair, vacation, or demolition of a dangerous building:
   A.   If the dangerous building can reasonably be repaired so that it no
longer will exist in violation of the terms of this chapter, it shall be
ordered repaired.
   B.   If the dangerous building is in such condition as to make it dangerous
to the health, safety, and/or welfare of its occupants, it shall be ordered
vacated and repaired.
   C.   In all cases where a dangerous building cannot be repaired so that it
no longer will exist in violation of the terms of this chapter, it shall be
demolished.
   D.   In all cases where a dangerous building is a fire hazard existing or
erected in violation of this chapter or any other city ordinance, or state or
federal statute, it shall be ordered repaired or demolished.
   E.   In all cases because of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, decay,
damage, faulty construction or arrangement, inadequate light, air or sanitation
facilities, or otherwise, are unsanitary, unfit for human habitation, or in
such a condition that is likely to cause sickness or disease, so as to threaten
the health, safety, or welfare of those occupying (or who may occupy) such
building or structure, it shall be ordered repaired or demolished.
All repairs that are deemed necessary to bring the dangerous building/structure
into compliance with this chapter must conform to the building code as adopted
by the city and any other city ordinances. (Ord. 2013-562, 9-3-2013)
4-8-9: NOTICE OF REQUIRED ABATEMENT:
   A.   Notice: After a determination that a structure requires abatement, an
initial notice shall be provided to the owner as defined under definitions,
"owner of record".
   B.   Contents: The initial notice shall contain the following:
      1.   The nature of the violation(s) of the minimum standards; and
      2.   That the structure is dangerous and that the owner must vacate and/
or repair, remove, or demolish the structure for the good of the public health,
safety, and welfare.
   C.   Posting: The notice shall be posted on the dangerous building as
follows:
      THIS STRUCTURE IS A DANGEROUS BUILDING ACCORDING TO THE MINIMUM STANDARDS
SET FORTH IN THE CITY OF RIGBY, IDAHO CODE OF ORDINANCES, TITLE 4, CHAPTER 8
AND THE OWNER MUST REPAIR, REMOVE, OR DEMOLISH IT. CONTACT                     
AT                     FOR FURTHER INFORMATION. DATE           . THIS NOTICE
SHALL REMAIN ON THIS STRUCTURE UNTIL IT IS REPAIRED, REMOVED FROM THE CITY OF
RIGBY, IDAHO CITY LIMITS, OR DEMOLISHED.
   D.   Notification To Building Official: The owner or the owner's designated
representative has thirty (30) days from the date of the notice to contact the
building official regarding their intent to repair, remove, or demolish the
dangerous building. Notification to the building official must be in writing
and provide a date when repair, removal, or demolition will be completed. (Ord.
2013-562, 9-3-2013)
4-8-10: HEARINGS:
A public hearing shall be held so that the board may determine whether the
structure complies with the minimum standards set forth in this chapter.
   A.   Notice Of Hearing:
      1.   The city clerk shall make a diligent effort to discover the identity
and address of the owner(s) of record and any lienholders or mortgagees of the
structure and the underlying property.
      2.   The city clerk shall notify each owner, lienholder, or mortgagee by
mail.
      3.   The city clerk shall notify any unknown interested parties by
posting a copy of the notice on each structure.
      4.   The city clerk will notify all adjoining property owners within one
hundred feet (100') that a public hearing is called on the underlying property.
      5.   The city clerk shall file a notice of hearing as prescribed by city
code in the official newspaper of the city.
   B.   Contents Of Notice Of Hearing: The notice of hearing shall contain the
following information:
      1.   The owner, lienholder, mortgagee or unknown interested parties have
the burden of proof and will be required to submit at the hearing proof of the
scope of any work that may be required to make the structure comply with this
chapter and the amount of time it will take to reasonably perform the work.
      2.   The name and address of the owner of record.
      3.   A legal description of the property.
      4.   A general description of the structures not meeting the minimum
standards.
      5.   A description of the proceeding.
   C.   Conduct Of Hearings: Section 604 - conduct of hearings (604.1 through
604.7.4) of the uniform code for the abatement of dangerous buildings is hereby
adopted as the manner in which hearings shall be conducted.
   D.   Orders Of The Board:
      1.   The board may issue one of the following orders:
         a.   Order to secure or vacate the structure and relocate the
occupants (if occupied).
         b.   Order to repair, remove or demolish.
         c.   Order to remove or demolish.
         d.   Order to release.
      2.   If the structure is occupied by owner's permission or consent and
the board issues an order pursuant to subsection D1a of this section, the
structure shall be vacated and the occupants relocated at owner's expense. If
the structure is occupied without owner's consent or without tenant's rights,
such tenants shall be evicted per Idaho Code.
      3.   Orders of the board issued pursuant to subsections D1b and D1c of
this section shall allow sixty (60) days for the ordered action to be
completed.
      4.   If a residential structure is removed or demolished pursuant to this
chapter, all accessory structures located on the same property may be removed
or demolished, if deemed a dangerous structure.
      5.   The city clerk shall promptly mail a copy of any order issued
pursuant to subsection D1 of this section, to the owner of record, any
lienholder or mortgagee along with a notice containing the following:
         a.   An identification of the structure and the property on which it
is located;
         b.   A description of the violation(s) of the minimum standards;
         c.   A statement that the city will secure, vacate, repair, remove or
demolish the structure if the ordered action is not taken within sixty (60)
days.
      6.   Sixty (60) days after an order to repair, remove or demolish has
been issued, the building official has the authority to request the utilities
be disconnected at the structure in order to prepare for demolition.
      7.   Within ten (10) days following the date that an order is issued, the
building official shall:
         a.   File a copy of the order in the office of the city clerk; and
         b.   The city clerk shall publish in the official newspaper of the
city a notice containing the following:
            (1)   The street address or legal description of the property;
            (2)   The date the hearing was held;
            (3)   A brief statement indicating the results of the order; and
            (4)   Instructions stating where a complete copy of the order may
be obtained. (Ord. 2013-562, 9-3-2013)
4-8-11: APPEALS:
Any owner, lienholder or mortgagee of record of property jointly or severally
aggrieved by an order of the board of appeals under this chapter may file in
district court a verified petition setting forth that the decision is illegal,
in whole or in part, and specifying the grounds of the illegality. The petition
must be filed by an owner, lienholder, or mortgagee within thirty (30) calendar
days after the date a copy of the board's order is mailed to them in accordance
with this chapter. (Ord. 2013-562, 9-3-2013)
4-8-12: PROCEDURES AFTER APPEALS:
The city shall order by form of petition with a court of competent jurisdiction
to obtain authority to complete the declaratory action contained in the order.
(Ord. 2013-562, 9-3-2013)
4-8-13: EXPENSE OF ABATEMENT:
   A.   Action Of City: If an owner or other interested party does not secure,
vacate, repair, or demolish a structure within sixty (60) days, the building
official may take the ordered action at the city's expense.
   B.   Calculation Of Costs:
      1.   Costs: Costs include all expenses incurred as a result of the
enforcement of the order.
      2.   Administrative Expenses: The general administrative expenses of
inspecting structures, locating owners, conducting hearings, and issuing
notices and orders, together with all associated administrative functions,
require a reasonable minimum charge of five hundred dollars ($500.00) per
property. The city clerk shall maintain an accounting of all expenses incurred
during this process. If the total is greater than five hundred dollars
($500.00) the cost shall be the greater amount.
      3.   Lien: Any expenses incurred by the city pursuant to subsection B1 of
this section will be assessed against the property on which the structure
stands or stood. The city will have a privileged lien upon filing same in the
official public records of Jefferson County, Idaho, subordinate only to tax
liens against the property unless it is a homestead as protected by Idaho
statutes. The lien will be extinguished if the property owner or other
interested party reimburses the city for all expenses and penalties. (Ord.
2013-562, 9-3-2013)
   CHAPTER 9
CITY MASTER FEE LIST
SECTION:
4-9-1: Garbage Rates
4-9-1: GARBAGE RATES:
90 Gallon Container:                Base Rate $7.75, Each Additional Pick Up
                                    $1.50
Number Of Containers: 1      2      3      4       5       6
Number Of Pick Ups Per Week
1                     $7.75  $15.55 $23.32 $31.10  $38.87  $46.64
2                     $13.75 $27.51 $41.26 $55.02  $68.77  $82.52
3                     $19.73 $39.47 $59.20 $78.94  $98.67  $118.40
4                     $25.71 $51.43 $77.14 $102.86 $128.57 $154.25
5                     $31.69 $63.39 $95.08 $126.78 $158.47 $190.16
 
Commercial Pick Up: Commercial customers shall have the option of using a
ninety (90) gallon container, but will be subject to the minimum charge as set
out in subsection D1 of this section.
MONTHLY CHARGES
300 Gallon Container                Base Rate $15.50 Per Container, Each
                                    Additional Pick Up $1.50
Number Of Containers: 1      2      3       4       5       6
Number Of Pick Ups Per Week
1                     $15.50 $31.05 $ 46.57 $ 62.09 $ 77.62 $ 93.14
2                     $21.49 $42.99 $64.48  $85.98  $107.47 $123.00
3                     $27.46 $54.93 $82.39  $109.86 $137.32 $164.79
4                     $33.44 $66.87 $100.31 $133.74 $167.18 $200.61
5                     $39.41 $78.81 $118.22 $157.62 $197.03 $236.44
 
Rate For Garbage Truck Use: For the purposes of the mutual aid agreement, the
city shall charge any other municipal entity the rate of sixty five dollars
($65.00) per hour for use of the city's garbage truck for the purpose of refuse
pick up.
Temporary Use Of Container; Rate:
   A.   City residents may request from the public works department, a three
hundred (300) gallon refuse container on a temporary basis. The container will
be allowed for a residential use for a period of one week. This may be extended
only upon written permission of the public works department.
   B.   The resident shall be responsible for placing the container in an area
which is accessible to the city refuse collection vehicle.
   C.   The resident shall be charged the rate of four dollars ($4.00) per
container per week in addition to the normal monthly billing. Pick up in
addition to the normal once per week schedule shall result in an additional
charge of one dollar fifty cents ($1.50) for each additional pick up. (Ord.
2023-635, 7-6-2023)
TITLE 5
POLICE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
POLICE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
5-1-1: Department Established
5-1-2: Compensation
5-1-3: Chief Of Police
5-1-4: Duties Of Police
5-1-5: Uniform And Badge
5-1-6: Police Vehicles At Personal Residences
5-1-7: Police Training And Standards
5-1-8: Neglect Of Duty
5-1-9: Excessive Force Policy
5-1-1: DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED:
The head of the department shall be known as the chief of police and the number
of additional members of the department, together with ranks and titles, shall
be determined by the council by resolution. (1999 Code)
5-1-2: COMPENSATION:
The compensation to be paid members of the police department shall be fixed by
the council. (1999 Code)
5-1-3: CHIEF OF POLICE:
   A.   Duties In General:
      1.   The chief of police shall be conservator of the peace, have
supervision and control of the police department and its members, by and with
the advice and consent of the mayor and city council. It shall be his duty to
see that all laws and ordinances that affect the city be enforced, kept and
obeyed. He shall recommend to the mayor and council the appointment of any
additional police officers, whether permanent or casual, to ensure the proper
patrolling and preservation of the peace, and safeguard the lives and property
of the inhabitants of the city. (1980 Code § 2.8.1; amd. 1999 Code)
      2.   The chief of police shall perform all other duties imposed by law,
ordinance or resolution, or request of the mayor and city council. (1980 Code §
2.8.3)
   B.   Law Enforcement; Department Equipment: The chief of police shall be
responsible to the council for law enforcement and for property of the city
used by the department.
   C.   Training And Discipline: The chief of police shall be responsible for
the proper training and discipline of the members of the department.
   D.   Records; Reports: The chief of police shall be responsible for the
keeping of adequate records and shall report to the council on the needs of the
department and its work. (1999 Code)
   E.   Assisting Fire Chief: The chief of police shall accompany the fire
chief when so required during the inspection of public buildings or any other
inspection that is needed or considered necessary, wherein the health, safety,
sanitation and fire hazard is under inspection or consideration. (1980 Code §
2.8.2)
5-1-4: DUTIES OF POLICE:
   A.   Obey Instructions: Every officer of the department subordinate to the
chief shall obey the instructions of the chief and any superior officer.
   B.   Enforce Ordinances, Laws: Members of the police department shall
enforce the ordinances and laws applicable to the city, bring violations before
the appropriate county court and make complaints for offenses coming to their
knowledge.
   C.   Service Of Process: Members of the police department shall serve
process on behalf of the city and shall serve such notices as may be required
by the council or other authority. (1999 Code)
5-1-5: UNIFORM AND BADGE:
Each member of the department shall, while on duty, wear a suitable badge and
uniform, except that the chief may authorize the performance of specific duties
while not in uniform. When a member terminates membership in the department,
such member shall immediately deliver to the City his/her badge, and all other
property of the City in his/her possession. (1999 Code)
5-1-6: POLICE VEHICLES AT PERSONAL RESIDENCES:
Employees may take City owned vehicles home, only with prior approval from
their Sergeant, and meet the following criteria: (Ord. 2015-583, 9-17-2015)
   A.   Off street parking shall be available at the employee's residence.
   B.   Vehicles shall be locked when not attended. (Ord. 2015-583, 9-17-2015;
amd. Ord. 2018-593, 2-15-2018)
5-1-7: POLICE TRAINING AND STANDARDS:
The Idaho Peace Officer Standards and Training (POST) Council mandates that all
peace officers and detention officers designated to act as peace officers
employed within the State of Idaho shall receive certification by POST within
the prescribed time periods specified 1 . (Ord. 2015-583, 9-17-2015)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 19-5109.
5-1-8: NEGLECT OF DUTY:
Any police officer who shall be guilty of neglect of duty or refuse to perform
any duty required of him in his official duties, or is found guilty of fraud,
extortion, oppression, favoritism or wrongdoing, upon conviction, shall be
removed from office and be subject to any civil or criminal prosecution that
the case may warrant. (1980 Code § 2.9.2)
5-1-9: EXCESSIVE FORCE POLICY:
It is the policy of the City that excessive force by local law enforcement
agencies shall not be used against individuals engaged in lawful and nonviolent
civil rights demonstrations within the City boundaries. (Res. 113, 3-2-2004)
CHAPTER 2
GENERAL OFFENSES
SECTION:
5-2-1: Criminal And Minor Consumption Statutes Adopted
5-2-2: Liquor Possession In Parks
5-2-3: Firearms
5-2-4: Sand Or Gravel Falling From Truck
5-2-5: Shoveling Snow Off Sidewalks
5-2-6: Curb Service Food Or Beverage Sales
5-2-7: Interference With Irrigation
5-2-8: Penalty
5-2-9: Park Hours Restricted
5-2-10: Public Intoxication
5-2-1: CRIMINAL AND MINOR CONSUMPTION STATUTES ADOPTED:
   A.   Criminal Offenses: Pursuant to Idaho Code section 50-901, the City
hereby adopts and incorporates by reference the entirety of title 18 of the
Idaho Code including Idaho Code sections 18-100 through 18-2001, as such were
existing on July 1, 1992, and as amended thereafter through action of the State
Legislature. Said sections represent the majority of criminal offenses for the
State of Idaho.
   B.   Minor Consumption: Pursuant to Idaho Code section 50-901, the City
hereby adopts and incorporates by reference Idaho Code sections 23-949, 23-
1023, 23-1024, 23-929 and 23-1334, as such were existing on July 1, 1992, and
as amended thereafter through action of the State Legislature. (Ord. 425, 11-3-
1992)
5-2-2: LIQUOR POSSESSION IN PARKS:
   A.   Definitions: The following terms, as used in this section, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
    ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR: Includes:
      1.   "Alcohol" meaning the product of distillation of any fermented
liquor, rectified either once or more often, whatever may be the origin
thereof, or synthetic ethyl alcohol.
      2.   "Spirits" meaning any beverage which contains alcohol obtained by
distillation mixed with drinkable water and other substances in solution,
including among other things, brandy, rum, whiskey, and gin.
      3.   "Wine" meaning any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation
of natural sugar content of fruits (grapes, apples, etc.) or other agricultural
products containing sugar (honey, milk, etc.).
      4.   Any liquid or solid, patented or not, containing alcohol, spirits,
or wine and susceptible of being consumed by a human being, for beverage
purposes, and containing more than six percent (6%) of alcohol by weight.
   BEER: Any beverage obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or
decoction of barley, malt, and/or other ingredients in drinkable water and
which beverage contains not more than six percent (6%) of alcohol by weight.
(Ord. 2018-593, 2-15-2018)
   B.   Exercise Of Police Power: This section shall be deemed as exercise of
the police power of the City for the protection of the public health, safety
and morals of the citizens, and all its provisions shall be liberally construed
for the attainment of that purpose. (1980 Code § 6.4.2)
   C.   Possession In Parks: It shall be unlawful for any person to possess, or
have in his or her possession, any alcoholic liquor or beer in any public park
or any outdoor public recreation area or in any public parking lot adjacent to
such park or recreation area within the City, except in those areas and under
those circumstances hereinafter in this section set forth. (1980 Code § 6.4.3)
   D.   Exceptions: Any provision in this section to the contrary
notwithstanding, beer may be possessed, and consumed, in any public park within
the area for which a local retailer's license for sale and disposition of beer
has been duly issued by the City. The boundaries of such "licensed" areas shall
be clearly posted by the City, and any person possessing or carrying said
beverage into any "nonlicensed" areas of a public park shall be in violation of
the provisions of this section. The retail licensee and his agents and
suppliers shall be permitted to transport beer into the licensed area of the
park for sale and disposition. (1980 Code § 6.4.4)
5-2-3: FIREARMS:
   A.   Definitions:
   FIREARM: Any weapon, device or instrument from which a shot, shell, pellet,
BB, bullet or other projectile may be discharged by or through the force of
exploding gunpowder, combustion, gas and/or other explosive material.
   WEAPON: 1. Any instrument used in the propulsion or discharge of any
projectile capable of causing bodily injury by or through the release of a
pressurized gas, compressed air, expanding gas, accelerant, spring, or other
force-producing means including, but not limited to, a blow gun, air rifle,
spring gun, wrist rocket, slingshot, BB gun, pellet gun, paintball gun, rocket
having a propellant charge of more than four (4) ounces, bow, compound bow,
crossbow, recurve bow, and sling; or
      2.   Any instrument designed to or capable of inflicting death or serious
bodily injury when discharged, propelled, or thrown, including, but not limited
to, a grenade, bomb, missile having an explosive or incendiary charge of more
than one- fourth (1/4) ounce, spear, hatchet, ax, knife, sling, throwing star,
or sword.
      3.   Weapon shall not include a starter pistol or similar instrument
designed and operated as a noisemaker if, upon firing, no projectile is
propelled or discharged; a toy such as a water gun, cap gun, squirt gun; or a
toy that propels or discharges a projectile unlikely to cause bodily harm or
commonly used tools or equipment used in the construction trades.
   B.   Discharge Of Weapons Prohibited:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to discharge any firearms or weapons within the
City limits.
      2.   It shall also be unlawful to discharge any guns known as a BB or
pellet gun, which guns propel a projectile by use of compressed air or carbon
dioxide. The discharge of any bow and arrow, other than a toy, is similarly
unlawful.
   C.   Exceptions:
      1.   Permits: The Mayor and City Council may at any time, upon receipt of
proper application, grant special permits to shooting galleries, gun clubs and
others for shooting in fixed localities and under specified rules. Such permits
shall be in writing attested by the City Clerk conforming to such requirements
as the Mayor and City Council shall demand, and the permit thus issued shall be
subject to revocation at any time by action of the Mayor and City Council.
      2.   Limited Use Permit: A permit may be issued by the Chief of Police
for the limited use of a spring or air powered BB or pellet gun, wrist rocket,
or slingshot as a means of pest control. The application for the permit will be
available at the Police Department. The application shall include the
description of the weapon to be used, the days that the applicant plans to use
the weapon, and a description of the situation that requires the use of said
weapon for pest control. The amount of days allowed for limited use shall not
exceed three (3) consecutive calendar days, and no more than nine (9) days
total in a calendar year. BB and pellet guns shall not discharge a BB or pellet
larger than .177 caliber. Wrist rockets and slingshots shall not be used with
projectiles exceeding .38 caliber.
      3.   Discharge By Certain Authorities: The discharge of a firearm or
weapon by law enforcement officers, military personnel or militia in the
discharge of their duties or in the authorized performance of ceremonials.
      4.   Lawful Defense: Where a person exhibiting, drawing, pointing,
directing, or discharging a firearm or weapon did so in the lawful defense of
person, persons, property, dwelling, or residence. (Ord. 2018-593, 2-15-2018)
5-2-4: SAND OR GRAVEL FALLING FROM TRUCK:
It shall be an infraction for any person who is the owner, driver, or
otherwise, to drive on or along or across any street, alley, or sidewalk within
the corporate limits of the City, any vehicle loaded with sand, gravel, ashes,
cinders, mortar or other kindred substances, and allow same to be shaken,
littered or scattered on said street, alley or sidewalk because of a defective
box or contrivance in which said substances are being hauled, or for any other
reason. Any person found in violation of this section shall be guilty of an
infraction with a penalty as set forth in section
1-4-1. (Ord. 2018-593, 2-15-2018; amd. Ord. 2025-650, 1-23-2025)
5-2-5: SHOVELING SNOW OFF SIDEWALKS:
   A.   Removal Of Snow And Ice Required; Time Limit: Every person who may own,
lease, or occupy any building within the corporate limits of the City, which
abuts on the main street of the City, or any adjacent streets, and has a good
and substantial cement sidewalk in front of said building, shall clean the same
of any snow, slush, ice or other refuse within ten (10) hours after the close
of any windstorm or other storm that may take place.
   B.   Failure To Remove Snow Or Ice; Penalty: Any person who fails, neglects
or refuses to remove the snow and/or ice from the sidewalk in front of his
premises for a period of twelve (12) hours, the snow or ice, or both, will be
removed at the expense of the city and the owner shall be deemed guilty of an
offense and, upon conviction, shall be subject to an infraction with a fifty
dollar ($50.00) penalty for the first and second violations and a one hundred
dollar ($100.00) penalty for the third and subsequent violations within a
calendar year. (Ord. 2018-593, 2-15-2018; amd. Ord. 2025-650, 1-23-2025)
5-2-6: CURB SERVICE FOOD OR BEVERAGE SALES:
It shall be an infraction with a one hundred dollar ($100.00) penalty for the
first violation for any person to operate in front of his place of business
what is commonly called a curb service, or for any person operating a motor
vehicle to pull up, stop or solicit any so called curb service in food or
drink, in front of any business establishment, or place where food and drink
are served, and in any manner interfere with the free passage of other vehicles
or pedestrians upon the streets or sidewalks, as the case may be, in any of the
business districts within the City. A second violation within three (3) years
will be treated as a misdemeanor as set forth in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 2018-593, 2-15-2018)
5-2-7: INTERFERENCE WITH IRRIGATION:
For the purpose of properly complying with Idaho Code title 42, chapter 12, in
the proper exercise of the duties connected with the distribution of water for
irrigation purposes, it is hereby declared to be a misdemeanor for any person
not authorized by the City to meddle, dam, turn, or interfere in any manner
with such water for irrigation, and rearrange the schedule of the City, and
thereby deprive any user or landowner from the uninterrupted use of the same,
as set forth by the water master or other person in charge 1 . (1980 Code §
6.1.6; amd. 1999 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection 1-7D-2C of this Code.
5-2-8: PENALTY:
Any person who commits any misdemeanor as listed in this chapter, upon
conviction, shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (1980 Code §§ 6.1.7, 6.2.3, 6.4.5; amd. 1999 Code)
5-2-9: PARK HOURS RESTRICTED:
The Rigby City parks, that is all City public lands, including, but not limited
to, the north and south parks, excluding the fairgrounds, shall close at eleven
o'clock (11:00) P.M. until sunrise. The Chief of Police may authorize, in
writing, an exception to the above restriction.
Anyone who remains or enters upon the property after eleven o'clock (11:00)
P.M. and prior to sunrise shall be guilty of an infraction with penalties and
punishments pursuant to section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 2018-593, 2-15-2018; amd. Ord. 2025-650, 1-23-2025)
5-2-10: PUBLIC INTOXICATION:
   A.   1. It is unlawful for any person who is under the influence of alcohol,
drugs or any other intoxicating substances, or who has an alcohol concentration
of 0.08, as defined in subsection hereafter, or more, as shown by analysis of
his blood, urine, breath, or other bodily substance, to be a pedestrian who is
under the influence of alcohol or drugs to a degree which renders them a hazard
and who walk or are otherwise upon a highway except on a sidewalk, or regarding
persons who are using or are under the influence of controlled substances or
narcotic drugs and who are on public property, roadways or conveyances or on
private property open to the public and such person is guilty of a misdemeanor.
      2.   For purposes of this section, an evidentiary test for alcohol
concentration is a determination of the percent by weight of alcohol in blood
and shall be based upon a formula of grams of alcohol per one hundred (100)
cubic centimeters of blood, per two hundred ten liters (210 L) of breath or
sixty seven milliliters (67 mL) of urine. Analysis of blood, urine or breath
for the purpose of determining the blood alcohol concentration shall be
performed by a laboratory operated by the Idaho State Police or by a laboratory
approved by the Idaho State Police under the provisions of approval and
certification standards to be set by that department, or by any other method
approved by the Idaho State Police. Notwithstanding any other provision of law
or rule of court, the results of any test for alcohol concentration and records
relating to calibration, approval, certification or quality control performed
by a laboratory operated or approved by the Idaho State Police or by any other
method approved by the Idaho State Police shall be admissible in any proceeding
in this State without the necessity of producing a witness to establish the
reliability of the testing procedure for examination.
      3.   Any person found in violation of this section and found guilty
thereof, may be subjected to the penalties for a misdemeanor as amended or
modified in Idaho Code section 18-113. (Ord. 07-532, 1-15-2008)
CHAPTER 3
CURFEW
SECTION:
5-3-1: Purpose
5-3-2: Definitions
5-3-3: Juvenile Curfew
5-3-4: Parental Violation Of Curfew Hours
5-3-5: Violation Of Curfew Hours By Business Establishment
5-3-6: Defenses
5-3-7: Enforcement
5-3-8: Penalties
5-3-1: PURPOSE:
The purposes of this Chapter are:
   A.   To regulate and prohibit minors from remaining in public places during
certain hours of the day;
   B.   To protect minors from each other and from other adult perpetrators of
crime;
   C.   To reduce nocturnal juvenile crime and juvenile delinquency;
   D.   To promote family responsibility and parental control over their
children; and
   E.   To protect and promote the peace, health, safety, welfare and
tranquility of the inhabitants of the City. (Ord. 464, 3-4-1997, eff. midnight
4-1-1997)
5-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
Certain words and phrases used in this Chapter are defined as follows:
CURFEW HOURS: The hours between eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. and five o'clock
(5:00) A.M. the next day, beginning on Sundays and running through Thursdays of
each week; and, from twelve thirty o'clock (12:30) A.M. to five o'clock (5:00)
A.M. the next day on Saturday and Sunday mornings (commonly known as Friday and
Saturday nights from 12:30 A.M. to 5:00 A.M.)
EMERGENCY: An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting state,
that calls for immediate action to prevent, control or minimize serious bodily
injury, death or significant loss of property.
EMPLOYMENT ACTIVITY: The performance of any responsibilities or duties
expressly or impliedly required as a condition of employment of a minor.
ESTABLISHMENT: Any privately-owned place of business operated for a profit to
which the public is invited, including, but not limited to, any place of
amusement or entertainment.
GUARDIAN: A guardian is: a) a person who, under court order, is the guardian of
the person of a minor; b) a public or private agency with whom a minor has been
placed by order of a court; or c) a person to whom a parent or guardian has
delegated any of his or her powers with respect to a minor pursuant to Idaho
Code section 15-5-104.
MINOR: Any person under eighteen (18) years of age.
OPERATOR: Any individual, firm, association, partnership or corporation
operating, managing or conducting any establishment. The term includes the
members or partners of an association or partnership and the officers of a
corporation which owns or operates an establishment.
PARENT: A person who is a natural parent, adoptive parent or step-parent of a
minor.
PUBLIC PLACE: Any place to which the general public has access including, but
not limited to, streets, highways, alleys, sidewalks and the common areas of
schools, hospitals, apartment houses, office buildings, transportation
facilities, shopping malls, public parking lots and commercial businesses.
REMAIN: To linger or stay or to fail to leave premises when requested to do so
by a police officer or the owner, operator or other person in control of an
establishment. (Ord. 464, 3-4-1997, eff. midnight 4-1-1997)
5-3-3: JUVENILE CURFEW:
Any minor who remains in any public place or on the premises of any
establishment within the City during curfew hours is guilty of an infraction
for the first violation with a one hundred dollar ($100.00) penalty, an
infraction for the second violation with a two hundred dollar ($200.00)
penalty, an infraction for the third violation with a three hundred dollar
($300.00) penalty and a misdemeanor for the fourth and subsequent violations
within a calendar year pursuant to section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 2018-593, 2-15-2018)
5-3-4: PARENTAL VIOLATION OF CURFEW HOURS:
Any parent or guardian of a minor is guilty of an infraction if he or she
knowingly permits, or by culpable indifference allows, such minor to remain in
any public place or on the premises of any establishment within the City during
curfew hours. (Ord. 464, 3-4-1997, eff. midnight 4-1-1997; Ord. 2025-650, 1-23-
2025)
5-3-5: VIOLATION OF CURFEW HOURS BY BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENT:
Any owner, operator or any employee or other person in control of an
establishment is guilty of a misdemeanor if he or she knowingly or willingly
allows such minor to be upon the premises of the establishment during curfew
hours. (Ord. 464, 3-4-1997, eff. midnight 4-1-1997)
5-3-6: DEFENSES:
   A.   Defense For Minor: It is a defense to prosecution under this chapter if
the offending minor was:
      1.   Accompanied by the minor's parent or guardian;
      2.   On an errand at the express direction of the minor's parent or
guardian, without any detour or stop;
      3.   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      4.   Engaged in employment activity or going to an employment activity or
returning to the minor's place of residence, without any detour or stop;
      5.   Involved in an emergency;
      6.   Within the yard or upon the sidewalk abutting the minor's residence
or abutting the residence of another adult with whom the parent or guardian of
such minor has expressly placed temporary custody of the minor;
      7.   Attending an officially-sponsored school, religious or other
recreational, cultural or educational activity supervised by adults and
sponsored by a public entity or a religious, charitable, fraternal, civil or
other similar organization organized by adults, or going to or returning home
from such activities, without any detour or stop;
      8.   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution or rights protected by article I, section 9 of the Constitution of
the State of Idaho;
      9.   Is married or has had the disabilities of minor removed in the
manner provided by law.
   B.   Defense For Business Establishment: It is a defense to prosecution
under section
5-3-5 of this chapter that the owner, operator or employee of an establishment
asked the minor to leave the premises and promptly notified the law enforcement
that a minor is present on the premises of the establishment during curfew
hours and refuses to leave. (Ord. 464, 3-4-1997, eff. midnight 4-1-1997)
5-3-7: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Police Authority: Before taking any enforcement action under this
section, a peace officer shall ask the apparent offending minor's age and
reason for being in the public place or establishment. The peace officer shall
not detain a minor under this chapter unless the officer reasonably believes
that a violation of this chapter has occurred and that, based on any response
and all other circumstances, no defense is present. Additionally, the juvenile
shall be presented a written warning should this be the initial violation of
this chapter and he returns to his residence.
   B.   Procedure Upon Detainment Of Minor: Any peace officer who detains a
minor under this chapter shall immediately take the minor to the Jefferson
County Sheriff's Department and summon his or her parent or guardian. If the
minor's parent or guardian arrives within a reasonable period of time, the
minor shall be remanded to the custody of the parent or guardian and shall be
released upon the recognizance of his or her parent or guardian.(Ord. 464, 3-4-
1997, eff. midnight 4-1-1997; Ord. 2025-650, 1-23-2025)
5-3-8: PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person who violates a provision of this chapter is guilty of an
infraction for the first violation with a one hundred dollar ($100.00) penalty,
an infraction for the second violation with a two hundred dollar ($200.00)
penalty, an infraction for the third violation with a three hundred dollar
($300.00) penalty, and a misdemeanor for the fourth and subsequent violations
within a calendar year pursuant to section
1-4-1 of this Code.
   B.   Any person who violates a provision of this chapter within three (3)
years after another conviction for any other violation under this chapter shall
be punished, upon conviction, by a fine not to exceed three hundred dollars
($300.00). (Ord. 464, 3-4-1997, eff. midnight 4-1-1997; amd. Ord. 2025-650, 1-
23-2025)
CHAPTER 4
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
5-4-1: Dog Owner Defined
5-4-2: Dog License Required; Fees
5-4-3: Issuance of Tag; Fee For Duplicate Tag
5-4-4: Noncommercial Kennel License
5-4-5: Livestock And Fowl Prohibited; Exceptions
5-4-6: Control Or Confinement Required
5-4-7: Public Areas Designated For Training And Exercise
5-4-8: Rabies; Procedure Upon Detection
5-4-9: Noisy Or Vicious Dogs
5-4-10: Seizure Of Stray Dogs; Notify Owner; Fees
5-4-11: Violation; Fines
5-4-1: DOG OWNER DEFINED:
The term "owner", as used in this chapter, shall be construed to mean and
include any person, association, or corporation owning, harboring or keeping a
dog or dogs within the corporate limits of the city. (1980 Code § 6.9.2)
5-4-2: DOG LICENSE REQUIRED; FEES:
   A.   Annual License Required: It shall be unlawful to keep, maintain, harbor
or possess a dog within the city unless the owner or person in charge of said
dog shall have obtained an annual dog license from the city. (1980 Code §
6.9.2; amd. 1999 Code)
   B.   License Fees: The fee for said annual dog license shall be as set by
city resolution. (Ord. 2015-583, 9-17-2015)
5-4-3: ISSUANCE OF TAG; FEE FOR DUPLICATE TAG:
   A.   Issuance Of Tags And Receipt: The license fee shall be paid to the city
clerk, who shall, thereupon, give to the person paying for such license a
receipt reciting the owner's name, and the number of the license; the city
clerk shall also give the person a metal tag or disc bearing the year of
issuance and a license number corresponding with that mentioned in the receipt.
   B.   Lost Tag; Fee For Duplicate: In the event of loss of the license tag, a
duplicate shall be provided to the owner by the city clerk at the expense of
five dollars ($5.00) or ten dollars ($10.00) for each tag.
   C.   Affixing Tag To Collar: Said license tag or disc shall be affixed to a
collar worn by the dog to be licensed under the provisions of this chapter.
(1980 Code § 6.9.2; amd. Ord. 2025-650, 1-23-2025)
5-4-4: NONCOMMERCIAL KENNEL LICENSE:
   A.   License Required; Application; Consent; Fee:
      1.   License Required: It shall be unlawful to keep, maintain, harbor or
possess upon the premises of any one household more than two (2) dogs unless
the owner or person in charge thereof shall have obtained a noncommercial
kennel license. (1980 Code § 6.9.2)
      2.   Application; Consent Of Neighboring Property Owners: Application for
a noncommercial kennel license shall be made to the city clerk and must be
accompanied by the written consent to such noncommercial kennel by at least
seventy five percent (75%) of all the persons in possession of premises within
one hundred foot (100') radius, measured from the outside property boundary of
the premises upon which said noncommercial kennel is to be maintained.
Application shall contain a map showing applicant home and adjacent residence
within the one hundred foot (100') radius.
      3.   Application Fee: Said application fee shall be set by city
resolution. (Ord. 2015-583, 9-17-2015)
   B.   Contents Of Application; Conditions For Approval:
      1.   Contents Of Application: The application shall state the name and
address of the owner, where the noncommercial kennel is to be kept and the
number of dogs. (1980 Code § 6.9.2)
      2.   Compliance With Health Regulations: The application shall be
submitted to the mayor and city council, and the council shall determine
whether or not the location and operation of said kennel complies with the
health ordinances in the city. If such determination is unfavorable, no license
shall be issued. (1980 Code § 6.9.2; amd. 1999 Code)
   C.   License Nontransferable; Term; Report Changes:
      1.   Nontransferable; Term: Noncommercial kennel licenses shall not be
transferable, and shall expire on December 31 of the year in which issued.
(1980 Code § 6.9.2)
      2.   Report Changes; New Applications Pay Additional Fee: Whenever
additions are made to the number of dogs for which a kennel license has been
issued, the licensee shall, within three (3) days, report to the city clerk,
begin a new application, and pay the required license fee; provided, however,
that whenever puppies are born to a dog theretofore counted in computing the
license fee, such puppies shall not be counted as additions until three (3)
months old. (Ord. 2015-583, 9-17-2015)
   D.   Issuance Of License; Additional Requirements: The issuance of a
noncommercial kennel license shall not obviate the necessity of obtaining an
individual dog license nor shall any of the provisions hereof be deemed to vary
or alter any of the zoning ordinances of the city. (1980 Code § 6.9.2)
   E.   Revocation:
      1.   The mayor, or police chief, in an emergency, may revoke a
noncommercial kennel license if the kennel owner or person in charge fails to
comply with the health ordinances of the city.
      2.   The noncommercial kennel license may, upon good cause, be revoked if
sufficient neighbors withdraw their consent through written notification to the
city clerk that the application no longer has the requisite seventy five
percent (75%) consent.
      3.   Failure to pay the annual fee for each dog within thirty (30) days
of notification of expiration shall result in a revocation of a noncommercial
kennel license.
   F.   Application Form:
      CITY OF RIGBY
      NONCOMMERCIAL KENNEL LICENSE APPLICATION
Applicant:
                                                                                         
   Premises for which license is
requested                                                 
                                                                                                          
                                                                                                          
Number of Dogs:
                                                                                
Application Fee: As set by city resolution.
      DECISION
Based upon the report of the Health and Sanitation Committee and consideration
of 75 percent of the residents who live within 100 feet of the applicant's
residence, the Application for Noncommercial Kennel License is hereby approved.
This license is good until December 31,         and is in effect to allow      
dogs.
   Dated this     day of                     , 20      .
      CITY OF RIGBY
      By:                                        
      DECISION
Based upon the:
           report of the Health and Sanitation committee; and/or
        failure to have the consent of the 75 percent of the neighbor who live
within 100 feet of the premises;
Your Application for Noncommercial Kennel License, has been denied.
   Dated this      day of                    , 20      .
      CITY OF RIGBY
      By:                                           
(Ord. 2015-583, 9-17-2015)
5-4-5: LIVESTOCK AND FOWL PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Prohibition; Vietnamese Potbellied Pigs And Domestic Hen Chickens
Excepted: It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or harbor within the
corporate limits of the City, either on his premises or on the premises of
another, any cows, horses, mules, sheep, goats, hogs, or other domestic animals
or fowl, other than cats, dogs, and that particular species of swine commonly
known as a Vietnamese potbellied pig and domestic hen chickens as hereinafter
described.
   B.   Vietnamese Potbellied Pig: The Vietnamese potbellied pig shall be
allowed into the City upon the following additional conditions:
      1.   The animal, prior to entering into the City, has been tested for
pseudo rabies and brucellosis and been found clean of such diseases;
      2.   The animal is subject to licensing, kenneling, and other
requirements of this chapter pertaining to dogs;
      3.   That such animal is treated as a domestic animal in a similar manner
as dogs and cats.
   C.   Domestic Hen Chickens: Notwithstanding the foregoing, the keeping of
not more than eight (8) domestic hen chickens is permitted in the rear yard of
any single-family dwelling or duplex located in a residential zone, provided
the following requirements are observed:
      1.   Eggs provided by such hens will not be sold for pecuniary gain or
profit.
      2.   For the purposes for this subsection, the term "rear yard" means a
residential yard lying between the rear lot line and the nearest foundation
line of the main building and extending across the full width of the lot. In
the case of a corner lot, where the building fronts on a side street, the rear
yard may be established from the rear of the house to the side of the property
line.
   D.   Conventional Swine And Fowl Banned: Conventional swine, hogs, and pigs,
other than the Vietnamese potbellied pig, and fowl other than domestic hen
chickens shall remain banned from the City. (Ord. 2014-569, 5-14-2014)
   E.   Penalty: Any person keeping or harboring any cows, horses, mules,
sheep, goats, hogs, chickens (other than domestic hen chickens), or other
domestic animals or fowl, other than cats, dogs, and potbellied pigs, and
domestic hen chickens within the City limits, shall be guilty of maintaining a
public nuisance and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to penalty for
an infraction on the first violation with a one hundred dollar ($100.00)
penalty, an infraction on the second violation with a two hundred dollar
($200.00) penalty, and an infraction on the third and subsequent violations
with a three hundred dollar ($300.00) penalty. (Ord. 2018-593, 2-15-2018)
5-4-6: CONTROL OR CONFINEMENT REQUIRED:
   A.   Control Or Confinement Required: Except as provided by section
5-4-7 of this chapter, it shall be unlawful for any owner to allow or permit
any dog, whether licensed or not, to be or remain upon the streets or alleys of
the City, or in any public place in the City, or upon any other premises
without the consent of the person in possession of such premises, unless:
      1.   Such dog shall be in the charge of a person and controlled by a
leash; or unless
      2.   Such dog shall be confined in a motor vehicle.
   B.   Penalty: Upon a first violation the matter will be considered an
infraction with a one hundred dollar ($100.00) penalty, an infraction for the
second violation with a two hundred dollar ($200.00) penalty and an infraction
for the third and subsequent violations with a three hundred dollar ($300.00)
penalty if occurring within a three (3) year period. (Ord. 2018-593, 2-15-2018)
5-4-7: PUBLIC AREAS DESIGNATED FOR TRAINING AND EXERCISE:
The City Council may designate such areas of the public park or other public
grounds of the City which may be used, subject to such rules and regulations as
may be prescribed, for the training or exercise of dogs. Dogs within such areas
so designated need not be controlled by leash but shall be under the control of
a responsible person and controlled by a whistle, voice or other effective
command. (1980 Code § 6.9.2)
5-4-8: RABIES; PROCEDURE UPON DETECTION:
   A.   Disposal Of Afflicted Dog: Any dog afflicted with rabies shall be
disposed of immediately either by the owner or by the Chief of Police.
   B.   Quarantine Or Impoundment Authorized:
      1.   The Chief of Police, his assistants, or any person designated by the
Chief of Police shall have authority to order the owner of any dog showing
symptoms of rabies, or of any dog which has bitten any person so as to cause
any abrasion of the skin, to subject such dog for quarantine at the contracted
facility for a period not to exceed fifteen (15) days, and if such owner shall
pay the full regular fee for keeping dogs impounded, plus vaccination fees, no
other fee shall be charged. If such fee is not paid, the dog shall be subject
to disposal as provided in section
5-4-10 of this chapter.
      2.   Provided, however, that in lieu of submitting such dog to the
contracted facility, the owner may, at his expense, admit such a dog to a
veterinarian of choice for examination. (1980 Code § 6.9.2; amd. Ord. 2025-650,
1-23-2025)
5-4-9: NOISY OR VICIOUS DOGS:
It shall be unlawful to keep, maintain, harbor or possess a howling, barking,
noisy or vicious dog. Any such dog shall be considered as a public nuisance and
owners may be guilty of an infraction as the potential penalty as described in
section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 2018-593, 2-15-2018; amd. Ord. 2025-650, 1-23-2025)
5-4-10: SEIZURE OF STRAY DOGS; NOTIFY OWNER; FEES:
   A.   Police Duties: It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police, his
assistants, or any other person designated by the Chief of Police, to seize
stray dogs whenever and wherever found, whether on public or private property
within the City and maintain said dog at such facility as contracted by the
City of Rigby.
      1.   Dogs with a collar, current license, and owner's contact information
will be contacted and may thereupon recover possession of the dog upon payment
of any cost, fine, and veterinary fees.
      2.   Dogs with a collar, out-of-date license, and owner's contact
information will be contacted by the contracted facility and may thereupon
recover possession of the dog upon payment of the license fee, costs, fine, and
veterinary fees.
      3.   Dogs without a collar will be checked by the contracted facility for
an identifying microchip.
         a.   If a microchip exists, owner will be contacted and may thereupon
recover possession of the dog upon payment of license fee (if necessary),
costs, fine, and veterinary fees.
         b.   If a microchip doesn't exist, contracted facility will hold dog
for a contracted number of days for owner to claim dog. If unclaimed by owners,
the dog is listed for adoption through veterinary facility.
   B.   Penalties: Penalties for this title shall be set by a schedule by
resolution of the City Council of the City of Rigby, Idaho, unless stated
otherwise herein. (Ord. 2018-593, 2-15-2018; amd. Ord. 2025-650, 1-23-2025)
5-4-11: VIOLATION; FINES:
Any person violating the provision of this chapter shall be guilty of an
infraction and on the first offense shall be punishable by a fine of not less
than one hundred dollars ($100.00). (Ord. 393, 6-19-1984; amd. Ord. 2025-650,
1-23-2025)
TITLE 6
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
IDAHO VEHICLE LAWS
SECTION:
6-1-1: State Vehicle Laws Adopted By Reference
6-1-1: STATE VEHICLE LAWS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE:
   A.   Intent: It is hereby declared to be the intent of the City Council to
aid and assist by whatever means possible, for the utmost consistency in
traffic regulation among and between agencies of Idaho having such
jurisdiction. Toward that end, adoption of the Idaho Motor Vehicle Laws by the
cities of Idaho is a necessary means of assuring maximum uniformity within the
State. (1980 Code § 10.1.1)
   B.   Adoption Of Statute: There is hereby adopted for the purpose of
establishing rules and regulations for the use of all streets and public
thoroughfares of the City, that certain code, identified as the latest edition
of the Idaho Motor Vehicle Laws, more particularly Idaho Code title 49,
published by the Idaho Department of Transportation, and as the same may
hereafter be revised by the Idaho Legislature, or amended by the City Council,
and the same is hereby adopted and incorporated as an ordinance of the City as
fully as though set forth at length herein. (1980 Code § 10.1.2; amd. 1999
Code)
   C.   Copies On File: One copy of the Idaho Motor Vehicle Laws, together with
any revisions or amendments, duly certified by the City Clerk, shall be kept on
file in the Clerk's office for use and examination of and by the public. (1980
Code § 10.1.3; amd. 1999 Code)
CHAPTER 2
TRAFFIC CITATIONS; PENALTY
SECTION:
6-2-1: Forms And Records Of Citations And Arrests
6-2-2: Issuance Of Citation By Police Officer
6-2-3: [Reserved]
6-2-4: [Reserved]
6-2-5: Citation Deemed Lawful Complaint
6-2-6: Citation On Illegally Parked Vehicle
6-2-7: Failure To Comply With Citation Attached To Vehicle
6-2-8: Presumption In Reference To Illegal Parking
6-2-9: Penalty For Citation Conviction
6-2-10: General Penalty For Traffic Violations
6-2-1: FORMS AND RECORDS OF CITATIONS AND ARRESTS:
The police department shall keep and maintain traffic records in respect to the
following matters, such records to accumulate for a period of at least five (5)
years and thereafter such records shall be maintained complete for at least the
most recent five (5) year period.
   A.   The police department shall keep a record of all violations of traffic
regulations (except standing or parking violations) of which any person has
been charged, together with a record of the final disposition of all such
cases.
   B.   The police department shall keep a record of all accidents investigated
by the department and of the disposition of all cases where arrests and
prosecutions of persons for causing or contributing to such accidents have been
made.
   C.   The police department shall keep and maintain a record of the traffic
accidents, warnings, arrests and convictions of each driver charged with
violations of this title (except for violations of standing or parking
regulations) which shall be filed alphabetically under the name of the driver
concerned, and it shall be the duty of the police department to bring to the
attention of the court, in the prosecution of any driver for a traffic
violation, any record of prior violations charged against such driver so
maintained by the department.
   D.   All records required to be kept under the provisions of this section
shall be public records. (1980 Code § 10.22.1; amd. 1999 Code; Ord. 2025-650,
1-23-2025)
6-2-2: ISSUANCE OF CITATION BY POLICE OFFICER:
Except when authorized or directed to immediately take a person before a
magistrate for the violation of any traffic law, a police officer who halts a
person for such violation, other than for the purpose of giving him a warning
notice and does not take such person into custody under arrest, shall take the
name, address and operator's license number of said person, the registered
number of the motor vehicle involved and such other pertinent information as
may be necessary, and shall issue to him in writing on a form provided by the
City Clerk, a traffic citation containing a notice to answer to the charge
against him in the Magistrate Court at a time at least five (5) days after such
alleged violation to be specified in said citation. The officer, upon receiving
the written promise of the alleged violator to answer as specified in the
citation, shall release such person from custody. (1980 Code § 10.22.2; amd.
1999 Code)
6-2-3: [RESERVED]:
6-2-4: [RESERVED]:
6-2-5: CITATION DEEMED LAWFUL COMPLAINT:
In the event the form of citation provided therein includes information and is
sworn to as required under the general laws in respect to a complaint charging
commission of the offense alleged in said citation to have been committed, then
such citation when filed with a court having jurisdiction shall be deemed to be
a lawful complaint for the purpose of prosecution under this Chapter. (1980
Code § 10.22.6)
6-2-6: CITATION ON ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLE:
Whenever any motor vehicle without driver is found parked or stopped in
violation of any of the restrictions imposed by any traffic ordinance of the
City, the officer finding such vehicle shall take its registration number, and
may take any other information displayed on the vehicle which may identify its
user, and shall conspicuously affix to such vehicle, a traffic citation on a
form provided by the City Clerk, for the driver to answer to the charge against
him within five (5) days during the hours at a place specified in the citation.
(1980 Code § 10.22.8)
6-2-7: FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH CITATION ATTACHED TO VEHICLE:
If a violator does not appear in response to a traffic citation affixed to such
motor vehicle within a period of five (5) days, the City Clerk shall send the
owner of the motor vehicle to which the traffic citation was affixed a letter
informing him of the violation and warning him that, in the event such letter
is disregarded for a period of five (5) days, the City will send a letter of
collections. (1980 Code § 10.22.9; amd. 1999 Code; Ord. 2025-650, 1-23-2025)
6-2-8: PRESUMPTION IN REFERENCE TO ILLEGAL PARKING:
   A.   In any prosecution charging a violation of any ordinance of the City
governing the standing or parking of a vehicle, proof that the particular
vehicle described in the complaint was parked in violation of any such
ordinance, together with proof that the defendant named in the complaint was at
the time of such parking the registered owner of such vehicle, shall constitute
in evidence a prima facia presumption that the registered owner of such vehicle
was the person who parked or placed such vehicle at the point where, and for
the time during which, such violation occurred.
   B.   The foregoing stated presumption shall apply only when the procedure as
prescribed herein has been followed. (1980 Code § 10.22.10)
6-2-9: PENALTY FOR CITATION CONVICTION:
Any person convicted of a citation of any section of this Chapter shall be
subject to penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (1980 Code § 10.22.13; amd. 1999 Code)
6-2-10: GENERAL PENALTY FOR TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS:
If no separate penalty is otherwise given in this Title, all violations of this
Title shall be punishable as an infraction pursuant to Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (1980 Code § 10.25; amd. 1999 Code; Ord. 2025-650, 1-23-
2025)
CHAPTER 3
GENERAL TRAFFIC PROVISIONS
SECTION:
6-3-1: Definitions
6-3-2: Authority Of Police And Fire Department Officials
6-3-3: Obedience To Regulations And Officials
6-3-4: Approach Of Authorized Emergency Vehicles
6-3-5: Pedestrians
6-3-6: Traffic Control Devices
6-3-7: Funerals And Other Processions
6-3-8: Riding On Motorcycles
6-3-9: Bicycles On Sidewalks
6-3-10: Coasters, Roller Skates, Skateboards, And Similar Devices Restricted
6-3-11: Clinging To Vehicles
6-3-12: Backing Out Of Driveway
6-3-13: Auto Exhaust And Noise
6-3-14: Vehicle Weight Restriction
6-3-15: Certain Vehicles Restricted On Certain Streets
6-3-16: School Buses, Passing
6-3-17: Public Conveyances
6-3-18: Engine Compression Brakes
6-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
Definitions listed in Idaho Code title 49, chapters 6, 7 and 8, as amended from
time to time, are hereby specifically adopted, in addition to the following
defined words and terms:
ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE OR OTHER PERSONAL PROPERTY: An automobile or personal
property which remains upon the street or other public property for a period of
time longer than forty eight (48) hours, the owner of which cannot be located
or the owner refuses to remove the same.
AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE: Vehicles of the fire department, police vehicles
and such ambulances and emergency vehicles as are designated by the director of
the Idaho department of transportation or the chief of police.
BUSINESS DISTRICT: The territory contiguous to and including a public
thoroughfare when, within one hundred fifty feet (150'), there are buildings in
use for business or industrial purposes, including, but not limited to, hotels,
banks and/or office buildings.
COMMERCIAL VEHICLE: Every vehicle designed, maintained and/or used primarily
for the transportation of property.
CURB LOADING ZONE: A space adjacent to a curb reserved for the exclusive use of
vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers or materials.
FREIGHT CURB LOADING ZONE: A space adjacent to a curb for the exclusive use of
vehicles during the loading or unloading of freight.
PARKING METER OR METER: A mechanical device which is so adjusted as to show the
length of time parking upon the streets of the city of Rigby.
PARKING METER SPACE: Any space within a parking meter zone, adjacent to a
parking meter and which is duly designated for the parking of a single vehicle
by lines painted or otherwise durably marked on the curb or on the surface of
the street and adjacent to or adjoining the parking meter.
PARKING METER ZONE: Any and all zones, areas or streets established or
designated as those areas, zones or parts of streets within or upon which the
parking of vehicles shall be controlled, regulated, and inspected with the aid
of timing devices and meters herein referred to as parking meters or meters.
PASSENGER CURB LOADING ZONE: A place adjacent to a curb reserved for the
exclusive use of vehicles during loading or unloading of passengers.
RESIDENCE DISTRICT: The territory contiguous to and including a public
thoroughfare not comprising a business district when the property on such
thoroughfare for a distance of one hundred fifty feet (150') or more is in the
main improved with residences or residences and buildings.
STOLEN MOTOR VEHICLE OR OTHER PERSONAL PROPERTY: That property which the Police
Department has reasonable grounds to believe to be stolen.
TRAFFIC DIVISION: The Traffic Division of the Police Department or in the event
a Traffic Division is not established, then said term whenever used herein
shall be deemed to refer to the Police Department.
UNIDENTIFIED MOTOR VEHICLE OR OTHER PERSONAL PROPERTY: Such motor vehicles or
other personal property where ownership thereof cannot be ascertained. (1980
Code §§ 10.2.1, 10.2.2; amd. 1999 Code)
6-3-2: AUTHORITY OF POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENT OFFICIALS:
   A.   Enforce State And City Laws: It shall be the duty of the officers of
the Police Department or such officers as are assigned by the Chief of Police
to enforce all street traffic laws of the State and the City.
   B.   Officers To Direct Traffic: Officers of the Police Department or such
officers as are assigned by the Chief of Police are hereby authorized to direct
all traffic by voice, hand or signal; provided, that in the event of a fire or
other emergency or to expedite traffic or to safeguard pedestrians, officers of
the Police Department may direct traffic as conditions may require.
   C.   Fire Department Authority At Scene Of Fire: Officers of the Fire
Department, when at the scene of a fire, may direct or assist the police in
directing traffic thereat, or in the immediate vicinity. (1980 Code § 10.3.1)
6-3-3: OBEDIENCE TO REGULATIONS AND OFFICIALS:
   A.   Traffic Regulations: It shall be unlawful for any person to do any act
forbidden or fail to perform any act required herein. (1980 Code § 10.3.2)
   B.   Police And Fire Department Officials: It shall be unlawful for any
person to willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or direction
of a police officer or Fire Department official. (1980 Code § 10.3.3)
   C.   Persons Propelling Push Carts: Every person propelling any push cart
upon a roadway shall be subject to the provisions of this Title applicable to
the driver of any vehicle, except those provisions which by their very own
nature can have no application. (1980 Code § 10.3.4; amd. Ord. 2025-650, 1-23-
2025)
6-3-4: APPROACH OF AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES:
Upon the immediate approach of an emergency, the driver of every vehicle shall
yield the right of way and shall immediately drive to a position parallel to,
and as close as possible, to the right-hand edge or curb of the roadway clear
of any intersection and shall stop and remain in such position until the
authorized emergency vehicle has passed, except when otherwise directed by a
police officer. (1980 Code § 10.3.6)
6-3-5: PEDESTRIANS:
   A.   Crossing At Right Angles: It shall be unlawful for any pedestrian to
cross a roadway at any place other than by a route at right angles to the curb
or by the shortest route to the opposite curb except in a crosswalk. (1980 Code
§ 10.10.1)
   B.   Yield Right Of Way By Pedestrian:
      1.   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a
marked crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection shall yield
the right of way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
      2.   Any pedestrian crossing a roadway at a point where a pedestrian
tunnel or overhead pedestrian crossing has been provided shall yield upon the
roadway.
      3.   The foregoing rules have no application under the conditions stated
herein when pedestrians are prohibited from crossing at certain designated
places. (1980 Code § 10.10.2)
6-3-6: TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES:
   A.   Authority To Recommend: The Chief of Police shall have authority to
recommend placement of traffic-control signs, signals and devices. (1999 Code)
   B.   Specifications: All traffic-control signs, signals and devices shall
conform to the approved specifications. All signs and signals required
hereunder for a particular purpose shall, so far as practicable, be uniform as
to type and location throughout the City. All traffic-control devices so
erected and not inconsistent with the provisions of this Section shall be
official traffic- control devices. (1980 Code § 10.4.2)
   C.   Play Streets:
      1.   Authority To Establish: The Chief of Police shall have the authority
to declare any street, or part thereof, a play street, and to place appropriate
signs or devices in the roadway indicating the same. (1980 Code § 10.4.3)
      2.   Vehicles Restricted: Whenever authorized signs are erected
indicating any street, or part thereof, as a play street, it shall be unlawful
for any person to drive a vehicle upon any such street, or portion thereof,
except drivers of vehicles having business or whose residences are within such
closed area, and then any said driver shall exercise the greatest care in
driving upon any such street or portion thereof. (1980 Code § 10.4.4)
   D.   Crosswalks And Safety Zones Designated: The Chief of Police is hereby
authorized:
      1.   To designate and maintain, by appropriate devices, marks or lines
upon the surface of the roadway, crosswalks, or at intersections where, in his
opinion, there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the roadway, and at
such other places as he may deem necessary.
      2.   To establish safety zones of such kind and character and at such
places as he may deem necessary for the protection of the pedestrians. (1980
Code § 10.4.5)
   E.   Marking Traffic Lanes:
      1.   The Chief of Police is hereby authorized to mark traffic lanes upon
the roadway of any street or highway where regular alignment of traffic is
necessary.
      2.   Where such traffic lanes have been marked, it shall be unlawful for
the operator of any vehicle to fail or refuse to keep such vehicle within the
boundaries of such lane except when lawfully passing another vehicle or
preparatory to making a lawful turning movement. (1980 Code § 10.4.6)
6-3-7: FUNERALS AND OTHER PROCESSIONS:
   A.   Driving Through Funeral Or Other Procession: It shall be unlawful for a
driver of a vehicle to drive between the vehicles comprising a funeral or other
authorized procession while they are in motion and when such vehicles are
conspicuously designated. (1980 Code § 10.8.1)
   B.   Drivers In A Procession: Each driver in a funeral or other procession
shall drive as near to the right-hand edge of the roadway as practical, and
shall follow the vehicle ahead as close as is practical and safe. (1980 Code §
10.8.2)
6-3-8: RIDING ON MOTORCYCLES:
A person operating a motorcycle shall ride only upon a permanent and regular
seat attached thereto, and such operator shall not carry any other person nor
shall any other person ride on a motorcycle unless such motorcycle is designed
to carry more than one person. (1980 Code § 10.8.3)
6-3-9: BICYCLES ON SIDEWALKS:
   A.   Prohibited In Business District: It shall be unlawful for any person
whatsoever to park, ride, or propel any bicycle upon the sidewalks of the City
in the business district, or any other congested district of the City, that may
be so designated by proclamation of the Mayor of the City. (1980 Code § 10.8.4)
   B.   Penalty: Violators of this Section shall be punished by fine not
exceeding the sum of fifty dollars ($50.00) for each and every offense. (1980
Code § 10.8.4; amd. 1999 Code)
6-3-10: COASTERS, ROLLER SKATES, SKATEBOARDS, AND SIMILAR DEVICES RESTRICTED:
It shall be unlawful for any person upon roller skates, rollerblades, in-line
skates, skateboards, or riding any coaster, toy vehicle or similar device to go
upon any roadway except while crossing a street on a crosswalk; and when
crossing, such person shall be granted all the rights and shall be subject to
all of the duties applicable to pedestrians. This Section shall not apply upon
any street while set aside as a play street. (1980 Code § 10.3.5; amd. 1999
Code; Ord. 2025-650, 1-23-2025)
6-3-11: CLINGING TO VEHICLES:
It shall be unlawful for any person riding upon a bicycle, coaster, roller
skates, rollerblades, in-line skates, skateboards, sled, or toy vehicle to
attach the same or himself to any vehicle upon a roadway. (1980 Code § 10.8.5;
amd. 1999 Code; Ord. 2025-650, 1-23-2025)
6-3-12: BACKING OUT OF DRIVEWAY:
It shall be unlawful for any driver of any vehicle to back such vehicle out of
any alley, public garage, or on any street, or across any sidewalk or street
intersection without first sounding the horn or other device to give warning to
others of his intent in coming onto the public street. (1980 Code § 10.8.6)
6-3-13: AUTO EXHAUST AND NOISE:
Every driver or operator of any motor-propelled vehicle upon the streets of the
City shall not permit the motor to emit any undue amount of smoke, or product
of combustion from the exhaust pipe, or make any undue noise by operating the
horn or sound contrivance attached to said vehicle. (1980 Code § 10.8.7)
6-3-14: VEHICLE WEIGHT RESTRICTION:
When signs are erected by authority of the City Council giving notice thereof,
it shall be unlawful for any person to operate any vehicle with a gross weight
in excess of the amounts specified. (1980 Code § 10.15.1)
6-3-15: CERTAIN VEHICLES RESTRICTED ON CERTAIN STREETS:
   A.   Designation By Police Chief: The Chief of Police is hereby authorized
to determine and designate those heavily traveled streets upon which shall be
prohibited the use of the roadway by motor-driven cycles, bicycles, horse-drawn
vehicles or other nonmotorized traffic, and shall erect appropriate signs
giving notice thereof.
   B.   Obey Signs: When signs are so erected giving notice thereof, it shall
be unlawful for any person to disobey the restrictions stated on such signs.
(1980 Code § 10.15.2)
6-3-16: SCHOOL BUSES, PASSING:
   A.   Duty To Stop: The driver of any vehicle upon a street or highway within
the City, upon meeting or overtaking, from either direction, any school bus
which has stopped on a public street or road of the City, or adjacent to a
public street or road of the City, for the purpose of receiving or discharging
school children, shall stop the vehicle immediately before passing the school
bus, and shall remain stopped when the stop signal arm is extended or yellow
warning lights are flashing. When the stop arm is not extended or yellow lights
are not flashing, the motorist may, after first stopping, proceed at a speed
not exceeding ten (10) miles per hour, and with due caution for the safety of
such children. (1980 Code § 10.21.1)
   B.   Penalty: Any person violating the provisions of this Section shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (1980 Code § 10.21.2; amd. 1999 Code)
6-3-17: PUBLIC CONVEYANCES:
   A.   Boarding Or Alighting From Vehicles: It shall be unlawful for any
person to board or alight from any vehicle while such vehicle is in motion.
(1980 Code § 10.9.1)
   B.   Unlawful Riding: It shall be unlawful for any person to ride any
vehicle upon any portion thereof not designated or intended for the use of
passengers. This provision shall not apply to an employee engaged in the
necessary discharge of a duty or to persons riding within truck bodies in space
intended for merchandise. (1980 Code § 10.9.2)
   C.   Railroad Train Blocking Street 1 : It shall be unlawful for the
direction officer or the operator of any railroad train to direct the operation
of or to operate the same in such manner as to prevent the use of any street
for purposes of travel for a period of time longer than ten (10) minutes;
except, that this provision shall not apply to trains or cars in motion other
than those engaged in switching.
   D.   Vehicle Blocking Intersection Or Crosswalk: It shall be unlawful for
any vehicle to stop within an intersection of a crosswalk for the purpose of
receiving or discharging passengers. (1980 Code § 10.9.3)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  7-4-2 of this code.
6-3-18: ENGINE COMPRESSION BRAKES:
   A.   Engine Compression Brakes Prohibited: No person shall, while operating
a motor vehicle within the city, apply or otherwise use "jake brakes", engine
compression brakes, or any similar braking system which emits a clearly audible
noise when measured at a distance of fifty feet (50') directly from the source.
"Engine compression brakes" are defined as a braking system which uses
compressed air from a motor vehicle's engine to slow the vehicle.
   B.   Penalty: Any person who violates this section shall be guilty of an
infraction as defined in Idaho Code section 18-113, as amended from time to
time. (Ord. 534, 8-19-2008; amd. Ord. 2025-650, 1-23-2025)
CHAPTER 4
PARKING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-4-1: Application Of Chapter
6-4-2: Parking Signs Required
6-4-3: Parallel And Angle Parking
6-4-4: Lights On Parked Vehicles
6-4-5: Obstructing Traffic
6-4-6: All-Night Parking
6-4-7: Permit For Loading Or Unloading At Angle To Curb
6-4-8: Truck Parking Restricted
6-4-9: Parking For Certain Purposes Prohibited
6-4-10: Illegal Parking Or Driving On City-Owned Property
6-4-11: Places Where Standing Or Parking Restricted Or Prohibited
6-4-12: Curb Loading Zones
6-4-13: Public Carrier Stops And Stands
6-4-14: Buses And Bus Stands
6-4-15: Snow Removal; Parking Restrictions
6-4-16: Removal Of Improperly Parked Vehicles
6-4-17: Regulations Not Exclusive
6-4-18: Parking Violation Fees
6-4-19: Oversized Vehicles; Parking Restricted
6-4-1: APPLICATION OF CHAPTER:
The provisions of this chapter prohibiting the standing or parking of a vehicle
shall apply at all times or at those times herein specified or as indicated on
official signs, except when it is necessary to stop a vehicle to avoid conflict
with other traffic or in compliance with the direction of a police officer or
official traffic-control device. (1980 Code § 10.14.1)
6-4-2: PARKING SIGNS REQUIRED:
Whenever any parking time limit is imposed or parking is prohibited on
designated streets, it shall be the duty of the chief of police to erect
appropriate signs giving notice thereof and such regulations shall not be
effective unless said signs are erected and in place at the time of any alleged
offense. (1980 Code § 10.14.3)
6-4-3: PARALLEL AND ANGLE PARKING:
It shall be unlawful for any person to stand or park a vehicle in a roadway
other than parallel with the edge of the roadway headed in the direction of
lawful traffic movement and with the curbside wheels of the vehicle within
eighteen inches (18") of the curb or edge of the roadway, except where parking
is permitted at an angle of forty five degrees (45°) to the curb as designated
by painting markers upon spaces reserved for such parking. (1980 Code §
10.11.1)
6-4-4: LIGHTS ON PARKED VEHICLES:
   A.   Within Business Or Residence Districts: Whenever a vehicle is lawfully
parked at nighttime upon any street within a business or residence district, no
lights need be displayed upon such parked vehicle.
   B.   Headlights To Be Dimmed: Any lighted headlamps upon a parked vehicle
shall be depressed or dimmed. (1980 Code § 10.11.3; amd. 1999 Code)
6-4-5: OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC:
It shall be unlawful for any person to park any vehicle upon a street, other
than an alley, in such a manner or under such conditions as to leave available
less than ten feet (10') of the width of the roadway for free movement of
vehicular traffic. (1980 Code § 10.12.1)
6-4-6: ALL-NIGHT PARKING:
It shall be unlawful for any person to park a vehicle within the business
district for a period of time longer than thirty (30) minutes between the hours
of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and five o'clock (5:00) A.M. of any day, except
physicians on emergency calls, where signs are properly posted prohibiting all-
night parking. (1980 Code § 10.12.3)
6-4-7: PERMIT FOR LOADING OR UNLOADING AT ANGLE TO CURB:
   A.   Issuance Of Special Permit For Backing To Curb: The Chief of Police is
authorized to issue special permits for the backing of a vehicle to the curb
for the purpose of loading or unloading merchandise or materials subject to the
terms and conditions of such permit. Such permits may be issued either to the
owner or lessee of real property or to the owner of the vehicle.
   B.   Compliance With Terms Of Permit: It shall be unlawful for any permittee
or other person to violate any of the special terms or conditions of any such
permit. (1980 Code § 10.11.2)
6-4-8: TRUCK PARKING RESTRICTED:
Parking of trucks upon public streets within the City is prohibited.
   A.   Truck Defined: For the purposes of this Section, a "truck" is defined
as a tractor-truck and/or trailer designed for ten (10) or more wheels,
regardless of the number of wheels installed and shall include trailers
regardless of whether attached or detached from the tractor-truck and/or
trailer.
   B.   Streets Excepted From Prohibition: Unless otherwise posted, and unless
loading or unloading, it shall be unlawful for any person to park a truck and/
or truck trailer upon any street within the City except on Farnsworth Way and
South State Street from Short Street to the south City limits.
   C.   Transporting Flammable Or Toxic Materials: All vehicles transporting or
capable of transporting flammable or toxic materials shall not be parked within
the City unless unloading or loading said material.
   D.   Street Construction; Parking Permit Issuance: Permits may be issued by
the Chief of Police for the parking of trucks or truck trailers that are
involved with construction upon City streets or adjacent property for a limited
time. (1980 Code § 10.12.4)
   E.   Buses, School Buses, Other Transportation Vehicles: Buses are
prohibited from parking on City streets unless loading or unloading passengers.
The term buses includes school buses and other commercial transportation of
passengers. (1999 Code)
   F.   Notice Of Violation: It shall be the duty of each police officer
observing the violation of this Section to leave at or upon any truck or truck
trailer parked in violation of the provisions hereof a notice that the vehicle
has been parked in violation of the provisions of this Section. The notice
shall bear the date and the hour of leaving the same at or upon said vehicle,
and the notice shall instruct the owner and/or operator of such vehicle to
report to the Police Department in regard to such violation. (1980 Code §
10.12.4)
   G.   Penalty: Any person who shall violate any provision of this Section
shall be guilty of an infraction and be subject to a penalty as outlined in
section
1-4-1 of this code. (1980 Code § 10.12.4; amd. 1999 Code; Ord. 2020-609, 4-2-
2020; Ord. 2025-650, 1-23-2025)
6-4-9: PARKING FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to park a vehicle upon any roadway for the
principal purposes of:
   A.   Displaying such vehicle for sale.
   B.   Washing, greasing or repairing such vehicle, except repairs
necessitated by an emergency. (1980 Code § 10.12.5; amd. Ord. 2020-609, 4-2-
2020)
6-4-10: ILLEGAL PARKING OR DRIVING ON CITY-OWNED PROPERTY:
   A.   Vehicle Defined: A "motor vehicle" shall be defined as every vehicle by
which any person or property may be transported which is self-propelled whether
functioning or not and every vehicle which is propelled by electric power,
except vehicles moved solely by human power and motorized wheelchairs.
   B.   Vehicles And Animals Prohibited; Exception:
      1.   It shall be a violation of this Section for any person to park or
drive a vehicle upon or over any City property not expressly marked as allowing
parking or driving of motor vehicles. All streets, alleys, or roads are
excepted from this Section. This includes, but is not limited to, the driving
or parking of motor vehicles or riding of hoofed animals, or staking thereof,
upon grass or graveled areas owned by the City.
      2.   Maintenance vehicles, vehicles owned by the City, and emergency
vehicles shall be exempt from the provisions of this Section.
   C.   Designation Of Parking Areas:
      1.   Placement Of Signs: Parking areas may be indicated by the placement
of signs indicating parking areas, or by markings placed upon the ground. It
shall not be necessary that the signing comply with all rules and regulations
set forth by the Idaho Transportation Department.
      2.   Handicapped Parking: By this Section, the City is hereby empowered
by resolution to designate upon City property areas allowing handicapped
parking only. It shall be a violation of this Section to park in a handicapped
zone a vehicle not bearing the handicapped license plates or tags issued by the
Idaho Transportation Department as prescribed by Idaho Code section 49-410.
However, said handicapped parking zone shall comply with the signing
requirement of Idaho Code section 49-213. (Ord. 419, 2-4-1992)
   D.   Penalty: Any person violating any of the provisions of this Section
shall be guilty of an infraction and be subject to a fifty dollar ($50.00) fine
for the first offense, one hundred dollars ($100.00) for the second offense,
and one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) for the third and any additional
offenses.
   E.   Vehicle Impoundment: The Police Department is hereby empowered to
impound all vehicles found illegally parked upon City property, and shall be
towed and impounded at the owner's expense. (Ord. 419, 2-4-1992; amd. 1999
Code; Ord. 2020-609, 4-2-2020)
6-4-11: PLACES WHERE STANDING OR PARKING RESTRICTED OR PROHIBITED:
   A.   Alleys: It shall be unlawful for any person to park a vehicle within an
alley in such a manner or under such conditions as to leave available less than
ten feet (10') of the width of the roadway for the free movement of vehicular
traffic, and it shall be unlawful for a person to stop, stand or park a vehicle
within an alley in such a position as to block the driveway entrance to any
abutting property.
   B.   Adjacent To Schools:
      1.   The Chief of Police is hereby authorized to erect signs indicating
no parking upon either or both sides of any street adjacent to any school
property when such parking would, in his opinion, interfere with traffic or
create a hazardous situation.
      2.   When official signs are erected indicating no parking upon either
side of a street adjacent to any school property as authorized herein, it shall
be unlawful for any person to park a vehicle in any such designated place.
   C.   Narrow Streets:
      1.   The Chief of Police is hereby authorized to erect signs indicating
no parking upon any street when the width of the roadway does not exceed twenty
feet (20') or upon one side of a street as indicated by such signs when the
width of the roadway does not exceed thirty feet (30').
      2.   When official signs prohibiting parking are erected upon narrow
streets as authorized herein, it shall be unlawful for any person to park a
vehicle upon any such street in violation of any such signs.
   D.   One-Way Streets:
      1.   The Chief of Police is authorized to erect signs upon the left-hand
side of any one-way street to prohibit the standing or parking of vehicles and
when such signs are in place, it shall be unlawful for any person to stand or
park a vehicle upon such left-hand side of the street.
      2.   In the event a highway includes two (2) or more separate roadways
and traffic is restricted to one direction upon any such roadway, it shall be
unlawful for any person to stand or park a vehicle upon the left-hand side of
such one-way roadway unless signs are erected to permit such standing or
parking. The Chief of Police is authorized to determine when standing or
parking may be permitted upon the left-hand side of any such one-way roadway
and to erect signs giving notice thereof.
   E.   Hazardous Or Congested Places:
      1.   The Chief of Police is hereby authorized to determine and designate
by proper signs, places in which the stopping, standing or parking of vehicles
would create an especially hazardous condition or would cause unusual delay in
traffic.
      2.   When official signs are erected at hazardous or congested places as
authorized herein, it shall be unlawful for any person to stop, stand, or park
a vehicle in any such designated place.
   F.   Recreational Vehicles, Boats, and Service Vehicles or Trailers: It
shall be unlawful for any person to leave a recreational vehicle, boat, or
service vehicle (or service trailer) parked continuously on any city street for
more than forty-eight (48) hours. (1980 Code §§ 10.12.2, 10.12.6 - 10.12.10;
amd. Ord. 2020-609, 4-2-2020; Ord. 2024-641 5-2-2024)
6-4-12: CURB LOADING ZONES:
   A.   Designation: The Chief of Police is hereby authorized to determine the
location of passenger and freight curb loading zones and shall place and
maintain appropriate signs indicating the same and stating the hours during
which the provisions of this Section are applicable. (1980 Code § 10.13.1)
   B.   Special Request; Permit: The Chief of Police shall not hereafter
designate or sign any curb loading zone upon special request for any person
unless such person makes application for a permit for such zone and for two (2)
signs to indicate the ends of each such zone. Said permit fee shall be as set
and designated by the City Council. (1980 Code § 10.13.2)
   C.   Standing In Loading Zones:
      1.   Passengers: It shall be unlawful for any person to stop, stand or
park a vehicle for any purpose or period of time other than for the expeditious
loading or unloading of passengers in any place marked as a passenger curb
loading zone during the hours when the regulations applicable to such curb
loading zone are effective, and then only for a period not to exceed three (3)
minutes. (1980 Code § 10.13.3)
      2.   Freight: It shall be unlawful for any person to stop, stand, or park
a vehicle for any purpose or length of time other than for the expeditious
unloading and delivery or pickup and loading of materials in any place marked
as a freight curb loading zone during hours when the provisions applicable to
such zones are in effect. In no case shall the stop for loading or unloading of
materials exceed thirty (30) minutes. (1980 Code § 10.13.4; amd. Ord. 2020-609,
4-2-2020)
6-4-13: PUBLIC CARRIER STOPS AND STANDS:
The Chief of Police is hereby authorized and required to establish bus stops,
bus stands, taxicab stands and stands for other passenger common-carrier motor
vehicles on such public streets in such places and in such manner as he shall
determine to be of the greatest benefit and convenience to the public and every
such bus stop, bus stand, taxicab or other stands shall be designated by
appropriate signs. (1980 Code § 10.13.5; amd. Ord. 2020-609, 4-2-2020)
6-4-14: BUSES AND BUS STANDS:
   A.   Stopping, Standing And Parking Restrictions:
      1.   The operator of a bus shall not stand or park such vehicle upon any
street at any place other than at a bus stand so designated.
      2.   The operator of a bus shall not stop such vehicle upon any street at
any place for the purpose of loading or unloading passengers or their baggage
other than at a bus stop, bus stand or passenger loading zone so designated
except in case of an emergency.
      3.   The operator of a bus shall enter a bus stop, bus stand or passenger
loading zone on a public street in such a manner that the bus, when stopped to
load or unload passengers or baggage, shall be in a position with the right
front wheel of such vehicle not farther than eighteen inches (18") from the
curb and the bus approximately parallel to the curb so as not to impede unduly
the movement of other vehicular traffic. (1980 Code § 10.13.6)
   B.   Restricted Use Of Bus Stands: It shall be unlawful for any person to
stop, stand, or park a vehicle other than a temporary stop therein for the
purpose of, and while actually engaged in, loading or unloading passengers when
such stopping does not interfere with any bus. (1980 Code § 10.13.7; amd. Ord.
2020-609, 4-2-2020)
6-4-15: SNOW REMOVAL; PARKING RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this Section is as follows:
      1.   To render the removal of snow and ice from the public streets safe,
more economical and less time consuming;
      2.   Avoid collisions of snow removal equipment with motor vehicles and
reduce the possibility of accidents involving pedestrians;
      3.   Provide for more efficient and economical utilization of snow
removal equipment. (1980 Code § 10.23.1)
   B.   Definitions: The following terms shall have the meanings specified:
   COMMERCIALLY ZONED AREAS: The area within the City of Rigby, Idaho zoned as
commercial.
   MOTOR VEHICLE: Every self-propelled vehicle in, upon or by which any person
or property is or may be transported or drawn upon a public street or highway,
excepting vehicles or devices used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
   MOTORCYCLE: A motor vehicle having a seat or saddle for the use of the rider
and designed to travel on not more than three (3) wheels in contact with the
ground.
   RESIDENTIAL STREET: Any street within the City of Rigby not included in the
"downtown area" defined in this subsection.
   TRAILER: Every vehicle with or without motive power designed for carrying
persons or property and for being drawn by a motor vehicle.
   VEHICLE: Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway, excepting devices used exclusively upon
stationary rails or tracks. (1980 Code § 10.23.2)
   C.   Parking Restricted During Certain Times: No person shall stop, stand or
park a motor vehicle, motorcycle or trailer on the streets of the City during
the following times:
      1.   Commercially Zoned Area: During the period commencing November 1 to
and including March 15 of the next succeeding year on any street within the
downtown area during the hours between two o’clock (2:00) A.M. and seven
o’clock (7:00) A.M.
      2.   Residential Streets: During the period commencing November 1 to and
including March 15 of the next succeeding year on any street within the
residential area during the hours between two o’clock (2:00) A.M. and twelve
o’clock (12:00) P.M. (1980 Code § 10.23.3)
   D.   More Restrictive Provisions Apply: In the event any other ordinance,
statute or law provides for parking restrictions which are more restrictive
than those set forth herein, then such other parking restrictions shall be
controlling and may be enforced in accordance with the terms hereof or in
accordance with the terms of such other ordinance, statute or regulation. (1980
Code § 10.23.4)
   E.   Removal Of Vehicles:
      1.   Towing Away Without Notice To Owner: Any motor vehicle, motorcycle
or trailer found parked upon any public street at any time or place contrary to
the terms of this Section may be removed at any time at the direction of a duly
authorized police officer of the City, and may be towed to any public or
private impound lot, without notice to the owner or the public lot operator
thereof. (1980 Code § 10.23.5)
      2.   Owner Responsible For Towing And Impound Costs: The owner or
operator of such towed vehicle shall be responsible for all impound and towing
charges of the private towing company. In the event the vehicle is towed at
city expense, the owner or operator thereof shall pay all towing expense paid
or incurred by the city. (1980 Code § 10.23.5; amd. 1999 Code)
   F.   Private Snow Removal: It shall be unlawful for any person to remove, or
cause to be removed, snow from private property onto public streets, in such a
manner as to cause any obstruction or hazard, or to cause the city to remove
the snow from the public street. (1980 Code § 10.23.6)
   G.   Penalty: Any person who violates this section shall be deemed guilty of
an infraction and shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1  of this code. (1980 Code § 10.23.7; amd. 1999 Code; Ord. 2020-609, 4-2-
2020)
6-4-16: REMOVAL OF IMPROPERLY PARKED VEHICLES:
   A.   Removal By Police; Owner Responsible For Costs: Any vehicle parked in
violation of traffic regulations or any vehicle parked so as to obstruct the
free movement of traffic or causing a traffic hazard may be removed upon order
of the police department. Any such vehicle removed by the police department
shall be kept under the control of the police department until the owner or
authorized agent pays a reasonable cost for removal and storage, in addition to
the penalty provided for such improper parking.
   B.   Time Limit; Improperly Parked Vehicle: Any such vehicle shall be deemed
to be improperly parked after a period of ten (10) minutes unless said vehicle
is parked in a regular marked parking meter area and in violation of traffic
regulations, when it shall be deemed to be improperly parked after a period of
one hour. (1980 Code § 10.16)
   C.   Redemption Of Vehicle; Payment Of Costs: When said vehicle is redeemed,
the owner or authorized agent shall pay the actual costs of the removal of said
vehicle, together with a storage charge. (1980 Code § 10.16; amd. 1999 Code;
Ord. 2020-609, 4-2-2020)
6-4-17: REGULATIONS NOT EXCLUSIVE:
The provisions of this chapter imposing a time limit on parking shall not
relieve any person from the duty to observe other and more restrictive
provisions prohibiting or limiting the stopping, standing, or parking of
vehicles in specified places or at specified times. (1980 Code § 10.14.2; amd.
Ord. 2020-609, 4-2-2020)
6-4-18: PARKING VIOLATION FEES:
The fees for parking violations shall be set by city resolution. (Ord. 2015-
583, 9-17-2015; amd. Ord. 2020-609, 4-2-2020)
6-4-19: OVERSIZED VEHICLES; PARKING RESTRICTED:
Vehicles in excess of six feet (6') in width, such as buses, tractors,
trailers, trucks, camp trailers and motor homes shall be allowed to park on
city streets having a width of less than thirty five feet (35') as measured
from curb to curb, for a period of time not to exceed one hour for loading or
unloading purposes. Those requesting extended time may make application to the
Chief of Police. Streets included in this parking restriction (but not limited
to) area as follows:
   Annis Highway
   Bennett Street
   Bonham
   Claremore
   Tall
All violations of this section shall be punishable as an infraction by a fine
set by city resolution, or may be towed at police officer discretion.
Additional streets may be subject to this provision of this section by
resolution of the city council. (Ord. 2015-583, 9-17-2015; amd. Ord. 2020-609,
4-2-2020; Ord. 2025-650, 1-23-2025)
CHAPTER 5
ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS; STOP STREETS
SECTION:
6-5-1: One-Way Streets And Alleys
6-5-2: Special Stops Required
6-5-1: ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS:
   A.   Authority To Erect Signs: Whenever any regulations of the City
designate any one-way street or alley, the Chief of Police shall place and
maintain signs giving notice thereof, and no such regulation shall be effective
unless such signs are in place. Signs indicating the direction of lawful
traffic movement shall be placed at every intersection where movement of
traffic in the opposite direction is prohibited. (1980 Code § 10.6.1)
   B.   Restrict Direction Of Movement During Certain Periods:
      1.   Authority Of Police Chief: The Chief of Police is hereby authorized
to determine and designate streets, parts of streets or specific lanes thereon
upon which vehicular traffic shall proceed in one direction during one period
and the opposite direction during another period in the day and shall place and
maintain appropriate markings, signs, barriers or other devices to give notice
thereof.
      2.   Temporary One-Way Designations: The Chief of Police may erect signs
temporarily designating lanes to be used by traffic moving in a particular
direction, regardless of the center line of the roadway.
      3.   Violation Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to operate
any vehicle violating such markers, signs, barriers, or other devices so
placed. (1980 Code § 10.6.2)
6-5-2: SPECIAL STOPS REQUIRED:
   A.   Authority To Erect Stop Signs: Whenever any of the laws of the City
designate and describe a through street, it shall be the duty of the Chief of
Police to place and maintain a stop sign on each and every street intersecting
such through street or intersecting that portion thereof described and
designated as such, unless traffic at any such intersection is controlled at
all times by traffic-control signals; provided however, that at the
intersection of two (2) through streets or at the intersection of a through
street and a heavy traffic street not so designated, stop signs shall be
erected at the approaches of either of said streets as may be determined by the
Chief of Police upon the basis of an engineering and traffic study. (1980 Code
§ 10.7.1)
   B.   Intersections Where Stop Required: The Chief of Police is hereby
authorized to determine and designate intersections where particular hazards
exist upon other than through streets and to determine whether vehicles shall
stop at every such place where a stop is required; provided, that said Chief of
Police may, at his discretion, establish "yield right-of-way" signs at such
intersections as it is deemed advisable. Such signs shall indicate that an
intersection may be entered without stopping if no vehicles are approaching
along the street whereon the yield right-of-way signs control entering traffic.
(1980 Code § 10.7.2)
   C.   Emerging From Alley, Driveway Or Building: The driver of a vehicle
within a business or residence district emerging from an alley, driveway or
building shall stop such vehicle immediately prior to driving onto a sidewalk
or onto the sidewalk area extending across any alleyway or driveway, yielding
the right of way to any pedestrian as may be necessary to avoid collision and,
upon entering the roadway, shall yield the right of way to all vehicles
approaching on said roadway. (1980 Code § 10.7.3)
   D.   Stop When Traffic Obstructed: It shall be unlawful for any driver to
enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk unless there is sufficient space on
the other side of the intersection or crosswalk to accommodate the vehicle he
is operating without obstructing the passage of other vehicles or pedestrians,
notwithstanding any traffic-control signal indication to proceed. (1980 Code §
10.7.4)
CHAPTER 6
ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLES
SECTION:
6-6-1: Removal From Highway Or Public Property
6-6-2: Removal From Private Property
6-6-3: Impounded Properties; Sale
6-6-4: Proof Of Ownership; Appeal; Redemption After Sale
6-6-1: REMOVAL FROM HIGHWAY OR PUBLIC PROPERTY:
   A.   Police Department Authority To Remove: The Police Department is hereby
authorized, in addition to any penalty that may be provided therefore, to
remove an unidentified, stolen, wrecked, or abandoned motor vehicle, or other
personal property as herein defined, found upon any public thoroughfare or
other property of the City. Such removal is contracted with certain towing
companies and all property will be kept at said towing companies.
   B.   Towing And Storage Charges: All such unidentified, stolen, wrecked or
abandoned motor vehicles or other personal property which now is in possession
of any contracted towing company, shall be subject to the actual cost of
removal, tow-in, and storage as charged by the towing company.
   C.   Unlawful To Abandon: It shall be unlawful for any owner or any person
in charge of a motor vehicle or other personal property to leave or abandon the
same upon the streets or public places. (1980 Code § 10.17; amd. Ord. 2025-650,
1-23-2025)
6-6-2: REMOVAL FROM PRIVATE PROPERTY:
   A.   Posted Property: It shall be unlawful for any person to park or leave
unattended, any motor vehicle upon any private lot or parcel of land within the
City without the consent of the owner or the person in charge thereof, when
such lot or parcel of land is posted. For the purposes of this Chapter, a lot
or parcel of land shall be "posted" when one or more signs legibly printed in
the English language are placed thereon giving notice that the premises are for
private use only; provided however, no lot or parcel of land shall be deemed
"posted" unless the wording of one or more such signs is plainly visible from
each entrance to the premises. (1980 Code § 10.18.1)
   B.   Blocking Entrances Or Exits: It shall also be unlawful for any person
to park or leave unattended a motor vehicle in such position as to block any
entrance or exit from any private lot or parcel of land so posted in the City.
(1980 Code § 10.18.2)
   C.   Notice Of Violation: It shall be the duty of each police officer
observing the violation of this Section, when requested to do so by the owner
or person in charge of such lot or parcel of land, to leave at or upon any
motor vehicle parked in violation of the provisions hereof a notice that the
vehicle had been parked in violation of the provisions of this Section. The
notice shall bear the date and the hour of leaving of the same at or upon such
vehicle, and the notice shall instruct the owner or operator of such vehicle to
report to the Police Department in regard to such violation. (1980 Code §
10.18.3)
   D.   Penalty: Any person who shall violate any provision of this Section
shall be guilty of an infraction and, shall be subject to penalty as provided
in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (1980 Code § 10.18.4)
   E.   Removal Of Vehicle; Fees:
      1.   Signed Complaint Required: If, at any time, a vehicle is parked upon
private property without the consent of the owner of such property, the Police
Department is hereby authorized to remove said vehicle therefrom and to cause
the same to be stored, provided the owner of such private property has first
signed a complaint against the owner or operator of said vehicle.
      2.   Costs Of Towing And Storage: The contracted towing company shall
charge a fee for all necessary costs of removing and storing such vehicle and
said vehicle may be held by the contracted towing company until such fees are
paid. (1980 Code § 10.18.5; amd. 1999 Code; Ord. 2025-650, 1-23-2025)
6-6-3: IMPOUNDED PROPERTIES; SALE:
All motor vehicles and other personal property impounded or heretofore
impounded by the Police Department and contracted towing companies and
unredeemed by the owner thereof for a period of sixty (60) days shall
thereafter be subject to sale by the Chief of Police to the highest bidder for
cash as hereinafter provided, and the proceeds of said sale shall be applied to
the removal and storage charges accumulated against each article, which shall
be deposited with the City Treasurer and credited with him and shall be kept in
a separate fund for a period of one year from the date of receipt, and if at
the end of said year the former owner of said property has not made
satisfactory proof of claim, then the balance of said proceeds of sale shall be
credited to the General Fund of the City. (1980 Code § 10.19; amd. Ord. 2025-
650, 1-23-2025)
6-6-4: PROOF OF OWNERSHIP; APPEAL; REDEMPTION AFTER SALE:
Any person claiming to be the owner of any impounded property shall make
written application therefor to the Police Department and shall furnish such
additional proof as may be required to establish said ownership. If he shall
present to said Department the proof of his ownership of said impounded
property prior to the date of actual sale thereof, then the property itself
shall be delivered to said owner under these conditions; but if said property
has been sold, then said Department shall endorse its findings of ownership
with a copy of the written application, which application and findings shall be
addressed to the City Clerk; and if presented within one year after said sale,
then such balance of the proceeds of the sale, after deductions, shall be paid
to the said owner. (1980 Code § 10.20)
TITLE 7
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
STREET IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
7-1-1: Supervision Over Improvements
7-1-1: SUPERVISION OVER IMPROVEMENTS:
In all cases where the City shall contract for the installation, construction
or laying of any cement, concrete or pavement, or any improvements to the
streets, alleys, and sidewalks or curbs within the corporate limits of the
City, or any improvements wherein solids are necessary for endurance, shall be
under the immediate supervision of the City Public Works Director, who shall
receive his instructions from the Mayor and City Council. It shall further be a
part of this Chapter that in all improvements, works, and buildings, as
aforesaid, only standard material and approved methods shall be used in their
construction, and none other may be used or allowed. (1980 Code § 9.1.1; amd.
1999 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SIDEWALK AND CURB CONSTRUCTION
SECTION:
7-2-1: Council Authority To Order Construction
7-2-2: Duty Of Public Works Director
7-2-3: Responsibility Of Property Owners
7-2-4: Construction Materials And Specifications
7-2-5: Notice To Property Owner
7-2-6: Failure To Repair Or Construct; Bidding Procedure
7-2-7: Delinquency Of Property Owner
7-2-8: Extension Of Time For Construction Or Repair
7-2-9: Application For Construction
7-2-10: Conformity Of Established Lines And Grades
7-2-11: Demolition Permit
7-2-12: Open Stairways
7-2-13: Excavations Under Sidewalks
7-2-14: Prevent Entrance Of Floodwater
7-2-15: Sidewalk Doors And Coverings; Construction Specifications
7-2-16: Penalty
7-2-1: COUNCIL AUTHORITY TO ORDER CONSTRUCTION:
The City Council may, whenever it is deemed necessary or convenient by an order
duly made and entered in its minutes, order the construction of sidewalks,
curbs, gutters and/or curbs and the parking on any streets of the City, and it
may in like manner order the alteration or repair of such. (1980 Code § 9.3.2)
7-2-2: DUTY OF PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR:
All sidewalks, curbs, gutters and/or curbs and parking constructed within the
corporate limits of the City shall be constructed under the supervision of and
subject to the inspection of the Public Works Director and in conformity with
the lines and grades laid out on the ground by said Director. Stakes set by
said Director shall be preserved by the owner and the contractor doing the
work. (1980 Code § 9.3.9; amd. 1999 Code)
7-2-3: RESPONSIBILITY OF PROPERTY OWNERS:
   A.   Responsibility For Construction And Repair: Property owners within the
City shall be responsible for the construction and repair of all sidewalks,
curbs, gutters, driveway approaches and/or curbs and the parking between curbs
abutting upon their respective properties; and on corner lots such
responsibility shall include the sidewalks, curbs, gutters, driveway approaches
and/or curbs and the parking to the intersection of the curb lines extended.
   B.   Assistance Programs: Notwithstanding the above, the City has authorized
implementation of various assistance programs for the benefit of the property
owner. The breadth, percentage, items, period of time, and any and all other
facets of such program shall be in the sole discretion of the City Council, as
set forth by resolution. The above program shall not impact local improvement
districts (LIDs) in any way, as such are established pursuant to Idaho Code.
(Ord. 463, 2-18-1997)
7-2-4: CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS AND SPECIFICATIONS:
Whenever the construction or repair of sidewalks, curbs, gutters and/or curbs
and the parking is ordered, the order therefor shall state the material of
which the same shall be completed, and in case of new sidewalks, curbs, gutters
and/or curbs and the parking, to be constructed, the order shall contain
complete specifications thereof. (1980 Code § 9.3.3)
7-2-5: NOTICE TO PROPERTY OWNER:
   A.   Notice To Construct Or Repair; Time Limit: Whenever sidewalks, curbs,
gutters and/or curbs and the parking are ordered constructed or repaired, the
City Clerk shall prepare a notice to be served upon the owner of the property
abutting upon the sidewalk to be constructed or repaired, directing such owner
to construct or repair such sidewalk within thirty (30) days from the date of
the notice and report the completion to the Public Works Director.
   B.   Service Or Publication Of Notice:
      1.   Such notice shall be served by the Chief of Police or any other
police officer of the City by delivering a written copy thereof to the owner of
the abutting property or his agent if such owner or agent can be found within
the City; but if not found within the City, then if his place of residence be
known, by mailing a copy of the notice to such owner at his place of residence.
      2.   If such owner or agent cannot be found within the City and his place
of residence is not known, such notice shall be served by the publication of a
copy thereof for two (2) successive weeks in the Jefferson Star, the official
newspaper of the City, the last publication of which must be at least twenty
(20) days before the expiration of the time mentioned in the notice for the
completion of said work. (1980 Code § 9.3.4; amd. 1999 Code)
7-2-6: FAILURE TO REPAIR OR CONSTRUCT; BIDDING PROCEDURE:
   A.   Failure To Act; Advertise For Sealed Bids: If, after the expiration of
sidewalks, curbs, gutters and/or curbs and parking ordered to be constructed or
repaired are not completed according to the order therefor, the City Council
shall proceed to advertise for sealed bids for the construction or repair
thereof by publication in one issue of the Jefferson Star, the official
newspaper of the City.
   B.   Contents Of Notice: It shall be stated in such notice the particular
piece or pieces of sidewalks, curbs, gutters and/or curbs and the parking to be
constructed or repaired, and shall refer to the original order for such
construction or repair and the specifications thereof.
   C.   Letting To Lowest Bidder: The City Council shall proceed to let the
contract for such construction or repair to the lowest bidder unless, in the
judgment of the City Council, such bids are too high; provided, however, that
if in the judgment of the City Council all bids received are unsatisfactory,
the City Council may proceed with such construction or repair under the
direction of the Public Works Director. (1980 Code § 9.3.5; amd. 1999 Code)
7-2-7: DELINQUENCY OF PROPERTY OWNER:
   A.   Delinquency Notice; Penalty: After any sidewalk or portion thereof or
curbs, gutters and/or curbs and parking has been constructed or repaired, as
provided herein, the City Council shall declare the owner of the abutting
property delinquent and the City Clerk shall at once give such delinquent owner
notice in the manner provided for the service of notice for construction or
repair, that he is delinquent, stating the amounts, and that unless the same is
paid, together with the cost of service, if served by publication, within
thirty (30) days from the date of the service, that twenty five percent (25%)
will be added to the amount of delinquency as a penalty.
   B.   Assessment On Tax Roll:
      1.   Determination Of Total Charges: At the expiration of thirty (30)
days from the date of the notice served, provided the same has been served,
mailed or published at least twenty (20) days previously, the City Council
shall proceed to add twenty five percent (25%) of the amount of such
delinquency as a penalty, and assess the actual cost of sidewalk, curb, gutter
and/or curb and the parking constructed or repaired, together with the charges
for publication against the property abutting thereon.
      2.   Placement On Tax Roll: The City Clerk shall forthwith certify the
action of the City Council, together with a description of the property with
the assessment and the amount thereof, to the County Auditor, who shall place
the amount of such delinquency, together with the penalty and costs of
publication on the current tax roll.
      3.   Individual Item On Tax Roll: If such property is not liable for
other taxes on such roll, he shall enter the name of the delinquent owner for
the amount of such delinquent sidewalk tax, together with the penalty and costs
of publication on the tax roll as an individual item.
      4.   Collection: The same shall be collected at the time and in the
manner provided by law for the collection of other real estate taxes and the
amount so collected turned over to the City Treasurer the same as other
Municipal taxes. (1980 Code § 9.3.6)
7-2-8: EXTENSION OF TIME FOR CONSTRUCTION OR REPAIR:
The City Council may, for good cause shown, extend the time within which any
sidewalk, curb, gutter and/or curb and parking may be constructed or repaired,
but no such extension of time shall exceed thirty (30) days. (1980 Code §
9.3.7)
7-2-9: APPLICATION FOR CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   Application Required: Persons desiring to construct sidewalks, curbs,
gutters and/or curbs and parking shall make written application to the City
Clerk, upon blanks supplied by the City for the establishment of line and
grade.
   B.   Contents Of Application: This application shall state the exact
location of the proposed construction, the name of the person applying, the
name of the firm or individual doing the work and the date on which it is
desired to start construction.
   C.   Line And Grade Established By Director: The City Clerk shall deliver
the application to the Public Works Director without delay. The Public Works
Director shall establish the desired line and grade at the earliest possible
date and shall notify the applicant when said work will be completed. (1980
Code § 9.3.8; amd. 1999 Code)
7-2-10: CONFORMITY OF ESTABLISHED LINES AND GRADES:
Where such work has been constructed or repaired without first having obtained
a grade and line therefor from the Public Works Director or where the same have
not been constructed in conformity with the established grade and line, said
work shall be rebuilt or repaired at the owner's expense to so conform as
provided herein. (1980 Code § 9.3.10; amd. 1999 Code)
7-2-11: DEMOLITION PERMIT:
   A.   Permit Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to cut, or in any
way demolish any sidewalk, curb, gutter and/or curb and parking for any purpose
whatsoever without first securing a permit from the Public Works Director so to
do.
   B.   Application For Permit: Said person shall make application to the
Public Works Director by giving the location of the proposed work to be done
and the purpose for which the same is to be used.
   C.   Permit Issuance; Conditions: If the Public Works Director grants such
request, he may issue a permit for the work to be done, but such cutting or
demolition shall not cover over fifty percent (50%) of the property frontage of
the applicant; provided however, that if more than fifty percent (50%) of the
property frontage is to be cut, the said application shall be submitted to the
City Council for its approval. (1980 Code § 9.3.11; amd. 1999 Code)
7-2-12: OPEN STAIRWAYS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to construct or maintain upon any street,
alley, or public place any open stairway, areaway, or cellar way within the
limits of the sidewalk space or other public place within the confines of the
City without first obtaining the express permission of the City Council. (1980
Code § 9.3.12)
7-2-13: EXCAVATIONS UNDER SIDEWALKS:
   A.   Permission Required: It shall be unlawful to construct, maintain, or
operate any trap door, opening, grating, or other opening except upon
permission granted by the City Council.
   B.   Restriction For Operating Trap Doors: It shall be unlawful for any
person to maintain or operate any opening into or beneath the sidewalk space
covered by trap doors or folding doors, or to fail or neglect to keep the same
securely closed while said doors are not in use, or to properly and securely
guard the openings against accident when said doors are in use. (1980 Code §
9.3.13)
   C.   Specification For Underground Excavating:
      1.   Waterproof Retaining Walls: All such areas or excavations under
sidewalks shall have waterproof retaining walls of concrete not less than nine
inches (9") in thickness and not more than twelve feet (12') in length without
sufficient lateral support, and the sidewalks in such places shall be so
constructed as to safely support a live load of not less than two hundred (200)
pounds per square foot of surface or area of sidewalk. (1980 Code § 9.3.13;
amd. 1999 Code)
      2.   Compliance Required: Subsurface excavating adjacent to any building
for the purpose of lighting or ventilating cellars or basements or for storage
under any sidewalk, together with the sidewalk doors, coal holes, coverings,
sidewalk lights and construction of similar nature are forbidden unless the
requirements of this Section are complied with. (1980 Code § 9.3.13)
7-2-14: PREVENT ENTRANCE OF FLOODWATER:
All openings for elevators, chutes, coal holes, lights or ventilation or for
any other purpose shall be constructed and installed in such manner as to
prevent the entrance of floodwater from the street or sidewalk. (1980 Code §
9.3.14)
7-2-15: SIDEWALK DOORS AND COVERINGS; CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS:
All sidewalk doors, coal holes and coverings, frames for sidewalk lights and
supports for same, and all construction of similar nature shall be made of
steel or cast iron and placed flush with the sidewalk surface; and shall have
corrugated surface or other approved finish that will form a grip for the feet
of pedestrians. All such openings and coverings shall be so constructed as to
safely support a load of not less than two hundred (200) pounds per square
foot. (1980 Code § 9.3.15)
7-2-16: PENALTY:
Any person violating the provisions of this Chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be subject to penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (1980 Code § 9.3.16; amd. 1999 Code)
CHAPTER 3
EXCAVATIONS
SECTION:
7-3-1: Legislative Intent
7-3-2: Definitions
7-3-3: Permit Compliance; Notice Of Excavation
7-3-4: Damage To Underground Facilities
7-3-5: Permit Issuance; Duties Of City
7-3-6: Excavations Exempt From Notice Requirement
7-3-7: Violation; Civil Penalty; Additional Remedies
7-3-8: Waiver Permitted
7-3-9: Penalty
7-3-1: LEGISLATIVE INTENT:
   A.   It is the intent of this Chapter to protect underground facilities
located underneath property owned or under the control of the City from damages
caused by haphazard excavation.
   B.   It is further the intent to provide notice to the City of any
substantive excavation within the City limits. (Ord. 433, 5-19-1994)
7-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
BUSINESS DAY: Any day other than Saturday, Sunday, or legal, local, State or
Federal holiday.
EMERGENCY: Any condition constituting a clear and present danger to life or
property, or a customer service outage.
EXCAVATION: Any operation in which earth, rock, or other material in the ground
is moved or otherwise displaced by any means including, but not limited to,
explosives.
EXCAVATOR: Any person who engages directly in excavation.
ONE-NUMBER LOCATOR SERVICE: A service through which a person can notify owners
of underground facilities and request field-marking of their underground
facilities.
UNDERGROUND FACILITY: Any item buried or placed below ground for use in
connection with the storage or conveyance of water, unless being delivered
primarily for irrigation, sewage, electronic, telephonic or telegraphic
communications, cable television, electric energy, petroleum products, gas,
gaseous vapors, hazardous liquids, or other substances and including, but not
limited to, pipes, sewers, conduits, cables, valves, lines, wires, manholes,
attachments, and those parts of poles or anchors below ground.
UNDERGROUND FACILITY OWNER: Any person who owns or operates an underground
facility. (Ord. 433, 5-19-1994; amd. Ord. 2025-650, 1-23-2025)
7-3-3: PERMIT COMPLIANCE; NOTICE OF EXCAVATION:
   A.   Excavator Requirements: Before commencing excavation, the excavator
shall:
      1.   Comply with other applicable laws or permit requirements of any
public agency issuing permits;
      2.   Provide notice of the scheduled commencement of excavation to the
City through a one-number locator service. The notice shall be communicated to
the City not less than two (2) business days nor more than ten (10) business
days before the scheduled date for commencement of excavation, unless otherwise
agreed by the parties.
      3.   Receive a permit from the City for excavation of any property owned
by the City or upon which the City has a right of way or easement, regardless
of whether an underground facility exists underneath the property, unless under
the provision of section
7-3-6 of this chapter, as set forth below.
   B.   Emergency Excavations: Emergency excavations are exempt from the time
requirements for notification provided in this section.
   C.   Unidentified Underground Facilities; Notice To City: If the excavator,
while performing the excavation, discovers underground facilities (whether
active or abandoned) which are not identified, the excavator shall cease
excavating in the vicinity of the facility and immediately notify the City.
(Ord. 433, 5-19-1994)
7-3-4: DAMAGE TO UNDERGROUND FACILITIES:
   A.   Notify City And Safety Agencies Of Damage: An excavator who, in the
course of excavation, contacts or damages an underground facility shall notify
the City owning or operating such facility and the one-number locator service.
If the damage causes an emergency condition, the excavator causing the damage
shall also alert the appropriate local public safety agencies and take all
appropriate steps to ensure the public safety. No damaged underground facility
may be buried until it is repaired or relocated.
   B.   Provisions For Repair; Cost: The City shall arrange for repairs or
relocation as soon as is practical or may permit the excavator to do necessary
repairs or relocation at a mutually acceptable price. (Ord. 433, 5-19-1994)
7-3-5: PERMIT ISSUANCE; DUTIES OF CITY 1 :
   A.   Permit Issuance; Notice To Excavator: The City will issue permits
authorizing excavation operations and shall notify persons seeking such permits
of the existence of this chapter and the one-call locator service telephone
number.
   B.   Permit Invalid Without Notice: A permit shall not be valid for
excavation until or unless the notice provisions of this section have been
complied with and documentation provided, as approved by the City. (Ord. 433,
5-19-1994)
 
Notes
1 1. See also sections 8-1-24 and 8-2-8 of this Code.
7-3-6: EXCAVATIONS EXEMPT FROM NOTICE REQUIREMENT:
Unless facts exist which would reasonably cause an excavator to believe that an
underground facility exists within the depth of the intended excavation, the
following excavations shall not require notice of the excavation pursuant to
Idaho Code section 55-2203(1)(b):
   A.   An excavation of less than fifteen inches (15") in vertical depth
outside the boundaries of an underground facility easement of public record on
private property and if the excavation is being performed by the person or an
employee of the person who owns or occupies the property on which the
excavation is being performed.
   B.   The tilling of soil to a depth of less than fifteen inches (15") for
agricultural practices, unless such excavation is on public property.
   C.   Excavation of less than fifteen inches (15") upon public property or
roads, alleys, rights-of-way, and parks owned or upon which the City has an
easement is hereby stricken from the exemption of when notice is required.
   D.   The extraction of minerals within recorded mining claims or excavation
within material sites legally located and of record, unless such excavation
occurs within the boundaries of an underground facility easement. (Ord. 433, 5-
19-1994; amd. Ord. 2019-602, 5-16-2019)
7-3-7: VIOLATION; CIVIL PENALTY; ADDITIONAL REMEDIES:
   A.   Civil Penalty Imposed: Any person who violates any provision of this
chapter, and which violation results in damage to underground facilities, is
subject to a civil penalty of not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00)
for each violation. All penalties recovered in such actions shall be deposited
in the State general account.
   B.   Liable For Treble Costs: Any excavator who wilfully or maliciously
damages a field-marked underground facility owned by the City shall be liable
for treble the costs incurred in repairing or relocating the facility.
   C.   Additional Remedies: Unless expressly provided herein, nothing in this
chapter eliminates, alters or otherwise impairs common law, statutory or other
preexisting rights and duties of persons affected by the provisions of this
chapter; nor does anything in this chapter, unless expressly so provided,
eliminate, alter or otherwise impair other remedies, State or Federal,
including those at common law, or an underground facility owner whose facility
is damaged; nor do the provisions of this Chapter affect any civil remedies for
personal injury or property damage except as expressly provided for herein.
(Ord. 433, 5-19-1994)
7-3-8: WAIVER PERMITTED:
The notification and marking provisions of this Chapter may be waived for one
or more designated persons. (Ord. 433, 5-19-1994)
7-3-9: PENALTY:
Any person failing to comply with the provisions of this Chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor punishable as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 433, 5-19-1994)
CHAPTER 4
RAILROADS
SECTION:
7-4-1: Speed Limit For Trains
7-4-2: Obstructing Street Crossings
7-4-3: Penalty
7-4-1: SPEED LIMIT FOR TRAINS:
It shall be unlawful for any person running or operating any locomotive train
of cars to operate the same at a greater speed than twenty (20) miles per hour
within the corporate limits of the City. (1980 Code § 9.2.1)
7-4-2: OBSTRUCTING STREET CROSSINGS 1 :
It shall be unlawful for any person in charge of any railroad train or railroad
cars to stand or be permitted to stand upon any of the public crossings in the
corporate limits of the City for a greater period of time than ten (10)
minutes. (1980 Code § 9.2.2; amd. 1999 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 6-3-17C of this Code.
7-4-3: PENALTY:
Any person found guilty of violating any of the provisions of this Chapter
shall, upon conviction, be subject to penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (1980 Code § 9.2.3; amd. 1999 Code)
CHAPTER 5
CITY SHELTERS AND MEETING ROOMS
SECTION:
7-5-1: Definitions
7-5-2: Fee Schedule
7-5-3: Size And Proration
7-5-4: Curfew
7-5-5: Allocation Of Space
7-5-6: Refunds
7-5-7: Disputes
7-5-8: Discrimination
7-5-9: Indemnification Agreement
7-5-10: Litigation
7-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
ENTITY: Includes persons, sole proprietorship, associations, LLC, PLLC,
corporations, and any other legally recognized business form.
FOR PROFIT: Includes all entities who charge a fee for entry into the space. It
also specifically includes organizations which attempt to sell or do sell any
item whether tangible or intangible.
NONPROFIT: Includes all agencies or organizations deemed charitable
organizations for charitable deductions under internal revenue service
regulations. It also includes all private individuals who are renting the space
for such things as family reunions and where no money is required for entry or
where no items or intangibles are sold. The use by a charitable organization or
a for profit entity as a fundraiser will not require the higher fee.
ROOM: Meeting rooms designated as such by the city council. It currently
includes two (2) rooms in the community center, one upstairs and one
downstairs. It also includes two (2) rooms at the recreation center. It also
includes any such future areas designated by the city as "meeting rooms".
SHELTER: Those enclosed or partly enclosed areas located at the: north and
south parks denominated as "City park" (north park), and "Scotty's park" (south
park). Currently, there are two (2) shelters at City park and one shelter at
Scotty's park. It specifically excludes the shelter at the "Veteran's park" and
specifically includes any and all future shelters. (Res. 102, 5-6-2003)
7-5-2: FEE SCHEDULE:
The fee schedule for nonprofit entities shall be as follows:
 Rooms
  Community center  $15.00/12 hour period
  Recreation center 15.00/12 hour period
 Shelters
  North park        25.00/12 hour period
  South park        25.00/12 hour period
The fee schedule for profit entities shall be as follows:
 Rooms
  Community center  $30.00/12 hour period
  Recreation center 30.00/12 hour period
 Shelters
  North park        25.00/12 hour period
  South park        25.00/12 hour period
 
(Res. 102, 5-6-2003)
7-5-3: SIZE AND PRORATION:
The city recognizes that currently the rooms and shelters available vary in
size. In order to simplify the fee schedule, the city chose not to account for
these differences. However, it is anticipated that the west portion of the
recreation center may become available. When and if that occurs, this room will
be billed out differently as it is substantially larger than those spaces
currently available.
The city has elected to treat the time periods as specific increments. Should
an entity spend less than twelve (12) hours at the space, the fee shall not be
reduced. Similarly, if the entity exceeds the twelve (12) hour time period, it
shall be charged for a full twelve (12) hour period. (Res. 102, 5-6-2003)
7-5-4: CURFEW 1 :
Any entity shall vacate the space on or before eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. the
day it has rented the space. (Res. 102, 5-6-2003)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 5-2-9 of this code.
7-5-5: ALLOCATION OF SPACE:
Space shall be rented on a first come first served basis. The reservation shall
be made at least twenty four (24) hours in advance to the city clerk and
payment shall be due at that time. (Res. 102, 5-6-2003)
7-5-6: REFUNDS:
While the city shall endeavor to keep the spaces clean and habitable, there is
no guarantee of such. It is the city's responsibility to place signage
indicating who has reserved the space. It is encouraged to reserve meeting
rooms and city shelters in advance. Reservations are on a first come first
served basis. Only paid reservations are guaranteed. Refunds will be given if
the cancellation is made fourteen (14) days prior to the date reserved. No
refunds will be made for reservations made within fourteen (14) days of the
event. (Ord. 2013-565, 8-20-2013)
7-5-7: DISPUTES:
The entity shall initially try to settle all disputes with a representative of
the city clerk's office. If a resolution shall not be reached, the entity shall
file a written request within ten (10) days to the city council to review the
matter. Such hearing shall be conducted at the next regularly scheduled city
council meeting. (Res. 102, 5-6-2003)
7-5-8: DISCRIMINATION:
The city shall not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, gender, age or
any other classification. However, the city may refuse to rent in the case
where there is a reasonable risk of violence, damage, criminal activity or if
there are any outstanding city fees. (Res. 102, 5-6-2003)
7-5-9: INDEMNIFICATION AGREEMENT:
The city strives to make sure that the spaces are safe. However, the city may
elect to have each entity enter into an indemnification agreement as a
condition of providing the space. (Res. 102, 5-6-2003)
7-5-10: LITIGATION:
In the event of litigation, this rental shall be resolved by the laws of the
state of Idaho and the renter shall be informed of such. (Res. 102, 5-6-2003)
CHAPTER 6
PUBLIC WORKS CONSTRUCTION
SECTION:
7-6-1: Standards For Public Works Construction Adopted
7-6-1: STANDARDS FOR PUBLIC WORKS CONSTRUCTION ADOPTED:
The current edition of the Idaho standards for public works construction as
promulgated by the Idaho standards for public works construction executive
committee is adopted and incorporated herein by reference as an ordinance of
the city of Rigby in its current form and as it may hereafter be amended from
time to time as though set forth fully herein. Future editions of these
standards may be adopted as the same are published from time to time by the
committee, by resolution of the mayor and city council and such resolution
shall identify with particularity the edition being adopted. Unless
specifically stated to the contrary, such resolution shall have the effect of
adopting that future edition as the edition then in force. One copy of the
current edition of the standards shall be maintained on file at the city
clerk's office for use and examination by the public. (Ord. 535, 8-19-2008)
CHAPTER 7
AIRPORT
SECTION:
7-7-1: Title
7-7-2: Purpose
7-7-3: Summary Of Effect
7-7-4: Definitions
7-7-5: Zones
7-7-6: Height Limitations
7-7-7: Use Restrictions
7-7-8: Nonconforming Uses
7-7-9: Giving Of Notice
7-7-10: Permits
7-7-11: Enforcement
7-7-12: Appeals
7-7-13: Penalties
7-7-14: Conflicting Regulations
7-7-15: Severability
7-7-16: Maps
7-7-1: TITLE:
   A.   This chapter shall be known as the CITY OF RIGBY AIRPORT ORDINANCE.
   B.   This chapter is based upon rules and regulations promulgated and
effective by the Federal Aviation Administration title 14 CFR FAR (part 77) and
the State of Idaho Department of Transportation, Division of Aeronautics. Idaho
Code 21 aeronautics chapter 5.
   C.   The overall property of the City of Rigby Airport lies within Jefferson
County and as such is subject to the County's land use zoning, which as of
January 1, 2016 is zoned Commercial Two (C-2). (Ord. 2017-590, 4-6-2017)
7-7-2: PURPOSE:
   A.   This chapter is adopted pursuant to the authority conferred by Idaho
Code 1 . It is hereby stated that certain constructions or structures may
constitute hazards to aerial operation and navigation, and such hazards may
endanger the lives and/or property of users of the City of Rigby Airport.
Additionally, if the construction or structure in effect reduces the size of
the area available for taking off, maneuvering, and landing of aircraft, the
construction and/or structure destroys or impairs the utility of Federal
airspace, the airport and the public investment therein.
   B.   It is further found that certain activities and uses of land in the
immediate vicinity of the airport are not compatible with normal airport
operations, and may, if not regulated, also endanger the lives of the
participants, adversely affect their health, or otherwise limit the
accomplishment of normal activities. Accordingly, it is declared:
      1.   That the creation or establishment of an airport hazard is a public
nuisance and injury to the region served by the City of Rigby Airport;
      2.   That it is necessary in the interest of the public health, public
safety, and general welfare that the creation or establishment hazards to the
airport be prevented;
      3.   That the prevention of these hazards should be accomplished, to the
extent legally possible, by the exercise of the police powers without
compensation;
      4.   That appropriate notice be given to property owners, buyers, or
sellers within a reasonable operating radius of the airport, informing them
that the airport exists. That airport operations may occur at all hours of the
day or night throughout the calendar year, and person(s) within that operating
radius should not expect relief from reasonable airport operation. The City of
Rigby Airport Board subscribes to the following: "Fair Disclosure Statement"
the statement means a notification to prospective buyers of property near or
adjacent to the airport that they may be exposed to potentially impactive
levels of aircraft overflights. These statements in no way abrogate an
individual's right to take later action against the airport, but rather give
the buyer a fair notice. Use of a Fair Disclosure Statement is not meant to
provide pilots, crews, owners of aircraft, or any other person protection from
liability for negligence committed on their part.
   C.   It is further declared that both:
      1.   The prevention of creating or establishing airport hazards.
      2.   The elimination, removal, alteration, mitigation, or marking and
lighting of existing airport hazards are public purposes for which political
subdivisions may raise and expend public funds and acquire land or interest in
land. (Ord. 2017-590, 4-6-2017)
 
Notes
1 1. Tit. 21.
7-7-3: SUMMARY OF EFFECT:
The provisions of this chapter may be summarized as follows:
   A.   For structures and trees on the airport property, heights may be
restricted as determined by the Airport Board (subsection
7-7-6A1 of this chapter).
   B.   For structures and trees off the airport property, heights of less than
thirty feet (30') above airport elevation are exempted from the requirements of
this chapter (subsection
7-7-6A3 of this chapter) except that structures and trees in the Primary Zones
(subsection
7-7-5A of this chapter) and Visual Approach Zones (subsection
7-7-5C of this chapter) immediately off the ends of each airport runway may be
prohibited or restricted in height.
   C.   For structures and trees off the airport property which may exceed
thirty feet (30') above airport elevation, certain zones are established in
section
7-7-5 of this chapter. These zones provide sloping criteria based on location
from the active runway(s) at the airport. The zones are more restrictive to the
ends of the takeoff and landing runway(s) than to the sides of the runway(s).
(Ord. 2017-590, 4-6-2017)
7-7-4: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:
AIRPORT: The City of Rigby Airport (U56).
AIRPORT BOARD: A board of volunteers serving by appointment and pleasure of the
Rigby City Council to act on matters involving the airport.
AIRPORT ELEVATION: The established elevation as per the National Geodetic
Survey designation N-227 as the highest point of the usable landing area.
AIRPORT HAZARD: Any structure, tree, tower or use of land which obstructs the
airspace required for, or is otherwise hazardous to, the taxiing, taking off,
maneuvering, or landing of aircraft at the airport.
AVIGATION: Aerial navigation.
DATUM: Any level surface, line, or point used as a reference, in measuring
elevations. A basis for horizontal surveys, consisting of the longitude and
latitude of a certain point.
DIRECTOR: The Director of the Division of Aeronautics.
DIVISION OF AERONAUTICS: A division within the Department of Transportation of
the State of Idaho as defined in Idaho Code title 21.
ELEVATION: The elevation of the City of Rigby Airport has been established by
the NGS designation N227 as four thousand eight hundred forty five feet
(4,845') above sea level.
FAA: The Federal Aviation Administration. Title 14 CPR (FAR) part 77.
HEIGHT: For the purpose of determining the height limits in all zones set forth
in this chapter and shown on zoning maps. The datum shall mean at runway 1/19
above sea level elevation, unless otherwise specified.
INSTRUMENT APPROACH ZONE: The area encompassed by FAA terminal approach
procedures defined distances from any runway having an FAA approved instrument
approach.
LAND USE PLANNING: As established by Jefferson County as part of each entity's
comprehensive land use guidelines and made a part of this chapter by reference.
LANDING AREA: The area of the airport used for taxiing, take off, maneuvering,
or landing of aircraft.
NONCONFORMING USE: Any pre-existing structure, tower, tree, or natural growth
or use of land which is inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter or an
amendment thereto.
PERMIT: To grant permission or to allow.
RUNWAY/TAXIWAY STRUCTURE: The paved surface(s) of an airport landing area or
taxiing area. An object constructed or installed by man.
TREE: Any object of natural growth.
UTILITY RUNWAY: A runway that is constructed for and intended to be used by
aircraft of twelve thousand five hundred (12,500) pounds maximum gross weight
or less.
VARIANCE: Official permission to do something normally forbidden by regulation,
especially by building in a way or for a purpose normally forbidden by a zoning
law or Building Code.
VISUAL RUNWAY: A runway intended solely for the operation of aircraft using
visual approach procedures, with no existing instrument procedures and no
instrument designation indicated on a Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) or
military service- approved airport layout plan or by any other Federal Aviation
Administration (FAA) or military planning document. It may however have runway
and taxiway lighting as activated by pilot(s) upon take off(s) and landings.
(Ord. 2017-590, 4-6-2017)
7-7-5: ZONES:
In order to carry out the provisions of this chapter, there are hereby created
and established certain zones which include all of the land and airspace within
Instrument Approach Zones, Visual Approach Zones, Transitional Zones,
Horizontal Zones, and Conical Zones. Such areas and zones are shown in
approximation on the City of Rigby Airport Zoning Map on file in the City. The
various zones are hereby established and defined as follows:
   A.   Primary Zone: A Primary Zone is centered longitudinally on a runway.
When the runway has a specially prepared surface, the Primary Zone extends two
hundred feet (200') beyond each end of that runway; but when the runway has no
specially prepared hard surface the Primary Zone ends at each end of the
runway. The elevation of any point on the Primary Zone coincides with the
elevation of the nearest point on the runway centerline. The width of a Primary
Zone is two hundred fifty feet (250') for utility runways having non-precision
instrument approach. The width of the Primary Zone of a runway will be that
width prescribed in this subsection for the most precise approach existing or
planned for either end of that runway.
      1.   Effect: The Primary Zone has the effect of limiting the heights of
structures or trees off the ends of active hard surface runways for a distance
of two hundred feet (200').
   B.   Approach Zone: An Approach Zone is longitudinally centered on the
extended runway centerline and extends outward and upward from each end of the
Primary Zone. An Approach Zone is applied to each end of each runway based upon
type of approach available or planned for that runway end.
      1.   Inner Edge: The inner edge of the Approach Zone is the same width as
the Primary Zone and it expands uniformly to a width of: a) one thousand two
hundred fifty feet (1,250') for that end of a utility runway with only visual
approach; b) two thousand feet (2,000') for that end of a utility runway with
an instrument approach.
      2.   Approach: The Approach Zone for utility runways with a non-
precision instrument approach and/or visual approach extends for a horizontal
distance of five thousand feet (5,000') at a slope of twenty to one (20:1).
      3.   Outer Width: The outer width of an Approach Zone to an end of a
runway will be that width prescribed in this subsection for the most precise
approach existing or planned for that runway.
      4.   Effect: The effect of the Approach Zone at the City of Rigby Airport
is to further extend the twenty to one (20:1) slope and height limitations of
Visual and Non-Precision Zones to a distance of five thousand feet (5,000')
from the active runways.
   C.   Visual Approach Zone: A Visual Approach Zone is established at each of
all visual runways. The Visual Approach Zone shall have a width of two hundred
fifty feet (250') at a distance of two hundred feet (200') beyond each end of
the runway, widening thereafter uniformly to a width of four hundred fifty feet
(450') at a distance of one thousand feet (1,000') beyond each end of the
runway, the zone centerline being the continuation of the centerline of the
runway, and the zone slope will be twenty to one (20:1).
      1.   Effect: The Visual Zone has the effect of limiting the heights of
structures or trees off the ends of visual approach runways for a distance of
one thousand feet (1,000') from the height of zero (0) on the airport property
(section
7-7-6 of this chapter) to approximately fifty feet (50') in height at a
distance of one thousand feet (1,000') from the end of the active runways.
   D.   Nonprecision Approach Zone: A Nonprecision Approach Zone is established
at each end of all non-precision runways for non- instrument landings and
takeoffs. The Nonprecision Approach Zone shall have a width of two hundred
fifty feet (250') at a distance of two hundred feet (200') beyond each end of
the runway, widening thereafter uniformly to a width of four hundred fifty feet
(450') at a distance of one thousand feet (1,000') beyond each end of the
runway, the zone centerline will be the continuation of the centerline of the
runway, and the zone slope will be twenty to one (20:1).
      1.   Effect: The effect of the Nonprecision Approach Zone is identical to
that of the Visual Approach Zone, above.
   E.   Transitional Zone: Transitional Zones extend outwards and upwards at
right angles to the runway centerline and the runway centerline extended at a
slope of seven to one (7:1) from the sides of the Primary Zone and from the
sides of the Approach Zones. Transitional Zones for those portions of the
Precision Approach Zone which project through and beyond the limits of the
Conical Zone, extend a distance of five thousand feet (5,000') measures
horizontally from the edge of the Approach Zone and at right angles to the
runway centerline.
      1.   Effect: The effect of the Transitional Zone is to limit heights of
structures or trees from zero (0) at the edge of the active runway (section
7-7-6 of this chapter) to approximately one hundred fifty feet (150') above
airport elevation at a horizontal distance of five thousand feet (5,000') from
the edge of the Primary Zone, on a slope of seven to one (7:1).
   F.   Horizontal Zone: A Horizontal Zone is established, consisting of a
plane one hundred fifty feet (150') above the established airport elevation,
the perimeter of the Horizontal Zone being established by swinging arcs of
specified radius from the center of each end of the Primary Zone of each runway
and connecting the adjacent arcs by line tangent to those arcs. The radius of
each arc is: 1) five thousand feet (5,000') for all runways designated as
utility or visual; and 2) ten thousand feet (10,000') for all runways other
than utility designated as instrument runways. The radius of the arc specified
for each end of a runway will have the same arithmetical value. That value will
be the highest determined for either end of the runway. When a five thousand
foot (5,000') arc is encompassed by tangents connected to adjacent ten thousand
foot (10,000'), the five thousand foot (5,000') arc shall be disregarded on the
construction of the perimeter of the Horizontal Zone.
      1.   Effect: The effect of the Horizontal Zone is to limit the height of
structures or trees to less than one hundred fifty feet (150') above airport
elevation for a distance of approximately five thousand feet (5,000')
horizontally from the active runway.
   G.   Conical Zone: A Conical Zone extends outwards and upwards from the
periphery of the Horizontal Zone at a slope of twenty to one (20:1) for a
horizontal distance of four thousand feet (4,000').
      1.   Effect: The effect of the Conical Zone is to provide additional
height limitations for structures or trees a distance greater than five
thousand feet (5,000') horizontally from the active runway.
As of January 1, 2016, the City of Rigby Airport has no approved or planned
instrument approaches. The runways are open for visual approaches at all hours
of the day and night, weather permitting. However, nothing in this chapter
shall be construed as prohibiting or discouraging future development of
instrument approaches at the airport. FAA regulations for such approaches may
require future modifications of this chapter. Runway/taxiway lighting can be
activated by pilot(s) prior to a visual take off or landing and may remain
active for a period of time following such activities. (Ord. 2017-590, 4-6-
2017)
7-7-6: HEIGHT LIMITATIONS:
   A.   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter no structure, tower, or
tree shall be erected, altered, allowed to grow, or maintained in any surface
created by this chapter to a height in excess of the height limit herein
established for such a zone. Such height limitations are hereby established for
each of the zones in question as follows:
      1.   Conflict: Where an area is covered by more than one height
limitation, the more restrictive limitation shall prevail.
      2.   Airport Property: On the airport property, as established by the
Airport Board in accordance with FAA guidelines.
      3.   Excepted Height Limitations: Nothing in this chapter shall be
construed as prohibiting growth, construction, or maintenance of any tree or
structure off the airport property to a height up to thirty feet (30') above
the airport, except as provided for Primary and Visual Approach Zones in
subsections
7-7-5A and C of this chapter.
      4.   Nonprecision Instrument Or Visual Approach Zone: No tree(s) or
structure may penetrate the Nonprecision Instrument or Visual Approach Zone for
any utility runway.
      5.   Transitional Zone: No tree or structure may penetrate the
Transitional Zone for any runway.
      6.   Horizontal Zone: No tree or structure may penetrate the Horizontal
Zone for any runway.
      7.   Conical Zone: No tree or structure may penetrate the Conical Zone
for any runway. (Ord. 2017-590, 4-6-2017)
7-7-7: USE RESTRICTIONS:
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, no use may be made of
land within any zone established by this chapter in such a manner as to:
   A.   Create electrical interference with radio communication between the
airport and aircraft;
   B.   Make it difficult for aviators to distinguish between airport lights
and other lights;
   C.   Result in glare, coherent light beams or other visual distractions to
aviators using the airport;
   D.   Impair visibility in the vicinity of the airport; or
   E.   Otherwise endanger the taxiing off, maneuvering or landing of aircraft
at the airport. (Ord. 2017-590, 4-6-2017)
7-7-8: NONCONFORMING USES:
   A.   Regulations are not retroactive. The regulations prescribed by this
chapter shall not be construed to require the removal, lowering, or other
changes or alterations of any structure(s) or tree(s) not in conformance with
this chapter as of January 1, 2016, or otherwise interfere with the continuance
of any nonconforming use reasonably established prior to that date. Nothing in
this chapter shall require any change in the construction, alteration or
intended use of any structure, the construction or alteration of which began
prior to January 1, 2016, and which has diligently prosecuted.
   B.   Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection A of this section, the
owner(s) of any nonconforming structure(s) or tree(s) is hereby required to
permit the installation, operation, and maintenance thereon of such markers and
lights as shall be deemed necessary by the Airport Board, to indicate the
presence of such hazards to aviators in the vicinity of the airport. Such
markers and lights shall be installed, operated and maintained by the airport.
(Ord. 2017-590, 4-6-2017)
7-7-9: GIVING OF NOTICE:
   A.   The City encourages any person or entity selling, leasing, or otherwise
providing for use of a property within the Transition Zone of the City of Rigby
Airport to provide written notice to the buyer, renter, leasing entity, or the
property user of the existence of the City of Rigby Airport for the reason that
the property may be subject to some of the annoyances and inconveniences
associated with proximity to airport operations (for example: noise,
vibrations, and odors). The transition area is defined as a one mile radius of
the City of Rigby Airport.
The City encourages any person or entity who is providing written disclosure to
a buyer, renter, leasing entity, or other property user to use the model Idaho
Fair Disclosure Statement as set forth below:
   FAIR DISCLOSURE STATEMENT
   FAIR DISCLOSURE STATEMENT DISCLOSURES BY (OWNER) (BUYER) OF REAL PROPERTY IN
JEFFERSON COUNTY, IDAHO
   This is a notification, disclosure, and acknowledgement by (Owner) (Buyer)
of real property located in the vicinity of the City of Rigby Municipal Airport
in the City of Rigby, Idaho. (Owner) (Buyer) hereby acknowledges the following:
      AIRPORT
   1) Proximity to the Airport
The subject parcel, located in Section            Township            Range
          , is located within the City of Rigby Municipal Airport Transition
Area which is defined being located within a one (1) mile radius of the
airport. As result, the subject property is located in the airport's Federal
Aviation Regulation Part 77 Airspace and one of seven land use zones Airplanes
may fly at low elevations over the parcel as they operate to, from, or at the
airport. The airport is operational 24 hours per day. Flights may occur at all
hours of the day or night.
   2) Airspace
The subject parcel property lies under the Airport's FAR Part 77 Airspace and
is subject to Federal law and all State and local laws. As such, it may be
necessary to clear and keep clear the Airspace of any portions of buildings,
structures, or improvements of any and all kinds, and of trees, vegetation, or
other objects. This includes reserving the right of the City or County to;
remove or demolish those portions of such buildings, structures, improvements,
trees or any other objects which extend into the Airspace; cut to the ground
level and remove any trees which extend into the Airspace; the right to mark
and light, or cause or require to be marked or lighted, as obstructions to air
navigation, any and all buildings, structures, or other improvements, and trees
or other objects now upon, or that in the future may be upon, said Parcel, and
which extend into the Airspace
   3) Future Improvements and Aircraft Operations
The airport may wish to expand its facilities and operations in the future.
Expansion plans include, but are not limited to those shown on the approved
Airport Layout Plan (ALP). These improvements may result in increased aircraft
operations, operations by larger aircraft, and increased nighttime operations
which could increase the noise levels within the vicinity of the airport.
   4) Disclosure of Airport Impacts
Due to the proximity of the parcel to the City of Rigby Municipal Airport and
the airport's Transition Area; owner(s) / buyer(s) should expect frequent
overflight and varying degrees of noise and other impacts from these overflying
aircraft, which some persons may find intrusive. Further, owner(s)/buyer(s)
should expect varying degrees of vibration, fumes, dust, fuel, fuel particles,
or other effects that may be caused by the operation of aircraft landing at,
taking off from, or operating on or at public airport facilities.
   CERTIFICATION
This undersigned owner(s) / purchaser(s) of said parcel of land certify(ies)
that (he/she/they) (has/have) read the above disclosure statement and
acknowledge(s) the pre or planned existence of the airport named above and the
noise and other exposure due to the operation of said airport.
(SIGNED)   Date
(Ord. 2017-590, 4-6-2017)
7-7-10: PERMITS:
   A.   Existing Uses: No permit shall be granted that would allow the
establishment or creation of an airport hazard, or that would allow a
nonconforming use, structure, or tree(s) to be made higher or to become higher,
or become a greater hazard to aerial navigation, than it was on January 1,
2016.
   B.   Future Uses:
      1.   Except as specifically provided in this subsection, no material
change shall be made in the use of land and no structure or tree(s) shall be
erected, altered, planted or otherwise established in any zone hereby created
unless a permit for such tree(s) or structure has been applied for and granted.
Each application for such permit shall indicate the purpose for which the
structure or tree(s) is desired, with sufficient particularity to allow
determination as to whether the resulting use, structure or tree(s) would
conform to the regulations contained in this chapter. If such determination
indicates conformity with this chapter, the permit shall be granted.
      2.   Permit application shall be made via the Jefferson County Planning
and Zoning Office with consultation of the City of Rigby Planning and Zoning
Office. The City of Rigby Airport Board will be given the chance to give input
or recommendation regarding permit application.
      3.   In the area lying within the limits of the Horizontal Zone and the
Conical Zone, airport concurrence is not required for any tree or structure
whose highest point is less than seventy five feet (75') in vertical height
above airport elevation, unless any point of such structure would extend above
the height limits prescribed for such zone.
      4.   In the area lying within the limits of the Transition Zone beyond
the perimeter of the Horizontal Zone, airport concurrence is not required for
any tree or structure whose highest point is less than seventy five feet (75')
of vertical height above airport elevation, unless any point of such structure
would extend above the height limits prescribed for such zone.
      5.   No part of this subsection shall be construed as permitting or
intending to permit any construction, alteration, or growth of any structure or
tree(s) in excess of any of the height limits established in this chapter
except as set forth in section
7-7-5 of this chapter.
   C.   Nonconforming Uses Abandoned Or Destroyed:
      1.   Whenever the Jefferson County Planning and Zoning Commission
determines, and with notification to the City of Rigby Airport Board that a
nonconforming structure(s) or tree(s) has been abandoned or more than eighty
percent (80%) torn down, deteriorated or decayed, no permit shall be granted
that would allow such structure(s) or tree(s) to exceed the applicable height
limits or otherwise deviate from this chapter.
      2.   Variances permissible under this subsection may allow where literal
application or enforcement of this chapter would result in practical difficulty
or unnecessary hardship, and where the relief granted by variance will not be
contrary to the public interest, or will not create undue hazard to aerial
navigation.
      3.   Variances may be allowed subject to such reasonable conditions as
the Jefferson County Planning and Zoning Commission and the City of Rigby
Airport Board may deem necessary to affect the intent of this chapter,
including, but not limited to, the condition that the owner of such structure
(s) or tree(s) install, operate and maintain at owners expense such markers and
lights as may be necessary to indicate to aviators the presence of a flight
hazard. (Ord. 2017-590, 4-6-2017)
7-7-11: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Jefferson County Planning and Zoning Administrator shall enforce and
regulate the prescribed regulations and provision of this chapter in
consultation with the input of the City of Rigby Airport Board, acting for and
on behalf of the City of Rigby, Mayor and City Council.
   B.   Application for permits and variances within and outside of the actual
airport boundaries shall be made to the Jefferson County Planning and Zoning
Office after consultation with the City of Rigby Planning and Zoning
Department. (Ord. 2017-590, 4-6-2017)
7-7-12: APPEALS:
   A.   Any party aggrieved, or any taxpayer affected, by any decision enacted
under this chapter may appeal such decision to the Jefferson County
Commissioners in concert with the City of Rigby City Council.
   B.   The City of Rigby Airport Board reserves the right to provide input to
the Jefferson County Planning and Zoning Commission regarding decisions in such
appeals, including right of appearance and testimony at any meeting or hearing
regarding such appeal. (Ord. 2017-590, 4-6-2017)
7-7-13: PENALTIES:
   A.   Jefferson County shall consider any violation of this chapter, and
shall render a decision on such matter. An appeal may be made before the County
Commissioners as to the decision of the Planning and Zoning Commission after
consultation with the Board of the Rigby City Airport.
Any violation of this chapter outside of airport property shall be considered a
violation of Jefferson County Planning and Zoning rules and regulations, and
may be punished or corrected by such mechanisms as are provided in the
Jefferson County ordinances regarding Planning and Zoning violations.
   B.   Notwithstanding other provisions of this chapter, nothing in this
chapter supersedes the State of Idaho, Department of Transportation, Division
of Aeronautics and/or Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) rules and
regulations, regarding the height of any tree(s) and/or structure(s) as noted
in section
7-7-5, "Zones", of this chapter. (Ord. 2017-590, 4-6-2017)
7-7-14: CONFLICTING REGULATIONS:
Where there arises a conflict between any of the regulations or limitations
prescribed in this chapter and any other regulations of laws, including the
City of Rigby, Jefferson County, Idaho, or Federal government (FAA) laws and
regulations, applicable to the same area, whether the conflict is with respect
to height of structure(s) or tree(s), or the use of land, or any other matter,
the most stringent limitation or requirement shall govern and prevail. (Ord.
2017-590, 4-6-2017)
7-7-15: SEVERABILITY:
If any of the provisions of this chapter or the application thereof to any
person or circumstances is held invalid, such invalidity shall not affect other
provisions or applications of this chapter which can be given effect without
the invalidated provision or application. To such end, the provisions of this
chapter are declared to be severable. (Ord. 2017-590, 4-6-2017)
7-7-16: MAPS:
Official map drawings of the City of Rigby Airport are on file in the City.
These drawings will give location of each zone described in section
7-7-5 of this chapter. (Ord. 2017-590, 4-6-2017)
TITLE 8
WATER AND SEWER
CHAPTER 1
WATER USE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-1-1: Definitions
8-1-2: Exclusive Management And Control By City
8-1-3: Granting Of Franchise Prohibited
8-1-4: Powers And Duties Of Public Works Director
8-1-5: Extension Of Water Mains
8-1-6: Water Meters
8-1-7: Application For Water Service
8-1-8: Water Main Construction Charge
8-1-9: Water Service Line Installation Fee
8-1-10: Connection Fees
8-1-11: Rates; Utility Deposit
8-1-12: Business Defined For Water Rate Determination
8-1-13: Multiple Water Lines Or Curb Stops; Additional Charge
8-1-14: Water System Improvement Fund
8-1-15: Billing Procedure And Periods
8-1-16: Delinquent Accounts
8-1-17: Vacation Or Shut Down Rates (Rep. by Res. 108, 9-24-2003)
8-1-18: Water Service Shutoff And Turn On Fees
8-1-19: Service Call Charge
8-1-20: Water Service And Rates Outside City
8-1-21: Fire Service Connection
8-1-22: Fire Hydrants
8-1-23: Water Service Lines
8-1-24: Excavation Permit Required
8-1-25: Plumbing Connections Or Changes; Permission Required
8-1-26: Water System Materials And Installation
8-1-27: Water System Design
8-1-28: As Built Drawings; Certification
8-1-29: Owner Or Developer Responsible For Water Lines
8-1-30: City Not Liable For Damages
8-1-31: Waste Of Water Prohibited
8-1-32: Water Conservation
8-1-33: Free Access For Inspection Of Premises
8-1-34: Tampering With Water System Or Appurtenances
8-1-35: Citation For Violation
8-1-36: Penalty
8-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this
section:
CITY: The city of Rigby, Idaho.
COMMERCIAL BUILDING: Any structure built for the support, shelter, or enclosure
of persons, animals, chattels, or property of any kind or for any type of
business or enterprise or for any other purposes not otherwise described or
covered under the definition of "dwellings" in this section. Each business
within one structure, even though served by one line, shall be deemed
individual connections, and charged as separate businesses as per category,
even if having only a single plumbing fixture.
CORPORATION STOP: Denotes the shutoff valve and tapping facilities connecting
the water service line to the water main pipe.
CURB STOP: The city's service line shutoff valve that is to be placed as near
as practicable to the line between the private property, common boundary and
the public right of way.
CUSTOMER LINE: Denotes the pipes, valves, and fittings leading from the curb
stop into the premises served.
DWELLINGS:
   Auto Court, Motor Court, Motel, Hotel: The combination or group of two (2)
or more dwelling units occupying a building site or area under one ownership,
used for the purpose of furnishing transient living accommodations.
   Duplex: A building designed, built, rented, or leased for occupancy by two
(2) families or persons living independently of each other.
   Multiple-Family Dwelling Or Apartment House: Any building or portion thereof
which is designed, built, rented, or leased, let, or hired out to be occupied
or which is occupied as the home or residence of three (3) or more families or
persons living independently of each other, which shall include townhouses and
condominiums.
   Single-Family Dwelling: A building designed for or occupied by one family
for living or sleeping purposes and having one kitchen or set of cooking
facilities.
   Trailer House Or Mobile Home: Any vehicle used or so constructed as to
permit its being used as a conveyance upon the public streets or highways and
constructed in such a manner as will permit occupancy thereof as a dwelling or
sleeping place for one or more persons.
METER: Includes the water meter, its enclosure valve, and related
appurtenances.
OPEN HOSE: The use of water through a hose without nozzle or other limiting
device.
PLUMBING FIXTURE UNIT: Includes each of the following types of plumbing
facilities or items as a "unit": toilet, sink, bathtub, shower, combination
bathtub and shower, washing machine, dishwasher, etc.
PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR: The public works director of the city of Rigby.
SERVICE LINE: Denotes the pipe, valves and fittings laid from the water main to
and including the curb stop, and which is under the jurisdictional control of
the city.
WATER MAIN: The pipe laid in a street, road, alley, or easement and running
approximately parallel to said street, road or alley that is used for the
distribution of water to the customers, and which is owned, operated,
controlled and maintained by the city. (1980 Code § 4.6.1; amd. Ord. 454, 5-7-
1996, eff. 6-1-1996; 1999 Code)
8-1-2: EXCLUSIVE MANAGEMENT AND CONTROL BY CITY:
It is hereby declared that the city shall have exclusive control and management
of the city water system; shall have exclusive management and control of the
supply and distribution of water to the inhabitants thereof; and shall, from
time to time, make such rules and regulations as are necessary for the complete
management, control, distribution, and supply of water to the said inhabitants.
(1980 Code § 4.6.2)
8-1-3: GRANTING OF FRANCHISE PROHIBITED:
No person shall be granted any franchise or permit to furnish or supply any
inhabitant within the city any water for domestic or culinary use or for
sprinkling of lawns and gardens within any portion thereof where the water
mains have been extended or may hereafter be extended so as to supply said
property with water. (1980 Code § 4.6.3)
8-1-4: POWERS AND DUTIES OF PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR:
   A.   Supervision Of Water System: The public works director, under the
direction of the mayor, shall be responsible for the supervision and management
of the entire water system including the operation and maintenance of all
supply, distribution, and fire hydrant facilities. (1980 Code § 4.6.5; amd.
1999 Code)
   B.   Right To Turn Off Water: The public works director shall have the right
to turn off the water at any point or to any place or building within the city
when he deems such action to be necessary or when duly ordered to do so. (1980
Code § 4.6.6; amd. 1999 Code)
8-1-5: EXTENSION OF WATER MAINS:
   A.   Within City: The public works director shall be authorized to
construct, or cause to be constructed, extensions to the water system if one of
the following conditions exist:
      1.   The annual anticipated revenue made available to the city from the
customers to be immediately served by such extension is not less than one-tenth
(1/10) of the actual cost to the city for the construction of said water main
extension.
      2.   The public works director declares that the water main extension is
needed for the overall benefit and improvement of the entire water distribution
system.
      3.   The city council approves a contract for the construction of the
water main extension with a party or parties desiring water service. Provided,
however, that subdividers or developers within or adjacent to the city shall
construct at their own expense all water mains, facilities and appurtenances
required within their subdivisions or developments except that the city will be
responsible for those water line costs set forth in section
8-1-29 of this chapter. (1980 Code § 4.6.10; amd. 1999 Code)
   B.   Areas Contiguous To City: In areas contiguous to the city that may be
annexed to the city, the city may require such areas to be annexed before water
service is provided. Prior to annexation, the city shall require the execution
and approval of an annexation agreement which shall detail the conditions for
water service. (1980 Code § 4.6.11)
   C.   Outside City: Water mains shall not, without the city council's
approval, be extended outside the corporate limits of the city; however, when,
in the opinion of the public works director, there will be special benefit and
improvement to the water distribution system by reason of an extension outside
the city, special arrangements may be made with the council to allow said
extension. Provided, however, that the areas to be serviced outside of the city
shall not benefit to a greater extent than like areas provided with water
within the city; and provided, further, that no such arrangements shall be made
unless adequate excess water is available for such outside the city water
service. (1980 Code § 4.6.12; amd. 1999 Code)
8-1-6: WATER METERS:
   A.   Power To Place Meters:
      1.   When deemed advisable to do so, the public works director may, at
any time, place a meter on any service line or any line serving a category
business in which metering is an option, and to change the method of payment
from a flat rate to a metered rate.
      2.   The public works director may require water meters on commercial and
multi-family buildings which measure per one thousand (1,000) gallons and are
Sensus touchpad compatible.
      3.   Service pits shall be either Ford or Mueller.
   B.   Payment For Meters: All meters shall be paid for by the customer
requesting or receiving city water service where a meter is required as part of
a new water service connection. Existing businesses, as of the date of adoption
of this subsection will be responsible for the cost of installing a meter. New
businesses starting subsequent to June 1, 1996, if provided for by statute,
shall pay the cost of the meter prior to service being established.
   C.   Ownership: All water meters installed within the water system shall
become and shall remain the property of the city and may be removed or replaced
or changed as to size and type by the water department whenever deemed
necessary. (1980 Code § 4.6.15)
   D.   Maintenance: The water department shall maintain and repair all meters.
Where a replacement, repair, or adjustment of any meter is rendered necessary
by this chapter, neglect or carelessness of the owner or occupant of any
premises, any expense incurred by the water department thereby shall be charged
against and collected from the water consumer, and water service may be
discontinued until the defect is corrected and the amount charged collected.
(1980 Code § 4.6.16)
   E.   Location And Access: Meters shall generally be located within a manhole
near the property line, allowing for convenient access. The area adjacent to
the meter shall be kept from obstructions at all times. (1980 Code § 4.6.17)
   F.   Meter Reading: Meters shall be read and bills shall be rendered, as
nearly as practicable, at monthly or bimonthly intervals for all metered water
service supplied during the preceding months. (1980 Code § 4.6.27)
   G.   Meter Rates For Multiple Meters: Where an individual consumer is
supplied with water through more than one metered service, charges shall be
computed separately for each individual meter. (1980 Code § 4.6.28)
   H.   Bulk Water Metering: Any entity or person seeking use of bulk water
outside of individually metered business shall pay a fee as established in
subsection
8-1-11F of this chapter to install a water metering device onto a hydrant. The
fee shall be used to offset the cost of city personnel installing the meter and
to help defray purchase cost. Should the meter need to be reinstalled, an
additional fee shall apply. Anyone who tampers with the meter to avoid or
minimize charges shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 454, 5-7-1996, eff. 6-
1-1996; amd. 1999 Code; Res. 108, 9-24-2003; Ord. 2025-650, 1-23-2025)
8-1-7: APPLICATION FOR WATER SERVICE:
   A.   Filing Application; Permit Issuance: An application for a connection to
the city water system and for the use of city water shall be made at the office
of the public works director and no connection shall be made to any water main
without a valid permit therefor having been issued by the public works
director.
   B.   Planning And Zoning Permit: When a planning and zoning permit has not
been issued, a water or sewer hookup shall not be made to any building in the
city. (1980 Code § 4.6.18; amd. 1999 Code)
8-1-8: WATER MAIN CONSTRUCTION CHARGE:
   A.   Determination Of Costs; Conditions:
      1.   Hereafter, any person, before obtaining a permit to connect to any
water main constructed substantially at city expense, shall pay a water main
construction charge therefor at the rate of twelve dollars ($12.00) per front
foot of property to be served by the permit. Said amount shall be effective on
both sides of the street, making the actual cost twice the said amount.
      2.   All water mains owned and/or maintained by the city shall be deemed
to have been constructed substantially at city expense, except those mains
constructed within subdivisions having been platted since 1975, and in those
cases where the permittee establishes to the satisfaction of the city that the
water main was not constructed substantially at city expense.
      3.   This charge may be changed from time to time by resolution of the
city council as such change is deemed necessary, and the council may adopt a
schedule indicating actual cost.
      4.   Installation costs not borne by the city shall be the responsibility
of the developer, as set forth in section
8-1-29 of this chapter.
   B.   Application Of Charges: The above referenced water main construction
charge applies only to property within the city limits. The water main
construction charge for property outside the city or for property being annexed
to the city shall be as set forth in the outside the city water service
contract or the annexation agreement. (Ord. 454, 5-7-1996, eff. 6-1-1996)
8-1-9: WATER SERVICE LINE INSTALLATION FEE:
   A.   Fees Established: At the time an applicant or customer applies for city
water service, a service line installation fee shall be charged. The service
line installation fee is intended to cover the costs incurred by the city in
installing the service line from the main to the curb stop. In no circumstance
shall the city be responsible for installation of service past the curb stop.
Effective December 1, 2003, the service line installation fee for the various
sizes of service lines shall be as follows:
1. Residential/business/commercial:
 3/4 inch             $ 800.00 plus $6.00 per linear foot
 1 inch               1,000.00 plus $8.00 per linear foot
2. Business/commercial:
 11/2 inch            2,000.00 plus $12.00 per linear foot
 2 inch               3,000.00 plus $16.00 per linear foot
3. Rock excavation     60.00 per cubic yard
4. Street surfacing    2.00 per square foot
 
(Ord. 454, 5-7-1996, eff. 6-1-1996; amd. Res. 108, 9-24-2003)
   B.   Annual Review; Cost Recovery:
      1.   Said fees and costs shall be reviewed yearly and revised by
resolution of the city council as required so that said fees and costs
adequately cover the costs actually incurred by the city in installing the
service lines or repair of service lines. These fees and charges are deemed
necessary. (Ord. 454, 5-7-1996, eff. 6-1-1996)
      2.   Should the line need to be replaced due to normal wear and tear or
unforeseen damage and the line size is increased at the request of the
applicant, costs shall be as indicated by the schedule for the additional cost.
For example, the difference between residential three-fourths inch (3/4") and
one inch (1") shall be two hundred dollars ($200.00). (Ord. 454, 5-7-1996, eff.
6-1-1996; amd. Res. 108, 9-24-2003)
8-1-10: CONNECTION FEES:
   A.   Fees:
      1.   Rates Established: The following fees shall be paid for water
connections:
 
                       Water Connection
                       First Unit Additional Unit
Single-family dwelling $1,300.00  n/a
Multi-family dwelling  1,300.00   $ 325.00
Townhouse              1,300.00   1,300.00
Business/commercial    1,300.00   325.00
 
(Per correspondence dated 7-20-2004; amd. Ord. 543, 5-5-2009)
      2.   Interpretation: For the purpose of this subsection A, the following
structures shall be described as follows:
         a.   Townhouses are individual residences within a single structure
characterized by separate ownership or anticipated separate ownership. Each
residence would be charged separately.
         b.   A condominium, while separately owned, is owned by a common
entity and shall be treated the same or in a similar manner as apartments.
         c.   A "separate structure" shall be defined as a structure with no
walls in common with another structure.
         d.   A trailer park is considered a multi-family dwelling. Expansion
of a trailer park shall be considered as a new application with the first lot
charged a first unit fee and each additional lot charged as an additional unit.
(Res. 114, 4-6-2004)
   B.   Payment; Applicability Of Fees:
      1.   The connection fees set forth above must be paid whenever service is
requested and subsequently provided to any dwelling, trailer house, business,
commercial building, or any other such building or establishment that does not
have a permit to connect to or actually is connected to the city's water system
on the effective date hereof. (Ord. 454, 5-7-1996, eff. 6-1-1996; amd. Res.
114, 4-6-2004; Ord. 543, 5-5-2009)
      2.   The above referenced connection fees will not apply to or be charged
against the reconstruction of any existing service line serving any existing
dwelling, building, etc. It is intended that this connection fee be charged
only where a new building is being constructed upon previously undeveloped
property.
      3.   These fees may be changed from time to time by resolution of the
city council as such changes are deemed necessary. (Ord. 454, 5-7-1996, eff. 6-
1-1996; amd. Res. 114, 4-6-2004)
   C.   Disposition Of Funds:
      1.   Water: The funds accumulated from these fees shall be used only to
provide the additional city well capacity, additional water line size or
capacity (above 8 inch diameter), and additional water line extensions as are
deemed necessary by the mayor and city council to serve the expanding water
system needs of the community. (Ord. 454, 5-7-1996, eff. 6-1-1996)
8-1-11: RATES; UTILITY DEPOSIT:
   A.   Deposit Required: Effective October 1, 2012, there is required a two
(2) month utility fee deposit for each residential, business, industrial and
rental property utility user.
For business and industrial users, the deposit shall be one- sixth (1/6) of the
average yearly fee, if established. If not so established, the amount shall be
two (2) months of the estimated monthly usage. The usage shall be estimated by
the city clerk using the current utility rates in effect. These deposits shall
apply to sanitation, sewer and water and any revenue bond(s). Any refund shall
reflect an offset for outstanding balances. The balance of any deposit shall be
returned to the person posting the deposit after the property has been
transferred to the new owner. Property owners are responsible for ongoing
utility services including revenue bonds until the new property owner takes
title to the property. No interest will be paid upon funds to be returned.
All utility deposits will be held for a period of twelve (12) months. If during
the twelve (12) consecutive months the account has not been delinquent sixty
(60) or more days, either before the enactment of this subsection or after, the
deposit will be refunded. If an account is delinquent more than sixty (60) days
and a water shutoff order is executed, a new deposit will be required to be
made at the current utility rates and the holding period starts anew.
For owners of duplexes, triplexes, fourplexes or more than two (2) single-
family rental units or multibusiness units, a single deposit equal to two (2)
months' utility billing for the unit having the highest monthly billing rate
will be required. The deposit can be used on one or all of the properties
owned.
If one or more of the accounts becomes delinquent and a shutoff notice is
executed, a deposit for each unit will be required using the current utility
rates. At the end of the twelve (12) month period, and all of the accounts are
current, the deposit will be refunded less the two (2) months' utility billing
for the unit having the highest monthly billing rate. (Ord. 2012-556, 7-17-
2012)
   B.   Flat Rates: The following monthly rates or such other monthly rates as
may be established and adopted by resolution of the city council from time to
time are hereby established by the city for customers located inside the city
limits. The public works director shall have the authority to categorize each
structure for the purpose of collection of fees.
User Category Water Rate
User Category                            Water Rate
Residential:                              
 Condominium cost per unit               
 Duplex - cost per unit                  
 Mobile homes (trailers)                 
 Rental apartments - cost per unit       
 Single-family dwellings                 
Each of the above would be considered as $23.25. $14.25 is for the fee and
1 each single-family unit, all at base   $9.00 is for the bond
rate per unit
 
   C.      Business/Commercial Categories:
User Category Water Rate
User Category                              Water Rate
Business/commercial category 1:             
 Estimated usage 0 to 10,000 gallons per   
  month:
  Barbers                                 
  Beauticians (less than 4 stations)      
  Certified public accountants            
  Daycare (daycare in a residence)        
    Financial institutions, including
  stockbrokers, financial planners,       
    banks, etc.
  Governmental offices (excluding jail    
    facilities)
  Insurance offices                       
  Law offices                             
  Light retail establishments (under      
    10,000 square feet total floor space)
  State and local agencies                
  Telecommunication offices               
  Title offices                           
 Each of the above base rate              $23.25. $14.25 is for the fee and
                                           $9.00 is for the bond
Business/commercial category 2:             
 Estimated usage 10,001 to 20,000 gallons  
  per month:
  Beauticians (4 or more stations)        
  Churches (under 20,000 square feet)     
  Daycare centers (not in residential     
    home)
  Dentists                                
  Doctors                                 
  Florists                                
  Funeral home                            
    Medium retail establishments (from
  10,000 to 20,000 square feet total      
    floor space)
  Publishers/newsprint                    
  Veterinary clinics                      
 Each of the above base rate              $45.50. $28.50 is for the fee and
                                           $18.00 is for the bond
Business/commercial category 3:             
 Estimated usage 20,001 to 30,000 gallons  
  per month:
  Auto dealerships                        
  Bars                                    
  Convenience stores                      
  Eating establishments (with seating     
    capacity)
  Jail facilities                         
  Nursing homes/rest homes                
  Service stations                        
  Supermarkets (under 20,000 square feet  
    total floor space)
  Tire stores                             
 Each of the above base rate              $69.75. $42.75 is for the fee and
                                           $27.00 is for the bond
Business/industrial category 5 (metered     
option):
  As provided in subsections 8-1-6A and B
 of this chapter, the following users      
  shall be metered at the city's option:
 Estimated usage 30,001 to 50,000 gallons  
  per month:
  Car wash facilities                     
  Churches (over 20,000 square feet)      
  Food processing plants                  
  Hotels                                  
  Laundromats                             
  Motels                                  
  Public school facilities                
  Supermarkets (over 20,000 square feet)  
  Water processing plants                 
 Each of the above base rate              $1.44/1,000 gallons. $45.00 for the
                                           bond, plus usage
Water use only:                             
 For water use over 50,000 gallons        $0.067/1,000 gallons
 
For water only, any metered business using less than fifty thousand (50,000)
and more than thirty thousand one (30,001) gallons each month shall be charged
at the rate set forth in category 5. Should monthly amount fall below the
category threshold, i.e., thirty thousand one (30,001) gallons in category 5,
that business shall be charged the base rate in the appropriate category. The
monthly fees shall not be prorated within the categories 1 through 3. Nothing
herein shall affect the bond charges currently in place. Usage shall be rounded
to the nearest one thousand (1,000) gallons. A water user may, at his expense,
and subject to the approval of the public works director, install a water meter
to determine the appropriate category. (Ord. 468, 12-16-1997, eff. 1-1-1999;
amd. Res. 108, 9-24-2003; Res. 116-A, 9-21-2004; Ord. 543, 5-5-2009)
   D.   Irrigation Or Sprinkling Rates:
      1.   Rates Established: In addition to the regular monthly charges for
the use of city water, the following annual rates are hereby established as
those to be charged to customers using city water for lawn sprinkling or
irrigation:
         a.   Less Than One-Half Acre: Eleven dollars ($11.00) for each lot,
business, premises, or property utilizing city water for lawn sprinkling or
other such irrigation use but having lawn or other such irrigated and/or
cultivated area measuring less than one- half (1/2) acre.
         b.   More Than One-Half Acre: Twenty six dollars ($26.00) per acre or
fraction thereof for each lot, business, premises or property with lawn or
other such irrigated and/or cultivated area measuring more than one-half (1/2)
acre.
      2.   Annual Statement: During the third quarter of each calendar year,
the city clerk shall furnish each property owner, landlord, or agent a
statement of the amount due for seasonal sprinkling or irrigation, such water
charges to be included on a regular utility statement and paid at the office of
the clerk prior to the tenth day of the month following such billing.
      3.   Ditch Water: Where ditch water is available and usable, the above
stated rates include the costs or rates for ditch water.
   E.   Rate Modification: The city council is authorized to modify the service
rates set forth above (flat rates, metered rates, and irrigation rates or
sprinkling rates) from time to time by resolution as such changes are deemed
necessary. (1980 Code § 4.6.22)
   F.   Bulk Water Rates 1 : The following fees shall become effective December
1, 2003:
 
Meter installation fee  $20.00
Reinstallation fee      $20.00 additional
Rate after installation $1.35 per 1,000 gallons
 
(Res. 108, 9-24-2003)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 8-1-6H of this chapter.
8-1-12: BUSINESS DEFINED FOR WATER RATE DETERMINATION:
   A.   Single Business: The following shall be used in determining the
definition of "business", for the purpose of determining water rates:
      1.   Where a single business falls within two (2) business categories,
the business shall pay the higher of two (2) rates. Similarly, a single
business falling into two (2) subdivisions of a single category, e.g., law
office and title office, shall pay a single fee, as long as it is a single
business.
      2.   A "single business" shall be defined as a commercial entity under a
single ownership and control contained within a single structure. In
determining whether a commercial entity is a single business or multiple
business, the city shall consider, but is not limited to, the following
factors:
         a.   How it is treated for taxation purposes.
         b.   Legal status of the business, i.e., corporation, partnership,
sole proprietorship, limited liability company, or professional limited
liability company.
         c.   Telephone number.
         d.   Advertisements.
         e.   How it holds itself out to the public.
         f.   Water consumption.
         g.   Any other factor.
         h.   Whether rent, if any, is paid from a single source. (Res. 65, 5-
20-1997)
   B.   Multiple Business: A "multiple business" is defined as a business
without common financial interest or instances of ownership. Multiple business
use must fall under the definition as defined by subsection
8-1-11C of this chapter, "business/commercial category 1". Business use not
defined under subsection
8-1-11C of this chapter, will be charged based on their classification for that
business only. The building must service more than one business with restrooms
being shared among the businesses. Residential use as defined by this code,
does not fall under multiple business.
The fee for a building having multiple business shall be assessed at the rate
of a single category 1 business for the first business plus the rate as set by
city resolution for each subsequent business for water and sewer service only.
(Ord. 2011-549, 3-15-2011)
8-1-13: MULTIPLE WATER LINES OR CURB STOPS; ADDITIONAL CHARGE:
It has come to the attention of the city that some residences are served by
more than one line from the water main and/or more than one curb stop. The city
does not encourage such connections, but recognizes some have been allowed in
the past. As a result of increased water consumption, these homes served by one
or both of the above systems shall be charged an additional fourteen dollars
twenty five cents ($14.25) per month for each month or part thereof the
additional line is in operation, and said homeowner shall be responsible for
notifying the city at the time of use, of both start and termination, of use of
the additional line. (Ord. 457, 8-20-1996; amd. Res. 108, 9-24-2003; Res. 116-
A, 9-21-2004)
8-1-14: WATER SYSTEM IMPROVEMENT FUND:
   A.   Fund Established; Disbursement: There is hereby established a water
system improvement fund to be maintained by the city clerk in managing the
fiscal affairs of the city. All revenues derived from the charging of any fees,
charges, or rates, as such are set forth herein shall be deposited in said fund
and shall be disbursed only for the purposes of maintaining, repairing,
studying, controlling, enlarging, extending, enhancing, or improving the water
system of the city. (1980 Code § 4.6.23)
8-1-15: BILLING PROCEDURE AND PERIODS:
   A.   Issuance Of Bills: Accounts shall be charged a monthly rate in
accordance with the rate schedule found in section
8-1-11 of this chapter (or as such may hereinafter be amended and revised by
the city council) and said bill may be included separately or in conjunction
with the monthly or bimonthly sewer bill or garbage bill.
   B.   Liability For Payment: The city clerk shall furnish to each property
owner, landlord, or other such authorized agent, a monthly or bimonthly
statement of the amount due for water for that month. The failure of any water
user to receive said statement will in no way affect the obligation of the user
to remit monthly or bimonthly as such may be required. Nothing in this chapter
shall be construed as relieving a landowner of liability for nonpayment of
billing. A landowner's agreement with his tenants or lessees will not bind the
city without specific authorization from the city.
   C.   Proration Of Cost: The initial billing for premises occupied less than
one month shall cover only that portion of the month during which the premises
were actually occupied. (Ord. 432, 5-19-1994)
   D.   Due Date: Bills rendered for water service are payable upon receipt and
become past due ten (10) days from the date on which rendered. When the past
due date falls on a legal holiday or on a day when city offices are not open
for business, the next regular business day is considered the past due date.
When remittances are made by mail, bills shall be deemed paid on the date the
city has received the payment. (1980 Code § 4.6.25; amd. Ord. 543, 5-5-2009)
8-1-16: DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS:
   A.   Discontinuance Of Service For Nonpayment:
      1.   Shut Off Order: When bills are not paid within thirty (30) days from
the past due date, the city clerk shall issue an order to shut off and
discontinue service to such delinquent customers, unless payment is received
within ten (10) days.
      2.   Fee For Restoration Of Service: In case service is discontinued for
delinquency, it shall not be restored until the delinquency is paid, or
arrangements for the payment of said delinquency has been approved by the city
clerk, together with the collection of a fee of fifteen dollars ($15.00) for
discontinuing and restoring service. The fee of fifteen dollars ($15.00) shall
be payable whenever a service trip is made for the purpose of discontinuing
water service because of nonpayment even though an actual shutoff may not have
actually occurred.
   B.   Time Period For Payment; Minimum Payment: Said time periods for payment
of delinquency shall begin not later than ten (10) days after notice of
delinquency. While the terms of the payment are within the discretion of the
City Clerk and/or Public Works Director, there shall be a minimum payment of
one-third (1/3) of the arrearages plus any current or accruing costs prior to
reinstatement of water or avoidance of shutoff.
   C.   Multiple Housing Units: In cases where a single line or turnoff serves
multiple housing units, such as in apartments or duplexes or triplexes,
delinquent payment of one account will be deemed permission by the City to
install a valve to shut off water and bill the landowner for costs of
installation. Water will not be restored until all accounts are brought
current. Should the landowner deny the City entry, the City may shut off all
water. Nothing herein limits the ability of the City to pursue all other legal
remedies against the landowner. (Ord. 432, 5-19-1994; amd. 1999 Code)
8-1-17: VACATION OR SHUT DOWN RATES:
(Rep. by Res. 108, 9-24-2003)
8-1-18: WATER SERVICE SHUTOFF AND TURN ON FEES:
When any person determines that his home, business, etc., is going to be
vacant, not used, or shut down for an extended period of time, he may notify
the City Hall that he wants the water service to said home, business, etc.,
discontinued and shut off. A shutoff fee of fifteen dollars ($15.00) will be
charged for this permanent or semipermanent discontinuance of water service. A
turn on fee of fifteen dollars ($15.00) will subsequently be charged when it is
requested that water service be reestablished to said home, business, etc. Said
fees are irrespective of the reason for the shutoff or turn-on, other than for
repairs of water service. (Ord. 457, 8-20-1996)
8-1-19: SERVICE CALL CHARGE:
The Public Works Director may require a service charge, in an amount not to
exceed the actual cost to the City, for service calls which are requested and
which are only for the convenience and benefit of the customer. (1980 Code §
4.6.31; amd. 1999 Code)
8-1-20: WATER SERVICE AND RATES OUTSIDE CITY:
   A.   Service Contract Required: The Public Works Director shall not provide
any water service to any consumer whose residence or place of business is
outside of the corporate limits of the City until an "outside-the-City water
service contract" has been executed between the consumer and the City. (1980
Code § 4.6.33; amd. 1999 Code)
   B.   Service Rates: The following monthly rates are hereby designated as
those to be charged for water furnished outside the City limits, whether
metered or nonmetered, namely: two (2) times the rates charged for water
furnished inside the City limits. The water connection fee (section
8-1-10 of this chapter) and the water service line installation fee (section
8-1-9 of this chapter) shall be the same irrespective of whether they are
"inside of" or "outside of" the City. (1980 Code § 4.6.32)
8-1-21: FIRE SERVICE CONNECTION:
   A.   Installation: Any fire service connection between the City water main
and the adjacent property line shall be installed and maintained by the Public
Works Director at the expense of the owner or occupant of the premises so
served, and shall be the property of the City.
   B.   Filing Of Plans; Requirements Specified: At the time of making
application for said fire service connection, the applicant shall file with the
Public Works Director detailed plans showing all piping installed or to be
installed for fire protection, all fire gates, automatic sprinklers and all
other outlets, gates or appurtenances. Each fire service connection shall have
a gate valve with an adequate valve box installed between the City water main
and the property line of the premises served. No fire service connection larger
than six inches (6") shall be installed without a special analysis of the City
water main system and pressure in the vicinity of the requested fire service
connection to determine whether or not the water main system can adequately
provide the fire flow requirements for said fire service connection. This water
main analysis and any adjacent water main reconstruction required to provide
adequate water main size or pressure for the fire service connection shall be
paid for by the owner or occupant of the premises requesting said fire service
connection.
   C.   Determine Charge: Upon receipt of an application for a fire service
connection, the Public Works Director shall determine the charge to be made for
the installation of said fire service, taking into consideration the length and
size of pipe, condition of street and sidewalk, all relative to the character
of service, and the charge for said fire service connection shall be paid for
by the applicant before said installation shall be made. (1980 Code § 4.6.34;
amd. 1999 Code)
8-1-22: FIRE HYDRANTS:
   A.   Authority Of Public Works Director: All public fire hydrants shall be
kept in repair by the Public Works Director. Members of the Fire Department and
such other persons as may be authorized shall have free access to such
hydrants. No other person shall draw or attempt to draw any water from a fire
hydrant unless he is an authorized employee of the City or has the written
permission of Public Works Director to do so. The Public Works Director may
assess an equitable charge for water drawn from the fire hydrant and shall
designate what system or arrangement or valves, vacuum breakers, etc., are
required in conjunction with the use of said hydrants.
   B.   Obstructing Hydrants Prohibited: No person shall obstruct the approach
to a fire hydrant, or place or allow to be placed, any obstructions within a
distance of three feet (3') from a fire hydrant.
   C.   Liability For Damage To Hydrants: No person shall wilfully or
carelessly drive or run any vehicle against any fire hydrant or park any
vehicle within fifteen feet (15') of any fire hydrant. Any person who shall
injure or damage any fire hydrant by accident, or by carelessness, or
otherwise, shall immediately report such injury or damage to the Public Works
Director and such person so injuring or damaging said hydrant shall be liable
for any damage caused thereby. (1980 Code § 4.6.35; amd. 1999 Code)
8-1-23: WATER SERVICE LINES:
   A.   Installation And Maintenance:
      1.   When a permit for a water service connection has been granted, the
corporation valve and connection at the main, and the service line pipe from
the main to and including the curb stop valve shall be installed by the City at
the expense of the customer, but thereafter shall be maintained by and at the
expense of the Water Department and kept within and under its exclusive control
and jurisdiction. All water service lines and connections within any public
right-of-way or easement shall be constructed by the City, except that water
service lines and connections within new subdivisions may be installed as part
of the construction of the new water main system within said subdivision; and
provided further, that said water service lines and connections are
constructed, inspected, tested, and certified as being in conformance with the
City standard drawings and standard specifications governing the construction
of water service lines and connections.
      2.   Water service lines may also be constructed by contract in
conjunction with City sponsored projects or when, in the opinion of the Public
Works Director, it is in the City's best interests to have or to allow said
water service lines to be installed by other than City personnel.
   B.   Independent Lines And Valves Required: The service line(s) and customer
line(s) shall be so arranged that the water supply to each individual building,
place of business, or tract of land shall be controlled by a separate service
line, curb stop (placed near the property line) and customer line. The customer
service line shall be controlled by a shut-off valve located within the
building but as near as practical to the point where the water service line
enters the building.
   C.   Service Pits: When a new home and/or a new commercial building either
in a subdivision or on a vacant lot is being constructed which requires a new
service line, the owner (or developer) shall install a service pit and water
meter (as specified by the City) at their expense. When a new service line is
installed from the main water line to the curb stop, a service pit must be
installed, as directed by the Public Works Director.
   D.   Existing Branch Service Lines: Where water is now supplied through one
service line to several customers (branch service lines), the City, by
resolution of its Council, may decline to continue to so furnish water until
separate service lines are provided at the owner's expense. Where more than one
dwelling is served from one such service line, the established rate shall be
charged for each customer in the same manner as if each did, in fact, have an
individual water service line.
   E.   Length Of Service Line:
      1.   Where the water main is in a public right-of-way, the curb stop
shall be placed at the right-of-way line nearest the property to be served for
the standard service line installation fee, provided the length of said service
line does not exceed the width of the right-of-way.
      2.   Where the main is on private property, the maximum length of service
line furnished and installed by the City for the standard service line
installation fee shall be thirty feet (30').
      3.   If, in either case cited above, the length of service line exceeds
the maximum stated, an additional charge shall be made. This charge shall be
based on the actual cost to the City to install the extra length of water
service pipe as such is determined by the Public Works Director.
   F.   Customer Line Maintenance: All water users shall keep their customer
lines, connections, and other appurtenances in good repair and shall protect
such from frost at their own expense, and in such condition that they shall not
waste or permit the waste of water. (Ord. 2018-593, 2-15-2018)
8-1-24: EXCAVATION PERMIT REQUIRED 1 :
No person shall dig into any street, or under any sidewalk, or any alley, or in
any easement for the purpose of laying, removing or repairing any customer
line, without having first obtained the proper permit(s) or approval(s) from
the Public Works Director and Digline must be contacted prior to digging.
Customer may be required to pay line location fees. (1980 Code § 4.6.41; amd.
1999 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 7, chapter 3 of this Code.
8-1-25: PLUMBING CONNECTIONS OR CHANGES; PERMISSION REQUIRED:
No plumber or other person shall be allowed to make any connections with or to
the City water mains, or to make alterations in any conduit, pipe, or other
fixture connecting therewith, or to connect pipes where they have been
disconnected, or to turn water off or on at the curb stop controlling the water
supply to any premises without having first obtained permission from the public
works director to do or to perform such actions. (1980 Code § 4.6.42; amd. 1999
Code)
8-1-26: WATER SYSTEM MATERIALS AND INSTALLATION:
   A.   All water main pipe shall be ductile iron or polyvinyl chloride (PVC) -
AWWA C900, C905, or C909.
   B.   All water main fittings, e.g., tees, crosses, bends, etc., shall be
ductile iron.
   C.   All water main materials and installation shall be in accordance with
the city standard specifications for the construction of water lines and the
applicable standard drawings depicting various water main installation details.
A minimum shall be the following:
      1.   Pipe Bury Depth: Sixty inches (60") minimum.
      2.   Pipe Bedding Material:
         a.   Material: Three-quarter inch (3/4") sixty percent (60%) crushed
or fractured gravel and sand meeting the following graduation:
 
Sieve Size Percent Passing
3/4 inch   100 to 80
3/8 inch   70 to 20
No. 4      20 to 5
No. 200    3 to 0
 
Bedding material may be created from excavated material by screening, sifting,
or blending.
         b.   Bedding System: Four inches (4") below and six inches (6") above
pipe.
         c.   Bedding Compaction: Ninety two percent (92%) relative density
(AASHTO T99) minimum.
      3.   Full Trench Compactive Effort:
         a.   Ninety five percent (95%) density (AASHTO T99) minimum within
three feet (3') of an asphalted service or within a currently traveled or
proposed or future traveled graveled or asphalted roadway.
         b.   Ninety two percent (92%) relative density (AASHTO T99) minimum
outside of the three foot (3') roadway prism and within existing or future
right of way.
      4.   Surface Restoration:
         a.   Asphalted Surface:
            (1)   Subbase: A minimum of eight inches (8") of city approved
three-quarters inch (3/4") minus road base compacted to ninety five percent
(95%) relative density (AASHTO T99) or match existing, whichever is greater.
            (2)   Asphalt Mat: A minimum of two and one-half inch (2.5")
compacted asphalt of city approved hot plant mix or match existing, whichever
is greater.
         b.   Nonasphalted Surfaces:
            (1)   Subbase And Surface: A minimum of six inches (6") of city
approved three-quarters inch (3/4") minus road base compacted to ninety five
percent (95%) relative density (AASHTO T99) or match existing, whichever is
greater.
         c.   Agriculture Or Pasture Surfaces: Match existing.
   D.   All water service line materials and installations shall be in
accordance with the city standard specifications for the construction of water
lines and the applicable standard drawings depicting the various water service
line installation details. (1980 Code § 4.6.44)
   E.   All water system materials shall be of the class, strength and
thickness necessary to safely accommodate or provide for a water system
pressure of a minimum of two hundred (200) psi.
   F.   All water system materials shall be of the class, strength, thickness,
etc., necessary to accommodate or provide for the depth of cover over the pipe,
the type of material and bedding around the pipe, and the type, magnitude, and
extent of the external loads being applied to the pipe. (1980 Code § 4.6.44)
   G.   All materials must be approved by both the public works director and
appointed city engineer. (Ord. 510, 6-22-2004, eff. 6-22-2004; amd. Ord. 2025-
650, 1-23-2025)
8-1-27: WATER SYSTEM DESIGN:
   A.   All water line plans must be designed and sealed by a registered
licensed professional engineer in the state of Idaho.
   B.   All water lines and water wells shall be designed in accordance with
requirements of water resources or department of environmental quality as
required by law.
   C.   Minimum water main size shall be six inch (6") diameter. Larger sizes
shall be as required by the city's water main master plan or as are needed to
provide adequate water quantity and pressure to the area (and surrounding
developable area) being developed and/or annexed to the city.
   D.   Water lines shall have at least five feet (5') of cover (from the top
of water line pipe to the ground or street surface).
   E.   All dead end water lines shall have a fire hydrant or approved type of
flush out valve installed on the end thereof.
   F.   Fire hydrants shall be located no more than four hundred feet (400')
apart within residential areas. Within commercial or industrial areas, there
shall be one fire hydrant for every eighty thousand (80,000) square feet of
subdivision or development area (including streets and alleys) with the fire
hydrants located in proximity to the buildings as approved by the public works
director. Sprinkling systems may be required within the interiors of buildings
having a high potential fire hazard or fire risk.
   G.   Water lines shall be valved at every intersection so that every block
of city water line can be shut off and isolated from the rest of the water
system to facilitate maintenance and repair work while keeping public
inconvenience to a minimum. Where blocks are exceptionally long, additional
valves shall be installed at such additional approved locations as are
necessary so that no more than a six hundred foot (600') length of water line
has to be shut off or out of service at any one time to accommodate repairs,
etc.
   H.   Water lines and sanitary sewer lines shall, whenever possible, be
located on opposite sides of the street. Preferably, water lines shall be
located thirteen feet (13') west or north of the street centerline and the
sanitary sewer at thirteen feet (13') east or south of the street centerline.
Where storm drains are needed, these shall preferably be located along the
street centerline. The above referenced locations and dimensions may be varied
to accommodate unusual circumstances; however, a ten foot (10') (out to out)
horizontal separation between water line facilities and sewer facilities
(either sanitary or storm) and an eighteen inch (18") (out to out) vertical
separation between said facilities shall always be maintained unless a specific
variance to this requirement is obtained from the Public Works Director. The
applicable separation requirements of Water Resources or Department of
Environmental Quality as required by law shall also be complied with.
   I.   All drawings shall be on linen or mylar in pencil or ink, and of such
quality that they clearly show the dimensions, locations, sizes, etc., of all
facilities represented thereon. All water line appurtenances shall be clearly
shown and identified by name and by station or other means of horizontal
location. Water lines shall be shown in both plan and profile if other
utilities such as sanitary sewer or storm drain will be adjacent to said water
line. If a profile of the water line is not provided, it shall be located in
the vertical plane by elevations on the top of the pipe at all fittings,
valves, etc., and at intervals not exceeding two hundred feet (200'). Drawings
shall be drawn on a scale of one inch equals one hundred feet (1" = 100'),
unless the amount of detail, topography, etc., necessitates their being drawn
on a larger scale (i.e., one inch equals 50 feet or one inch equals 40 feet) to
provide the clarity and completeness needed on the drawings.
   J.   The design of all water lines and all water line plans must be approved
by the Public Works Director. (1980 Code § 4.6.45; amd. 1999 Code)
8-1-28: AS-BUILT DRAWINGS; CERTIFICATION:
   A.   As-built or record drawings of water line plans shall be prepared by a
professional engineer and the corrected original drawings or a duplicate mylar
copy of the corrected original drawings shall be provided to the City.
   B.   As-built plans shall include a certification thereon signed by the
registered professional engineer in charge of the work that the as-built
drawings of the water lines are true and correct and that he (the registered
professional engineer) has inspected the construction of the water line
installation and that the materials and installation of same was all done in
conformance with the City standard specification for water line construction.
(1980 Code § 4.6.46)
8-1-29: OWNER OR DEVELOPER RESPONSIBLE FOR WATER LINES:
   A.   The owner or developer of any piece of property or tract of land is
responsible for the construction of the water line (or for the water line
costs) along any of the property sides or frontages of the property along which
a water line is needed for the overall completeness and continuity of the
City's water main system. If it is a large tract of land, the owner or
developer of said land shall also be responsible for the necessary and required
system of water lines within the interior of the tract of land.
   B.   The owner or developer of any piece of property shall construct all
needed water lines (of the approved size) within and along all sides or
frontages of any piece of property prior to the time any building constructed
thereon is occupied or utilized unless "phased" construction of the water main
system is specifically allowed or provided for in the annexation or development
agreement. In lieu of actually constructing said required water line or water
lines, the property owner or developer may deposit adequate monies with the
City to fully cover the costs of said required water line construction.
   C.   The owner or developer of any property or subdivision will normally be
responsible only for the cost of up to an eight inch (8") diameter water line.
The additional cost of providing a water line of a diameter or size greater
than eight inches (8") will normally be a City responsibility. The City will
reimburse the developer for the extra cost of the additional water line size
(over the 8 inch diameter size referenced above) as set forth in the annexation
or development agreement between the developer and the City. Provided, however,
that if proposed subdivision or development is of such size or magnitude that
it requires a water main size larger than eight inches (8") in diameter, then
the owner or developer of said subdivision or development shall be responsible
for the entire cost of whatever size of water main is required for said
subdivision or development.
   D.   If the property owner or developer owns or is developing the property
on only one side (as compared to both sides) of any street, alley, or easement
where a water line is located or required, he shall be responsible for only
one-half (1/2) of the cost of said water line while the property owners on the
other side of said street, alley, or easement shall be responsible for the
other half of the cost of said water line construction. However, in the absence
of any mutual agreement between the two (2) (or more) property owners, the City
will participate with the first owner or developer to the extent of paying for
one-half (1/2) the cost of up to an eight inch (8") diameter water line along
or across said referenced property frontage. The second (or other) property
owners will thereafter be responsible for reimbursing the city for his half of
the costs of this water line construction at the time he (the other adjacent
property owner or developer) began to develop or build upon his property that
is adjacent to the water line installed by the first property owner. (1980 Code
§ 4.6.47)
   E.   Provided further, however, that if the water line construction is for
an area or a development that is outside of the city limits or if the length of
water line construction in which the city would be participating (as referred
to above) exceeds one thousand (1,000) linear feet, the city may decline to
participate in the cost of said water line construction except to pay for the
extra cost differential between an eight inch (8") diameter line and the actual
size of line that the city designates shall be installed to meet its master
plan requirements. When this situation or set of circumstances exists, the
property owner or developer who first initiates or actually begins the
development of his property shall be responsible for "front ending" the entire
cost of the water line construction and for actually constructing said water
line. The second (or both) property owners will thereafter be responsible for
reimbursing the first property owner for his share of the costs of the water
line construction along his frontage at the time he (the other adjacent
property owner or developer) begins to develop or build upon his property
adjacent to the water line installed by the first property owner. In the
absence of any agreement between the first property owner or developer and the
other adjacent property owners or developers covering the cost of said water
lines, the referenced other adjacent property owners or developers shall pay to
the city the amount of twelve dollars ($12.00) per linear foot (or such other
amount as the city council may hereinafter establish and adopt by resolution)
for the length of water line across his frontage. The city, in turn, will
reimburse the same amount to the first party, which reimbursement shall be
deemed adequate and appropriate compensation for his share of the cost of said
water line. (1980 Code § 4.6.47; amd. 1999 Code)
8-1-30: CITY NOT LIABLE FOR DAMAGES:
The city shall not be liable for damages caused by scarcity of water caused by
the interruptions of water supply due to accidents to the waterworks or mains
or interruptions during the time of alterations, additions, or repairs to the
water system or for any other unavoidable causes. (1980 Code § 4.6.4)
8-1-31: WASTE OF WATER PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any water user to waste water or allow it to be wasted
by improper use or by faulty facilities. Irrigation by open hoses is
prohibited; except that an open hose may be used if same is "handheld". (1980
Code § 4.6.7)
8-1-32: WATER CONSERVATION:
   A.   Alternate Day Watering: It shall be unlawful for any person to utilize
water from the city of Rigby water supply system for the watering of lawns or
landscaping except on an alternate day basis.
   B.   Watering Days Specified: Further, for those properties in the city that
utilize water from the city of Rigby water supply system the sprinkling of
lawns shall be restricted to Monday, Wednesday and Friday for addresses ending
in odd numbers and Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday for addresses ending in even
numbers of each week. Sunday is a free watering day for all residents.
   C.   Hours: No watering shall be permitted between the hours of twelve
o'clock (12:00) noon and two o'clock (2:00) P.M.
   D.   Landscape Irrigation: Landscape irrigation for the purpose of watering
newly planted grass and foliage may be implemented for the first forty five
(45) days after initial installation.
   E.   Wasting Of Water: It shall also be unlawful to operate or cause the
operation of any irrigation system or device in a manner causing water to be
wasted, including, but not limited to, unnecessary watering of impervious
areas, other than that which may occur incidental to the proper operation of
the primary irrigation system.
   F.   Penalties: For the first violation prohibited by this section a
citation will be issued in the amount of twenty five dollars ($25.00). For the
second violation the penalty shall double; and for each subsequent violation
the penalty shall be doubled from that of the former.
   G.   Emergency: The mayor of the city of Rigby is empowered to declare an
emergency and to limit the use of all or any part of the public water system in
the event the supply or pressure of the water in the water supply system should
for any reason become diminished or in danger of becoming diminished and for
the protection of the health, safety or welfare of the residents of the city.
   H.   Levels Of Emergency: Upon the declaration of an emergency, the mayor
may invoke any or all of the following levels of emergencies which shall become
effective immediately and shall be followed thereafter by the passage of a
resolution by the city council formalizing the emergency steps taken by the
mayor as follows:
      1.   Vehicle Washing Prohibited: Vehicle washing shall include washing
cars, trucks, campers, trailers and boats. This restriction shall not include
commercial car wash facilities.
      2.   Nonconsumptive Use Prohibited: Nonconsumptive uses shall include any
domestic use of water other than culinary, bathing, or health related purposes
by residential users and water required for production by commercial customers.
      3.   As Deemed Necessary: As the city council deems is necessary and in
the best interest of the residents of the city. (Ord. 2013-559, 4-16-2013)
8-1-33: FREE ACCESS FOR INSPECTION OF PREMISES:
Free access for inspection shall, upon such reasonable notice as the
circumstances permit, be allowed to the public works director or to any other
authorized person to all places supplied with water from the city water system.
(1980 Code § 4.6.9; amd. 1999 Code)
8-1-34: TAMPERING WITH WATER SYSTEM OR APPURTENANCES:
It shall be unlawful to disturb, destroy, damage, adjust, molest, meddle or
otherwise interfere with any portion of the city water system or appurtenances
located in either public or private property. Should any damage result, either
intentionally or unintentionally, from handling or otherwise tampering with the
water system, the violator shall pay for all costs incurred in connection with
the repairs of said system and/or for any damages that may result from the
tampering with or shutoff of said water system. (1980 Code § 4.6.43)
8-1-35: CITATION FOR VIOLATION:
   A.   Service Of Notice To Appear: Whenever it is determined by any police
officer or other duly authorized officer that any person has violated any
provisions of this chapter, the said officer shall provide in quadruplicate and
serve upon such person a written citation containing a notice to appear in a
designated court of competent jurisdiction within the city. This citation shall
contain the name and address of the person charged, the offense charged, the
time and place when and where the offense charged occurred, and the time when
the person charged shall appear in said court, and such other pertinent
information as may be necessary; and such person shall appear in said court
within five (5) days after such citation is issued and served. The issuance of
a citation shall not be the exclusive method of summoning offenders hereunder.
(1980 Code § 4.6.48)
   B.   Failure To Appear: It shall be unlawful for any person to fail or
neglect to appear in response to and as required by the citation regardless of
the disposition of the charge upon which such citation was originally issued.
Appearance in court shall be deemed complied with upon appearance by the person
cited or his attorney. (1980 Code § 4.6.49)
8-1-36: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, subject to penalty as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day that the violation continues shall be considered a
separate offense. (1980 Code § 4.6.50; amd. 1999 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SEWER USE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-2-1: Purpose And Definition Of Terms
8-2-2: Connection To Sanitary Sewer Required
8-2-3: Duties Of The Public Works Director Regarding Side Sewers
8-2-4: Prohibited Discharges
8-2-5: Local Limits
8-2-6: Right Of Revision
8-2-7: Dilution
8-2-8: Approval Required For Abnormal Wastewater Discharges
8-2-9: Special Agreements
8-2-10: Industrial Wastewater Discharge Permit Requirements
8-2-11: Refusal Of Use Of System
8-2-12: Independent Sewer Service Line Required
8-2-13: Existing Branch Service Lines
8-2-14: Injury To Or Tampering With Sanitary Sewer System Unlawful
8-2-15: Storm Water Discharge To Storm Drain
8-2-16: Interceptor Or Removal Facilities Required To Remove Harmful
Ingredients
8-2-17: Permits Required
8-2-18: Excavation Permit Required
8-2-19: Side Sewer Extension Or Repair Permit Required
8-2-20: Installation And Maintenance Of Sewer Service Line
8-2-21: Right To Revoke Permissions
8-2-22: Sewer Construction, Plan, Specifications, And Inspection
8-2-23: Right To Enter Premises For Inspection
8-2-24: Extension Of Sewer Mains Within City
8-2-25: Extension Of Sewer Mains In Areas Contiguous To City
8-2-26: Extension Of Sewer Lines Outside City
8-2-27: Sewer Service Outside The City
8-2-28: System Of Charges
8-2-29: Sewer Connection Fee
8-2-30: Sewer Main Construction Charge
8-2-31: Service Line Installation Fee
8-2-32: Service Call Charge
8-2-33: Monthly Sewer Rates
8-2-34: Metered Service
8-2-35: Outside The City Sewer Rates
8-2-36: RV Dump Station Sewer Rates
8-2-37: Billing Procedure And Periods
8-2-38: Due Date
8-2-39: Delinquent Accounts
8-2-40: Wastewater Collection And Treatment System Improvement Fund
8-2-41: Sewer System Materials And Installations
8-2-42: Sewer System Design
8-2-43: “As Built” Drawings And Engineer’s Certification
8-2-44: Subdivision Developer Or Property Owner Responsibility For Sewer Lines
And Lift Stations
8-2-45: Citation; Appearance
8-2-46: Failure To Appear Unlawful
8-2-47: Penalties
8-2-48: Conflicts
8-2-1: PURPOSE AND DEFINITION OF TERMS:
   A.   Purpose: This chapter sets forth uniform requirements for users of the
POTW for the City of Rigby and enables the City to comply with all applicable
State and Federal laws including the Clean Water Act and the General
Pretreatment Regulations (40 CFR, Part 403). The objectives of this chapter
are:
      1.   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the POTW that will
interfere with the operation of the POTW;
      2.   To prevent the passage of pollutants through the POTW, inadequately
treated, into receiving waters or the atmosphere or otherwise be incompatible
with the POTW;
      3.   To improve the opportunity to recycle and reclaim wastewaters and
sludges from the system;
      4.   To protect POTW personnel who may be affected by wastewater and
sludge in the course of their employment and to protect the general public;
      5.   To establish an equitable distribution of the cost of operating the
POTW;
      6.   To establish an equitable means, through the collection of a sewer
main connection fee, of requiring persons connecting to an existing sewer main
which directly benefits their property, to participate in the costs of
installing such main; and
      7.   To establish an equitable means through a sewer service connection
fee of requiring persons who connect to the sanitary sewer system and the
wastewater treatment section
8-1-5 plant to participate in the capital costs of constructing the entire
system and to pay the direct costs of making such connection.
   B.   Definitions: Terms used in this chapter shall have the meanings herein
given to them.
ACT:                   The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as the Clean Water Act, as
                       amended, 33 U.S.C. § 1251, et seq.
                       For any specified pollutant, City pretreatment standards, State of Idaho
APPLICABLE:            pretreatment standards, or EPA's Categorical Pretreatment Standards, whichever
                       standard is appropriate or most stringent.
APPROVAL AUTHORITY:    The Idaho Department of Environmental Quality is the authorized approval authority
                       for the City's IPDES permit and pretreatment program.
BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN     The quantity of oxygen utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under
DEMAND (BOD):          standard laboratory procedures for five (5) days at twenty degrees centigrade
                       (20°C), usually expressed as a concentration (e.g., mg/l).
                       That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage system which receives the
BUILDING DRAIN:        discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes inside the walls of the
                       building and conveys it to the side sewer which begins two feet (2') outside the
                       outer face of the building wall.
CITY:                  The City of Rigby.
CLEAN WATER ACT:       The Clean Water Act of 1977 as codified in 33 U.S.C. § 1251 et. seq.
                       The optical density at the visual wave length of maximum absorption, relative to
COLOR:                 distilled water. One hundred percent (100%) transmittance is equivalent to zero
                       (0.0) optical density.
COMBINED SEWER:        A sewer receiving both surface runoff (storm drainage) and wastewater (sanitary
                       sewage).
                       Any structure built for the support, shelter, or enclosure of persons, animals,
COMMERCIAL BUILDING:   chattels, or property of any kind or for any type of business or enterprise or for
                       any other purposes not otherwise described or covered under "dwellings" as defined
                       herein.
                       Water used for cooling which does not come into direct contact with any raw
COOLING WATER:         material, intermediate product, waste product, or finished product. Cooling water
                       may be generated from any use, such as air conditioning, heat exchangers, cooling or
                       refrigeration to which the only pollutant added is heat.
                       The standards used to design a public sanitary or storm sewer system within the
                       incorporated municipal city limits. These standards can be used for a public
                       sanitary and storm sewer system outside of the incorporated municipal city limits
                       when such development construction is within the established area of impact and/or
DESIGN STANDARDS:      final treatment of such sewage will be completed by the City. These standards
                       include, but are not limited to, all parts of the following: the State of Idaho
                       administrative code IDAPA 58.01.16, the "Idaho Standards For Public Works
                       Construction" (latest edition), and the City approved "Design Standards For Public
                       Sanitary And Storm Sewer Systems" (current edition).
DISCHARGE:             The discharge of a liquid, gas, or other substance to the sanitary sewer system.
DWELLINGS:
   Auto Court,
   Motor Court,     The combination or group of two (2) or more dwelling units occupying a building site
   Travel Trailer   or area under one ownership, used for the purpose of furnishing transient living
   Court, Motel,    accommodations.
   Hotel, Etc.:
   Duplex:          A building designed, built, rented, or leased for occupancy by two (2) families
                       living independently of each other.
   Multiple-Family  Any building or portion thereof which is designed, built, rented, leased, let, or
Dwelling               hired out to be occupied or which is occupied as the home or residence of three (3)
   Or               or more families or persons living independently of each other and doing their own
   Apartment House: cooking within the premises, which shall include townhouses or condominiums.
   Single-Family    A building designed for or occupied by one family for living or sleeping purposes,
Dwelling:              and having one kitchen or set of cooking facilities.
   Trailer House    Any vehicle used or so constructed as to permit it being used as a conveyance upon
   Or Mobile Home:  the public streets or highways and constructed in such a manner as will permit
                       occupancy thereof as a dwelling or sleeping place for one or more persons.
ENVIRONMENTAL          The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency or, where appropriate, the Regional Water
PROTECTION AGENCY      Management Division Director, the Regional Administrator, or other duly authorized
(EPA):                 official of said agency.
GARBAGE:               The residue from the preparation and dispensing of food, and from the handling,
                       storage, and sale of food products and produce.
                       The residue from the preparation, cooking and dispensing of food that has been
GROUND GARBAGE:        shredded to such degree that all particles will be carried freely in suspension
                       under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public sewers with no particle
                       greater than one-half inch (1/2") in any dimension.
IDAHO POLLUTANT        The discharge permit for the publicly owned treatment works issued by the State of
DISCHARGE ELIMINATION  Idaho.
SYSTEM (IPDES):
                       A discharge that, alone or in conjunction with a discharge or discharges from other
                       sources, inhibits or disrupts the POTW, its treatment processes or operations or its
                       sludge processes, use or disposal; and therefore, is a cause of a violation of the
                       City's IPDES permit or of the prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal in
                       compliance with any of the following statutory/regulatory provisions or permits
INTERFERENCE:          issued thereunder, or any more stringent State or local regulations: section 405 of
                       the Act; the Solid Waste Disposal Act, including title II commonly referred to as
                       the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA); any State regulations contained
                       in any State sludge management plan prepared pursuant to subtitle D of the Solid
                       Waste Disposal Act; the Clean Air Act; the Toxic Substances Control Act; and the
                       Marine Protection, Research, and Sanctuaries Act.
NATURAL OUTLET:        Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other body of surface or ground
                       water developed by naturally occurring process of nature.
                       (1)   Any building, structure, facility or installation from which there is (or may
                       be) a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which commenced after the
                       publication of proposed pretreatment standards under section 307(c) of the Act which
                       will be applicable to such source if such standards are there after in accordance
                       with that section, provided that
                          (a)   The building, structure, facility or installation is constructed at a site
                       at which no other source is located; or
                          (b)   The building, structure, facility or installation is constructed at a site
                       at which no other source is located; or
                          (c)   The production or wastewater generating processes of the building,
                       structure, facility or are substantially independent of an existing source at the
                       same site. In determining whether these are substantially independent, factors such
                       as the extent to which the new facility is integrated with the existing plant, and
                       the extent to which the new facility is engaged in the same general type of activity
                       as the existing source, should be considered.
NEW SOURCE:            (2)   Construction on a site at which an existing source is located results in a
                       modification rather than a new source if the construction does not create a new
                       building, structure, facility or installation meeting the criteria of paragraphs (1)
                       (b) or (c) above, but otherwise alters, replaces or adds to existing process or
                       production equipment.
                       (3)   Construction of a new source as defined under this paragraph has commenced if
                       the owner or operator has:
                          (a)   Begun, or caused to begin as part of a continuous on-site construction
                       program: (i) any placement, assembly or installation of facilities or equipment; or
                       (ii) significant site preparation work including clearing, excavation or removal of
                       existing buildings, structures, or facilities which is necessary for the placement,
                       assembly or installation of new source facilities or equipment; or
                          (b)   Entered into a binding contractual obligation for the purchase of
                       facilities or equipment which are intended to be used in its operation within a
                       reasonable time. Options to purchase or contracts which can be terminated or
                       modified without substantial loss and contracts for feasibility, engineering and
                       design studies do not constitute a contractual obligation under this paragraph.
PARTS PER MILLION      A weight to weight ratio; the parts per million value multiplied by the factor 8.345
(PPM):                 shall be equivalent to pounds per million gallons of water.
                       A discharge which exits the POTW into waters of the United States in quantities or
PASS THROUGH:          concentrations which, alone or in conjunction with a discharge or discharges from
                       other sources, is a cause of a violation of any requirement of the City's IPDES
                       permit, including an increase in the magnitude or duration of a violation.
                       Any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company, corporation, association,
PERSON:                joint stock company, trust, estate, governmental entity, or any other legal entity;
                       or their legal representatives, agents, or assigns. This definition includes all
                       Federal, State, and local governmental entities.
                       The logarithm (base-10) of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion concentration
pH:                    expressed in moles per liter and is a measure of the acidity or alkalinity of a
                       solution. It shall be determined by one of the procedures outlined in "standard
                       methods."
                       Dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, filter backwash, sewage, garbage,
                       sewage sludge, munitions, medical wastes, chemical wastes, biological materials,
POLLUTANT:             radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discarded equipment, rock, sand, cellar
                       dirt, municipal, agricultural and industrial wastes, and certain characteristics of
                       wastewater (e.g., pH, temperature, TSS, turbidity, color, BOD, COD, toxicity, or
                       odor).
PRETREATMENT           The authorized deputy, agent, or representative in charge of the City of Rigby's
COORDINATOR:           Pretreatment Program. The Pretreatment Coordinator may be the same individual as the
                       WWTP Superintendent.
                       A sewer serving two (2) or more buildings, residences or properties, constructed by
                       private contract outside of the public right of way and remaining under private
PRIVATE SEWER:         ownership and jurisdiction and which shall be maintained by said private owners.
                       Private sewers shall be designed, constructed, and maintained by said private owners
                       to the same design, construction, and maintenance standards as are public sewers.
                       A sewer provided by or subject to the jurisdiction of the City. It shall also
                       include sewers within or outside the City boundaries that serve one or more persons
PUBLIC SEWER:          and ultimately discharge into the City sanitary or combined sewer system, even
                       though those sewers may not have been constructed with City funds. All public sewers
                       shall be located in dedicated public rights of way or easements. Public sewers shall
                       be at least eight inches (8") in diameter.
PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR: The authorized deputy, agent, or representative in charge of the City of Rigby
                       sewage collection and conveyance system.
                       A treatment works, as defined by section 212 of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1292), which is
PUBLICLY OWNED         owned by the City. This definition includes any devices or systems used in the
TREATMENT WORKS        collection, storage, treatment, recycling, and reclamation of sewage or industrial
(POTW):                wastes of a liquid nature and any conveyances, which convey wastewater to a
                       treatment plant.
                       Any expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment, accessories, or
REPLACEMENT:           appurtenances, which are necessary during the service life of the treatment works to
                       maintain the capacity and performance for which such works were designed and
                       constructed. The term "operation and maintenance" includes replacement.
                       Wastes that are derived principally from dwellings, business buildings,
SANITARY SEWAGE:       institutions, and the like, exclusive of storm and surface waters and industrial
                       waste.
                       A sewer that conveys sanitary sewage or industrial wastes, or a combination of the
SANITARY SEWER:        two (2), and into which storm, surface, and ground waters or unpolluted industrial
                       wastes are not intentionally admitted.
                       The charge levied on all users of the sewage system for the purpose of repayment of
                       City indebtedness for the construction and installation of the system and for its
                       efficient maintenance and operation, and in establishing such rates and charges the
SERVICE CHARGE:        City has taken into account the cost and value of the system, operation and
                       maintenance expenses, possible delinquencies, proper allowance for depreciation,
                       contingencies and any amounts necessary to retire all bonds payable from net
                       revenues and the reserve required for these.
SERVICE CONNECTION:    A sewer line connected to the sewer main.
SEWAGE:                Human excrement and gray water (household showers, dishwashing operations, etc.).
SEWER:                 Any pipe or conduit used for conveying wastewater or any other waste liquids,
                       including storm, surface and ground water drainage.
                       The pipe laid in a street, road, alley or easement and running approximately
SEWER MAIN:            parallel to the street, road, alley or easement for the collection of wastewater
                       from the customers, which is owned, operated, controlled, and maintained by the
                       City.
SIDE SEWER:            The extension from the building drain to the public sewer and is sometimes referred
                       to as the sewer service connection or sewer service line.
                       The examination and analytical procedures set forth in the most recent edition of
STANDARD METHODS:      "Standard Methods for the Examination of Water, Sewage and Industrial Wastes"
                       published jointly by the American Public Health Association, the American Water
                       Works Association and the Federation of Sewage and Industrial Wastes Association.
STORM DRAIN:           Any pipe or conduit conveying storm, surface and ground water drainage, but
                       excluding sewage and industrial wastes.
                       Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in suspension in water, sewage or
SUSPENDED SOLIDS (SS): industrial waste and which are removable by a laboratory filtration device.
                       Quantitative determination of suspended solids shall be made in accordance with
                       procedures set forth in "standard methods."
TREATMENT WORKS:       Those devices and systems defined in section 35.905-23 of the Federal Register, Vol.
                       39, Number 29, Pt. III, published February 11, 1974.
                       Any water or liquid containing none of the following: free or emulsified grease or
                       oil; acids or alkalis; substances that may impart taste, odor or color
                       characteristics; toxic or poisonous substances in suspension, colloidal state or
UNPOLLUTED WATER:      solution; odorous or otherwise obnoxious gases. It shall contain no more than thirty
                       (30) parts per million each of suspended solids or biochemical oxygen demand.
                       Analytical determination shall be made in accordance with procedures set forth in
                       "standard methods."
                       Liquid and water-carried industrial wastes and sewage from residential dwellings,
WASTEWATER:            commercial buildings, industrial and manufacturing facilities, and institutions,
                       whether treated or untreated, which are contributed to the POTW.
WASTEWATER COLLECTION  All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating, and disposing of domestic,
AND TREATMENT SYSTEM:  commercial and industrial waste, and includes sewers as well as the Publicly Owned
                       Treatment Works.
WASTEWATER TREATMENT   That portion of the POTW which is designed to provide treatment of municipal
PLANT (WWTP):          wastewater.
WATERCOURSE:           A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously or intermittently.
WWTP SUPER- INTENDENT: The authorized deputy, agent, or representative in charge of the City of Rigby
                       Wastewater Treatment Plant.
 
   C.   Abbreviations: The following abbreviations shall have the designated
meanings:
BOD:    Biochemical oxygen demand
COD:    Chemical oxygen demand
DEQ:    Idaho Department of Environmental Quality
EPA:    U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
IPDES:  Idaho Pollution Discharge Elimination System
l:      Liter
LEL:    Lower explosive limit
mg/l:   Milligrams per liter
MG:     Million gallons
MGD:    Million gallons per day
POTW:   Publicly Owned Treatment Works
PPM:    Parts per million
RCRA:   Resource Conservation and Recovery Act
SWDA :  Solid Waste Disposal Act (42 U.S.C. §§ 6901, et seq.)
TSS:    Total suspended solids
U.S.C.: United States Code
 
(Ord. 543, 5-5-2009; amd. Ord. 2021-621, 9-2-2021)
8-2-2: CONNECTION TO SANITARY SEWER REQUIRED:
Every parcel of land or premises within the boundaries of the City, improved
for occupancy and occupied or used by any person or persons, or as commercial
business, shall be connected to the public sanitary sewer system. The owner or
person in charge of such land shall make or cause to be made, such connection
within sixty (60) days after receiving official notice from the City to so
connect. All charges associated with the laying of pipe from the home or
facilities to be served to the City's mains and all other costs incurred in
connecting to said mains shall be borne by the property owner. All such
connections to the City's mains shall be properly designed and in conformity
with requirements specified by the City. All work performed in the public right
of way must be performed by a licensed public works contractor. If deemed
necessary by the City, such connections may require video inspection. If a
parcel of land is not within three hundred feet (300') of a sewer, connection
may be negotiable. (Ord. 543, 5-5-2009; amd. Ord. 2021-621, 9-2-2021)
8-2-3: DUTIES OF THE PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR REGARDING SIDE SEWERS:
The Public Works Director or his designated agent is hereby empowered, and it
is hereby made his duty, in all cases where there is a public sanitary sewer
within three hundred feet (300') to notify every owner or person in charge of
land, or premises, requiring a sanitary sewer building connection as required
by this chapter within ninety (90) days or cease to use or occupy the land. A
lessee of land shall be deemed to be in charge. (Ord. 543, 5-5-2009; amd. Ord.
2021-621, 9-2-2021)
8-2-4: PROHIBITED DISCHARGES:
   A.   General Prohibitions: No user shall introduce or cause to be introduced
into the POTW any pollutant or wastewater which causes pass through or
interference. These general prohibitions apply to all users of the POTW whether
or not they are subject to categorical pretreatment standards or any other
national, state or local pretreatment standards or requirements.
   B.   Specific Prohibitions: No user shall introduce or cause to be
introduced into the POTW the following pollutants, substances or wastewater:
      1.   Pollutants which create a fire or explosive hazard in the POTW,
including, but not limited to, waste streams with a closed-cup flashpoint of
less than 140°F (60°C) using the test methods specified in 40 CFR 261.21;
      2.   Wastewater having a pH less than 6.5 or more than 9.0, or otherwise
causing corrosive structural damage to the POTW;
      3.   Solid or viscous substances in amounts which will cause obstruction
of the flow in the POTW resulting in interference, but in no case solids
greater than one-half inch (1/2") in any dimension;
      4.   Pollutants, including oxygen-demanding pollutants released in a
discharge at a flow rate and/or pollutant concentration which, either singly or
by interaction with other pollutants, will cause interference with the POTW;
      5.   Wastewater having a temperature which will inhibit biological
activity in the POTW resulting in interference, but in no case wastewater which
causes the temperature at the introduction into the POTW plant to exceed 104°F
(40°C) unless the City approves alternate temperature limits;
      6.   Petroleum oil, non-biodegradable cutting oil, or products of mineral
oil origin, in amounts that will cause interference or pass through;
      7.   Pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors, or
fumes within the POTW in a quality that may cause acute worker health and
safety problems;
      8.   Trucked or hauled pollutants, except at discharge points designated
by the Pretreatment Coordinator in accordance with subsection
8-4-3D of the Pretreatment Ordinance;
      9.   Noxious or malodorous liquids, gases, solids, or other wastewater
which either singly or by interaction with other wastes, are sufficient to
create a public nuisance or a hazard to life, or to prevent entry into the
sewers for maintenance or repair;
      10.   Wastewater which imparts color which cannot be removed by the
treatment process, such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable
tanning solutions, which consequently imparts color to the treatment plant's
effluent, thereby violating the City's IPDES permit;
      11.   Wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes except as
specifically approved in writing by the Supervisor in compliance with
applicable state or federal regulations;
      12.   Storm water, surface water, ground water, artesian well water, roof
runoff, subsurface drainage, swimming pool drainage, condensate, deionized
water, noncontact cooling water, and unpolluted wastewater, unless specifically
authorized by the Pretreatment Coordinator;
      13.   Sludges, screenings, or other residues from the pretreatment of
industrial wastes or from industrial processes;
      14.   Medical wastes, except as specifically authorized by the
Pretreatment Coordinator in an Industrial Wastewater Discharge Permit;
      15.   Wastewater causing, along or in conjunction with other sources, the
WWTP's effluent to fail a toxicity test;
      16.   Detergents, surface-active agents, or other substances which may
cause excessive foaming in the POTW;
      17.   Any liquid, solids, or gases which by reason of their nature or
quantity are, or may be, sufficient either alone or by interaction with other
substances to cause fire or explosion or be injurious in any other way to the
POTW or to the operation of the POTW. At no time, shall two (2) successive
readings on an explosion meter, at the point of discharge into the system (or
at any point in the system), be more than five percent (5%) nor any single
reading over ten percent (10%) of the lower explosive limit (LEL) of the meter;
      18.   Grease, garbage other than ground garbage, animal guts or tissues,
paunch manure, bones, hair, hides or fleshing's, entrails, whole blood,
feathers, ashes, cinders, sand, spent lime, stone or marble dusts, metal,
glass, straw, shavings, grass clippings, rags, spent grains, spent hops, waste
paper, wood, plastics, gas, tar asphalt residues, residues from refining or
processing of fuel or lubricating oil, mud, or glass grinding or polishing
wastes;
      19.   Any substance which will cause the POTW to violate its IPDES and/or
other disposal system permits;
      20.   Any wastewater, which in the opinion of the WWTP Superintendent or
Pretreatment Coordinator can cause harm either to the POTW, have an adverse
effect on the receiving stream, or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public
property or constitute a nuisance, unless allowed under special agreement by
the Pretreatment Coordinator, except that no special waiver shall be given from
categorical pretreatment standards;
      21.   The contents of any settling tank or other vessel owned or used by
any person in the business of collecting or pumping sewage, effluent or
septage;
      22.   Any hazardous waste as prohibited or regulated by the State of
Idaho or in EPA Rules 40 CFR Part 261;
      23.   Persistent pesticides and/or pesticides regulated by the Federal
Insecticide Fungicide Rodenticide Act (FIFRA). Pollutants, substances or
wastewater prohibited by this section shall not be processed or stored in such
a manner that they could be discharged to the POTW. (Ord. 2021-621, 9-2-2021)
8-2-5: LOCAL LIMITS:
The following pollutant limits are established to protect against pass through
and interference. No person shall discharge wastewater containing in excess of
the following daily maximum allowable discharge limits.
B.O.D                                      200 mg/l
T.S.S.                                     140 mg/l
Arsenic                                    0.05 mg/l
Cadmium                                    0.01 mg/l
Chromium (total)                           1.2 mg/l
Copper                                     2.0 mg/l
Cyanide                                    1.20 mg/l
Fats, oil and grease (F.O.G.) "HEM method" 100 mg/l
Lead                                       0.16 mg/l
Mercury                                    0.0005 mg/l
Nickel                                     0.05 mg/l
Silver                                     0.02 mg/l
TKN as N                                   28.4 mg/l
Zinc                                       2.5 mg/l
 
The above limits apply at the point where the wastewater is discharged to the
POTW (end of the pipe). All concentrations for metallic substances are for
"total" metal unless indicated otherwise. The Pretreatment Coordinator may
impose mass limitations in addition to (or in place of) the concentration-based
limitations above. Where a user is subject to a categorical pretreatment
standard and a local limit for a given pollutant, the more stringent limit or
applicable pretreatment standard shall apply. (Ord. 2021-621, 9-2-2021; amd.
Ord. 2025-650, 1-23-2025)
8-2-6: RIGHT OF REVISION:
The City reserves the right to establish, by ordinance or in wastewater
discharge permits, more stringent standards or requirements on discharges to
the POTW. (Ord. 2021-621, 9-2-2021)
8-2-7: DILUTION:
No user shall ever increase the use of process water, or in any way attempt to
dilute a discharge, as a partial or complete substitute for adequate treatment
to achieve compliance with an applicable pretreatment standard or requirement
unless expressly authorized by an applicable pretreatment standard or
requirement. The Pretreatment Coordinator may impose mass limitations on users
which he believes may be using dilution to meet applicable pretreatment
standards or requirements, or in other cases when the imposition of mass
limitations is appropriate. (Ord. 2021-621, 9-2-2021)
8-2-8: APPROVAL REQUIRED FOR ABNORMAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGES:
Review and acceptance of the WWTP Superintendent and Pretreatment Coordinator
shall be obtained prior to the discharge into the public sewers of any water or
wastes having:
   A.   A total of more than thirty (30) pounds of suspended solids in any one
day.
   B.   A total of more than thirty (30) pounds of BOD in any one day.
   C.   An average flow of 0.01 mgd or more. (Ord. 543, 5-5-2009; amd. Ord.
2021-621, 9-2-2021)
8-2-9: SPECIAL AGREEMENTS:
The City reserves the right to enter into special agreements with users setting
out special terms under which they may discharge to the POTW. No statement
contained in this chapter shall be construed as prohibiting any special
agreement or arrangement between the City and any persons or organization
whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be admitted to
the wastewater collection and treatment system either before or after
pretreatment, provided that there is no impairment of the functioning of the
wastewater treatment system by reason of the admission of such wastes, and no
extra costs are incurred by the City without recompense by said person or
organization. In no case will a special agreement waive compliance with a
categorical pretreatment standard or federal pretreatment requirement. However,
the user may request a net gross adjustment to a categorical standard in
accordance with 40 CFR 403.15. They may also request a variance from the
categorical pretreatment standard from the approval authority in accordance
with 40 CFR 403.13. (Ord. 543, 5-5-2009; amd. Ord. 2021-621, 9-2-2021)
8-2-10: INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
The Pretreatment Coordinator reserves the right to require a user to obtain an
Industrial Wastewater Discharge Permit, in accordance with City's Pretreatment
Program, title 8, chapter 4. (Ord. 2021-621, 9-2-2021)
8-2-11: REFUSAL OF USE OF SYSTEM:
The Public Works Director or his designated agent, WWTP Superintendent, or
Pretreatment Coordinator may prohibit the discharge into the public sewer of
sewage that does not comply with the limitations set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 543, 5-5-2009; amd. Ord. 2021-621, 9-2-2021)
8-2-12: INDEPENDENT SEWER SERVICE LINE REQUIRED:
The sewer main line and sewer service line(s) shall be so arranged that there
is a separate and independent sewer service line to each individual building,
place of business, or tract of land. After the effective date hereof, a
separate and independent side sewer (building service line) shall be provided
for every new building connecting to the sanitary sewer system of Rigby, Idaho.
Separate side sewers are not required for each trailer space in overnight
trailer courts, nor for each cabin in cabin courts; however, separate side
sewers (sewer service lines) are required for trailer houses on individual lots
or for long term trailer rental units in mobile home courts. (Ord. 543, 5-5-
2009; amd. Ord. 2021-621, 9-2-2021)
8-2-13: EXISTING BRANCH SERVICE LINES:
Where sewer service is now provided through one sewer service line to several
customers (branch service lines), the City by resolution of its council, may
decline to continue to accept sewage from said premises until separate sewer
service lines are provided at the owner's expense. Where more than one dwelling
is served from one such service line, the established rate shall be charged for
each customer in the same manner as if each did, in fact, have an individual
sewer service line. (Ord. 543, 5-5-2009; amd. Ord. 2021-621, 9-2-2021)
8-2-14: INJURY TO OR TAMPERING WITH SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM UNLAWFUL:
It shall be unlawful to disturb, destroy, damage, adjust, molest, meddle, or
otherwise interfere with any portion of the City sewage collection or treatment
system or its appurtenances, located on either public or private property.
Should any damage result, either intentionally or unintentionally, from
handling or otherwise tampering with or plugging said sewer system, the
violator shall pay for all costs incurred in connection with the repairs of
said system and/or for damages that may result from the tampering with or
plugging of said sewer system.
It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit any substance which may tend to
obstruct the flow of the sewer, in any sewer opening. (Ord. 543, 5-5-2009; amd.
Ord. 2021-621, 9-2-2021)
8-2-15: STORM WATER DISCHARGE TO STORM DRAIN:
Storm water, industrial cooling water, or unpolluted process water may be
discharged upon approval by the Public Works Director or his designated agent,
WWTP Superintendent and Pretreatment Coordinator to such sewers as are
specifically designated as combined sewers or storm drains, or to a natural
outlet. (Ord. 543, 5-5-2009; amd. Ord. 2021-621, 9-2-2021)
8-2-16: INTERCEPTOR OR REMOVAL FACILITIES REQUIRED TO REMOVE HARMFUL
INGREDIENTS:
The regulations regarding fats, oils, grease, and sand interceptors are
provided in title 8, chapter 5, Interceptor Regulations. Interceptors or other
necessary removal facilities shall be installed on the premises when, in the
opinion of the WWTP Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling
of liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, high concentrations of
blood, fruit, vegetable, or grain liquors, milk wastes, or any flammable
wastes, oils, sand, and other harmful ingredients. All interceptors or removal
facilities shall be of a type and capacity approved by the WWTP Superintendent
and shall be so located as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and
inspection. Where installed, all fats, oils, grease, and sand interceptors
shall be maintained by the owner or occupant, at his expense, in continuously
efficient operation.
In all cases where a building is used as a hotel, boarding house, restaurant,
service station, garage, etc., the owner or occupant shall provide a properly
constructed grease trap through which all wastes of a greasy nature shall be
drained. The WWTP Superintendent shall have authority, and he is hereby
authorized and directed to compel any person to provide and use a grease trap
as aforesaid whenever, in his judgment, the same is necessary. (Ord. 543, 5-5-
2009; amd. Ord. 2021-621, 9-2-2021)
8-2-17: PERMITS REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to install or alter any sanitary sewer or plumbing within
the City, or to tap onto or connect to any sanitary sewer line whether lateral,
main, or interceptor, without having first obtained from the City a permit
therefor. An application for a connection to the City sewer system shall be
made at the office of the Public Works Director or his designated agent and no
connection shall be made to any sewer main without a valid permit therefor
having been issued by the Public Works Director or his designated agent. (Ord.
543, 5-5-2009; amd. Ord. 2021-621, 9-2-2021)
8-2-18: EXCAVATION PERMIT REQUIRED:
No permit shall be granted to do sewer work in any street, alley or public
easement until the applicant has first obtained an excavation permit as
required by the City. (Ord. 543, 5-5-2009; amd. Ord. 2021-621, 9-2-2021)
8-2-19: SIDE SEWER EXTENSION OR REPAIR PERMIT REQUIRED:
When any sewer service line (side sewer) or private sewer connected with any
public sewer becomes obstructed, broken or out of order, on private property
(outside of any public right of way or easements) the owner, agent, or tenant
of such premises shall repair the same at his own expense. No person shall
construct, re-lay, repair, or extend any side sewer or private sewer until the
person doing said work has obtained the appropriate sewer permit for same.
It shall be unlawful for any person to extend any private sewer or side sewer
beyond the limits of the building or property for which a permit has been given
without obtaining a new permit for the desired extension. The existence of a
sewer permit shall in no way be construed as making permissible any work for
which an excavation permit may be required by the City. (Ord. 543, 5-5-2009;
amd. Ord. 2021-621, 9-2-2021)
8-2-20: INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE OF SEWER SERVICE LINE:
When a permit for a sewer service line (side sewer) has been granted, the sewer
tap at the sewer main and the sewer service line from the sewer main to a point
ten feet (10') beyond the street or alley right of way line or sewer easement
line shall be installed by the City or a licensed public works contractor at
the expense of the person or firm desiring sewer service, but thereafter the
sewer service line within the public right of way or easement shall be
maintained by the sewer department at its expense and kept within and under its
exclusive control and jurisdiction.
All sewer service lines (side sewers) within any public rights of way or
easements shall be constructed by the City; except that sewer service lines in
any new subdivisions may be installed as part of the construction on the new
sewer collection system within said subdivision and provided, further, that
said service lines are constructed, inspected, tested, and certified as being
in conformance with the City standard drawings and standard specifications
governing the construction of sewer service lines. Sewer service lines may also
be installed by contract in conjunction with City sponsored projects or when,
in the opinion of the Public Works Director or his designated agent, it is in
the City's best interest to have or allow said sewer service lines to be
installed by other than City personnel.
All sewer users shall keep their individual sewer service lines in good repair
and shall keep them in such good condition that they shall not allow excessive
amounts of groundwater to enter into the sewer system. (Ord. 543, 5-5-2009;
amd. Ord. 2021-621, 9-2-2021)
8-2-21: RIGHT TO REVOKE PERMISSIONS:
Permission given to connect sewers and drains shall be upon the express
condition that the Public Works Director or his designated agent may for good
cause revoke the same and the person making such connection, or his successor
in interest, shall have no right to claim any damage in consequence of such
permission being revoked. (Ord. 543, 5-5-2009; amd. Ord. 2021-621, 9-2-2021)
8-2-22: SEWER CONSTRUCTION, PLAN, SPECIFICATIONS, AND INSPECTION:
All construction or reconstruction of public, private and side sewers shall be
in accordance with the City standard drawings and standard specifications and
subject to inspection by the City.
Plan and profile drawings shall be prepared for all new sewer mains (whether
public or private) and for all sanitary sewer extensions, reconstructions, or
renovations; and all such plan and profile drawings must be reviewed and
approved by the City Engineer and Idaho DEQ before any construction work on
said sewer lines is started. (Ord. 543, 5-5-2009; amd. Ord. 2021-621, 9-2-2021)
8-2-23: RIGHT TO ENTER PREMISES FOR INSPECTION:
The Public Works Director or his designated agent, WWTP Superintendent, and
Pretreatment Coordinator shall have the right to enter upon any premises
connected with any public sewer at all reasonable hours to determine that there
is compliance with the provisions of this chapter. If conflict is noted, the
owner of said premises or his agent shall be directed to alter, repair, or
reconstruct said sewer facilities to conform to the requirements of this
chapter within fifteen (15) days. (Ord. 543, 5-5-2009; amd. Ord. 2021-621, 9-2-
2021)
8-2-24: EXTENSION OF SEWER MAINS WITHIN CITY:
The Public Works Director or his designated agent shall be authorized to
construct, or cause to be constructed, extensions to the sewer system if one of
the following conditions exists:
   A.   The annual anticipated revenue made available to the City from the
customers to be immediately served by such extension is not less than one-tenth
(1/10) of the actual cost to the City for the construction of said extension.
   B.   The Public Works Director or his designated agent declares the sewer
main extension is needed for the overall benefit and improvement of the entire
sewage collection system.
   C.   The City Council approves a contract for the construction of the
extension with a party or parties desiring sewer service. Provided, however,
that subdividers or developers within or adjacent to the City shall construct
at their own expense all sewer mains within their subdivisions or developments
except the City will be responsible for those sewer line costs set forth in
section
8-2-44. (Ord. 543, 5-5-2009; amd. Ord. 2021-621, 9-2-2021)
8-2-25: EXTENSION OF SEWER MAINS IN AREAS CONTIGUOUS TO CITY:
In areas contiguous to the City that may be annexed to the City, the City may
require such areas to be annexed before sewer service is provided.(Ord. 543, 5-
5-2009; amd. Ord. 2021-621, 9-2-2021; Ord. 2025-650, 1-23-2025)
8-2-26: EXTENSION OF SEWER LINES OUTSIDE CITY:
Sewer lines shall not, without City Council's approval, be extended outside the
corporate limits of the City; however, when in the opinion of the Public Works
Director or his designated agent, there will be special benefit and improvement
to the City by reason of an extension outside the City, special arrangements
may be made with Council to allow said extension. Provided, however, the areas
to be serviced outside of the City shall not benefit a greater extent than like
areas provided with sewer service within the City, and provided, further, that
no such arrangement shall be made unless adequate sewer line capacity and
sewage treatment capacity is available for such outside the City sewer service.
(Ord. 543, 5-5-2009; amd. Ord. 2021-621, 9-2-2021)
8-2-27: SEWER SERVICE OUTSIDE THE CITY:
The Public Works Director or his designated agent shall not provide sewer
service to any consumer whose residence or place of business is outside of the
corporate limits of the City until an "outside the City sewer contract" has
been executed between the consumer and the City. (Ord. 543, 5-5-2009; amd. Ord.
2021-621, 9-2-2021)
8-2-28: SYSTEM OF CHARGES:
All systems of charges and fees to users, within and without the City, shall
assure that each recipient of wastewater collection and treatment services will
pay its proportionate share of the costs of operation and maintenance
(including equipment replacement) of any wastewater collection and treatment
services provided by the City. (Ord. 543, 5-5-2009; amd. Ord. 2021-621, 9-2-
2021)
8-2-29: SEWER CONNECTION FEE:
Before any sewer connection permit can be issued for the installation of any
sewer service connection (side sewer), the person making the application
therefor shall pay to the City a sewer connection fee, the cost of which is
determined by resolution of the City Council. The sewer connection fee must be
paid whenever sewer service is requested and subsequently provided to any
dwelling, trailer house, business, commercial building, or any other such
building or establishment that does not have a permit to connect to or actually
is connected to the City's sewer system at the passage date hereof. The above
referenced sewer connection fee will not apply to or be charged against the
reconstruction of any existing sewer service line serving any existing
dwelling, building, etc. It is intended that this sewer connection fee be
charged only where a new building is being constructed upon previously
undeveloped property. These fees may be changed from time to time, by
resolution of the City Council as such changes are deemed necessary. (Ord. 543,
5-5-2009; amd. Ord. 2021-621, 9-2-2021)
8-2-30: SEWER MAIN CONSTRUCTION CHARGE:
Hereafter, any person, firm, or corporation before obtaining a permit to
connect to any public sanitary sewer, whether lateral, main, or interceptor,
shall pay a sewer main charge therefor at the rate of ten dollars ($10.00) per
front foot of property to be served by the permit. Said sewer main construction
charge shall be in addition to any other connection fees or permits required.
Provided, however, that no sewer main construction charge shall be required if
said sewer service connection is within a subdivision having been platted since
1975 and within which the sanitary sewer system has been constructed at the
expense of the developer of said subdivision. This charge may be changed from
time to time, by resolution of the City Council as such change is deemed
necessary.
The above referenced sewer main construction charge applies only to property
within the City limits. The sewer main construction charge for property outside
of the City or for property being annexed to the City shall be as set forth in
the outside the City sewer contract. (Ord. 543, 5-5-2009; amd. Ord. 2021-621,
9-2-2021; Ord. 2025-650, 1-23-2025)
8-2-31: SERVICE LINE INSTALLATION FEE:
At the time an applicant applies for City sewer service, a service line
installation fee shall be charged. The service line installation fee is to
cover the costs incurred by the City in installing the sewer service line from,
and including the sewer tap, the main to a point ten feet (10') beyond the edge
of the street or alley right of way or easement line. The service line
installation fee for the various sizes of service lines are estimated to be as
follows:
 
4 inch sewer tap                   $200.00 each plus 4 inch sewer service line
                                   at $10.00/linear foot
6 inch sewer tap                   $260.00 each plus 6 inch sewer service line
                                   at $12.00/linear foot
8 inch sewer tap                   $800.00 each plus 8 inch sewer service line
                                   at $18.00/linear foot
Rock excavation                    $100.00/cubic yard
Repair of asphalt street surfacing $12.00/square foot
 
Said fees and costs shall be reviewed yearly and revised by resolution of the
City Council so that said fees and costs adequately cover the costs actually
incurred by the City in installing these service lines. (Ord. 543, 5-5-2009;
amd. Ord. 2021-621, 9-2-2021)
8-2-32: SERVICE CALL CHARGE:
The Public Works Director or his designated agent may require a service charge
in an amount not to exceed the actual cost to the City, for service calls which
are only for the convenience and benefit of the customer. (Ord. 543, 5-5-2009;
amd. Ord. 2021-621, 9-2-2021)
8-2-33: MONTHLY SEWER RATES:
   A.   General: This is a user charge system for a small community which
follows model number one in appendix B of the "Federal Register" dated
September 27, 1978. This treatment works is primarily dependent and will
utilize the Equivalent User concept. The Equivalent User system has been set up
based on flow.
A sewer user charge shall be levied on all users of the sewage collection and
treatment facilities, to cover the actual or estimated cost of operation,
maintenance, replacement, and financing of this facility. The user charge
system distributes these costs to each user or user class in approximate
proportion to such user's contribution to the total wastewater load of such
facilities.
   B.   Basis For Rates: The sewer user rates for each user (or user class)
shall be based on the user's contribution to the total wastewater loading of
the treatment facilities in comparison to a standard equivalent user as defined
below. Each user (or user class) shall be assigned a number of equivalent users
to be multiplied by a constant monthly cost factor to determine the basic user
rate. Special users contributing sewage of excessive flow and/or strength, for
which the tabulated equivalent users below do not apply, shall be individually
calculated as provided below. The constant monthly cost factor shall be set by
resolution of the City Council.
   C.   Equivalent User Schedule: The number of equivalent users to be assigned
to each user and/or user class, shall be in accordance with the following
equivalent user schedule. Assignment of equivalent users shall apply for one
year until the next annual user charge review. Users so indicated or not
included in this schedule shall be considered special users and shall be
evaluated separately as provided below. If the information indicates the
strength of sewage contributed by any of the following users is in excess in
comparison with the allowable limits listed above, then a surcharge shall be
levied against such users as provided below. Any of the users in the following
schedule may be classified as special users if information on their
contribution flow and/or strength indicates a need to do so. A single user
having more than one classification of use shall be the total sum of the fees.
The minimum monthly sewer user charge shall be one equivalent user.
EQUIVALENT USER SCHEDULE (1.0 Minimum)
Classification Equivalent Users
Classification                                               Equivalent Users
Airport terminal for each 2,000 square feet                  1.00
Apartments, duplex and trailers in trailer courts (per each) 1.00
Assembly hall or auditorium for each 200 seats               1.00
Bank or savings and loan for each 3,000 square feet          1.00
Bar or tavern                                                1.00
   Additional per 20 seats                                0.50
Barber and beauty shop per chair                             1.00
   Additional per station over 2                          0.50
Bowling alley                                                1.00
   Additional per lane over 3                             0.20
Cafe
   Per customer seating capacity (minimum 2.00)           0.10
   Drive-in, for each seat (minimum 1.00)                 0.05
Campsite (and KOA) for each trailer unit                     1.00
   For each campsite                                      0.46
   Additional for RV dump                                 4.00
Car dealer
   No repair or wash facilities                           1.00
   With wash bays and/or stalls                           0.46
   Additional per stall                                   0.50
Car washes, per stall                                        2.00
Churches for each 50 seats                                   1.00
Club or lodge for each 50 seats                              1.00
Condominium per unit                                         1.00
Dentist for each practitioner                                2.00
Department store for each 3,000 square feet                  1.00
Doctor for each practitioner                                 2.00
Drugstore for each 3,000 square feet                         1.00
Florist for each 1,500 square feet                           1.00
Fourplex per each unit                                       1.00
Garage automotive repair                                     1.00
   Additional per stall over 2                            0.50
   Storage only                                           1.00
      Additional per stall over 2                      0.02
Hardware store for each 3,000 square feet                    1.00
Hospital and/or convalescent home:                           1.00
   Additional per bed                                     0.30
Hotel/motel first unit                                       1.00
   Additional per unit                                    0.25
Industrial use                                               Staff calculated
Jail                                                         1.00
   Additional per bed                                     0.50
Laundry self-service up to 10 machines                       4.00
   Additional machine over 10                             0.25
   Commercial                                             Staff calculated
Mobile home and trailer park for each unit                   1.00
Multiple living unit for each unit                           1.00
Office building for each 2,500 square feet                   1.00
Photo lab, printing shop                                     Staff calculated
Post office for each 2,500 square feet                       1.00
Residential units                                            1.00
Restaurant
   Fast food per customer seating capacity (minimum 1.00) 0.05
   Sit down, per customer seating capacity (minimum 2.00) 0.10
Retail food store for each 1,500 square feet                 1.00
Retail store for each 3,000 square feet                      1.00
Schools per 25 students                                      1.00
Service station
   Gas and restroom only per set of pumps                 1.00
   Full service and convenience store                     1.00
Tire store automotive repair                                 1.00
   Additional per stall over 2                            0.50
   Storage only                                           1.00
      Additional per stall over 2                      0.02
Warehouse/storage unit for each 10,000 square feet           1.00
 
   D.   Surcharge For Excessive Strength: When any user contributes wastewater
having an average BOD and/or suspended solids loading in excess of the
designated allowable limits hereinafter designated, a surcharge shall be levied
against such user. Said surcharge shall be based on the average degree of
excess loading, and applied as a percentage of the basic user charge as
provided in the above schedule, or otherwise for special users. The BOD and
suspended solids loading shall be determined from estimates or tests made by
the City officials or its engineer. This user's monthly surcharge shall be
computed by use of the following equation:
 
US = ((b/B) - 1) + (s/S) - 1 x (UMC)
    2
 
 
Where:  
US     Represents the user's monthly surcharge to be added to the basic user's
       monthly charge
UMC    Represents the basic user's monthly charge (for treatment only) and
       shall not be less than 1.0
b      Represents the average BOD loading above which is a user's wastewater
       contribution, expressed in parts per million
       Represents the allowable limits of BOD loading above which a user's
B      surcharge shall be levied, hereby designated as being 200 parts per
       million
s      Represents the average suspended solids loading of the user's wastewater
       contribution, expressed in parts per million
       Represents the allowable limits of suspended solids loading above which
S      a user's surcharge shall be levied, hereby designated as being 140 parts
       per million
 
A copy of the list of users surcharged, the characteristics of their sewage,
and the surcharge for each shall be kept on file at all times in the office of
the City Clerk.
   E.   Special Users: If, in addition to excessive strength, a user is
determined to add flow to the wastewater treatment facilities in excess of nine
thousand six hundred (9,600) gallons per month, the above formula shall be
increased by a factor of total flow divided by nine thousand six hundred
(9,600) gallons per month multiplied by one equivalent user. In order to
determine the flow of this special user, the City may monitor sewer and water
flow in order to determine total flow. The value of UMC used in the formula
above will be the same value as assigned to single dwelling units.
A copy of the list of special users, the characteristics of their sewage, and
the special user's monthly charge shall be kept on file at all times in the
office of the City Clerk.
   F.   Review And Revision Of Rates: The sewer user charges shall, as a
minimum, be reviewed annually and updated by resolution of the council to
reflect actual costs of operation, maintenance, replacement, and financing of
the sewage collection and treatment facilities. Any revisions of the user
charges shall be based on actual operations, maintenance, replacement, and
financing expenses, and/or on significant changes in the total number of
equivalent users, the total daily flow, the total daily BOD, and/or the total
daily suspended solids. The City may install flow measuring devices and/or
collect wastewater samples at any time in any user's service line to determine
actual usage as a basis for revisions of the user's charge. Revisions due only
to changes in expenses and user class shall be made by the City. Revisions
involving user's flow, BOD and/or suspended solids shall normally only be made
upon the recommendation of a registered professional engineer. All changes in
user charges applicable to this chapter shall be computed by the methods
outlined herein.
   G.   User Request For Rate Change: Any sewer user, who feels his user charge
is unjust and inequitable as applied to his premises within the spirit and
intent of the foregoing provisions, may make written application to the City
Council requesting a review of his user charge. Said written request shall,
where necessary, show the actual or estimated average flow and strength of his
wastewater in comparison with the values upon which the charge is based,
including how the measurements or estimates were made. Any flow measurements
and/or testing of wastewater shall be approved in detail by the City and/or its
engineer. Review of the request by the City Council shall determine if it is
substantiated or not, including recommended further study of the matter for the
City and/or user by a registered professional engineer.
Any and all costs pertaining to application shall be borne by the applicant.
(Ord. 543, 5-5-2009; amd. Ord. 2021-621, 9-2-2021)
8-2-34: METERED SERVICE:
Whenever the council shall deem it appropriate and in the best interests of the
City and its citizens to require a user to have the sewer and/or water service
to his facilities metered to more appropriately determine the amount of service
provided such user by the system, the council may by resolution require said
user to install a meter and/or meters which will accurately measure the service
provided; and the council may further establish by resolution the rate to be
charged for such service as will properly pay the fair share of the services
provided such user. The cost of the meter and its installation shall be borne
by the user.
For calculating metered EDU services the months of December, January, and
February's water usage will be used, and the average water use will be applied
to the following formula:
Provided that each person uses 100 gallons per day and an average of 3.2 people
per home uses 320 gallons of water per day.
320 gallons of water per day times 30 days equals 9,600 gallons per month.
9,600 gallons per month equals 1 EDU of sewer use. (Ord. 543, 5-5-2009; amd.
Ord. 2021-621, 9-2-2021)
8-2-35: OUTSIDE THE CITY SEWER RATES:
The following monthly rates are hereby designated as those to be charged for
sewer service to customers "outside the City limits", namely: two (2) times the
rates charged for sewer service to "inside the City limits" customers.
The sewer connection fee and the sewer service line installation fee for
"outside of" the City shall be two (2) times the rate charged to "inside the
City limits" customers. (Ord. 543, 5-5-2009; amd. Ord. 2021-621, 9-2-2021)
8-2-36: RV DUMP STATION SEWER RATES:
The City reserves the right to assign specific user rates for facilities
containing RV septic dump stations. RV septic dump stations may be required to
have an approved flow meter to meter wastewater discharges. The user rate for
these facilities will be determined and adjusted per resolution by City
Council. (Ord. 2021-621, 9-2-2021)
8-2-37: BILLING PROCEDURE AND PERIODS:
Accounts shall be charged a rate in accordance with the rate schedule as set by
City resolution.
The City Clerk shall furnish to each property owner, landlord, or agent, a
monthly statement of the amount due for sewer service for that month(s). The
failure of any sewer user to receive notice or statement will in no way affect
the obligation of the user to remit monthly as required. Each property owner
will be responsible for payment of utilities for their property regardless of
rental or occupancy.
The initial billing for premises occupied less than one month shall be charged
only for that portion of the month during which the premises were occupied.
(Ord. 543, 5-5-2009; amd. Ord. 2021-621, 9-2-2021)
8-2-38: DUE DATE:
Bills rendered for sewer service are payable upon receipt and become past due
ten (10) days from the date on which rendered. When the past due date falls on
a legal holiday or on a day when City offices are not open for business, the
next regular business day is considered the past due date. When remittances are
made by mail, bills shall be deemed paid on the date the City has received the
payment. (Ord. 543, 5-5-2009; amd. Ord. 2021-621, 9-2-2021)
8-2-39: DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS:
When bills are not paid within thirty (30) days from the past due date, the
City Clerk shall issue an order to shut off and discontinue wastewater service
to such delinquent customers. In case service is discontinued for delinquency,
it shall not be restored until the delinquency is paid, or until arrangements
for payment satisfactory to the City Clerk have been made, together with a fee
as defined by resolution and as amended from time to time and shall be payable
whenever a service trip is made for the purpose of discontinuing and restoring
service because of nonpayment even though an actual shutoff may not actually
have occurred.
In the event that a delinquent customer fails to pay his bill within the time
set forth above, the City may discontinue City wastewater service or remove or
close sewer connections, and enter upon the property for accomplishing such
purposes.
The expense of digging up and plugging the sewer service line as well as the
expense of restoring said sewer service line back to an operable condition is a
debt due to the City and may be recovered by legal action against the sewer
user in addition to a fifteen dollar ($15.00) fee. (Ord. 543, 5-5-2009; amd.
Ord. 2021-621, 9-2-2021)
8-2-40: WASTEWATER COLLECTION AND TREATMENT SYSTEM IMPROVEMENT FUND:
There is hereby established a wastewater collection and treatment system
improvement fund to be maintained by the City Clerk in managing the fiscal
affairs of the City. All revenues derived from the charging of any fees,
charges, rates, etc., as such are set forth herein shall be deposited in said
fund and shall be disbursed only for the purposes of paying existing or future
indebtedness connected with or relating to maintaining, repairing, studying,
controlling, enlarging, extending, enhancing or improving the wastewater
collection and treatment system of the City. (Ord. 543, 5-5-2009; amd. Ord.
2021-621, 9-2-2021)
8-2-41: SEWER SYSTEM MATERIALS AND INSTALLATIONS:
   A.   All sanitary sewer main line and storm drain main line materials,
manholes, inlet boxes, French drains, etc., and their installation shall be in
accordance with City standard specifications of the construction of sanitary
sewers and storm sewers and the applicable standard drawings depicting various
sewer line installation details. All sewer system materials shall be of the
class, strength, thickness, etc., necessary to accommodate or provide for the
depth of cover over the pipe, the type of material and bedding around the pipe,
and the type, magnitude, and extent of the external loads being applied to the
pipe.
   B.   All sewer service line materials and their installation shall be in
accordance with City standard specifications for the construction of sanitary
sewers and storm sewers and the applicable standard drawings depicting the
various sewer service line installation details.
   C.   All materials must be approved by the City Engineer. (Ord. 543, 5-5-
2009; amd. Ord. 2021-621, 9-2-2021)
8-2-42: SEWER SYSTEM DESIGN:
   A.   Plans: The plans for all sewer lines, sewage lift stations, sewage
treatment facilities, shall be designed in accordance with the City's approved
design standards. All plans will be signed, and sealed by a registered
professional engineer licensed in the state of Idaho.
   B.   Compliance With State Requirements: All sewer lines, lift stations,
sewage treatment facilities, etc., shall be designed in accordance with Idaho
DEQ.
   C.   Minimum Size: Minimum sanitary sewer main size shall be eight inch (8")
diameter. Minimum storm drain size shall be eight inch (8") diameter. Larger
sizes shall be as required by the City's overall sewer system master plan or as
are needed to provide adequate sewage carrying capacity for the area (and
surrounding developable area) being developed and/or annexed to the City.
Minimum building service line size shall be four inch (4") diameter.
   D.   Pressure Sewer Lines: Pressure sewer lines shall be a minimum of six
inch (6") diameter with a cleanout every five hundred feet (500').
   E.   Depth: In general, sewers shall be sufficiently deep so as to receive
sewage from basements and to prevent freezing. Sewer lines shall have at least
five feet (5') of cover (from the top of sewer line pipe to the ground or
street surface) unless a special design is approved by the City Engineer
whereby the sewer line is protected from freezing by special means or methods
and the sewer is protected from "heaving" by the installation of crushed gravel
backfill material under, around, and over the pipe.
   F.   Slope: All sewer mains shall be designed and constructed to provide
mean velocities, when flowing full, of not less than 2.0 feet per second. All
sewer service lines (side sewer) shall be designed and constructed to provide
mean velocities, when flowing full, of not less than 3.0 feet per second. The
following are minimum slopes which should be provided; however, slopes greater
than these are desirable:
Sewer Size Minimum Slope In Feet Per 100 Feet
Sewer Size Minimum Slope In Feet Per 100 Feet
4 inch     2.00
6 inch     1.00
8 inch     0.40
10 inch    0.28
12 inch    0.22
15 inch    0.15
18 inch    0.12
21 inch    0.10
24 inch    0.08
27 inch    0.067
30 inch    0.058
36 inch    0.046
 
Under special conditions, if detailed justifiable reasons are given, slopes
slightly less than those required above (i.e., to provide 2.0 or 3.0 fps
velocity when flowing full) may be permitted. Such decreased slopes will only
be considered where the depth of flow will be 0.3 of the diameter or greater
for the design average flow. Whenever such decreased slopes are proposed, the
design engineer must furnish with his report his computations of the depths of
flow in such pipes at the minimum and average rates of flow for a typical day.
Sewers shall be laid with uniform slopes between manholes; i.e., a manhole
shall be constructed at each point where the sewer line slope or grade changes.
   G.   Manholes: Manholes shall be located no more than four hundred feet
(400') apart on lines fifteen inches (15") in diameter or smaller. Manholes may
be located up to six hundred feet (600') apart on lines larger than fifteen
inches (15") in diameter. Manholes shall be installed at all locations where
sewer lines eight inches (8") in diameter or larger intersect, join together,
or make a bend. All dead end sewer lines shall have a manhole installed on the
end thereof.
   H.   Sewer Mainline Drop Through Manholes: The flow line of the main sewer
line as it enters and leaves any manhole shall be dropped as follows:
 
Mainline Bend Of Drop Of
0 to 10 degrees  Regular pipe slope
10 to 45 degrees 0.05 feet
45 to 90 degrees 0.10 feet
 
   I.   Lateral Sewer Line Connections At Manholes: Lateral sanitary sewer
lines shall not enter a manhole at the elevation appreciably higher than the
sewer main line. The flow line(s) of any lateral line(s) shall be positioned
with the manhole as follows:
The flow line of the main sewer line shall be at least 0.05 feet below the flow
line of any of the lateral sewer lines entering the manhole. Where the diameter
of the main line and the lateral line differ by less than 0.05 feet, the top of
the lateral line shall be positioned even with the top of the main line on its
high (inlet) side.
Where the diameter of the main and lateral differ by 0.05 of a foot or more,
the 0.8 depth points of the two (2) sewer line inverts shall be positioned at
the same elevation.
Where a lateral sewer line would enter a manhole at an elevation of four feet
(4') or more above the main sewer line, "drop manhole" construction shall be
utilized to locate or position the flow line of the lateral line (in relation
to that of the main line) as indicated above.
Where a lateral line would enter a manhole at an elevation of less than three
feet (3') above the main sewer line, the grade or slope of the lateral shall be
adjusted so that its flow line is located (in relation to that of the main
line) as indicated above.
Individual building service lines may not enter manholes; except that no more
than two (2) individual building service lines may enter a "dead end" manhole
(a manhole on the upstream and permanent end of a sewer line) and provided
further that the individual building service lines must enter the manhole at
such elevation that the top of the service line is level with the top of the
sewer main line and that the poured in place concrete floor of the manhole
brings the flow lines of the service lines into the flow line of the main line
in a smooth continuous manner.
   J.   Location Of Lines: Sanitary sewer lines and water lines shall, wherever
possible, be located on opposite sides of the street. Preferably, water lines
shall be located thirteen feet (13') west or north of the street centerline and
the sanitary sewer at thirteen feet (13') east or south of the street
centerline. Where storm drains are needed these shall preferably be located
along the street centerline. The above referenced locations and dimensions may
be varied to accommodate unusual circumstances; however, a ten foot (10') (out
to out) horizontal separation between water line facilities and sewer
facilities (either sanitary or storm) and an eighteen inch (18") (out to out)
vertical separation between said facilities shall always be maintained unless a
specific variance to this requirement is obtained from the City Engineer. The
applicable separation requirements of the state health department shall also be
complied with.
   K.   Drawings: All drawings shall be on linen or mylar in pencil or ink and
of such quality that they clearly show the dimensions, locations, sizes, etc.,
of all facilities represented thereon. All sewer line manholes, inlet boxes,
building service lines, etc., shall be clearly shown and identified by name and
by station or other means of horizontal location. Sewer lines shall be shown in
both plan and profile unless the length of said sewer lines or sewer line
extensions is so short that the City Engineer waives this requirement. If a
profile of the sewer line is not provided it shall be located in the vertical
plane by elevations on the flow line of the pipe at all manholes, inlet boxes,
etc., and at other such locations and intervals as the City Engineer may
require. Drawings shall be drawn on a scale of one inch equals one hundred feet
(1" = 100') unless the amount of detail, topography, etc., necessitates their
being drawn on a larger scale (i.e., 1 inch = 50 feet or 1 inch = 40 feet) to
provide the clarity and completeness needed on the drawings.
   L.   Approval By City: The design of all sewer lines and all sewer line
plans must be approved by the City Engineer. (Ord. 543, 5-5-2009; amd. Ord.
2021-621, 9-2-2021)
8-2-43: “AS BUILT” DRAWINGS AND ENGINEER’S CERTIFICATION:
   A.   "As built" or "record" drawings of sewer line plans shall be prepared
by a professional engineer and the "corrected" original drawings or a duplicate
Mylar copy of the "corrected" original drawing(s) shall be provided to the
City.
   B.   "As built" plans shall be stamped and signed by the registered
professional engineer in charge of the work that the "as built" drawings of the
sewer lines are true and correct and that he (the registered professional
engineer) has inspected the construction of the sewer line installation and
that the materials and installation of same were all done in conformance with
City "Standard Specifications for The Construction Of Sanitary Sewers And Storm
Sewers." (Ord. 543, 5-5-2009; amd. Ord. 2021-621, 9-2-2021)
8-2-44: SUBDIVISION DEVELOPER OR PROPERTY OWNER RESPONSIBILITY FOR SEWER LINES
AND LIFT STATIONS:
   A.   The owner or developer of any piece of property or tract of land is
responsible for the construction of the sewer line (or for the sewer line
costs) within any of the property sides or frontage of the property along which
a sewer line is needed for the overall completeness and continuity of the
City's sewer main system and according to the City's sanitary master plan. If
it is a large tract of land, the owner or developer shall also be responsible
for the necessary and required system of sewer lines within the interior of the
tract of land.
   B.   The owner or developer of any piece of property shall construct all
needed sewer lines (of the approved size) within and along all sides or
frontages of any piece of property prior to the time any building constructed
thereon is occupied or utilized unless "phased" construction of the main system
is specifically allowed or provided for in the development agreement. In lieu
of actually constructing said required sewer line or sewer service lines, the
property owner or developer may deposit adequate monies with the City to fully
cover the cost(s) of said required sewer line construction.
   C.   The owner or developer of any property or subdivision will be
responsible for the cost of an eight-inch (8") diameter sanitary sewer line.
Provided further, however, that if any proposed subdivision or development is
of such size or magnitude that it requires or necessitates a sewer size larger
than an eight inch (8") diameter line or if the type of development is such as
to produce a wastewater flow in excess of the capacity of an eight inch (8")
diameter sewer line, then the owner or developer of said subdivision or
development shall be responsible for the entire cost of whatever size of sewer
line is needed to accommodate that development.
   D.   Sewer mains shall be kept as deep as practical to keep sewage lift
stations to the smallest number possible. When a sewage lift station and its
related facilities are required, it and the sewer system directing sewage to it
shall generally be designed for an entire definable area and not just to serve
a single property owner or developer. The cost for the sewage lift stations,
hook up to the city's SCADA system, and all related appurtenances shall be the
sole responsibility of the single property owner or developer. (Ord. 543, 5-5-
2009; amd. Ord. 2021-621, 9-2-2021; Ord. 2025-650, 1-23-2025)
8-2-45: CITATION; APPEARANCE:
Whenever it is determined by any police officer or other duly authorized
officer that any person or persons have violated any provisions of this chapter
the said officer shall provide in quadruplicate and serve upon such person or
persons a written citation containing a notice to appear in a designated court
of competent jurisdiction within the City. This citation shall contain the name
and address of the person charged, the offense charged, the time and place the
offense charged occurred, and the time when the person charged shall appear in
said court, and such other pertinent information as may be necessary; and such
person or persons shall appear in said court within five (5) days after such
citation is issued and served. The issuance of a citation shall not be the
exclusive method of summoning offenders hereunder. (Ord. 543, 5-5-2009; amd.
Ord. 2021-621, 9-2-2021)
8-2-46: FAILURE TO APPEAR UNLAWFUL:
It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to fail or neglect to appear in
response to and as required by the citation regardless of the disposition of
the charge upon which such citation was originally issued. Appearance in court
shall be deemed complied with upon appearance by the person cited or his
attorney. (Ord. 543, 5-5-2009; amd. Ord. 2021-621, 9-2-2021)
8-2-47: PENALTIES:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor as defined by Idaho state statute 18-113, and as amended from time
to time. Each day said violation occurs shall be a separate offense. (Ord. 543,
5-5-2009; amd. Ord. 2021-621, 9-2-2021)
8-2-48: CONFLICTS:
All ordinances, or parts of ordinances, insofar as they are in conflict, shall
be and the same are hereby repealed. (Ord. 543, 5-5-2009; amd. Ord. 2021-621,
9-2-2021)
CHAPTER 3
CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL
SECTION:
8-3-1: Purpose And Scope
8-3-2: Definitions
8-3-3: Cross-Connections
8-3-4: Installation Permit Required
8-3-5: Use Of Backflow Prevention Devices
8-3-6: Cross-Connection Inspection
8-3-7: Additional Remedies
8-3-8: Violation; Penalty
8-3-1: PURPOSE AND SCOPE:
The purpose of this Chapter is to protect the public health of water consumers
by the control of actual and/or potential cross-connections. (1980 Code §
8.4.1)
8-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
All definitions contained in the Idaho Regulations for Public Drinking Water,
as the same may hereafter be revised or amended, shall be considered as
definitions within the meaning of this Chapter, and the following terms shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this Section:
BACKFLOW: The flow, other than the intended direction of the flow, of any
foreign liquids, gases or substances into this district's public water supply
distribution system.
BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE: A device to counteract back pressure or to prevent
back siphonage.
CONTAMINATION: The entry into or the presence into the City water supply of any
substance which may be detrimental to health and/or quality of water.
CROSS-CONNECTION: Any physical arrangement whereby a public water supply is
connected, directly or indirectly, with any other water supply system, sewer,
drain, conduit, pool, storage reservoir, plumbing fixture, or other device
which contains or may contain contaminated water, sewage or other waste or
liquids of unknown or unsafe quality which may be capable of imparting
contamination to the public water supply system of the City as a result of
backflow. (1980 Code § 8.4.2)
8-3-3: CROSS-CONNECTIONS:
   A.   Protection Required: No water service connection to any premises shall
be installed or continued in use in the City unless the water supply is
protected by backflow protection devices as may be required by this Chapter and
by the State Department of Health and Welfare in Idaho Regulations for Public
Drinking Water Systems sections 1-8306.01 through 1-18306.08.
   B.   Endangering Water Supply Prohibited: The installation or maintenance of
a cross-connection which will endanger the water quality of the potable water
supply of the City shall be unlawful and is prohibited.
   C.   Nuisance Declared: Any such cross-connection now existing or hereafter
installed is hereby declared to be a public nuisance and the same shall be
abated.
   D.   Compliance With State And Local Regulations: The control or elimination
of cross-connections shall be in accordance with this Chapter and Idaho Code
provisions. The City may establish requirements for cross-connection control
within the City that are more stringent than the State regulations, if they
determine that conditions so dictate. (1980 Code § 8.4.3)
8-3-4: INSTALLATION PERMIT REQUIRED:
If cross-connection control device(s) are found to be necessary, the owner of
the property served must apply to the Public Works Director for a specific
installation permit. (1980 Code § 8.4.6; amd. 1999 Code)
8-3-5: USE OF BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES:
   A.   Installation Under Certain Circumstances: Backflow prevention devices
shall be installed where, in the judgment of the Public Works Director, the
nature and extent of activities or the materials stored on the premises would
present an immediate and dangerous hazard to health and/or be detrimental to
the quality of the water should a cross-connection occur; even though such
cross-connection does not exist at the time. Backflow prevention devices shall
be installed under circumstances, including but not limited to, the following:
      1.   Premises having an auxiliary water supply, unless the quality of the
auxiliary supply is in compliance with the State of Idaho Drinking Water
Regulations and is acceptable to the Public Works Director of the City.
      2.   Premises having internal cross-connections that are not correctable
or intricate plumbing arrangements which make it impracticable to ascertain
whether or not cross-connections exist.
      3.   Premises where entry is restricted so that inspection for cross-
connections cannot be made with sufficient frequency or at sufficiently short
notice to assure that a cross-connection does not exist.
      4.   Premises having a repeated history of cross-connection being
established or reestablished.
      5.   Premises on which any substance is handled under pressure so as to
permit entry into the public water supply, or where cross-connection could
reasonably be expected to occur. This shall include the handling of processed
waters and cooling waters.
      6.   Premises where materials of a toxic or hazardous nature are handled
in such a way that if back siphonage should occur, a serious health hazard
might result.
      7.   The following types of facilities will fall into one of the above
categories where a backflow prevention device is required to protect the public
water supply. A backflow prevention device shall be installed at these
facilities unless the Public Works Director of the City determines that no
hazard exists:
         Chemical plants using a water process.
         Food or beverage processing plants.
         Hospitals, mortuaries, clinics, laboratories.
         Metal plating industries.
         Petroleum processing or storage plants.
         Radioactive material processing plants or nuclear reactors.
         Sewage treatment plants.
         Others specified by the City.
      8.   Other premises, as specified by the City, where backflow prevention
devices are required to protect the public water supply.
   B.   Type Of Device; Conditions: The type of protective device shall depend
on the degree of hazard which exists:
      1.   An air-gap separation or a reduced pressure principle backflow
prevention device shall be installed where the public water supply may be
contaminated with sewage, industrial wastes of a toxic nature, or other
contaminant which could cause a health or system hazard.
      2.   In the case of a substance which may be objectionable but not
hazardous to health, a double check valve assembly, air-gap separation, or a
reduced pressure principle backflow prevention device shall be installed.
   C.   Location: Backflow prevention devices required by this Chapter shall be
installed at the meter, at the property line of the premises when the meters
are not used, or at a location designated by the Public Works Director. The
device shall be located so as to be readily accessible for maintenance and
testing, and further, where no part of the device will be submerged.
   D.   Supervision: Backflow prevention devices required by this Chapter shall
be installed under the supervision, and with the approval, of the Public Works
Director.
   E.   Approval Of Protective Device; Customer Responsible For Cost: Any
protective device required by this Chapter shall be a model approved by the
City. A double check valve assembly or a reduced pressure principle backflow
prevention device will be approved if it has successfully passed a performance
test of the American Water Works Association (AWWA) or other testing
laboratories satisfactory to the City. These devices shall be furnished and
installed by and at the expense of the customer.
   F.   Inspection, Tests And Maintenance: Backflow prevention devices
installed pursuant to this Chapter, except atmospheric vacuum breakers, shall
be inspected and tested annually, or more often if necessary. Inspections,
tests and maintenance shall be at the customer's expense. Whenever the devices
are found to be defective, they shall be repaired, overhauled or replaced at
the customers expense. Inspections, tests, repairs and records thereof shall be
accomplished under the City's supervision by certified testers.
   G.   Underground Sprinkling Devices: No underground sprinkling device will
be installed without adequate backflow prevention devices at the point from
which the water for irrigation is taken from the public water supply.
   H.   Failure Of Customer To Cooperate: Failure of the customer to cooperate
in the installation, maintenance, testing or inspection of backflow prevention
devices required by this Chapter shall be grounds for the termination of water
service to the premises, or, in the alternative, the installation of an air-gap
separation at the customer's expense. (1980 Code § 8.4.4; amd. 1999 Code)
8-3-6: CROSS-CONNECTION INSPECTION:
   A.   Inspection Required: No water shall be delivered to any structure
hereafter built within the City or within areas served by City water until the
same shall have been inspected by the Public Works Director for possible cross-
connections and been approved as being free of same.
   B.   Hazardous Facilities: Any construction for industrial or other purposes
which is classified as hazardous facilities where it is reasonable to
anticipate intermittent cross-connections, or as determined by the City, shall
be protected by the installation of one or more backflow prevention devices at
the point of service from the public water supply or any other location
designated by the Public Works Director.
   C.   Periodic Inspections: Inspections shall be made periodically of all
buildings, structures, or improvements of any nature now receiving water
through the City system, for the purpose of ascertaining whether cross-
connections exist. Such inspections shall be made by the Public Works Director.
(1980 Code § 8.4.5; amd. 1999 Code)
8-3-7: ADDITIONAL REMEDIES:
In the event an improper cross-connection is not corrected within the time
limit set by the City, or in the event the Public Works Director is refused
access to any property for the purpose of determining whether or not cross-
connections exist, delivery of water to the property shall cease until the
deficiency is corrected to the Public Works Director's satisfaction. In
addition, the Public Works Director may effect the necessary repairs or
modifications at the expense of the property owner and refuse delivery of water
to the property until the cost thereof shall have been paid. (1980 Code §
8.4.7; amd. 1999 Code)
8-3-8: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects, refuses to comply with or
resists the enforcement of any of the provisions of this Chapter or the rules
and regulations as adopted by the Public Works Director shall be deemed guilty
of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be, for each offense,
subject to penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (1980 Code § 8.4.8; amd. 1999 Code)
CHAPTER 4
PRETREATMENT REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-4-1: General Provisions
8-4-2: General Sewer Use Requirements
8-4-3: Pretreatment Of Wastewater
8-4-4: Industrial Wastewater Discharge Permits
8-4-5: Industrial Wastewater Discharge Permit Issuance
8-4-6: Reporting Requirements
8-4-7: Compliance Monitoring
8-4-8: Confidential Information
8-4-9: Publication Of Users In Significant Noncompliance
8-4-10: Administrative Enforcement Remedies
8-4-11: Judicial Enforcement Remedies
8-4-12: Affirmative Defenses To Discharge Violations
8-4-13: Miscellaneous Provisions
8-4-14: Effective Date
8-4-1: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Purpose And Policy: This chapter sets forth uniform requirements for
users of the Publicly Owned Treatment Works for the City of Rigby and enables
the City to comply with all applicable State and Federal laws, including the
Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.) and the General Pretreatment
Regulations (40 CFR part 403). The objectives of this chapter are:
      1.   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the Publicly Owned
Treatment Works that will interfere with its operation;
      2.   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the Publicly Owned
Treatment Works that will pass through the Publicly Owned Treatment Works,
inadequately treated, into receiving waters, or otherwise be incompatible with
the Publicly Owned Treatment Works;
      3.   To protect both Publicly Owned Treatment Works personnel who may be
affected by wastewater and sludge in the course of their employment and the
general public;
      4.   To promote reuse and recycling of industrial wastewater and sludge
from the Publicly Owned Treatment Works;
      5.   To enable the City to comply with its Idaho Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System permit conditions, sludge use and disposal requirements, and
any other Federal or State laws to which the Publicly Owned Treatment Works is
subject.
This chapter shall apply to all users of the Publicly Owned Treatment Works
(POTW). The chapter authorizes the issuance of Industrial Wastewater Discharge
Permits; provides for monitoring, compliance, and enforcement activities;
establishes administrative review procedures; and requires user reporting.
   B.   Administration: Except as otherwise provided herein, the Pretreatment
Coordinator shall administer, implement, and enforce the provisions of this
chapter. Any powers granted to or duties imposed upon the Pretreatment
Coordinator may be delegated by the Pretreatment Coordinator to a duly
authorized City employee.
   C.   Abbreviations: The following abbreviations, when used in this chapter,
shall have the designated meanings:
BOD    Biochemical oxygen demand
BMP    Best management practices
CFR    Code of Federal Regulations
COD    Chemical oxygen demand
EPA    U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
gpd    Gallons per day
IPDES  Idaho Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
mg/l   Milligrams per liter
NSCIU  Non-significant categorical industrial user
POTW   Publicly Owned Treatment Works
RCRA   Resource Conservation and Recovery Act
SIU    Significant industrial user
TSS    Total suspended solids
U.S.C. United States Code
 
   D.   Definitions: Unless a provision explicitly states otherwise, the
following terms and phrases, as used in this chapter, shall have the meanings
hereinafter designated.
      1.   ACT (THE ACT): The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known
as the Clean Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.
      2.   APPROVAL AUTHORITY: Idaho Department of Environmental Quality.
      3.   AUTHORIZED OR DULY AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE USER:
         a.   If the user is a corporation:
            (1)   The president, secretary, treasurer, or a vice-president of
the corporation in charge of a principal business function, or any other person
who performs similar policy or decision-making functions for the corporation;
or
            (2)   The manager of one or more manufacturing, production, or
operating facilities, provided the manager is authorized to make management
decisions that govern the operation of the regulated facility including having
the explicit or implicit duty of making major capital investment
recommendations, and initiate and direct other comprehensive measures to assure
long-term environmental compliance with environmental laws and regulations; can
ensure that the necessary systems are established or actions taken to gather
complete and accurate information for Industrial Wastewater Discharge Permit
requirements; and where authority to sign documents has been assigned or
delegated to the manager in accordance with corporate procedures.
         b.   If the user is a partnership or sole proprietorship: a general
partner or proprietor, respectively.
         c.   If the user is a Federal, State, or local governmental facility:
a director or highest official appointed or designated to oversee the operation
and performance of the activities of the government facility, or their
designee.
         d.   The individuals described in paragraphs a through c above, may
designate a Duly Authorized Representative if the authorization is in writing,
the authorization specifies the individual or position responsible for the
overall operation of the facility from which the discharge originates or having
overall responsibility for environmental matters for the company, and the
written authorization is submitted to the City.
      4.   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND OR BOD: The quantity of oxygen utilized in
the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory
procedures for five (5) days at twenty degrees centigrade (20°C), usually
expressed as a concentration (e.g., mg/l).
      5.   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPS): Schedules of activities,
prohibitions of practices, maintenance procedures, and other management
practices to implement the prohibitions listed in subsection
8-4-2A1 and A2 (40 CFR 403.5(a)(1) and (b)). BMPs include treatment
requirements, operating procedures, and practices to control plant site runoff,
spillage or leaks, sludge or waste disposal, or drainage from raw materials
storage. BMPs also include alternative means (i.e., management plans) of
complying with, or in place of certain established categorical Pretreatment
Standards and effluent limits.
      6.   CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD (CATEGORICAL STANDARD): Any
regulation containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by EPA in
accordance with sections 307(b) and (c) of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1317) that
apply to a specific category of users and that appear in 40 CFR chapter I,
subchapter N, parts 405-471.
      7.   CATEGORICAL INDUSTRIAL USER: An industrial user subject to a
categorical pretreatment standard or categorical standard.
      8.   CITY: The City of Rigby.
      9.   CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (COD): A measure of the oxygen required to
oxidize all compounds, both organic and inorganic, in water.
      10.   CONTROL AUTHORITY: The entity directly administering and enforcing
pretreatment standards and requirements against industrial users. The City of
Rigby.
      11.   DAILY MAXIMUM: The arithmetic average of all effluent samples for a
pollutant collected during a calendar day.
      12.   DAILY MAXIMUM LIMIT: The maximum allowable discharge limit of a
pollutant during a calendar day. Where daily maximum limits are expressed in
units of mass, the daily discharge is the total mass discharged over the course
of the day. Where daily maximum limits are expressed in terms of a
concentration, the daily discharge is the arithmetic average measurement of the
pollutant concentration derived from all measurements taken that day.
      13.   ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA): The U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency or, where appropriate, the Regional Water Management Division
Director, the Regional Administrator, or other duly authorized official of said
agency.
      14.   EXISTING SOURCE: Any source of discharge that is not a "new
source."
      15.   GRAB SAMPLE: A grab sample is any individual sample collected over
a period of time not to exceed fifteen (15) minutes (according to 40 CRF 403.7
(b)(2)(iv)). A composite of grabs collected over the course of a discharge day
is a "grab composite", and a composite of grabs collected within a fifteen (15)
minute interval is a "composite grab."
      16.   IDAHO POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (IPDES): The discharge
permit for the Publicly Owned Treatment Works issued by the state of Idaho.
      17.   INDIRECT DISCHARGE (DISCHARGE): The introduction of pollutants into
the POTW from any non-domestic source.
      18.   INDUSTRIAL USER: A non-domestic discharger, as identified in 40 CFR
403, introducing pollutants to a publicly owned treatment works.
      19.   INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT: The permit issued by the
Pretreatment Coordinator to a significant industrial user or non-significant
categorical industrial user which allows the discharge of industrial wastewater
to the POTW.
      20.   INSTANTANEOUS LIMIT: The maximum concentration of a pollutant
allowed to be discharged at any time, determined from the analysis of any
discrete or composited sample collected, independent of the industrial flow
rate and the duration of the sampling event.
      21.   INTERFERENCE: A discharge that, alone or in conjunction with a
discharge or discharges from other sources, inhibits or disrupts the POTW, its
treatment processes or operations or its sludge processes, use or disposal; and
therefore, is a cause of a violation of the City's IPDES permit or of the
prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal in compliance with any of the
following statutory/regulatory provisions or permits issued thereunder, or any
more stringent State or local regulations: section 405 of the Act; the Solid
Waste Disposal Act, including Title II commonly referred to as the Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA); any State regulations contained in any
State sludge management plan prepared pursuant to Subtitle D of the Solid Waste
Disposal Act; the Clean Air Act; the Toxic Substances Control Act; and the
Marine Protection, Research, and Sanctuaries Act.
      22.   LOCAL LIMIT: Specific discharge limits developed and enforced by
the City upon industrial or commercial facilities to implement the general and
specific discharge prohibitions listed in 40 CFR 403.5(a)(1) and (b).
      23.   MEDICAL WASTE: Isolation wastes, infectious agents, human blood and
blood products, pathological wastes, sharps, body parts, contaminated bedding,
surgical wastes, potentially contaminated laboratory wastes, and dialysis
wastes.
      24.   MONTHLY AVERAGE: The sum of all "daily discharges" measured during
a calendar month divided by the number of "daily discharges" measured during
that month.
      25.   MONTHLY AVERAGE LIMIT: The highest allowable average of "daily
discharges" over a calendar month, calculated as the sum of all "daily
discharges" measured during a calendar month divided by the number of "daily
discharges" measured during that month.
      26.   NEW SOURCE:
         a.   Any building, structure, facility, or installation from which
there is (or may be) a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which
commenced after the publication of proposed pretreatment standards under
section 307(c) of the Act that will be applicable to such source if such
standards are thereafter promulgated in accordance with that section, provided
that:
            (1)   The building, structure, facility, or installation is
constructed at a site at which no other source is located; or
            (2)   The building, structure, facility, or installation totally
replaces the process or production equipment that causes the discharge of
pollutants at an existing source; or
            (3)   The production or wastewater generating processes of the
building, structure, facility, or installation are substantially independent of
an existing source at the same site. In determining whether these are
substantially independent, factors such as the extent to which the new facility
is integrated with the existing plant, and the extent to which the new facility
is engaged in the same general type of activity as the existing source, should
be considered.
         b.   Construction on a site at which an existing source is located
results in a modification rather than a new source if the construction does not
create a new building, structure, facility, or installation meeting the
criteria of paragraphs a(2) or a(3) above but otherwise alters, replaces, or
adds to existing process or production equipment.
         c.   Construction of a new source as defined under this paragraph has
commenced if the owner or operator has:
            (1)   Begun, or caused to begin, as part of a continuous onsite
construction program:
               (A)   Any placement, assembly, or installation of facilities or
equipment; or
               (B)   Significant site preparation work including clearing,
excavation, or removal of existing buildings, structures, or facilities which
is necessary for the placement, assembly, or installation of new source
facilities or equipment; or
            (2)   Entered into a binding contractual obligation for the
purchase of facilities or equipment which are intended to be used in its
operation within a reasonable time. Options to purchase or contracts which can
be terminated or modified without substantial loss, and contracts for
feasibility, engineering, and design studies do not constitute a contractual
obligation under this paragraph.
      27.   NONCONTACT COOLING WATER: Water used for cooling that does not come
into direct contact with any raw material, intermediate product, waste product,
or finished product.
      28.   NON-SIGNIFICANT CATEGORICAL INDUSTRIAL USER (NSCIU): The
Pretreatment Coordinator may classify an industrial user subject to categorical
pretreament standards as a non-significant categorical industrial user (NSCIU)
if certain low flow and pretreatment standards are met. See definition of
"Significant Industrial User" for a listing of these flows and pretreatment
standards. Classifying a user as a NSCIU may reduce the user's reporting
requirements.
      29.   PASS THROUGH: A discharge which exits the POTW into waters of the
United States in quantities or concentrations which, alone or in conjunction
with a discharge or discharges from other sources, is a cause of a violation of
any requirement of the City's IPDES permit, including an increase in the
magnitude or duration of a violation.
      30.   PERSON: Any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, governmental
entity, or any other legal entity; or their legal representatives, agents, or
assigns. This definition includes all Federal, State, and local governmental
entities.
      31.   pH: A measure of the acidity or alkalinity of a solution, expressed
in standard units.
      32.   POLLUTANT: Dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, filter
backwash, sewage, garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, medical wastes, chemical
wastes, biological materials, radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discarded
equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt, municipal, agricultural and industrial
wastes, and certain characteristics of wastewater (e.g., pH, temperature, TSS,
turbidity, color, BOD, COD, toxicity, or odor).
      33.   PRETREATMENT: The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the
elimination of pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant
properties in wastewater prior to, or in lieu of, introducing such pollutants
into the POTW. This reduction or alteration can be obtained by physical,
chemical, or biological processes; by process changes; or by other means,
except by diluting the concentration of the pollutants unless allowed by an
applicable pretreatment standard.
      34.   PRETREATMENT COORDINATOR: The authorized deputy, agent, or
representative in charge of the City of Rigby's Pretreatment Program. The
Pretreatment Coordinator may be the same individual as the WWTP Superintendent.
      35.   PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS: Any substantive or procedural
requirement related to pretreatment imposed on a user, other than a
pretreatment standard.
      36.   PRETREATMENT STANDARDS: Prohibited discharge standards, categorical
pretreatment standards, and local limits.
      37.   PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS OR PROHIBITED DISCHARGES: Absolute
prohibitions against the discharge of certain substances; these prohibitions
appear in subsection
8-4-2A of this chapter.
      38.   PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW): A treatment works, as
defined by section 212 of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1292), which is owned by the
City. This definition includes any devices or systems used in the collection,
storage, treatment, recycling, and reclamation of sewage or industrial wastes
of a liquid nature and any conveyances, which convey wastewater to a treatment
plant.
      39.   SEPTIC TANK WASTE: Any sewage from holding tanks such as vessels,
chemical toilets, campers, trailers, and septic tanks.
      40.   SEWAGE: Human excrement and gray water (household showers,
dishwashing operations, etc.).
      41.   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER (SIU): Except as provided in paragraphs
c and d of this definition, a significant industrial user is:
         a.   An industrial user subject to categorical pretreatment standards;
or
         b.   An industrial user that:
            (1)   Discharges an average of twenty-five thousand (25,000) gpd or
more of process wastewater to the POTW (excluding sanitary, noncontact cooling
and boiler blowdown wastewater);
            (2)   Contributes a process wastestream which makes up five percent
(5%) or more of the average dry weather hydraulic or organic capacity of the
POTW treatment plant; or
            (3)   Is designated as such by the City on the basis that it has a
reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTW's operation or for
violating any pretreatment standard or requirement.
         c.   The City may determine that an industrial user subject to
categorical pretreatment standards is a non-significant categorical industrial
user rather than a significant industrial user on a finding that the industrial
user never discharges more than one hundred (100) gallons per day (gpd) of
total categorical wastewater (excluding sanitary, non-contact cooling and
boiler blowdown wastewater, unless specifically included in the pretreatment
standard) and the following conditions are met:
            (1)   The industrial user, prior to the City's finding, has
consistently complied with all applicable categorical pretreatment standards
and requirements;
            (2)   The industrial user annually submits the certification
statement required in subsection
8-4-6M2 (40 CR 403.12(q)), together with any additional information necessary
to support the certification statement; and
            (3)   The industrial user never discharges any untreated
concentrated wastewater.
         d.   Upon a finding that a user meeting the criteria in subsection b
of this part has no reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTW's
operation or for violating any pretreatment standard or requirement, the City
may at any time, on its own initiative or in response to a petition received
from an industrial user, and in accordance with procedures in 40 CFR 403.8(f)
(6), determine that such user should not be considered a significant industrial
user.
      42.   SLUG LOAD OR SLUG DISCHARGE: Any discharge at a flow rate or
concentration, which could cause a violation of the prohibited discharge
standards in subsection
8-4-2A of this chapter. A slug discharge is any discharge of a non-routine,
episodic nature, including but not limited to an accidental spill or a non-
customary batch discharge, which has a reasonable potential to cause
Interference or pass through, or in any other way violate the POTW's
regulations, local limits or permit conditions.
      43.   STORM WATER: Any flow occurring during or following any form of
natural precipitation, and resulting from such precipitation, including
snowmelt.
      44.   TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS OR SUSPENDED SOLIDS: The total suspended
matter that floats on the surface of, or is suspended in, water, wastewater, or
other liquid, and that is removable by laboratory filtering.
      45.   USER OR INDUSTRIAL USER: A source of indirect discharge.
      46.   WASTEWATER: Liquid and water-carried industrial wastes and sewage
from residential dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial and manufacturing
facilities, and institutions, whether treated or untreated, which are
contributed to the POTW.
      47.   WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT (WWTP): That portion of the POTW which
is designed to provide treatment of municipal wastewater.
      48.   WWTP SUPERINTENDENT: The authorized deputy, agent, or
representative in charge of the City of Rigby Wastewater Treatment Plant. (Ord.
2021-620, 9-2-2021; amd. Ord. 2025-650, 1-23-2025)
8-4-2: GENERAL SEWER USE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Prohibited Discharge Standards:
      1.   General Prohibitions: No user shall introduce or cause to be
introduced into the POTW any pollutant or wastewater which causes pass through
or interference. These general prohibitions apply to all users of the POTW
whether or not they are subject to categorical pretreatment standards or any
other National, State, or local pretreatment standards or requirements.
      2.   Specific Prohibitions: No user shall introduce or cause to be
introduced into the POTW the following pollutants, substances, or wastewater:
         a.   Pollutants which create a fire or explosive hazard in the POTW,
including, but not limited to, wastestreams with a closed-cup flashpoint of
less than one hundred forty degrees Fahrenheit (140°F) (60°C) using the test
methods specified in 40 CFR 261.21;
         b.   Wastewater having a pH less than 6.5 or more than 9.0, or
otherwise causing corrosive structural damage to the POTW or equipment;
         c.   Solid or viscous substances in amounts which will cause
obstruction of the flow in the POTW resulting in Interference but in no case
solids greater than one half inch (1/2") in any dimension;
         d.   Pollutants, including oxygen-demanding pollutants (BOD, etc.),
released in a discharge at a flow rate and/or pollutant concentration which,
either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, will cause Interference
with the POTW;
         e.   Wastewater having a temperature which will inhibit biological
activity in the treatment plant resulting in interference, but in no case
wastewater which causes the temperature at the introduction into the treatment
plant to exceed one hundred four degrees Fahrenheit (104°F) (40°C);
         f.   Petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oil, or products of
mineral oil origin, in amounts that will cause interference or pass through;
         g.   Pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors,
or fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker health and
safety problems;
         h.   Trucked or hauled pollutants, except at discharge points
designated by the Pretreatment Coordinator in accordance with subsection
8-4-3D of this chapter;
         i.   Noxious or malodorous liquids, gases, solids, or other wastewater
which, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, are sufficient to
create a public nuisance or a hazard to life, or to prevent entry into the
sewers for maintenance or repair;
         j.   Wastewater which imparts color which cannot be removed by the
treatment process, such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable
tanning solutions, which consequently imparts color to the treatment plant's
effluent, thereby violating the City's IPDES permit;
         k.   Wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes except
as specifically approved in writing by the Supervisor in compliance with
applicable state or federal regulations;
         l.   Storm water, surface water, ground water, artesian well water,
roof runoff, subsurface drainage, swimming pool drainage, condensate, deionized
water, noncontact cooling water, and unpolluted wastewater, unless specifically
authorized by the Pretreatment Coordinator;
         m.   Sludges, screenings, or other residues from the pretreatment of
industrial wastes or from industrial processes;
         n.   Medical wastes, except as specifically authorized by the
Pretreatment Coordinator in an Industrial Wastewater Discharge Permit;
         o.   Wastewater causing, alone or in conjunction with other sources,
the WWTP's effluent to fail toxicity test;
         p.   Detergents, surface-active agents, or other substances which may
cause excessive foaming in the POTW;
         q.   Any liquid, solids, or gases which by reason of their nature or
quantity are, or may be, sufficient either alone or by interaction with other
substances to cause fire or explosion or be injurious in any other way to the
POTW or to the operation of the POTW. At no time, shall two (2) successive
readings on an explosion meter, at the point of discharge into the system (or
at any point in the system), be more than five percent (5%) nor any single
reading over ten percent (10%) of the lower explosive limit (LEL) of the meter;
         r.   Grease, garbage other than ground garbage, animal guts or
tissues, paunch manure, bones, hair, hides or fleshing's, entrails, whole
blood, feathers, ashes, cinders, sand, spent lime, stone or marble dusts,
metal, glass, straw, shavings, grass clippings, rags, spent grains, spent hops,
waste paper, wood, plastics, gas, tar asphalt residues, residues from refining
or processing of fuel or lubricating oil, mud, or glass grinding or polishing
wastes;
         s.   Any substance which will cause the POTW to violate its IPDES and/
or other disposal system permits.
         t.   Any wastewater, which in the opinion of the WWTP Superintendent
or Pretreatment Coordinator can cause harm either to the POTW, have an adverse
effect on the receiving stream, or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public
property or constitute a nuisance, unless allowed under special agreement by
the Pretreatment Coordinator, except that no special waiver shall be given from
categorical pretreatment standards;
         u.   The contents of any settling tank or other vessel owned or used
by any person in the business of collecting or pumping sewage, effluent or
septage;
         v.   Any hazardous waste as prohibited or regulated by the State of
Idaho or in EPA Rules 40 CFR Part 261;
         w.   Persistent pesticides and/or pesticides regulated by the Federal
Insecticide Fungicide Rodenticide Act (FIFRA). Pollutants, substances or
wastewater prohibited by this section shall not be processed or stored in such
a manner that they could be discharged to the POTW;
         x.   Formaldehyde;
         y.   Industrial chemicals in concentrations that will cause
interference or pass through.
      3.   Pollutants, substances, or wastewater prohibited by this section
shall not be processed or stored in such a manner that they could be discharged
to the POTW.
   B.   National Categorical Pretreatment Standards: Users must comply with the
categorical pretreatment standards found at 40 CFR chapter I, subchapter N,
parts 405-471.
      1.   Where a categorical pretreatment standard is expressed only in terms
of either the mass or the concentration of a pollutant in wastewater, the
Pretreatment Coordinator may impose equivalent concentration or mass limits in
accordance with subsection
8-4-2B4 and 5 (40 CFR 403.6(c)).
      2.   When the limits in a categorical pretreatment standard are expressed
only in terms of mass of pollutant per unit of production, the Pretreatment
Coordinator may convert the limits to equivalent limitations expressed either
as mass of pollutant discharged per day or effluent concentration for purposes
of calculating effluent limitations applicable to individual industrial users
(40 CFR 403.6(c)(2)).
      3.   When wastewater subject to a categorical pretreatment standard is
mixed with wastewater not regulated by the same Standard, the Pretreatment
Coordinator shall impose an alternate limit in accordance with 40 CFR 403.6(e).
      4.   When a categorical pretreatment standard is expressed only in terms
of pollutant concentrations, an industrial user may request that the City
convert the limits to equivalent mass limits. The determination to convert
concentration limits to mass limits is within the discretion of the
Pretreatment Coordinator. The City may establish equivalent mass limits only if
the industrial user meets all the conditions set forth in subsection
8-4-2B4a(1) through (5) below.
         a.   To be eligible for equivalent mass limits, the industrial user
must:
            (1)   Employ, or demonstrate that it will employ, water
conservation methods and technologies that substantially reduce water use
during the term of its industrial wastewater discharge permit;
            (2)   Currently use control and treatment technologies adequate to
achieve compliance with the applicable categorical pretreatment standard, and
not have used dilution as a substitute for treatment;
            (3)   Provide sufficient information to establish the facility's
actual average daily flow rate for all wastestreams, based on data from a
continuous effluent flow monitoring device, as well as the facility's long-term
average production rate. Both the actual average daily flow rate and the long-
term average production rate must be representative of current operating
conditions;
            (4)   Not have daily flow rates, production levels, or pollutant
levels that vary so significantly that equivalent mass limits are not
appropriate to control the discharge; and
            (5)   Have consistently complied with all applicable categorical
pretreatment standards during the period prior to the industrial user's request
for equivalent mass limits.
         b.   An industrial user subject to equivalent mass limits must:
            (1)   Maintain and effectively operate control and treatment
technologies adequate to achieve compliance with the equivalent mass limits;
            (2)   Continue to record the facility's flow rates through the use
of a continuous effluent flow monitoring device;
            (3)   Continue to record the facility's production rates and notify
the Pretreatment Coordinator whenever production rates are expected to vary by
more than twenty percent (20%) from its baseline production rates determined in
subsection B4a(3). Upon notification of a revised production rate, the
Pretreatment Coordinator will reassess the equivalent mass limit and revise the
limit as necessary to reflect changed conditions at the facility; and
            (4)   Continue to employ the same or comparable water conservation
methods and technologies as those implemented pursuant to subsection B4a(1) of
this section so long as it discharges under an equivalent mass limit.
         c.   When developing equivalent mass limits, the Pretreatment
Coordinator:
            (1)   Will calculate the equivalent mass limit by multiplying the
actual average daily flow rate of the regulated process(es) of the industrial
user by the concentration-based daily maximum and monthly average standard for
the applicable categorical pretreatment standard and the appropriate unit
conversion factor;
            (2)   Upon notification of a revised production rate, will reassess
the equivalent mass limit and recalculate the limit as necessary to reflect
changed conditions at the facility; and
            (3)   May retain the same equivalent mass limit in subsequent
industrial wastewater discharge permit terms if the industrial user's actual
average daily flow rate was reduced solely as a result of the implementation of
water conservation methods and technologies, and the actual average daily flow
rates used in the original calculation of the equivalent mass limit were not
based on the use of dilution as a substitute for treatment pursuant to
subsection
8-4-2F. The industrial user must also be in compliance with subsection
8-4-12C regarding the prohibition of bypass.
      5.   The Pretreatment Coordinator may convert the mass limits of the
categorical pretreatment standards of 40 CFR parts 414, 419, and 455 to
concentration limits for purposes of calculating limitations applicable to
individual industrial users. The conversion is at the discretion of the
Pretreatment Coordinator (40 CFR 403.6(c)(7) & (d)).
      6.   Once included in its permit, the industrial user must comply with
the equivalent limitations developed in this subsection B in lieu of the
promulgated categorical standards from which the equivalent limitations were
derived (40 CFR 403.6(c)(7)).
      7.   Many categorical pretreatment standards specify one limit for
calculating maximum daily discharge limitations and a second limit for
calculating maximum monthly average, or four (4) day average, limitations.
Where such standards are being applied, the same production or flow figure
shall be used in calculating both the average and the maximum equivalent
limitation (40 CFR 403.6(c)(8)).
      8.   Any industrial user operating under a permit incorporating
equivalent mass or concentration limits calculated from a production-based
standard shall notify the Pretreatment Coordinator within two (2) business days
after the user has a reasonable basis to know that the production level will
significantly change within the next calendar month. Any user not notifying the
Pretreatment Coordinator of such anticipated change will be required to meet
the mass or concentration limits in its permit that were based on the original
estimate of the long term average production rate (40 CFR 403.6(c)(9)).
      9.   All industrial users who may be subject to the City's pretreatment
program will be notified of the standards that are pertinent to their
operation. As the IU master list is updated, the Pretreatment Coordinator will
send letters to new businesses describing applicable pretreatment requirements.
If a new business is identified as having SIU or CIU status, the letter will
state this and describe the requirements of the status, and outline the steps
to acquiring an Industrial Wastewater Discharge Permit. If the business is a
restaurant or other facility requiring an interceptor, they will be notified of
the interceptor requirements listed in Rigby City Code. Additionally, if newly
promulgated pretreatment standards alter the status of an existing IU, the
master list will be updated, and a letter will be sent notifying them that
their status has been changed and that further action is needed.
   C.   State Pretreatment Standards: Users must comply with Idaho Pretreatment
Standards codified in Idaho Administrative Rules and Procedures Act (IDAPA)
58.01.25.370.
   D.   Local Limits:
      1.   The Pretreatment Coordinator is authorized to establish local limits
pursuant to 40 CFR 403.5(c).
      2.   Local limits are listed in chapter 8-2 of this code, Sewer User
Regulations. The pollutant limits are established to protect against pass
through and interference. No user shall discharge wastewater containing in
excess of these limits. The limits apply at the point where the wastewater is
discharged to the POTW. All concentrations for metallic substances are for
total metal unless indicated otherwise. The Pretreatment Coordinator may impose
mass limitations in addition to the concentration-based limitations.
      3.   The Pretreatment Coordinator may develop best management practices
(BMPs), by ordinance or in industrial wastewater discharge permits, to
implement local limits and the requirements of subsection
8-4-2A.
   E.   City's Right Of Revision: The City reserves the right to establish, by
ordinance or in industrial wastewater discharge permits, more stringent
standards or requirements on discharges to the POTW consistent with the purpose
of this chapter.
   F.   Dilution: No user shall ever increase the use of process water, or in
any way attempt to dilute a discharge, as a partial or complete substitute for
adequate treatment to achieve compliance with a discharge limitation unless
expressly authorized by an applicable pretreatment standard or requirement. The
Pretreatment Coordinator may impose mass limitations on users who are using
dilution to meet applicable pretreatment standards or requirements, or in other
cases when the imposition of mass limitations is appropriate. (Ord. 2021-620,
9-2-2021)
8-4-3: PRETREATMENT OF WASTEWATER:
   A.   Pretreatment Facilities: Users shall provide wastewater treatment as
necessary to comply with this chapter and shall achieve compliance with all
categorical pretreatment standards, local limits, and the prohibitions set out
in subsection
8-4-2A of this chapter within the time limitations specified by EPA, the State,
or the Pretreatment Coordinator, whichever is more stringent. Any facilities
necessary for compliance shall be provided, operated, and maintained at the
user's expense. Detailed plans describing such facilities and operating
procedures shall be submitted to the Pretreatment Coordinator for review, and
shall be acceptable to the Pretreatment Coordinator before such facilities are
constructed.
The review of such plans and operating procedures shall in no way relieve the
user from the responsibility of modifying such facilities as necessary to
produce a discharge acceptable to the City under the provisions of this
chapter.
   B.   Additional Pretreatment Measures:
      1.   Whenever deemed necessary, the Pretreatment Coordinator may require
users to restrict their discharge during peak flow periods, designate that
certain wastewater be discharged only into specific sewers, relocate and/or
consolidate points of discharge, separate sewage wastestreams from industrial
wastestreams, and such other conditions as may be necessary to protect the POTW
and determine the user's compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
      2.   The Pretreatment Coordinator may require any person discharging into
the POTW to install and maintain, on their property and at their expense, a
suitable storage and flow-control facility to ensure equalization of flow. An
industrial wastewater discharge permit may be issued solely for flow
equalization.
      3.   Fats, oils, grease, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in
the opinion of the WWTP Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper
handling of wastewater containing excessive amounts of grease and oil, or sand;
except that such interceptors shall not be required for residential users. All
interception units shall be of a type and capacity approved by the WWTP
Superintendent, shall comply with the City's Interceptor Regulations, chapter
8-5 of this code, and shall be so located to be easily accessible for cleaning
and inspection. Such interceptors shall be inspected, cleaned, and repaired by
the user at their expense.
      4.   Users with the potential to discharge flammable substances may be
required to install and maintain an approved combustible gas detection meter.
   C.   Accidental Discharge/Slug Discharge Control Plans: The Pretreatment
Coordinator shall evaluate whether each SIU needs an accidental discharge/slug
discharge control plan or other action to control slug discharges. The
Pretreatment Coordinator may require any user to develop, submit for approval,
and implement such a plan or take such other action that may be necessary to
control slug discharges. Alternatively, the Pretreatment Coordinator may
develop such a plan for any user. An accidental discharge/slug discharge
control plan shall address, at a minimum, the following:
      1.   Description of discharge practices, including nonroutine batch
discharges;
      2.   Description of stored chemicals;
      3.   Procedures for immediately notifying the Pretreatment Coordinator of
any accidental or slug discharge, as required by subsection
8-4-6F of this chapter; and
      4.   Procedures to prevent adverse impact from any accidental or slug
discharge. Such procedures include, but are not limited to, inspection and
maintenance of storage areas, handling and transfer of materials, loading and
unloading operations, control of plant site runoff, worker training, building
of containment structures or equipment, measures for containing toxic organic
pollutants, including solvents, and/or measures and equipment for emergency
response.
   D.   Hauled Wastewater:
      1.   Septic tank waste may be introduced into the POTW only at locations
designated by the Pretreatment Coordinator, and at such times as are
established by the Pretreatment Coordinator. Such waste shall not violate
section
8-4-2 or any other requirements established by the City. The Pretreatment
Coordinator may require septic tank waste haulers to obtain industrial
wastewater discharge permits.
      2.   The Pretreatment Coordinator may require haulers of industrial waste
to obtain industrial wastewater discharge permits. The Pretreatment Coordinator
may require generators of hauled industrial waste to obtain industrial
wastewater discharge permits. The Pretreatment Coordinator also may prohibit
the disposal of hauled industrial waste. The discharge of hauled industrial
waste is subject to all other requirements of this chapter.
      3.   Industrial waste haulers may discharge loads only at locations
designated by the Pretreatment Coordinator. No load may be discharged without
prior consent of the Pretreatment Coordinator. The Pretreatment Coordinator may
collect samples of each hauled load to ensure compliance with applicable
standards. The Pretreatment Coordinator may require the industrial waste hauler
to provide a waste analysis of any load prior to discharge.
      4.   Industrial waste haulers must provide a waste-tracking form for
every load. This form shall include, at a minimum, the name and address of the
industrial waste hauler, permit number, truck identification, names and
addresses of sources of waste, and volume and characteristics of waste. The
form shall identify the type of industry, known or suspected waste
constituents, and whether any wastes are RCRA hazardous wastes. (Ord. 2021-620,
9-2-2021)
8-4-4: INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMITS:
   A.   Wastewater Analysis: When requested by the Pretreatment Coordinator, a
user must submit information on the nature and characteristics of its
wastewater within thirty (30) days of the request. The Pretreatment Coordinator
is authorized to prepare a form for this purpose and may periodically require
users to update this information.
   B.   Industrial Wastewater Discharge Permit Requirement:
      1.   The Pretreatment Coordinator has the authority to send out an
industrial user survey in order to identify and locate all possible industrial
users that might be subject to the pretreatment program.
      2.   No significant industrial user shall discharge wastewater into the
POTW without first obtaining an industrial wastewater discharge permit from the
Pretreatment Coordinator, except that a significant industrial user that has
filed a timely application pursuant to subsection
8-4-4C of this chapter may continue to discharge for the time period specified
therein.
      3.   The Pretreatment Coordinator may require other users to obtain
industrial wastewater discharge permits as necessary to carry out the purposes
of this chapter.
      4.   Any violation of the terms and conditions of an industrial
wastewater discharge permit shall be deemed a violation of this chapter and
subjects the wastewater discharge permittee to the sanctions set out in
sections
8-4-10 and
8-4-11 of this chapter. Obtaining an industrial wastewater discharge permit
does not relieve a permittee of its obligation to comply with all Federal and
State pretreatment standards or requirements or with any other requirements of
Federal, State, and local law.
   C.   Industrial Wastewater Discharge Permitting: Existing Connections: Any
user required to obtain an industrial wastewater discharge permit who was
discharging wastewater into the POTW prior to the effective date of this
chapter and who wishes to continue such discharges in the future, shall, within
thirty (30) days of receiving notice from the Pretreatment Coordinator, apply
to the Pretreatment Coordinator for an industrial wastewater discharge permit
in accordance with subsection
8-4-4E of this chapter, and shall not cause or allow discharges to the POTW to
continue after the date decided by the Pretreatment Coordinator except in
accordance with an industrial wastewater discharge permit issued by the
Pretreatment Coordinator.
   D.   Industrial Wastewater Discharge Permitting: New Connections: Any user
required to obtain an industrial wastewater discharge permit who proposes to
begin or recommence discharging into the POTW must obtain such permit prior to
the beginning or recommencing of such discharge. An application for this
industrial wastewater discharge permit must be filed at least ninety (90) days
prior to the date upon which any discharge is planned to begin or recommence.
   E.   Industrial Wastewater Discharge Permit Application Contents:
      1.   All users required to obtain an industrial wastewater discharge
permit must submit a permit application. The Pretreatment Coordinator may
require users to submit all or some of the following information as part of a
permit application:
         a.   Identifying Information:
            (1)   The name and address of the facility, including the name of
the operator and owner.
            (2)   Contact information, description of activities, facilities,
and plant production processes on the premises.
         b.   Environmental Permits: A list of any environmental control
permits held by or for the facility.
         c.   Description Of Operations:
            (1)   A brief description of the nature, average rate of production
(including each product produced by type, amount, processes, and rate of
production), and standard industrial classifications of the operation(s)
carried out by such user. This description should include a schematic process
diagram, which indicates points of discharge to the POTW from the regulated
processes.
            (2)   Types of wastes generated, and a list of all raw materials
and chemicals used or stored at the facility which are, or could accidentally
or intentionally be, discharged to the POTW;
            (3)   Number and type of employees, hours of operation, and
proposed or actual hours of operation;
            (4)   Type and amount of raw materials processed (average and
maximum per day);
            (5)   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans, and
details to show all sewers, floor drains, and appurtenances by size, location,
and elevation, and all points of discharge;
         d.   Time and duration of discharges;
         e.   The location for monitoring all wastes covered by the permit;
         f.   Flow Measurement. Information showing the measured average daily
and maximum daily flow, in gallons per day, to the POTW from regulated process
streams and other streams, as necessary, to allow use of the combined
wastestream formula set out in subsection
8-4-2B3 (40 CFR 403.6(e)).
         g.   Measurement Of Pollutants:
            (1)   The categorical pretreatment standards applicable to each
regulated process and any new categorically regulated processes for existing
sources.
            (2)   The results of sampling and analysis identifying the nature
and concentration, and/or mass, where required by the standard or by the
Pretreatment Coordinator, of regulated pollutants in the discharge from each
regulated process.
            (3)   Instantaneous, daily maximum, and long-term average
concentrations, or mass, where required, shall be reported.
            (4)   The sample shall be representative of daily operations and
shall be analyzed in accordance with procedures set out in subsection
8-4-6I of this chapter. Where the standard requires compliance with a BMP or
pollution prevention alternative, the user shall submit documentation as
required by the Pretreatment Coordinator or the applicable standards to
determine compliance with the standard.
            (5)   Sampling must be performed in accordance with procedures set
out in subsection
8-4-6J of this chapter.
         h.   Any requests for a monitoring waiver (or a renewal of an approved
monitoring waiver) for a pollutant neither present nor expected to be present
in the discharge based on subsection
8-4-6D2 (40 CFR 403.12(e)(2)).
         i.   Any other information as may be deemed necessary by the
Pretreatment Coordinator to evaluate the permit application.
      2.   Incomplete or inaccurate applications will not be processed and will
be returned to the user for revision.
   F.   Application Signatories And Certifications:
      1.   All wastewater discharge permit applications, user reports and
certification statements must be signed by an authorized representative of the
user and contain the certification statement in subsection
8-4-6M.
      2.   If the designation of an authorized representative is no longer
accurate because a different individual or position has responsibility for the
overall operation of the facility or overall responsibility for environmental
matters for the company, a new written authorization satisfying the
requirements of this section must be submitted to the Pretreatment Coordinator
prior to or together with any reports to be signed by an authorized
representative.
      3.   A facility determined to be a non-significant categorical industrial
user by the Pretreatment Coordinator pursuant to subsection
8-4-1D37c must annually submit the signed certification statement in subsection
8-4-6.M2 (40 CFR 403.3(v)(2)).
   G.   Industrial Wastewater Discharge Permit Decisions: The Pretreatment
Coordinator will evaluate the data furnished by the user and may require
additional information. Within thirty (30) days of receipt of a complete permit
application, the Pretreatment Coordinator will determine whether to issue an
industrial wastewater discharge permit. The Pretreatment Coordinator may deny
any application for a permit. (Ord. 2021-620, 9-2-2021)
8-4-5: INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT ISSUANCE:
   A.   Industrial Wastewater Discharge Permit Duration: An industrial
wastewater discharge permit shall be issued for a specified time period, not to
exceed five (5) years from the effective date of the permit. A permit may be
issued for a period less than five (5) years, at the discretion of the
Pretreatment Coordinator. Each permit will indicate a specific date upon which
it will expire.
   B.   Industrial Wastewater Discharge Permit Contents: An industrial
wastewater discharge permit shall include such conditions as are deemed
reasonably necessary by the Pretreatment Coordinator to prevent pass through or
interference, protect the quality of the water body receiving the treatment
plant's effluent, protect worker health and safety, facilitate sludge
management and disposal, and protect against damage to the POTW.
      1.   Industrial wastewater discharge permits must contain:
         a.   A statement that indicates the permit issuance date, expiration
date and effective date;
         b.   A statement that the permit is nontransferable without prior
notification to the City in accordance with subsection
8-4-5D of this chapter, and provisions for furnishing the new owner or operator
with a copy of the existing permit;
         c.   Effluent limits, including best management practices, based on
applicable pretreatment standards;
         d.   Self monitoring, sampling, reporting, notification, and record
keeping requirements. These requirements shall include an identification of
pollutants (or best management practice) to be monitored, sampling location,
sampling frequency, and sample type based on Federal, State, and local law.
         e.   The process for seeking a waiver from monitoring for a pollutant
neither present nor expected to be present in the discharge in accordance with
subsection
8-4-6D2 (40 CFR 403.12(e)(2)).
         f.   A statement of applicable civil and criminal penalties for
violation of pretreatment standards and requirements, and any applicable
compliance schedule. Such schedule may not extend the time for compliance
beyond that required by applicable Federal, State, or local law.
         g.   Requirements to control slug discharge, if determined by the
Pretreatment Coordinator to be necessary.
         h.   Any grant of the monitoring waiver by the Pretreatment
Coordinator (subsection
8-4-6D2) must be included as a condition in the user's permit.
      2.   Industrial wastewater discharge permits may contain, but need not be
limited to, the following conditions:
         a.   Limits on the average and/or maximum rate of discharge, time of
discharge, and/or requirements for flow regulation and equalization;
         b.   Requirements for the installation of pretreatment technology,
pollution control, or construction of appropriate containment devices, designed
to reduce, eliminate, or prevent the introduction of pollutants into the
treatment works;
         c.   Requirements for the development and implementation of spill
control plans or other special conditions including management practices
necessary to adequately prevent accidental, unanticipated, or non-routine
discharges;
         d.   Development and implementation of waste minimization plans to
reduce the amount of pollutants discharged to the POTW;
         e.   The unit charge or schedule of User charges and fees for the
management of the wastewater discharged to the POTW;
         f.   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities and equipment, including flow measurement devices;
         g.   A statement that compliance with the permit does not relieve the
permittee of responsibility for compliance with all applicable Federal and
State pretreatment standards, including those which become effective during the
term of the permit; and
         h.   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the Pretreatment
Coordinator to ensure compliance with this chapter, and State and Federal laws,
rules, and regulations.
   C.   Permit Modification:
      1.   The Pretreatment Coordinator may modify an industrial wastewater
discharge permit for good cause, including, but not limited to, the following
reasons:
         a.   To incorporate any new or revised Federal, State, or local
pretreatment standards or requirements;
         b.   To address significant alterations or additions to the user's
operation, processes, or wastewater volume or character since the time of the
permit issuance;
         c.   A change in the POTW that requires either a temporary or
permanent reduction or elimination of the authorized discharge;
         d.   Information indicating that the permitted discharge poses a
threat to the City's POTW, City personnel, or the receiving waters;
         e.   Violation of any terms or conditions of the permit;
         f.   Misrepresentations or failure to fully disclose all relevant
facts in the permit application or in any required reporting;
         g.   Revision of or a grant of variance from categorical pretreatment
standards pursuant to 40 CFR 403.13;
         h.   To correct typographical or other errors in the permit; or
         i.   To reflect a transfer of the facility ownership or operation to a
new owner or operator where requested in accordance with subsection
8-4-5D.
   D.   Industrial Wastewater Discharge Permit Transfer: Industrial wastewater
discharge permits may be transferred to a new owner or operator only if the
permittee gives at least ninety (90) days advance notice to the Pretreatment
Coordinator and the Pretreatment Coordinator approves the permit transfer.
The notice to the Pretreatment Coordinator must include a written certification
by the new owner or operator which:
      1.   States that the new owner and/or operator has no immediate intent to
change the facility's operations and processes;
      2.   Identifies the specific date on which the transfer is to occur; and
      3.   Acknowledges full responsibility for complying with the existing
permit.
Failure to provide advance notice of a transfer renders the permit void as of
the date of facility transfer.
   E.   Industrial Wastewater Discharge Permit Revocation: The Pretreatment
Coordinator may revoke an industrial wastewater discharge permit for good
cause, including, but not limited to, the following reasons:
      1.   Failure to notify the Pretreatment Coordinator of significant
changes to the wastewater prior to the changed discharge;
      2.   Failure to provide prior notification to the Pretreatment
Coordinator of changed conditions pursuant to subsection
8-4-6E of this chapter;
      3.   Misrepresentation or failure to fully disclose all relevant facts in
the permit application;
      4.   Falsifying self-monitoring reports and certification statements;
      5.   Tampering with monitoring equipment;
      6.   Refusing to allow the Pretreatment Coordinator timely access to the
facility premises and records;
      7.   Failure to meet effluent limitations;
      8.   Failure to pay fines;
      9.   Failure to pay sewer charges;
      10.   Failure to meet compliance schedules;
      11.   Failure to complete a wastewater survey or the permit application;
      12.   Failure to provide advance notice of the transfer of business
ownership of a permitted facility; or
      13.   Violation of any pretreatment standard or requirement, or any terms
of the permit or this chapter.
Industrial wastewater discharge permits shall be voidable upon cessation of
operations or transfer of business ownership. All permits issued to a user are
void upon the issuance of a new permit to that user.
   F.   Industrial Wastewater Discharge Permit Reissuance: A user with an
expiring industrial wastewater discharge permit shall apply for a permit
reissuance by submitting a complete permit application, in accordance with
subsection
8-4-4E of this chapter, a minimum of ninety (90) days prior to the expiration
of the user's existing permit. (Ord. 2021-620, 9-2-2021)
8-4-6: REPORTING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Baseline Monitoring Reports:
      1.   Within either one hundred eighty (180) days after the effective date
of a categorical pretreatment standard, or the final administrative decision on
a category determination under 40 CFR 403.6(a)(4), whichever is later, existing
categorical industrial users currently discharging to or scheduled to discharge
to the POTW shall submit to the Pretreatment Coordinator a report which
contains the information listed in subsection A2, below. At least ninety (90)
days prior to commencement of their discharge, new sources, and sources that
become categorical industrial users subsequent to the promulgation of an
applicable categorical standard, shall submit to the Pretreatment Coordinator a
report which contains the information listed in subsection A2, below. A new
source shall report the method of pretreatment it intends to use to meet
applicable categorical standards. A new source also shall give estimates of its
anticipated flow and quantity of pollutants to be discharged.
      2.   Users described above shall submit the information set forth below.
         a.   All information required in subsections
8-4-4E1a(1),
8-4-4E1b,
8-4-4E1c(1), and
8-4-4E1f (40 CFR 403.12(b)(1)-(7)).
         b.   Measurement Of Pollutants:
            (1)   The user shall provide the information required in subsection
8-4-4E1g(1) through (4).
            (2)   The user shall take a minimum of one representative sample to
compile that data necessary to comply with the requirements of this subsection.
            (3)   Samples should be taken immediately downstream from
pretreatment facilities if such exist or immediately downstream from the
regulated process if no pretreatment exists. If other wastewaters are mixed
with the regulated wastewater prior to pretreatment the user should measure the
flows and concentrations necessary to allow use of the combined wastestream
formula in 40 CFR 403.6(e) to evaluate compliance with the pretreatment
standards. Where an alternate concentration or mass limit has been calculated
in accordance with 40 CFR 403.6(e) this adjusted limit along with supporting
data shall be submitted to the City;
            (4)   Sampling and analysis shall be performed in accordance with
subsection
8-4-6I;
            (5)   The Pretreatment Coordinator may allow the submission of a
baseline report which utilizes only historical data so long as the data
provides information sufficient to determine the need for industrial
pretreatment measures;
            (6)   The baseline report shall indicate the time, date and place
of sampling and methods of analysis, and shall certify that such sampling and
analysis is representative of normal work cycles and expected pollutant
discharges to the POTW.
         c.   Compliance Certification: A statement, reviewed by the user's
authorized representative as defined in subsection
8-4-1D2 and certified by a qualified professional, indicating whether
pretreatment standards are being met on a consistent basis, and, if not,
whether additional operation and maintenance (O&M) and/or additional
pretreatment is required to meet the pretreatment standards and requirements.
         d.   Compliance Schedule: If additional pretreatment and/or O&M will
be required to meet the pretreatment standards, the shortest schedule by which
the user will provide such additional pretreatment and/or O&M must be provided.
The completion date in this schedule shall not be later than the compliance
date established for the applicable pretreatment standard. A compliance
schedule pursuant to this section must meet the requirements set out in
subsection B of this section.
         e.   Signature And Report Certification: All baseline monitoring
reports must be certified in accordance with subsection M1 of this section and
signed by an authorized representative as defined in subsection
8-4-1D2.
   B.   Compliance Schedule Progress Reports: The following conditions shall
apply to the compliance schedule required by subsection A2d of this section:
      1.   The schedule shall contain progress increments in the form of dates
for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the construction
and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to meet the
applicable pretreatment standards (such events include, but are not limited to,
hiring an engineer, completing preliminary and final plans, executing contracts
for major components, commencing and completing construction, and beginning and
conducting routine operation);
      2.   No increment referred to above shall exceed nine (9) months;
      3.   The user shall submit a progress report to the Pretreatment
Coordinator no later than fourteen (14) days following each date in the
schedule and the final date of compliance including, as a minimum, whether or
not it complied with the increment of progress, the reason for any delay, and,
if appropriate, the steps being taken by the user to return to the established
schedule; and
      4.   In no event shall more than nine (9) months elapse between such
progress reports to the Pretreatment Coordinator.
   C.   Reports On Compliance With Categorical Pretreatment Standard Deadline:
Within ninety (90) days following the date for final compliance with applicable
categorical pretreatment standards, or in the case of a new source following
commencement of the introduction of wastewater into the POTW, any user subject
to such pretreatment standards and requirements shall submit to the
Pretreatment Coordinator a report containing the information described in
subsections
8-4-4E1f and E1g and subsection A2b of this section. For users subject to
equivalent mass or concentration limits established in accordance with the
procedures in subsection
8-4-2B (40 CFR 403.6(c)), this report shall contain a reasonable measure of the
user's long-term production rate. For all other users subject to categorical
pretreatment standards expressed in terms of allowable pollutant discharge per
unit of production (or other measure of operation), this report shall include
the user's actual production during the appropriate sampling period. All
compliance reports must be signed and certified in accordance with subsection
M1 of this section. All sampling will be done in conformance with subsection J.
   D.   Periodic Compliance Reports:
      1.   Except as specified in subsection D3, all significant industrial
users must, at a frequency determined by the Pretreatment Coordinator submit no
less than twice per year (June and December) reports indicating the nature,
concentration of pollutants in the discharge which are limited by pretreatment
standards and the measured or estimated average and maximum daily flows for the
reporting period. In cases where the pretreatment standard requires compliance
with a best management practice (BMP) or pollution prevention alternative, the
user must submit documentation required by the Pretreatment Coordinator or the
pretreatment standard necessary to determine the compliance status of the user.
      2.   The City may authorize an industrial user subject to a categorical
Pretreatment Standard to forego sampling of a pollutant regulated by a
categorical pretreatment standard if the industrial user has demonstrated
through sampling and other technical factors that the pollutant is neither
present nor expected to be present in the discharge, or is present only at
background levels from intake water and without any increase in the pollutant
due to activities of the industrial user (40 CFR 403.12(e)(2)). This
authorization is subject to the following conditions:
         a.   The waiver may be authorized where a pollutant is determined to
be present solely due to sanitary wastewater discharged from the facility
provided that the sanitary wastewater is not regulated by an applicable
categorical Standard and otherwise includes no process wastewater.
         b.   The monitoring waiver is valid only for the duration of the
effective period of the industrial wastewater discharge permit, but in no case
longer than five (5) years. The user must submit a new request for the waiver
before the waiver can be granted for each subsequent permit. See subsection
8-4-4E1h.
         c.   In making a demonstration that a pollutant is not present, the
industrial user must provide data from at least one sampling of the facility's
process wastewater prior to any treatment present at the facility that is
representative of all wastewater from all processes.
         d.   The request for a monitoring waiver must be signed in accordance
with subsection
8-4-1D3, and include the certification statement in subsection M1 (40 CFR 403.6
(a)(2)(ii)).
         e.   Non-detectable sample results may be used only as a demonstration
that a pollutant is not present if the EPA approved method from 40 CFR Part 136
with the lowest minimum detection level for that pollutant was used in the
analysis.
         f.   Any grant of the monitoring waiver by the Pretreatment
Coordinator must be included as a condition in the user's permit. The reasons
supporting the waiver and any information submitted by the user in its request
for the waiver must be maintained by the Pretreatment Coordinator for three (3)
years after expiration of the waiver.
         g.   Upon approval of the monitoring waiver and revision of the user's
permit by the Pretreatment Coordinator, the industrial user must certify on
each report with the statement in subsection M3 below, that there has been no
increase in the pollutant in its wastestream due to activities of the
industrial user.
         h.   In the event that a waived pollutant is found to be present or is
expected to be present because of changes that occur in the user's operations,
the user must immediately: comply with the monitoring requirements of
subsection D1, or other more frequent monitoring requirements imposed by the
Pretreatment Coordinator, and notify the Pretreatment Coordinator.
         i.   This provision does not supersede certification processes and
requirements established in categorical pretreatment standards, except as
otherwise specified in the categorical pretreatment standard.
      3.   The City may reduce the requirement for periodic compliance reports
(see subsection D1 (40 CFR 403.12(e)(1))) to a requirement to report no less
frequently than once a year, unless required more frequently in the
pretreatment standard or by the EPA or State, where the industrial user's total
categorical wastewater flow does not exceed any of the following:
         a.   Does not exceed 0.01 percent of the WWTP's design dry-weather
hydraulic capacity, or five thousand (5,000) gallons per day, whichever is
smaller, as measured by a continuous effluent flow monitoring device unless the
industrial user discharges in batches;
         b.   Does not exceed 0.01 percent of the design dry-weather organic
treatment capacity of the WWTP; and
         c.   Does not exceed 0.01 percent of the maximum allowable headworks
loading for any pollutant regulated by the applicable categorical pretreatment
standard for which approved local limits were developed in accordance with
subsection
8-4-2-D of this chapter.
Reduced reporting is not available to industrial users that have in the last
two (2) years been in significant noncompliance, as defined in section
8-4-9 of this chapter. In addition, reduced reporting is not available to an
industrial user with daily flow rates, production levels, or pollutant levels
that vary so significantly that, in the opinion of the Pretreatment
Coordinator, decreasing the reporting requirement for this industrial user
would result in data that are not representative of conditions occurring during
the reporting period.
      4.   All periodic compliance reports must be signed and certified in
accordance with subsection M1 of this section.
      5.   All wastewater samples must be representative of the user's
discharge. Wastewater monitoring and flow measurement facilities shall be
properly operated, kept clean, and maintained in good working order at all
times. The failure of a user to keep its monitoring facility in good working
order shall not be grounds for the user to claim that sample results are
unrepresentative of its discharge.
      6.   If a user subject to the reporting requirement in this section
monitors any regulated pollutant at the appropriate sampling location more
frequently than required by the Pretreatment Coordinator, using the procedures
prescribed in subsection J of this section, the results of this monitoring
shall be included in the report (40 CFR 403.12(g)(6)).
   E.   Reports Of Changed Conditions: Each user must notify the Pretreatment
Coordinator of any significant changes to the user's operations or system which
might alter the nature, quality, or volume of its wastewater at least forty-
five (45) days before the change.
      1.   The Pretreatment Coordinator may require the user to submit such
information as may be deemed necessary to evaluate the changed condition,
including the submission of a permit application under subsection
8-4-4E of this chapter.
      2.   The Pretreatment Coordinator may issue an industrial wastewater
discharge permit under subsection
8-4-5F of this chapter or modify an existing permit under subsection
8-4-5C of this chapter in response to changed conditions or anticipated changed
conditions.
   F.   Reports Of Potential Problems:
      1.   In the case of any discharge, including, but not limited to,
accidental discharges, discharges of a nonroutine, episodic nature, a non-
customary batch discharge, a slug discharge or slug load, that might cause
potential problems for the POTW, the user shall immediately telephone and
notify the Pretreatment Coordinator of the incident. This notification shall
include the location of the discharge, type of waste, concentration and volume,
if known, and corrective actions taken by the user.
      2.   A notice shall be permanently posted on the user's bulletin board or
other prominent place advising employees who to call in the event of a
discharge described in subsection F1, above. Employers shall ensure that all
employees, who could cause such a discharge to occur, are advised of the
emergency notification procedure.
      3.   Significant industrial users are required to notify the Pretreatment
Coordinator immediately of any changes at its facility affecting the potential
for a slug discharge.
   G.   Reports From Unpermitted Users: All users not required to obtain an
industrial wastewater discharge permit shall provide appropriate reports to the
Pretreatment Coordinator as the Pretreatment Coordinator may require.
   H.   Notice Of Violation Or Hazardous Waste Discharge/Repeat Sampling And
Reporting: If sampling performed by a user indicates a violation, the user must
notify the Pretreatment Coordinator within eight (8) hours of becoming aware of
the violation. The user shall also repeat the sampling and analysis and submit
the results of the repeat analysis to the Pretreatment Coordinator within
thirty (30) days after becoming aware of the violation. Resampling by the
industrial user is not required if the City performs sampling at the user's
facility at least once a month, or if the City performs sampling at the user
between the time when the initial sampling was conducted and the time when the
user or the City receives the results of this sampling, or if the City has
performed the sampling and analysis in lieu of the industrial user.
The industrial user shall notify the POTW, the EPA Regional Waste Management
Division Director, and State hazardous waste authorities in writing of any
discharge into the POTW of a substance, which, if otherwise disposed of, would
be a hazardous waste under 40 CFR part 261. Such notification must include the
name of the hazardous waste as set forth in 40 CFR part 261, the EPA hazardous
waste number, and the type of discharge (continuous, batch, or other). If the
industrial user discharges more than one hundred (100) kilograms of such waste
per calendar month to the POTW, the notification shall also contain the
following information to the extent such information is known and readily
available to the industrial user: an identification of the hazardous
constituents contained in the wastes, an estimation of the mass and
concentration of such constituents in the wastestream discharged during that
calendar month, and an estimation of the mass of constituents in the
wastestream expected to be discharged during the following twelve (12) months.
All notifications must take place within one hundred eighty (180) days of the
effective date of this rule. Industrial users who commence discharging after
the effective date of this rule shall provide the notification no later than
one hundred eighty (180) days after the discharge of the listed or
characteristic hazardous waste. Any notification under this subsection need be
submitted only once for each hazardous waste discharged. However, notifications
of changed discharges must be submitted under 40 CFR 403.12(j). The
notification requirement in this section does not apply to pollutants already
reported under the self-monitoring requirements of 40 CFR 403.12 (b), (d), and
(e). See 40 CRF 403.12 (p) for more information.
   I.   Analytical Requirements: All pollutant analyses, including sampling
techniques, to be submitted as part of a industrial wastewater discharge permit
application or report shall be performed in accordance with the techniques
prescribed in 40 CFR part 136 and amendments thereto, unless otherwise
specified in an applicable categorical pretreatment standard. If 40 CFR Part
136 does not contain sampling or analytical techniques for the pollutant in
question, or where the EPA determines that the part 136 sampling and analytical
techniques are inappropriate for the pollutant in question, sampling and
analyses shall be performed by using validated analytical methods or any other
applicable sampling and analytical procedures, including procedures suggested
by the Pretreatment Coordinator or other parties approved by EPA.
   J.   Sample Collection: Samples collected to satisfy reporting requirements
must be based on data obtained through appropriate sampling and analysis
performed during the period covered by the report, based on data that is
representative of conditions occurring during the reporting period.
      1.   Except as indicated in subsections J2 and J3 below, the user must
collect wastewater samples using twenty four (24) hour flow-proportional
composite sampling techniques, unless time-proportional composite sampling or
grab sampling is authorized by the Pretreatment Coordinator. Where time-
proportional composite sampling or grab sampling is authorized by the City, the
samples must be representative of the discharge. Using protocols (including
appropriate preservation) specified in 40 CFR part 136 and appropriate EPA
guidance, multiple grab samples collected during a twenty four (24) hour period
may be composited prior to the analysis as follows: for cyanide, total phenols,
and sulfides the samples may be composited in the laboratory or in the field;
for volatile organics and oil and grease, the samples may be composited in the
laboratory. Composite samples for other parameters unaffected by the
compositing procedures as documented in approved EPA methodologies may be
authorized by the City, as appropriate. In addition, grab samples may be
required to show compliance with instantaneous limits (40 CFR 403.12(g)(3)).
      2.   Samples for oil and grease, temperature, pH, cyanide, total phenols,
sulfides, and volatile organic compounds must be obtained using grab collection
techniques.
      3.   For sampling required in support of baseline monitoring and 90-day
compliance reports required in subsections A and C (40 CFR 403.12(b) and (d)),
a minimum of four (4) grab samples must be used for pH, cyanide, total phenols,
oil and grease, sulfide and volatile organic compounds for facilities for which
historical sampling data do not exist; for facilities for which historical
sampling data are available, the Pretreatment Coordinator may authorize a lower
minimum. For the reports required by subsection
8-4-4D (40 CFR 403.12(e) and 403.12(h)), the industrial user is required to
collect the number of grab samples necessary to assess and assure compliance by
with applicable pretreatment standards and requirements (40 CFR 403.12(g)(4)).
   K.   Date Of Receipt Of Reports: Written reports will be deemed to have been
submitted on the date postmarked. For reports, which are not mailed, postage
prepaid, into a mail facility serviced by the United States Postal Service, the
date of receipt of the report shall govern.
   L.   Record Keeping: Users subject to the reporting requirements of this
chapter shall retain, and make available for inspection and copying, all
records of information obtained pursuant to any monitoring activities required
by this chapter, any additional records of information obtained pursuant to
monitoring activities undertaken by the user independent of such requirements,
and documentation associated with best management practices established under
subsection
8-4-2-D3. Records shall include the date, exact place, method, and time of
sampling, and the name of the person(s) taking the samples; the dates analyses
were performed; who performed the analyses; the analytical techniques or
methods used; and the results of such analyses. These records shall remain
available for a period of at least three (3) years. This period shall be
automatically extended for the duration of any litigation concerning the user
or the City, or where the user has been specifically notified of a longer
retention period by the Pretreatment Coordinator.
   M.   Certification Statements:
      1.   Certification Of Permit Applications, User Reports And Initial
Monitoring Waiver: The following certification statement is required to be
signed and submitted by users submitting permit applications in accordance with
subsection
8-4-4F; users submitting baseline monitoring reports under subsection A2e (40
CFR 403.12 (l)) of this section; users submitting reports on compliance with
the categorical pretreatment standard deadlines under subsection C (40 CFR
403.12(d)) of this section; users submitting periodic compliance reports
required by subsection D1 through D4 (40 CFR 403.12(e) and (h)) of this
section, and users submitting an initial request to forego sampling of a
pollutant on the basis of subsection D2d (40 CFR 403.12(e)(2)(iii)) of this
section. The following certification statement must be signed by an authorized
representative as defined in subsection
8-4-1D2:
I certify under penalty of law that this document and all attachments were
prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system designed
to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the information
submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage the system,
or those persons directly responsible for gathering the information, the
information submitted is, to the best of my knowledge and belief, true,
accurate, and complete. I am aware that there are significant penalties for
submitting false information, including the possibility of fine and
imprisonment for knowing violations.
      2.   Annual Certification For Non-Significant Categorical Industrial
Users: A facility determined to be a non-significant categorical industrial
user by the Pretreatment Coordinator pursuant to subsections
8-4-1D37c and
8-4-4F3 (40 CFR 403.3(v)(2)) must annually submit the following certification
statement signed in accordance with the signatory requirements in subsection
8-4-1D2 (40 CFR 403.120(l)). This certification must accompany an alternative
report required by the Pretreatment Coordinator:
Based on my inquiry of the person or persons directly responsible for managing
compliance with the categorical Pretreatment Standards under 40 CFR ____, I
certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief that during the period
from ____, ____ to ____, ____ [months, days, year]:
         a.   The facility described as [facility name] met the definition of a
Non-Significant Categorical Industrial User as described in Section
8-4-1.D.37.c;
         b.   The facility complied with all applicable Pretreatment Standards
and requirements during this reporting period; and (c) the facility never
discharged more than 100 gallons of total categorical wastewater on any given
day during this reporting period.
This compliance certification is based on the following information.
____________________________________________________
____________________________________________________
      3.   Certification Of Pollutants Not Present: Users that have an approved
monitoring waiver based on subsection D2 must certify on each report with the
following statement that there has been no increase in the pollutant in its
wastestream due to activities of the user (40 CFR 403.12(e)(2)(v)).
Based on my inquiry of the person or persons directly responsible for managing
compliance with the Pretreatment Standard for 40 CFR ____ [specify applicable
National Pretreatment Standard part(s)], I certify that, to the best of my
knowledge and belief, there has been no increase in the level of ____ [list
pollutant(s)] in the wastewaters due to the activities at the facility since
filing of the last periodic report under Section
8-4-6.D.1.
(Ord. 2021-620, 9-2-2021)
8-4-7: COMPLIANCE MONITORING:
   A.   Right Of Entry: Inspection And Sampling: The Pretreatment Coordinator
shall have the right to enter the premises of any user to determine whether the
user is complying with all requirements of this chapter and any industrial
wastewater discharge permit or order issued hereunder. Users shall allow the
Pretreatment Coordinator ready access to all parts of the premises for the
purposes of inspection, sampling, records examination and copying, and the
performance of any additional duties.
      1.   Where a user has security measures in force which require proper
identification and clearance before entry into its premises, the user shall
make necessary arrangements with its security guards so that, upon presentation
of suitable identification, the Pretreatment Coordinator shall be permitted to
enter without delay for the purposes of performing specific responsibilities.
      2.   The Pretreatment Coordinator shall have the right to set up on the
user's property, or require installation of, such devices as are necessary to
conduct sampling and/or metering of the user's operations.
      3.   The Pretreatment Coordinator may require the user to install
monitoring equipment as necessary. The facility's sampling and monitoring
equipment shall be maintained at all times in a safe and proper operating
condition by the user at its own expense. All devices used to measure
wastewater flow and quality shall be calibrated at the frequency determined by
the Pretreatment Coordinator to ensure their accuracy.
      4.   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to
the facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the
user at the written or verbal request of the Pretreatment Coordinator and shall
not be replaced. The costs of clearing such access shall be born by the user.
      5.   Unreasonable delays in allowing the Pretreatment Coordinator access
to the user's premises shall be a violation of this chapter.
      6.   The location of the monitoring facility shall provide ample room in
or near the monitoring facility to allow accurate sampling and preparation of
samples and analysis and whether constructed on public or private property, the
monitoring facilities should be provided in accordance with the Supervisor's
requirements and all applicable local construction standards and
specifications, and such facilities shall be constructed and maintained in such
manner so as to enable the Supervisor to perform independent monitoring
activities.
   B.   Search Warrants: If the Pretreatment Coordinator has been refused
access to a building, structure, or property, or any part thereof, and is able
to demonstrate probable cause to believe that there may be a violation of this
chapter, or that there is a need to inspect and/or sample as part of a routine
inspection and sampling program of the City designed to verify compliance with
this chapter or any permit or order issued hereunder, or to protect the overall
public health, safety and welfare of the community, the Pretreatment
Coordinator may seek issuance of a search warrant. (Ord. 2021-620, 9-2-2021)
8-4-8: CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION:
Information and data on a user obtained from reports, surveys, industrial
wastewater discharge permit applications, industrial wastewater discharge
permits, and monitoring programs, and from the Pretreatment Coordinator's
inspection and sampling activities, shall be available to the public without
restriction, unless the user specifically requests, and is able to demonstrate
to the satisfaction of the Pretreatment Coordinator, that the release of such
information would divulge information, processes, or methods of production
entitled to protection as trade secrets under applicable State law. Any such
request must be asserted at the time of submission of the information or data.
When requested and demonstrated by the user furnishing a report that such
information should be held confidential, the portions of a report which might
disclose trade secrets or secret processes shall not be made available for
inspection by the public, but shall be made available immediately upon request
to governmental agencies for uses related to the IPDES program or pretreatment
program, and in enforcement proceedings involving the person furnishing the
report. Wastewater constituents and characteristics and other effluent data, as
defined at 40 CFR 2.302 shall not be recognized as confidential information and
shall be available to the public without restriction. (Ord. 2021-620, 9-2-2021)
8-4-9: PUBLICATION OF USERS IN SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE:
The Pretreatment Coordinator shall publish annually, in a newspaper of general
circulation that provides meaningful public notice within the jurisdictions
served by the POTW, a list of the users which, at any time during the previous
twelve (12) months, were in significant noncompliance with applicable
pretreatment standards and requirements. The term significant noncompliance
shall be applicable to all significant industrial users (or any other
industrial user that violates subsection C, D, or H of this section) and shall
mean:
   A.   Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits, defined here as
those in which sixty-six percent (66%) or more of all the measurements taken
for the same pollutant parameter taken during a six (6) month period exceed (by
any magnitude) a numeric pretreatment standard or requirement, including
instantaneous limits as defined in section
8-4-2 (40 CFR 403.3(l));
   B.   Technical review criteria (TRC) violations, defined here as those in
which thirty-three percent (33%) or more of wastewater measurements taken for
each pollutant parameter during a six (6) month period equals or exceeds the
product of the numeric pretreatment standard or requirement including
instantaneous limits, as defined by section
8-4-2 multiplied by the applicable criteria (1.4 for BOD, TSS, fats, oils and
grease, and 1.2 for all other pollutants except pH) (40 CFR 403.3(l));
   C.   Any other violation of a pretreatment standard or requirement as
defined by section
8-4-2 (daily maximum, long-term average, instantaneous limit, or narrative
standard) that the Pretreatment Coordinator determines has caused, alone or in
combination with other discharges, interference or pass through, including
endangering the health of POTW personnel or the general public (40 CFR 403.3
(l));
   D.   Any discharge of a pollutant that has caused imminent endangerment to
the public or to the environment, or has resulted in the Pretreatment
Coordinator's exercise of its emergency authority to halt or prevent such a
discharge;
   E.   Failure to meet, within ninety (90) days of the scheduled date, a
compliance schedule milestone contained in permit or enforcement order for
starting construction, completing construction, or attaining final compliance;
   F.   Failure to provide within forty-five (45) days after the due date, any
required reports, including baseline monitoring reports, reports on compliance
with categorical pretreatment standard deadlines, periodic self-monitoring
reports, and reports on compliance with compliance schedules;
   G.   Failure to accurately report noncompliance; or
   H.   Any other violation(s), which may include a violation of best
management Practices, which the Pretreatment Coordinator determines will
adversely affect the operation or implementation of the local pretreatment
program. (Ord. 2021-620, 9-2-2021)
8-4-10: ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES:
   A.   Notification Of Violation: When the Pretreatment Coordinator finds that
a user has violated, or continues to violate, any provision of this chapter, an
industrial wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other
pretreatment standard or requirement, the Pretreatment Coordinator may serve
upon that user a written notice of violation. Within thirty (30) days of the
receipt of such notice, an explanation of the violation and a plan for the
satisfactory correction and prevention thereof, to include specific required
actions, shall be submitted by the user to the Pretreatment Coordinator.
Submission of such a plan in no way relieves the user of liability for any
violations occurring before or after receipt of the notice of violation.
Nothing in this section shall limit the authority of the Pretreatment
Coordinator to take any action, including emergency actions or any other
enforcement action, without first issuing a notice of violation.
   B.   Consent Orders: The Pretreatment Coordinator may enter into consent
orders, assurances of compliance, or other similar documents establishing an
agreement with any user responsible for noncompliance. Such documents shall
include specific action to be taken by the user to correct the noncompliance
within a time period specified by the document. Such documents shall have the
same force and effect as the administrative orders issued pursuant to
subsections D and E of this section and shall be judicially enforceable.
   C.   Show Cause Hearing: The Pretreatment Coordinator may order a user which
has violated, or continues to violate, any provision of this chapter, an
industrial wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other
pretreatment standard or requirement, to appear before the Pretreatment
Coordinator and show cause why the proposed enforcement action should not be
taken. Notice shall be served on the user specifying the time and place for the
meeting, the proposed enforcement action, the reasons for such action, and a
request that the user show cause why the proposed enforcement action should not
be taken. The notice of the meeting shall be served personally or by registered
or certified mail (return receipt requested) at least ten (10) days prior to
the hearing. Such notice may be served on any authorized representative of the
user as defined in subsection
8-4-1D2 and required by subsection
8-4-4F1. A show cause hearing shall not be a bar against, or prerequisite for,
taking any other action against the user.
   D.   Compliance Orders: When the Pretreatment Coordinator finds that a user
has violated, or continues to violate, any provision of this chapter, an
industrial wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other
pretreatment standard or requirement, the Pretreatment Coordinator may issue an
order to the user responsible for the discharge directing that the user come
into compliance within a specified time. If the user does not come into
compliance within the time provided, sewer service may be discontinued unless
adequate treatment facilities, devices, or other related appurtenances are
installed and properly operated. Compliance orders also may contain other
requirements to address the noncompliance, including additional self-monitoring
and management practices designed to minimize the amount of pollutants
discharged to the sewer. A compliance order may not extend the deadline for
compliance established for a pretreatment standard or requirement, nor does a
compliance order relieve the user of liability for any violation, including any
continuing violation. Issuance of a compliance order shall not be a bar
against, or a prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
   E.   Cease And Desist Orders: When the Pretreatment Coordinator finds that a
user has violated, or continues to violate, any provision of this chapter, an
industrial wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other
pretreatment standard or requirement, or that the user's past violations are
likely to recur, the Pretreatment Coordinator may issue an order to the user
directing it to cease and desist all such violations and directing the user to:
      1.   Immediately comply with all requirements; and
      2.   Take such appropriate remedial or preventive action as may be needed
to properly address a continuing or threatened violation, including halting
operations and/or terminating the discharge. Issuance of a cease and desist
order shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite for, taking any other
action against the user.
   F.   Administrative Fines:
      1.   When the Pretreatment Coordinator finds that a user has violated, or
continues to violate, any provision of this chapter, an industrial wastewater
discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard
or requirement, the Pretreatment Coordinator may fine such user in an amount
not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00). Such fines shall be assessed on
a per-violation, per-day basis. In the case of monthly or other long-term
average discharge limits, fines shall be assessed for each day during the
period of violation.
      2.   Unpaid charges, fines, and penalties shall, after thirty (30)
calendar days, be assessed an additional penalty of one hundred dollars
($100.00) per month. A lien against the user's property shall be sought for
unpaid charges, fines, and penalties.
      3.   Users desiring to dispute such fines must file a written request for
the Pretreatment Coordinator to reconsider the fine along with full payment of
the fine amount within fourteen (14) days of being notified of the fine. Where
a request has merit, the Pretreatment Coordinator may convene a hearing on the
matter. In the event the user's appeal is successful, the payment along with
any paid charges, fines, and penalties shall be returned to the user. The
Pretreatment Coordinator may add the costs of preparing administrative
enforcement actions, such as notices and orders, to the fine.
      4.   Issuance of an administrative fine shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
   G.   Emergency Suspensions: The Pretreatment Coordinator may immediately
suspend a user's discharge, after informal notice to the user, whenever such
suspension is necessary to stop an actual or threatened discharge, which
reasonably appears to present, or cause an imminent or substantial endangerment
to the health or welfare of persons. The Pretreatment Coordinator may also
immediately suspend a user's discharge, after notice and opportunity to
respond, that threatens to interfere with the operation of the POTW, or which
presents, or may present, an endangerment to the environment.
      1.   Any user notified of a suspension of its discharge shall immediately
stop or eliminate its contribution. In the event of a user's failure to
immediately comply voluntarily with the suspension order, the Pretreatment
Coordinator may take such steps as deemed necessary, including immediate
severance of the sewer connection, to prevent or minimize damage to the POTW,
its receiving stream, or endangerment to any individuals. The Pretreatment
Coordinator may allow the user to recommence its discharge when the user has
demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Pretreatment Coordinator that the
period of endangerment has passed, unless the termination proceedings in
subsection H of this section are initiated against the user.
      2.   A user that is responsible, in whole or in part, for any discharge
presenting imminent endangerment shall submit a detailed written statement,
describing the causes of the harmful contribution and the measures taken to
prevent any future occurrence, to the Pretreatment Coordinator prior to the
date of any show cause or termination hearing under subsections C or H of this
section.
Nothing in this section shall be interpreted as requiring a hearing prior to
any emergency suspension under this section.
   H.   Termination Of Discharge: In addition to the provisions in subsection
8-4-5E of this chapter, any user who violates the following conditions is
subject to discharge termination:
      1.   Violation of industrial wastewater discharge permit conditions;
      2.   Failure to accurately report the wastewater constituents and
characteristics of its discharge;
      3.   Failure to report significant changes in operations or wastewater
volume, constituents, and characteristics prior to discharge;
      4.   Refusal of reasonable access to the user's premises for the purpose
of inspection, monitoring, or sampling; or
      5.   Violation of the pretreatment standards in section
8-4-2 of this chapter.
Such user will be notified of the proposed termination of its discharge and be
offered an opportunity to show cause under subsection C of this section why the
proposed action should not be taken. Exercise of this option by the
Pretreatment Coordinator shall not be a bar to, or a prerequisite for, taking
any other action against the user. (Ord. 2021-620, 9-2-2021)
8-4-11: JUDICIAL ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES:
   A.   Injunctive Relief: When the Pretreatment Coordinator finds that a user
has violated, or continues to violate, any provision of this chapter, an
industrial wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other
pretreatment standard or requirement, the Pretreatment Coordinator may petition
the Court through the City's Attorney for the issuance of a temporary or
permanent injunction, as appropriate, which restrains or compels the specific
performance of the industrial wastewater discharge permit or other requirement
imposed by this chapter on activities of the user. The Pretreatment Coordinator
may also seek such other action as is appropriate for legal and/or equitable
relief, including a requirement for the user to conduct environmental
remediation. A petition for injunctive relief shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against a user.
   B.   Civil Penalties:
      1.   A user who has violated, or continues to violate, any provision of
this chapter, an industrial wastewater discharge permit, or order issued
hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement shall be liable to
the City for a maximum civil penalty of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per
violation, per day, or a maximum criminal penalty of one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) per day, and/or six month imprisonment, per Idaho Code 50-302. In
the case of a monthly or other long-term average discharge limit, penalties
shall accrue for each day during the period of the violation.
      2.   The Pretreatment Coordinator may recover reasonable attorneys' fees,
court costs, and other expenses associated with enforcement activities,
including sampling and monitoring expenses, and the cost of any actual damages
incurred by the City.
      3.   In determining the amount of civil liability, the Court shall take
into account all relevant circumstances, including, but not limited to, the
extent of harm caused by the violation, the magnitude and duration of the
violation, any economic benefit gained through the user's violation, corrective
actions by the user, the compliance history of the user, and any other factor
as justice requires.
      4.   Filing a suit for civil penalties shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against a user.
   C.   Criminal Prosecution:
      1.   A user who willfully or negligently violates any provision of this
chapter, an industrial wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder,
or any other pretreatment standard or requirement shall, upon conviction, be
guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not more than one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00) per violation, per day, or imprisonment for not more than
six (6) months, or both.
      2.   A user who willfully or negligently introduces any substance into
the POTW which causes personal injury or property damage shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor and be subject to a penalty of not more
than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per violation, per day, or be subject to
imprisonment for not more than six (6) months, or both. This penalty shall be
in addition to any other cause of action for personal injury or property damage
available under State law.
      3.   A user who knowingly makes any false statements, representations, or
certifications in any application, record, report, plan, or other documentation
filed, or required to be maintained, pursuant to this chapter, industrial
wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or who falsifies,
tampers with, or knowingly renders inaccurate any monitoring device or method
required under this chapter shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine of
not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per violation, per day, or
imprisonment for not more than six (6) months, or both.
      4.   In the event of a second conviction, a user shall be punished by a
fine of not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per violation, per day,
or imprisonment for not more than six (6) months, or both.
   D.   Remedies Nonexclusive: The remedies provided for in this chapter are
not exclusive. The Pretreatment Coordinator may take any, all, or any
combination of these actions against a noncompliant user. Enforcement of
pretreatment violations will generally be in accordance with the City's
enforcement response plan. However, the Pretreatment Coordinator may take other
action against any user when the circumstances warrant. Further, the
Pretreatment Coordinator is empowered to take more than one enforcement action
against any noncompliant user. (Ord. 2021-620, 9-2-2021)
8-4-12: AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSES TO DISCHARGE VIOLATIONS:
   A.   Upset:
      1.   For the purposes of this section, upset means an exceptional
incident in which there is unintentional and temporary noncompliance with
categorical pretreatment standards because of factors beyond the reasonable
control of the user. An upset does not include noncompliance to the extent
caused by operational error, improperly designed treatment facilities,
inadequate treatment facilities, lack of preventive maintenance, or careless or
improper operation.
      2.   An upset shall constitute an affirmative defense to an action
brought for noncompliance with categorical pretreatment standards if the
requirements of subsection A3, below, are met.
      3.   A user who wishes to establish the affirmative defense of upset
shall demonstrate, through properly signed, contemporaneous operating logs, or
other relevant evidence that:
         a.   An upset occurred and the user can identify the cause(s) of the
upset;
         b.   The facility was at the time being operated in a prudent and
workman-like manner and in compliance with applicable operation and maintenance
procedures; and
         c.   The user has submitted the following information to the
Pretreatment Coordinator within twenty-four (24) hours of becoming aware of the
upset. If this information is provided orally, a written submission must be
provided within five (5) days:
            (1)   A description of the indirect discharge and cause of
noncompliance;
            (2)   The period of noncompliance, including exact dates and times
or, if not corrected, the anticipated time the noncompliance is expected to
continue; and
            (3)   Steps being taken and/or planned to reduce, eliminate, and
prevent recurrence of the noncompliance.
      4.   In any enforcement proceeding, the user seeking to establish the
occurrence of an upset shall have the burden of proof.
      5.   Users shall have the opportunity for a judicial determination on any
claim of upset only in an enforcement action brought for noncompliance with
categorical pretreatment standards.
      6.   Users shall control production of all discharges to the extent
necessary to maintain compliance with categorical pretreatment standards upon
reduction, loss, or failure of its treatment facility until the facility is
restored or an alternative method of treatment is provided. This requirement
applies in the situation where, among other things, the primary source of power
of the treatment facility is reduced, lost, or fails.
   B.   Prohibited Discharge Standards: A user shall have an affirmative
defense to an enforcement action brought against it for noncompliance with the
general prohibitions in subsection
8-4-2A1 of this chapter or the specific prohibitions in subsection
8-4-2A2c through A2w of this chapter if it can prove that it did not know, or
have reason to know, that its discharge, alone or in conjunction with
discharges from other sources, would cause pass through or interference and
that either:
      1.   A local limit exists for each pollutant discharged and the user was
in compliance with each limit directly prior to, and during, the pass through
or interference; or
      2.   No local limit exists, but the discharge did not change
substantially in nature or constituents from the user's prior discharge when
the City was regularly in compliance with its IPDES permit, and in the case of
interference, was in compliance with applicable sludge use or disposal
requirements.
   C.   Bypass:
      1.   For the purposes of this section:
         a.   "Bypass" means the intentional diversion of wastestreams from any
portion of a user's treatment facility.
         b.   "Severe property damage" means substantial physical damage to
property, damage to the treatment facilities which causes them to become
inoperable, or substantial and permanent loss of natural resources which can
reasonably be expected to occur in the absence of a bypass. Severe property
damage does not mean economic loss caused by delays in production.
      2.   A user may allow any bypass to occur which does not cause
pretreatment standards or requirements to be violated, but only if it also is
for essential maintenance to assure efficient operation. These bypasses are not
subject to the provision of subsections C3 and C4 of this section.
      3.   Bypass Notifications:
         a.   If a user knows in advance of the need for a bypass, it shall
submit prior notice to the Pretreatment Coordinator, at least ten (10) days
before the date of the bypass, if possible.
         b.   A user shall submit oral notice to the Pretreatment Coordinator
of an unanticipated bypass that exceeds applicable pretreatment standards
within twenty-four (24) hours from the time it becomes aware of the bypass. A
written submission shall also be provided within five (5) days of the time the
user becomes aware of the bypass. The written submission shall contain a
description of the bypass and its cause; the duration of the bypass, including
exact dates and times, and, if the bypass has not been corrected, the
anticipated time it is expected to continue; and steps taken or planned to
reduce, eliminate, and prevent reoccurrence of the bypass. The Pretreatment
Coordinator may waive the written report on a case-by-case basis if the oral
report has been received within twenty-four (24) hours.
      4.   Bypass:
         a.   Bypass is prohibited, and the Pretreatment Coordinator may take
an enforcement action against a user for a bypass, unless:
            (1)   Bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal
injury, or severe property damage;
            (2)   There were no feasible alternatives to the bypass, such as
the use of auxiliary treatment facilities, retention of untreated wastes, or
maintenance during normal periods of equipment downtime. This condition is not
satisfied if adequate back-up equipment should have been installed in the
exercise of reasonable engineering judgment to prevent a bypass which occurred
during normal periods of equipment downtime or preventive maintenance; and
            (3)   The user submitted notices as required under subsection C3 of
this section.
         b.   The Pretreatment Coordinator may approve an anticipated bypass,
after considering its adverse effects, if the Pretreatment Coordinator
determines that it will meet the three conditions listed in subsection C4a of
this section. (Ord. 2021-620, 9-2-2021)
8-4-13: MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS:
   A.   Severability: If any provision of this chapter is invalidated by any
court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining provisions shall not be affected
and shall continue in full force and effect. (Ord. 2021-620, 9-2-2021)
8-4-14: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This chapter shall be in full force and effect immediately following its
passage, approval, and publication, as provided by law. (Ord. 2021-620, 9-2-
2021)
CHAPTER 5
INTERCEPTOR REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-5-1: Purpose And Applicability
8-5-2: Registration Requirements
8-5-3: Discharge Limits
8-5-4: Interceptor Devices
8-5-5: Grease Hauler Requirements
8-5-6: Enforcement Response Plan
8-5-7: Compliance
8-5-8: Violations And Penalties
8-5-1: PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY:
   A.   Purpose And Policy: The purpose of this chapter is to aid in preventing
the introduction and accumulation of fats, oils, grease, sand, and grit into
the City's sanitary sewer system that may contribute to sanitary sewer
blockages and obstructions. Food service establishments, grease haulers, car
washes, garages, and other industrial or commercial establishments generating
or collecting wastewater containing fats, oils, grease, or sand are subject to
this chapter. This chapter regulates such users by requiring that interceptor
devices and other approved strategies be installed, implemented and maintained
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter and other applicable
requirements of the City of Rigby.
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all food service establishments
within the City of Rigby service area and to all grease haulers providing
service to any such food service establishment.
   B.   Definitions: Unless a provision explicitly states otherwise, the
following terms and phrases, as used in this chapter, shall have the meanings
hereinafter designated.
BROWN GREASE: Floatable fats, oils, grease and settled solids produced during food
              preparation that are recovered from grease control devices.
CITY:         The City of Rigby.
ENFORCEMENT   A plan that sets forth the process and procedures for enforcement of
RESPONSE      this chapter by the City of Rigby.
PLAN:
FACILITY:     A food service establishment, carwash, garage, or other entity
              required to install and maintain an interceptor.
              Material, either liquid or solid, composed of fats, oils or grease
              from animal or vegetable sources. Examples of FOG include, but are
              not limited to, kitchen cooking grease, vegetable oil, bacon grease
FATS, OILS,   and organic polar compounds derived from animal and/or plant sources
AND GREASE    that contain multiple carbon triglyceride molecules. These substances
(FOG):        are detectable and measurable using analytical test procedures
              established in the United States Code of Federal Regulations at 40
              CFR Part 136, as may be amended from time to time. FOG may be
              referred to herein as "grease" or "greases."
              Any commercial, industrial, institutional, or food processing
              facility discharging kitchen or food preparation wastewaters
              including, but not limited to, restaurants, commercial kitchens,
              caterers, motels, hotels, cafeterias, correctional facilities,
              prisons or jails, cafeterias, care institutions, hospitals, schools,
FOOD SERVICE  and churches. Any establishment engaged in preparing, serving or
ESTABLISHMENT otherwise making food available for consumption by the public shall
(FSE):        be included. Such establishments use one or more of the following
              preparation activities: cooking by frying (all methods), baking (all
              methods), grilling, sautéing, rotisserie cooking, broiling, boiling,
              blanching, roasting, toasting, or poaching. Also included are
              infrared heating, searing, barbequing, and other food preparation
              activity that produces a hot, non-drinkable food product in or on a
              receptacle that requires washing.
              A device used to collect, contain, or remove food waste and grease
GREASE        from the wastewater while allowing the remaining wastewater to be
CONTROL       discharged to the City's sanitary sewer system by gravity. Devices
DEVICE (GCD): include grease interceptors, grease traps, automatic grease removal
              devices or other devices approved by the WWTP Superintendent.
              A contractor who collects the contents of a grease interceptor or
GREASE        trap and transports it to an approved recycling or disposal facility.
HAULER:       A grease hauler may also provide other services related to grease
              interceptor maintenance for a FSE.
              A structure or device, usually located underground and outside a FSE,
GREASE        designed to collect, separate and contain food waste and grease while
INTERCEPTOR:  allowing the wastewater to be discharged to the City of Rigby's
              sanitary sewer system by gravity.
GREASE        An active, automatic device that separates and removes FOG from
REMOVAL       effluent discharge and that cleans itself of accumulated FOG at least
DEVICE:       once every twenty-four hours utilizing electromechanical apparatus.
              A device typically located indoors and under the sink or in the
              floor, designed for separating and containing grease prior to the
GREASE TRAP:  wastewater exiting the trap and entering the sanitary sewer system.
              Such devices are typically passive (gravity fed) and compact with
              removable baffles.
              Sand, gravel, cinder, or other heavy solid materials that are heavier
GRIT:         than the organic biodegradable solids in the wastewater. Grit also
              includes eggshells, bone chips, seeds, coffee grounds, and large
              organic particles, such as food waste.
              A treatment tank designed to intercept and collect fats, oils,
INTERCEPTOR:  grease, sand, or grit in a wastewater flow, and prevent their entry
              into the sanitary sewer system.
RENDERABLE    A closed, leak-proof container for the collection and storage of
FOG           yellow grease.
CONTAINER:
SAND:         Any form of soil, dirt, grit, or sand.
WWTP          The authorized deputy, agent, or representative in charge of the City
SUPERINTENDEN of Rigby Wastewater Treatment Plant.
T:
              FOG used in food preparation that have not been in contact or
              contaminated with other sources such as water, wastewater or solid
YELLOW        waste. An example of yellow grease is fryer oil, which can be
GREASE:       recycled into products such as animal feed, cosmetics and alternative
              fuel. Yellow grease is also referred to as renderable FOG. (Ord.
              2021-622, 9-2-2021)
 
8-5-2: REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS:
All facilities shall be required to register their interceptor devices.
Registrations shall be on forms provided by the WWTP Superintendent. To ensure
that such devices are properly sized and maintained, as well as to facilitate
inspection in accordance with the requirements established by the WWTP
Superintendent, the following requirements must be met:
   A.   Existing facilities shall register all interceptors within ninety (90)
days of the adoption of this chapter. New establishments shall register when
setting up their water and sewer service or prior to obtaining a certificate of
occupancy.
   B.   All grease haulers, owners, or employees servicing GCDs for FSEs within
the service area of the City shall be required to obtain a certification to
service GCDs from the WWTP Superintendent.
   C.   All grease haulers shall obtain the required permits, certifications
and or approvals from the facility in which waste will be disposed of.
   D.   Facilities shall educate all current employee/staff/volunteer in the
City's best management practices for facilities. (Ord. 2021-622, 9-2-2021)
8-5-3: DISCHARGE LIMITS:
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged from any facility any
wastewater with FOG, sand, or grit in concentrations or quantities that will
damage the sewers or sanitary sewer system, as determined by the City's Sewer
Use Ordinance. (Ord. 2021-622, 9-2-2021)
8-5-4: INTERCEPTOR DEVICES:
   A.   Requirements: All carwashes and garages shall have an interceptor
meeting all applicable requirements of the City's Plumbing Code, the Idaho
State Plumbing Code, or its successors. The WWTP Superintendent may require a
carwash or garage to submit the calculations used in sizing the interceptor
prior to approval.
All FSEs shall have a GCD(s) meeting all applicable requirements of the City's
Plumbing Code, the Idaho State Plumbing Code, or its successors. The WWTP
Superintendent may require a FSE to submit the calculations used in sizing the
GCD prior to approval.
      1.   New Establishments: Facilities shall be required to install,
operate, and maintain an interceptor in compliance with the requirements
contained in this chapter. Interceptors shall be installed and registered prior
to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy.
      2.   Existing Establishments: Existing facilities in operation as of the
effective date of this chapter shall be allowed to operate and maintain their
existing interceptors, provided such interceptors are in proper operating
condition and not found to be contributing pollutants in quantities sufficient
to cause line stoppages or to necessitate increased maintenance of the sanitary
sewer system. If its interceptor is determined to be contributing pollutants in
quantities sufficient to cause line stoppages or to necessitate increased
maintenance of the sanitary sewer system, an existing facility shall comply
with the requirements of this section. Existing facilities that are renovated
or expanded shall install an interceptor meeting the requirements of this
chapter. Interceptors shall be installed, inspected and registered as a
condition of final approval of such renovation or expansion.
      3.   Retrofit: Any existing facility may be required to install or
upgrade an interceptor if such facility is contributing pollutants to the
sanitary sewer system, as determined by the WWTP Superintendent. Such devices
shall be registered with the locality within thirty (30) days of installation.
   B.   Installation Of Interceptors: Interceptors shall be installed by a
plumber licensed in the State of Idaho. Every interceptor shall be installed
and connected so that it may be readily accessible for inspection, cleaning,
and removal of the intercepted fats, oils, grease, food waste, sand, or grit at
any time.
   C.   Maintenance Of Interceptors:
      1.   All interceptors shall be maintained at the owner's expense.
Maintenance shall include the complete removal of all contents, including
floating material, wastewater and settled solids. Decanting or discharging of
removed waste back into the interceptor or private sewer line or into any
portion of the sanitary sewer system is prohibited.
      2.   Grease interceptors shall be inspected a minimum of once per month
by a qualified inspector, and shall be pumped out completely when the total
accumulation of FOG, including floating solids and settled solids, reaches
twenty-five percent (25%) of the overall liquid volume. At no time shall a GCD
be cleaned less frequently than once every three (3) months unless allowed by
the WWTP Superintendent for good cause shown. Approval will be granted on a
case-by-case basis upon submittal of a request by the FSE, documenting reasons
for the proposed frequency variance. Sand and grit separators shall be
inspected at the frequency determined by the WWTP Superintendent, and shall be
pumped out completely when the total accumulation of sand or grit reaches
twenty-five percent (25%) of the overall liquid volume.
      3.   Grease traps and grease removal devices shall be opened, inspected
and completely cleaned of food solids and FOG a minimum of once per week,
unless allowed by the WWTP Superintendent for good cause shown. Approval will
be granted on a case-by-case basis upon submittal of a request by the FSE
documenting reasons for the proposed frequency variance. In no event shall the
content of food solids and FOG exceed twenty-five percent (25%) of the overall
liquid depth of the device.
      4.   The WWTP Superintendent may establish a more frequent cleaning
schedule if the FSE is found to be contributing FOG in quantities sufficient to
cause line stoppages or to necessitate increased maintenance of the sanitary
sewer system.
   D.   Use Of Additives: The use of additives by FSEs including, but not
limited to, products that contain solvents, emulsifiers, surfactants, caustics,
acids, enzymes or bacteria are prohibited for use as grease management control;
provided, however, that additives may be used to clean the FSE drain lines so
long as the usage of such additives will not cause FOG to be discharged from
the grease control device to the sanitary sewer system. The use of additives
shall not be substituted for the maintenance procedures required by this
section.
   E.   Waste Disposal:
      1.   Waste removed from a grease trap shall be disposed of in the solid
waste disposal system or by a grease hauler certified by the City.
      2.   Waste removed from a grease interceptor shall be disposed of at a
facility permitted to receive such wastes. No materials removed from
interceptors shall be returned to any grease interceptor, private sewer line or
into any portion of the City's sanitary sewer system.
      3.   FSEs shall dispose of yellow grease in a renderable FOG container,
where contents will not be discharged to the environment. Yellow grease shall
not be poured or discharged into the sanitary sewer system.
   F.   Inspection Of Interceptors: The WWTP Superintendent or his designee
shall have the right of entry into any facility, during reasonable hours, for
the purpose of making inspections, observation, measurements, sampling, testing
or records review of the sanitary sewer system and interceptors installed in
such building or premise to ensure that the facility is in compliance with this
chapter. The owner or occupant may accompany the WWTP Superintendent or his
designee. Operational changes, maintenance and repairs required by the WWTP
Superintendent or his designee shall be implemented as noted in the written
notice received by the facility.
   G.   Record Keeping:
      1.   Facility's with interceptors shall retain and make available for
inspection and copying records of all cleaning and maintenance for the previous
three (3) years for all interceptor devices. Cleaning and maintenance records
shall include, at a minimum, the dates of cleaning/maintenance records, the
names and business addresses of the company or person performing each cleaning/
maintenance and the volume of waste removed in each cleaning. Such records
shall be kept on site and shall be made immediately available to any employee
of the Wastewater Department upon request.
      2.   FSEs shall retain and make available for inspection and copying
records of yellow grease disposal for the previous three (3) years. Yellow
grease disposal logs shall include, at a minimum, the dates of disposal, name
and business address of the company or person performing the disposal and the
volume of yellow grease removed in each cleaning. Such records shall be kept on
site and shall be made immediately available to any employee of Wastewater
Department upon request. (Ord. 2021-622, 9-2-2021)
8-5-5: GREASE HAULER REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Certification: Any person collecting, pumping or hauling waste from
GCDs located within the sewage treatment boundaries of the City shall be
certified by the City's Wastewater Department.
   B.   Notification: The grease hauler shall notify the locality within
twenty-four (24) hours of any incident required to be reported to the
Environmental Protection Agency.
   C.   Records: Grease haulers shall retain and make available for inspection
and copying, all records related to grease interceptor pumping and waste
disposal from businesses located in the City's wastewater service area. Records
shall include waste manifests that, at a minimum, include time, date and volume
of waste removed from the device and the time, date, volume and destination of
the waste disposed. These records shall remain available for a period of at
least three (3) years. The City may require additional record keeping and
reporting, as necessary, to ensure compliance with the terms of this chapter.
(Ord. 2021-622, 9-2-2021)
8-5-6: ENFORCEMENT RESPONSE PLAN:
   A.   General Responsibilities:
      1.   Purpose: The purpose of this enforcement response plan is to
establish general responsibilities for enforcement of this chapter. It is the
intention of the Wastewater Department to move quickly and responsibly in all
enforcement actions. The following guidelines will help ensure that issues
requiring enforcement are handled fairly and uniformly for all facilities.
      2.   Interceptor Inspectors: Inspectors will be responsible for
conducting compliance monitoring and facility inspections. Inspectors will:
         a.   Conduct outreach and educational activities with users;
         b.   Check grease control device maintenance records;
         c.   Determine compliance with this chapter through on-site
inspections and prepare inspection reports;
         d.   Provide compliance assistance as appropriate;
         e.   Identify instances of non-compliance;
         f.   Issue notices of non-compliance;
         g.   Prepare notices of violation (NOV) for issuance by the Wastewater
Department;
         h.   Develop draft compliance inspection schedules; and
         i.   Participate in show cause meetings as deemed necessary by the
WWTP Superintendent or City Attorney, as the case may be.
      3.   Interceptor Compliance Administrator Or Designee: The Interceptor
Compliance Administrator or designee will be responsible for ensuring fair and
consistent implementation of interceptor control requirements are in compliance
with requirements of this chapter. The Administrator or designee will:
         a.   Review all violations;
         b.   Review all documents prepared by inspectors;
         c.   Recommend appropriate response(s) to violations;
         d.   Promptly notify the WWTP Superintendent of significant instances
of non-compliance;
         e.   Conduct compliance meetings;
         f.   Develop and oversee compliance monitoring schedules;
         g.   Track enforcement compliance schedules;
         h.   Ensure consistency of the interceptor control program;
         i.   Initiate administrative orders with compliance schedules;
         j.   Initiate terminations of service;
         k.   Consult with City Attorney on all legal issues;
         l.   Coordinate enforcement with other governmental agencies as
appropriate; and
         m.   Sign notices of violation.
      4.   WWTP Superintendent: The WWTP Superintendent will be responsible for
the appropriate application of enforcement standards to interceptor control
plan violations. The WWTP Superintendent will:
         a.   Conduct appeals of enforcement actions;
         b.   Approve terminations of service; and
         c.   Sign administrative orders.
      5.   City Attorney: The City Attorney's office will:
         a.   Provide such legal assistance as deemed appropriate.
   B.   Enforcement Actions:
      1.   Compliance Assistance: The inspectors will assist any facility in
achieving compliance with this chapter. The assistance may include, but is not
limited to, providing information about training opportunities, providing
copies of the regulations applicable to the establishment, assistance with the
interceptor registration applications or distribution of training materials for
employees.
      2.   Notice Of Non-Compliance: This is an informal notice to the
facility, issued at the time of the inspection, advising of corrections that
need to be made in order to comply with this chapter.
      3.   Notice Of Violation: This is a formal written notice to the facility
that it has committed a violation of this chapter. The NOV will require
corrective actions within a specified time frame to achieve compliance. The
text of the NOV will include a statement that additional enforcement actions
may be pursued if corrective actions are not achieved as required.
      4.   Administrative Order: The City may issue an administrative order
requiring a facility to comply with requirements of this chapter. The facility
shall adhere to the compliance schedule in accordance with the administrative
order.
      5.   Termination Or Suspension Of Service: The City may terminate or
suspend service to a facility to prevent any actual or threatened discharge to
the sewer system that may endanger the public health or cause damage to the
sewer system.
   C.   Appeal Process: A facility may appeal any enforcement action to the
WWTP Superintendent. Such appeal shall be requested in writing no later than
five (5) business days after receipt of notice of the enforcement action. The
WWTP Superintendent shall conduct a hearing as soon as practicable but no later
than thirty (30) business days after receipt of request of appeal.
   D.   Compliance Schedules And Appropriate Response:
      1.   Compliance Schedule: The compliance schedule will be based upon the
violation and will be initiated by the Interceptor Compliance Administrator or
designee.
      2.   Selecting Appropriate Response: The following factors should be
taken into consideration when determining the appropriate enforcement action
and compliance schedule:
         a.   Duration of the violation;
         b.   Compliance history of the facility;
         c.   Actual or potential danger to public health;
         d.   Actual or potential damage to the sewer system; and
         e.   Other appropriate factors. (Ord. 2021-622, 9-2-2021)
8-5-7: COMPLIANCE:
The City may require an existing facility to modify or repair any non-compliant
interceptor and appurtenances as noted in the written notice received by the
facility. (Ord. 2021-622, 9-2-2021)
8-5-8: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person who, intentionally or otherwise, commits any of the acts
prohibited by this chapter shall be liable to the City for all costs of
containment, cleanup, abatement, removal and disposal of any substance
unlawfully discharged into the sanitary sewer system, as well as the costs of
any damages or regulatory fines, that are proximately caused by such
violations.
   B.   Any person who, intentionally or otherwise, commits any of the acts
prohibited by this chapter shall be subject to a fine in an amount not to
exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per violation per day. The court
assessing such fines may, at its discretion, order such fines to be paid into
the treasury of the City for the purpose of abating, preventing or mitigating
environmental pollution.
   C.   In addition to any other remedy for the violation of this chapter, the
City may bring legal action to enjoin the continuing violation of this chapter,
and the existence of any other remedy, at law or in equity, shall be no defense
to any such action.
   D.   The remedies set forth in this section are cumulative, not exclusive;
and it may not be a defense to any action, civil or criminal, that one (1) or
more of the remedies set forth herein has been sought or granted. (Ord. 2021-
622, 9-2-2021)
TITLE 9
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODE AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-1-1: Building Codes
9-1-2: Housing Quality Standards
9-1-3: Compliance With Americans With Disabilities Act
9-1-4: Buildings In Downtown Business District
9-1-5: Theaters; Exits And Aisles
9-1-1: BUILDING CODES:
   A.   Adoption: Certain documents, three (3) copies of each code of which are
on file in the office of the City of Rigby, public works department, being
marked and designated as the International Building Code, current Idaho State
Edition, the International Residential Code, current Idaho State Edition, the
International Mechanical Code, current Idaho State Edition, the International
Fuel Gas Code, current Idaho State Edition, the International Energy
Conservation Code, current Idaho State Edition, and the International Existing
Building Code current Idaho State Edition, all published by the International
Code Council, the NFPA 70 National Electrical Code as currently required by the
State of Idaho and the Idaho Plumbing Code as currently required by the State
of Idaho and published by the State of Idaho are hereby adopted as the building
code of the City of Rigby, in the State of Idaho for regulating and governing
the conditions and maintenance of all property, buildings and structures; by
providing the standards for supplied utilities and facilities and other
physical things and conditions essential to ensure that structures are safe,
sanitary and fit for occupation and use; and the condemnation of buildings and
structures unfit for human occupancy and use and the demolition of such
structures as herein provided; providing for the issuance of permits and
collection of fees therefor; and each and all of the regulations, provisions,
penalties, conditions and terms of said building code on file in the office of
the city of Rigby public works department are hereby referred to, adopted and
made a part hereof as if fully set out in this section, with the additions,
insertions and deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in subsection B of
this section.
   B.   Amendments: The following sections are hereby revised:
      1.   For the 2009 International Building Code, the following sections are
hereby revised:
Section 101.4.3. Replace the language "International Plumbing Code" with the
following:
Idaho Plumbing Code as currently required by the State of Idaho and published
by the State of Idaho AND the current edition of the Pacific Northwest section
of American Water Works Association (AWWA) Manual.
Section 903.2.8. Insert following the section:
Exception: One and two unit dwellings are not required to be sprinklered as per
the state of Idaho revisions of the 2009 International Building Code.
Section 1612.3. Insert: City of Rigby, Idaho.
Section 1612.3. Insert: 19 day of July, 2011.
Section 3412.2. Insert: January 1st, 1985.
      2.   For the 2009 International Residential Code, the following sections
are hereby revised:
Section 101.1. Insert: City of Rigby, Idaho.
Table R301.2(1).
Insert: Ground snow: 50 lb; wind speed: 90 mph; topographic effects: no;
seismic design category: D-1; weathering: severe; frost line depth: 36 inches;
termite: slight; winter design temp: -5 degree; ice shield underlayment
required: yes; flood hazards: flood insurance rate map (FIRM) dated September
26, 2008; air freezing index: 2000; mean annual temperature: 42 degree.
Table R302.6.
Delete the box that reads: not less than 1/2" gypsum board applied to the
garage side.
Insert in place: not less than 5/8" "type X" gypsum board applied to the garage
side.
Delete chapters 25 through 43. The governing electrical code and plumbing code
shall be that as most currently adopted by the State of Idaho Division of
Building Safety.
      3.   For the 2009 International Mechanical Code, the following sections
are hereby revised:
Section 101.1. Insert: City of Rigby, Idaho.
Section 106.5.2. Insert the following:
The mechanical fee schedule shall be as per state of Idaho statutes, title 54,
chapter 50, Installation of Heating, Ventilation and Air Conditioning Systems -
54-5017. Permits - Applications - Fees, or as the same may from time to time be
modified. A copy of which shall be kept at the city of Rigby Public Works
Department.
Section 106.5.3. Insert: 50% in both locations.
Section 108.4. Insert: Misdemeanor punishable by fines of $300 per day and up
to 30 days in jail.
Section 108.5. Insert: $200 (minimum fine) and $2000 (maximum fine).
      4.   For the 2009 International Fuel Gas Code, the following sections are
hereby revised:
Section 101.1. Insert: City of Rigby, Idaho.
Section 106.5.2. Change section to read:
Fees are covered elsewhere. See section 106.5.2. of the 2006 International
Mechanical Code.
Section 106.5.3. Insert 50% in both locations.
Section 108.4. Insert: Misdemeanor punishable by fines of $300 per day and up
to 30 days in jail.
Section 108.5. Insert: $200 (minimum fine) and $2000 (maximum fine).
      5.   For the 2009 International Energy Conservation Code, the following
sections are hereby revised:
Section 101.1. Insert: City of Rigby, Idaho.
      6.   For the current Plumbing Code, insert the following:
The plumbing fee schedule shall be as per state of Idaho statutes, title 54,
chapter 26, Plumbing and Plumbers - 54-2619. Municipal Fees for Permits,
Inspections - Exceptions, and in accordance with IDAPA 07 title 2 chapter 03,
or as the same may from time to time be modified. A copy of which shall be kept
at the city of Rigby public works department.
   C.   Fees Collected: Building permit fees and other inspection fees not
identified in subsection B of this section, shall be collected at time of
building permit issuance and shall be as identified by table 1A of the 1997
Uniform Building Code.
   D.   Penalty: Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of
the Building Code as described in subsection A of this section, shall upon
conviction thereof, be guilty of a general misdemeanor, which shall be
punishable by a fine not to exceed three hundred dollars ($300.00) or by
imprisonment for not more than six (6) months, or by both said fine and
imprisonment for any single violation, in addition to any penalty for any
sanction provided for in the adopted Building Code as described in subsection A
of this section. Each day of violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 2011-551, 7-19-2011, eff. 7-19-2011; amd. Ord. 2021-619, 9-14-2021)
9-1-2: HOUSING QUALITY STANDARDS:
   A.   Adoption: The City hereby adopts the housing quality standards for the
HUD section 8 existing housing program, as published in the HUD publication
"Housing Inspection Manual," section 8 existing housing program, March 1985.
   B.   Definitions: The City hereby adopts the following definitions:
 
HOUSING,        A dwelling unit that has been inspected by a qualified housing inspector who
STANDARD        works in, or is familiar with, the Section 8 Existing Housing Program, and the
CONDITION:      summary decision in the inspection report indicates that the unit "passes."
                All of the following conditions must be met:
                1.   A dwelling unit that has been inspected by a qualified housing inspector
HOUSING,        who works in, or is familiar with, the Section 8 Existing Housing Program, and
SUBSTANDARD     the summary decision in the inspection report indicates that the unit "fails";
CONDITION BUT   2.   For such a dwelling that "fails" the Section 8 Housing Inspection, the cost
SUITABLE FOR    estimates as prepared by an architect or general contractor to rehabilitate the
REHABILITATION: dwelling unit into a "standard condition" as defined herein make rehabilitation
                of the unit "uneconomic" as determined by professionals knowledgeable in the
                field such as professional public housing personnel, certified architects, loan
                officers, etc. (Res., 7-5-1989; amd. Ord. 2021-619, 9-14-2021)
 
9-1-3: COMPLIANCE WITH AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT:
Each building permit issued as of January 4, 1995, by the City shall bear the
following inscription, in addition to all other provisions currently in effect:
NOTICE: All new construction of commercial facilities and public accommodations
as defined by law must comply with the construction requirements of the
Americans With Disabilities Act, as such Act is amended.
(Res. 21, 1-3-1995; amd. Ord. 2021-619, 9-14-2021)
9-1-4:  BUILDINGS IN DOWNTOWN BUSINESS DISTRICT:
   A.   Approval Of Plans And Specifications; Permit And Fee:
      1.   No wall, structure, building or part thereof shall be built,
enlarged or altered within the business district of the city until the plans,
specifications of the proposed work or construction together with a statement
of the materials to be used shall first be filed with the City Clerk, who shall
present said application to the Council for approval or rejection.
      2.   If the City Council decides that the materials to be used and the
style and nature of the buildings are in keeping with the architecture of the
surrounding buildings, as in size, materials used, value and other
considerations, then they shall authorize the City Clerk to issue a permit upon
paying a fee for such issuance. (1980 Code § 4.2.1)
   B.   Duty Of Public Works Director:
      1.   The object of this section is to have in the Downtown Business
District such buildings as may be more uniform in materials, value and symmetry
for the appearance of the business district of the city.
      2.   The Public Works Director may, when so commanded by the Mayor and
City Council, observe the building of any structure in order to ascertain if
the orders of the City Council are being observed and report the same to the
Mayor when so required. (1980 Code § 4.2.2)
   C.   Application Of Section: This section shall be read and understood to be
a part of any other chapter or section of this code as applies in any way in
the proper observance of the same. (1980 Code § 4.2.3)
   D.   Penalty: Any person who violates any subsection of this section shall
be deemed guilty of an offense and, upon conviction, shall be subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1980 Code § 4.2.4; amd. 1999 Code; Ord. 2021-619, 9-14-
2021)
9-1-5: THEATERS; EXITS AND AISLES:
   A.   Types Of Exits: Every theater within the City shall have two (2) exits,
one in the front and one in the rear of the building, that meet the
requirements of the Building Code. (1980 Code § 4.3.1)
   B.   Exit Doors: Every required exit door shall be a standard exit door. No
single door or leaf to a double door shall be less than four feet (4') wide. No
two (2) doors shall be hinged together. No rolling, sliding, or revolving doors
shall be counted as an exit from any theater; nor shall any such door be
permitted in any theater where it would be liable to be used by the public as
an exit. (1980 Code § 4.3.2)
   C.   Width Of Aisles: Cross aisles leading to exit in rear of theater shall
not be less than four feet (4') wide. (1980 Code § 4.3.3)
   D.   Surface Of Ground On Outside At Rear Exit: The surface of the ground at
the rear exit of any theater shall be level with the ground floor of the
theater at said rear exit and shall be a hard surface of concrete, asphalt or
pavers. (1980 Code § 4.3.4)
   E.   Obstructions: All aisles or passageways shall be kept free from camp
stools, chairs and other obstructions, and no person except an employee shall
be allowed to stand in or occupy any of the aisles, foyers, or passageways
during any performance or public gathering. (1980 Code § 4.3.5)
   F.   Violation; Penalty: Any violation of the provisions of this section
shall be unlawful, and any person so violating such provisions shall be guilty
of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1980 Code § 4.3.6; amd. 1999 Code; Ord. 2021-619, 9-14-
2021)
CHAPTER 2
MANUFACTURED HOMES AND MOBILE HOME PARKS
SECTION:
9-2-1: Purpose
9-2-2: Definitions
9-2-3: Development Standards
9-2-4: Accessory Structures
9-2-5: Administration And Enforcement
9-2-6: Nonconforming Manufactured/Mobile Homes
9-2-7: Manufactured (Mobile) Home Community
9-2-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter establishes minimum standards for the approval of manufactured
housing and mobile home parks. (Ord. 474, 5-18-1999; amd. Ord. 2021-619, 9-14-
2021)
9-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
ACCESS WAY:    An unobstructed way of specified width containing a drive or roadway which
               provides vehicular access.
ACCESSORY      A structure attached to or located adjacent to a manufactured home such as
STRUCTURE:     awnings, carport, garages, porches or steps.
               A projecting cover extending over a door, window or wall section with supports
AWNING:        attached to the building and used as cover, protection, or as decoration. In
               mobile homes, this consists of a roof with supports and not more than one wall or
               storage cabinet substituting for a wall.
               Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls, and designed or
BUILDING:      intended for the shelter support, enclosure, or protection of persons, animals,
               or chattels.
BUILDING,      A building surrounded by open space on the same lot with permanent foundation.
DETACHED:
BUILDING,      Any building not conforming to the requirements of Rigby City Codes.
NONCONFORMING:
CARPORT:       A structure which is open to the weather on at least two (2) sides, intended for
               the use of sheltering not more than two (2) motor-driven vehicles.
               A structure that bears the Department of Housing and Urban Development
               certification that it has been constructed in conformance with the mobile home
               construction and safety standards in effect at the time of its construction, and
               is to be used as a permanent residential dwelling. A manufactured home is built
               on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a
               permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities.
               1.   Not constructed or equipped with a permanent hitch or other device allowing
               it to be moved other than for the purpose of moving it to a permanent site;
MANUFACTURED   2.   Does not have permanently attached to its body or frame any wheels or axles;
HOME:          3.   Includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning and electrical systems
               contained therein.
               4.   Size: A manufactured home is transportable in one (1) or more sections,
               which, in the traveling mode, is eight (8') body feet or more in width or is
               forty (40') body feet or more in length or when erected on site, is three-
               hundred-twenty (320) or more square feet.
               5.   Exception: Any structure which meets all the requirements of this subsection
               except the size requirements and the manufacturer voluntarily files a
               certification required by the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development and
               complies with the standards established under 42 U.S.C. §§ 5401 et seq.
               (Defined under Idaho Code 39-4105(9)):
               1.   A factory-assembled structure or structures constructed prior to June 15,
               1976, and equipped with the necessary service connections, so as to be readily
               movable as a unit or units on their own running gear and designed to be used as a
               dwelling unit or units with or without a permanent foundation.
               2.   Size: The term "mobile home" means forms of housing known as "trailers",
               "house trailers", or "trailer coaches" exceeding eight feet (8') in width or
MOBILE HOME:   forty-five feet (45') in length, designed to be moved from one place to another
               by an independent power connected to them or any trailer, house trailer or
               trailer coach up to eight feet (8') in width or forty-five feet (45') in length
               used as a principal residence.
               3.   Rehabilitated Mobile Home: A factory- assembled structure constructed prior
               to June 15, 1976, or brought into the state after July 1, 1998, which have been
               upgraded to comply with Idaho Code title 44, chapter 25 and received a
               "Certificate of Compliance" from the Division of Building Safety of the State of
               Idaho.
               A manufactured home which has the running gear and towing hitch or similar
PERMANENTLY    devices removed and is set up per manufacturer's instructions on permanent
AFFIXED:       footings, with supports having an anchoring system that is totally concealed
               under the structure and complies with Department of Housing and Urban Development
               Standards.
               A stationary structure having a roof extending over a manufactured/mobile home,
RAMADA:        which may also extend over a patio or parking space for a motor vehicle and is
               used principally for protection from the elements. (Ord. 474, 5-18-1999; amd.
               Ord. 2021-619, 9-14-2021)
 
9-2-3: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
The use of a manufactured home as a permanent residential dwelling on an
individual lot shall be permitted in any zoning district of the chapter which
permits installation of a single-family site-built dwelling, provided the
following standards are met:
   A.   Is multi-section and at least twenty feet (20') wide.
   B.   Has a minimum floor area of one thousand (1,000) square feet.
   C.   Has roofing materials which are generally acceptable for site-built
housing. Any roofing materials may be used provided it has the appearance of a
non-metallic shingle, shake or tile roof. Roofs shall also have a minimum slope
of twenty five percent (25%) (3:12) and a minimum twelve inch (12") overhanging
eaves.
   D.   Has siding materials which are generally acceptable for site-built
housing. Any siding materials may be used provided it has the appearance of
wood, masonry or horizontal metal siding. Reflection from horizontal metal
siding shall be no greater than that from siding coated with white, gloss
enamel.
   E.   Has a foundation of concrete or other material allowed by the
International Residential Code for site-built homes which is aesthetically
compatible with the manufactured home having the appearance of site-built
construction. This means the exterior foundation shall be an extension of the
siding or be of materials having the appearance of site-built foundations such
as brick, concrete or concrete block.
   F.   Is permanently affixed per manufacturer's instructions. Concrete
footings shall be thirty six inches (36") below grade.
   G.   Has a crawl space with the following minimum measurements: 1) eighteen
inches (18") of clearance; 2) twelve inches (12") of clearance under beams; and
3) an eighteen inch by twenty four inch (18" x 24") door.
   H.   Complies with all applicable lot size, setback, and other requirements
of the zoning district in which it is to be located.
   I.   Provides two (2) off-street parking spaces.
   J.   Provides right-of-way improvements in the same manner as site-built
construction, in accordance with the International Residential Code.
   K.   Manufactured home owners or purchasers shall own or be purchasing the
land upon which their home is to be placed. The owner or purchaser shall record
with the County Recorder a non-revocable option declaring the manufactured home
as real property.
   L.   Manufactured homes shall meet the requirements of the International
Energy Conservation Code or other equivalent standard approved by the City of
Rigby. (Ord. 474, 5-18-1999; amd. Ord. 2021-619, 9-14-2021)
9-2-4: ACCESSORY STRUCTURES:
Accessory structures to manufactured housing shall be constructed in compliance
with the standards specified by the Rigby Comprehensive Zoning Ordinance,
International Residential Code, and the Department of Housing and Urban
Development Standards. Structures shall be aesthetically compatible with the
home to which they are associated. (Ord. 474, 5-18-1999; amd. Ord. 2021-619, 9-
14-2021)
9-2-5: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Manufactured Homes:
      1.   Application: Application shall be made to the Public Works Director
on the prescribed form. The completed application shall be filed with the
Planning Department. The application shall include all information necessary to
determine conformity with required development standards of this chapter,
including: exterior dimensions, siding material, roofing material, eaves
overhang and any other applicable information. The applicant shall also attach
to the application: 1) a copy of the manufacturer's instructions for
installation of the home on permanent footings; and 2) a plot plan showing
existing conditions and the proposed location of the home and other
improvements at a scale of at least one inch equals twenty feet (1" = 20').
      2.   Certificates And Inspection: The applicant shall sign the completed
application certifying the manufactured home meets the required development
standards of this chapter and that site development will be in accordance with
the plot plan submitted stating that once the manufactured home is permanently
affixed the applicant will comply with the requirement for the home to be
declared as real property for taxation purposes. These certifications shall be
made prior to the moving of the home to the building site.
      3.   Following application and plot plan approval by the Planning and
Building Departments the Building Official may issue a building permit for the
footings and foundation. Upon satisfactory inspection of the footings and
foundation for the attachment of the manufactured home, the Building Official
shall verify, in writing, that all development standards have been met as
certified by the applicant. The home may then be attached to the foundation in
accordance with the manufacturer's instruction, City codes for permanent
utility connections, and other building requirements.
      4.   Prior to occupancy a final inspection shall be made to assure proper
attachment of the home to the foundation and placement of a proper foundation
fascia.
   B.   Mobile Home Park:
      1.   Application: Application for mobile home parks require a conditional
use permit and shall be made to the Planning Administrator and Public Works
Director on the prescribed form. The completed application shall be filed with
the Planning Department. The application shall include all information
necessary to determine conformity with required development standards of this
chapter.
      2.   Certificates And Inspection: The applicant shall sign the completed
application certifying the mobile home park meets the required development
standards of this chapter and that site development will be in accordance with
the plot plan submitted. Following application and plot plan approval by the
Planning Department, construction may proceed. Upon satisfactory inspection of
the utilities, roadways, aisles and mobile home pads, the Building Official
shall verify, in writing, that all development standards have been met as
certified by the applicant.
      3.   Prior to installing homes on pads, a building permit is required.
Homes may then be anchored in accordance with the State of Idaho and
manufacturer's instruction, codes for utility connections, and other building
requirements. Prior to occupancy a final inspection shall be made to assure
plumbing and electrical inspections by the State of Idaho have been completed
and proper anchoring and placement of the structures. (Ord. 474, 5-18-1999;
amd. 1999 Code; Ord. 2021-619, 9-14-2021)
9-2-6: NONCONFORMING MANUFACTURED/MOBILE HOMES:
A manufactured/mobile home which has been placed and maintained upon an
individual lot prior to January 2, 1982 shall be a legal nonconforming use.
Such manufactured/mobile homes shall not be relocated within the City without
conforming to all applicable provisions contained herein and including being
brought up to State of Idaho standards. (Ord. 474, 5-18-1999; amd. Ord. 2021-
619, 9-14-2021)
9-2-7: MANUFACTURED (MOBILE) HOME COMMUNITY:
   A   Purpose And Objectives: This section establishes minimum standards and
requirements for the construction and operation of manufactured and mobile home
parks. It is concerned with the relationship to adjacent land uses in order to
protect and secure the public health, safety and general welfare of the City of
Rigby.
      1.   Objective: The regulations in this section are intended to provide a
stable, healthy environment, together with the full range of services, for
those residents in manufactured and mobile home parks on a temporary basis.
      2.   Safety Inspections: Must meet all safety inspection requirements.
   B.   Building Permit After Location Approval: No building permit shall be
issued for construction of a new manufactured or mobile home park or expansion
of an existing manufactured or mobile home park until the proposed location is
approved with the stipulations of the approval stated therein.
   C.   Accessory Buildings: All accessory structures located in any
manufactured or mobile home space shall be limited to a storage building,
ramada or carport. The storage structure, ramada or carport may be combined as
one structure.
      1.   "Structure Additions" require a building permit and include the
construction of awnings, patio covers, or cabanas adjacent to a manufactured or
mobile home.
      2.   Unattached: No structural additions shall be built onto or become a
part of any manufactured or mobile home, and no manufactured or mobile home
shall support any building in any manner.
      3.   No building permit required for:
         a.   Lightweight awnings, ramadas, and other lightweight structures
and additions are allowed without a building permit.
         b.   Less than two hundred (200) square feet: accessory buildings that
are less than two hundred (200) square feet do not require a building permit.
      4.   Building Permit Required: All other structures will require a
building permit (e.g., those attached to the home, those occupied on a daily
basis, porches with covers, and any structure or addition which requires a
railing).
   D.   Density Requirements: In no event shall the density exceed eight (8)
mobile homes per gross acre without the acquisition of a conditional use permit
allowing said density to be increased.
      1.   Density requirements shall be established as the minimum square
footage of gross site area for each manufactured or mobile home.
      2.   Streets: If it is determined by the City of Rigby Public Works
Director that a street widening or terminating dedication is necessary, the
amount of land dedicated shall be subtracted from the gross site area when
calculating the proposed density.
   E.   Parking:
      1.   Unoccupied Manufactured Or Mobile Home: Parking of unoccupied
manufactured or mobile homes is prohibited on public premises, streets, alleys,
or highways, at all times, except for emergency purposes.
      2.   Parking Space Requirements:
         a.   Size: There shall be two (2) vehicle parking spaces at least nine
feet by twenty feet (9' x 20') in size for each manufactured or mobile home
space. Where garages are provided. One space per unit will not be counted.
         b.   Access: Such space shall have a clear and unobstructed access to
an access way. Any parking in the access way shall not fulfill this
requirement.
         c.   Visitor Parking: Ten percent (10%) visitor parking shall be
required.
         d.   Tandem Parking: Tandem parking is allowed with Planning
Administrator or designee approval.
   F.   Conditional Use Permit:
      1.   Application Submittal:
         a.   Application: Applicant shall fill out an application for a
conditional use permit to construct a new or to expand an existing mobile home
park.
         b.   Site Plan: Four (4) copies of the site plan of the proposed
community shall be submitted with the application containing the following
information:
            (1)   General Layout: The site plan should show the general layout
of the entire mobile home park.
            (2)   Compass Or North Arrow: North orientation of the site plan.
            (3)   Community Boundary And Dimensions: Boundaries and dimensions
of the mobile home park.
            (4)   Drafter Or Engineer: Name of the person who prepared the site
plan.
            (5)   Electrical: Electrical systems for the development and
connection details for each pad.
            (6)   Fire Hydrants: Location of fire hydrants.
            (7)   Garbage: Location and screening of all garbage dumpsters.
            (8)   Lighting: Location and detail of all lighting fixtures for
streets and spaces.
            (9)   Patio construction details.
            (10)   Proposed Name: Name of the mobile home park and address.
            (11)   Existing And Proposed Structures: Location and dimensions of
all existing or proposed structures.
            (12)   Recreation: Location and size of all proposed recreation
areas and buildings. Show details.
            (13)   Roads And Sidewalks: Location and width of roads or access
ways. Road and sidewalk construction details.
            (14)   Scale: The site plan should be drawn to a scale not smaller
than one (1") inch representing forty (40') feet.
            (15)   Screening: Location and type of landscaping, planting,
fence, wall, or combination of any of these or other screening materials.
            (16)   Spaces: Location and dimensions of each manufactured/mobile
home space.
            (17)   Storm drainage system details.
            (18)   Swimming Pools: Swimming pools require a building permit
with detailed plans and District Health Department approval.
            (19)   Typical Space: Enlarged site plan of a typical mobile home
space, showing location of the pad, parking area, patio, storage space,
sidewalk, utility connections and landscaping.
            (20)   Vicinity Map: Vicinity map showing relationship of mobile
home park to adjacent properties including the names of the contiguous owners.
            (21)   Walkways: Location and width of walkways.
            (22)   Water And Wastewater: Location and details of the proposed
water and wastewater systems for the mobile home park.
            (23)   Water And Sewer: Water and sewer systems designed and signed
by an Idaho registered engineer. The detailed plans shall show how connections
are to be provided to each pad and how the water and sewer connections will be
protected from freezing.
         c.   Management Policies, Covenants And Restrictions: A draft of the
proposed management policies, covenants, and restrictions shall be submitted
with the application.
         d.   Maintenance Procedures: A draft of the proposed maintenance
procedures shall be submitted with the application.
      2.   Commission Hearing: At the time of the public hearing, the
Commission shall make recommendations to the Council.
      3.   Final Approval: Final approval shall be contingent upon Council
approval and upon the submission of acceptable detailed site plans of the
proposed mobile home park as required by the City Development Code.
   G.   Access: All public streets shall be constructed per current City
Engineering Standards. Accesses shall have the following minimum pavement
widths if the streets are privately owned and maintained:
      1.   Pavement Widths:
         a.   Public Street Access: A mobile home park shall not be established
on any site that does not have access to a public street on which the potential
paving width is less than forty feet (40').
         b.   Entrance street and collectors with guest/community parking on
both sides shall be no less than forty-four (44') feet with curb and gutter.
         c.   Collector Streets:
            (1)   Parking On One Side: Collector streets with parking on one
side shall be no less than thirty-six feet (36') wide.
            (2)   No Parking: Collector streets with no parking shall be no
less than twenty-four feet (24').
         d.   Minor Street: Minor streets with no parking shall be no less than
twenty-four feet (24').
         e.   Cul-de-Sacs:
            (1)   Radius Minimums: Cul-de-sacs shall have a minimum radius of
no less than thirty-five feet (35') with no parking and forty-five feet (45')
with allowed parking and shall be no less than twenty-four feet (24') wide.
         f.   Roadway Surfacing: Roadways within access ways and sidewalks
shall be paved with a gravel base and asphaltic or concrete surfacing according
to structural specifications established by the City Engineer.
   H.   Buffering: A sight-obscuring fence or wall of not less than six feet
(6') nor more than eight feet (8') in height, and/or evergreen planting of not
less than six feet (6') in height, shall surround the mobile home park.
      1.   Other considerations such as berms, deciduous bushes, or other
landscaping options may be allowed as approved by the City of Rigby Planning
Administrator.
   I.   Electricity:
      1.   Compliance:
         a.   Idaho Electrical Code: All electrical conductors, wiring, and
equipment as it applies to mobile home parks shall comply with the current
State of Idaho (Division of Building Safety) adopted version of the National
Electrical Code and the remaining portions of the currently adopted National
Electrical Code as it applies.
         b.   City Ordinances: All electrical conductors, wiring, and equipment
within the mobile home park shall comply with the ordinances of the City of
Rigby, Idaho.
      2.   Electrical Outlets: An electrical outlet supplying at least two-
hundred (200) amps shall be provided for each manufactured/mobile home space.
Such electrical outlets shall be weatherproof.
         a.   Volts: Electrical outlets shall be provided at each manufactured/
mobile home space supplying voltages of two hundred forty (240) volts and one
hundred twenty (120) volts nominal.
      3.   Conductors And Cabling: No energized conductors or cabling shall be
permitted to lie on the ground or be suspended less than fifteen feet (15')
above the ground.
      4.   Lights: All driveways, access ways, and walkways within the mobile
home park shall be lighted at night (from one hour after sundown to one hour
before sun up) with electrical lamps of not less than three-hundred (300) lumen
output, each spaced at intervals of not more than one-hundred feet (100').
      5.   Underground Wiring: Wires for service to light poles and mobile home
park spaces shall be underground.
   J.   Improvement Requirements:
      1.   Drainage Requirements: The manufactured/mobile home community shall
be well drained. Provisions for drainage shall be made in accordance with plans
approved by the City Engineer.
      2.   Mail Delivery Facilities: Each manufactured/mobile home site shall
be equipped with a receptacle for mail deliveries in accordance with standards
recommended by the local postmaster.
      3.   Manufactured/Mobile Home Stand Surfacing: Manufactured/mobile home
stands shall be paved with asphalt or concrete surfacing or with crushed rock
contained within concrete curbing or pressure-treated wooded screens.
      4.   Patios And Decks: Patios may be paved with asphalt, concrete, or
suitable hard surfaced material or if decks are used, they shall be of durable,
safe construction.
   K.   Land Area: The minimum parcel of land to be used for mobile home park
purposes shall contain not less than four (4) acres.
   L.   Recreation Area: A minimum of eight percent (8%) of gross mobile home
park area shall be reserved for recreation.
      1.   Location: The recreation area may be in one (1) or more locations in
the community.
      2.   Area: At least one (1) recreation area shall have a minimum size of
five thousand (5,000) square feet
      3.   Shape: The shape of the recreation areas should be such to make it
usable for its intended purpose.
   M.   Setbacks: Mobile home parks shall observe the following setbacks
between manufactured/mobile home stands and development boundary lines:
      1.   Residential Or Agriculture: When abutting any residentially or
agriculturally zoned property fifteen feet (15').
      2.   Commercial: When abutting commercially zoned property setbacks shall
be ten feet (10').
      3.   Street: The setback from any abutting street shall be at least
twenty-five feet (25').
   N.   Sign Regulations: See title 10, chapter 12. In addition, adequate signs
and marks indicating direction, community areas, recreation areas, and street
names shall be established and maintained in the mobile home park.
   O.   Space Required Between Manufactured/Mobile Homes: Minimum space
requirements between manufactured/mobile home stands:
      1.   End to end, fourteen feet (14');
      2.   Side to side, twenty feet (20');
      3.   Temporary or permanent structures situated in one (1) space shall be
separated by at least ten feet (10') from temporary or permanent structure or
manufactured/mobile homes in an adjoining space;
      4.   Distance from the sidewalk to a stand, five feet (5').
   P.   Walkways: Walkways shall be provided from each manufactured/mobile home
space to the service building and recreational area or areas, and from the
patio to the access way as follows:
      1.   Common: Common walkways shall have a minimum width of four feet
(4').
      2.   Private: Private walkways shall have a minimum width of two feet
(2').
   Q.   Health And Sanitation:
      1.   Wastewater Management: Mobile home park wastewater management
systems shall be connected to the city collection system and comply with State
and local plumbing laws and regulations.
         a.   Connection: Each manufactured/mobile home space shall be provided
with at least a four inch (4") sewer connection.
            (1)   Fittings: The sewer connection shall be provided with
suitable fittings so that a watertight connection can be made between the
manufactured/mobile home drain and sewer connection.
            (2)   Closure: Such individual manufactured/mobile home connections
shall be so constructed that they can be closed when not connected to a
manufactured/mobile home, and shall be trapped in such a manner as to maintain
them in an odor free condition.
         b.   Wastewater Metering System: Determination of the amount of
wastewater discharged to the city shall be determined by the average winter
water usage as determined by the facility water metering system.
      2.   Water Supply System: An accessible, adequate, safe and potable
central supply of water shall be provided in each mobile home park.
         a.   Backflow: The water supply system shall be protected from back
flow as required by the City's back flow protection ordinance. The use of
ordinary stop and waste valves where back flow can occur into the potable water
system are prohibited.
         b.   City Water: The proposed facility shall be connected to the city
water system unless special conditions granted by the city allow for a local
community system.
         c.   Connections: Individual water service connections which are
provided for direct use by the manufactured/mobile homes shall be so
constructed that they will not be damaged by the moving of the homes. Isolated:
Connections are to be constructed and isolated so that they will not freeze if
they are connected to a home or not.
         d.   Fire Protection: The water supply system shall be able to provide
fire protection as required by local codes and ordinances. Fire hydrants shall
be located as required by the Uniform Fire Code as adopted by the city.
         e.   Maintenance: The water system within the facility is to be
maintained by the owner of the facility and shall be operated in accordance
with existing laws.
         f.   Meter: The water system for the mobile home park shall be metered
at the connection to the city system or as determined by the Public Works
Director.
         g.   Piping: All water piping shall be constructed and maintained in
accordance with State and local law.
         h.   Water Mains: The design and extension of water mains shall
conform to existing city requirements.
      3.   Refuse Management Intent: The storage, collection and disposal of
refuse in the community shall be so as to create no health hazards, rodent
harborage, insect breeding areas, accident hazards or air pollution.
         a.   Refuse Containers: All refuse shall be stored in fly tight,
watertight, rodent proof containers which shall be located not more than one
hundred fifty feet (150') from mobile home park pads. They shall be provided in
sufficient number and capacity to prevent any refuse from overflowing.
   R.   Fire Protection Requirements:
      1.   The community area shall be subject to the rules and regulations of
the Jefferson County Fire Department.
      2.   Mobile home park areas shall be kept free of litter, rubbish, and
other flammable materials.
      3.   Fires shall be made only in stoves, incinerators and other equipment
intended for such purposes.
      4.   No open fires shall be permitted in any mobile home park in any
place where the same shall endanger life or property.
   S.   Liquefied Petroleum Gas Restrictions: Liquefied petroleum gas for
cooking purposes shall not be used at individual home spaces unless the
containers are properly connected by copper or other suitable metallic tubing.
      1.   Liquefied petroleum gas cylinders shall be so fastened in place and
shall be adequately protected from the weather.
      2.   No cylinder containing liquefied petroleum gas shall be located in a
manufactured/mobile home nor within five feet (5') of a door thereof. (Ord.
2021-619, 9-14-2021)
CHAPTER 3
EXISTING BUILDINGS LIFE SAFETY
SECTION:
9-3-1: Scope Of Application
9-3-2: Life Safety Issues
9-3-3: Administration And Appeal
9-3-4: Violation; Penalties
9-3-1: SCOPE OF APPLICATION:
The following is a non-inclusive list of life safety issues for all existing
apartment buildings (including duplex, triplex, fourplex and single-family
homes hereinafter referred to as apartments) that are rented in the City of
Rigby city limits. This list is for existing apartments and rented single-
family homes. All new apartments and existing buildings being converted to
apartments shall meet the requirements of the current building code. The
purpose of this chapter is to provide a reasonable degree of safety to persons
occupying existing apartment buildings built and/or converted prior to the
effective date hereof. Apartments built or converted after the effective date
hereof shall comply with the code and ordinances in place at the time of
construction or conversion. Nothing in these guidelines should be interpreted
as precluding the City of Rigby from upgrading the requirements for approval at
any time. (Ord. 2012-552, 2-21-2012; amd. Ord. 2021-619, 9-14-2021)
9-3-2: LIFE SAFETY ISSUES:
   A.   Exits: Every floor above the first story or basement used as apartments
serving over four (4) persons shall have a minimum of two (2) exits. One of
these exits for an upper floor may be a fire escape built within the standards
set forth in the International Building Code (IBC). An exit ladder device may
be used in lieu of a fire escape when approved by the Fire District. For
apartment units requiring two (2) exits that have a floor level of not more
than twenty feet (20') above grade and basement apartments requiring two (2)
exits, one exit will be allowed when all bedrooms have egress windows that meet
the requirements of the International Building Code. All doors or windows
providing access to a fire escape shall be provided with fire escape signs.
Exit signs shall be provided at exits where more than one exit is required and
in corridors used for exiting from multiple units. Exit signs shall be as per
the International Building Code. A primary entrance to an apartment is not
allowed through a garage. A one-hour firewall shall be erected to separate the
apartment entrance from the garage. If a door is needed from the apartment
entrance firewall to the interior of the garage, it must be a door as described
in subsection C of this section.
   B.   Stairs: All stairs used as part of an exit shall have a maximum riser
height of eight inches (8"), a minimum run of nine inches (9") and a minimum
width of thirty inches (30") (exclusive of handrails). An eight and one-half
inch (8 1/2") riser will be allowed if the minimum tread is increased to ten
inches (10"). Every stairway with over three (3) risers shall be provided with
a handrail. All stairs require landings with a minimum dimension of thirty
inches (30") run in direction of travel at each point of access to stairwell.
All stairwells will have minimum six feet six inches (6'6") headroom.
   C.   Exit Corridors: Exit corridors serving occupant loads of ten (10) or
more occupants shall have walls and ceilings of not less than one hour fire
resistive construction. Wood lath and plaster of one-half inch (1/2") drywall
is acceptable in corridor construction. Openings with fixed wired glass set in
steel frames are allowed in corridors. Doors entering into corridors (with
exception of those opening directly outside) shall be twenty (20) minute fire
rated assemblies, or solid wood doors not less than one and three-fourths
inches (1 3/4") thick. Where the existing frames will not accommodate a one and
three-fourths inch (1 3/4") thick solid wood door, a one and three-eighths inch
(1 3/8") thick solid bonded wood core door or equivalent insulated steel door
shall be permitted. Transoms must be covered with one-half inch (1/2") drywall
unless approved by the city building official or central fire district. The
city building official may nullify the above corridor requirements when an
approved sprinkler system is provided.
   D.   Sprinkler System: An approved sprinkler system shall be installed in
basements or stories exceeding one thousand five hundred (1,500) square feet of
habitable area and not having a minimum thirty inch by eighty inch (30" x 80")
door or a minimum thirty inch by forty two inch (30" x 42") window in every
fifty (50) linear feet of exterior wall (or fraction thereof) on at least one
side of the building. A sprinkler system shall be installed in any portion of
the basement or upper story that is over seventy-five feet (75') from opening
as described above. New construction and all use changes for three (3) or more
dwelling units in a structure must be sprinklered as per the IBC.
   E.   One Hour Separation: One hour dwelling separation shall be provided
between all apartment units. In apartments constructed or converted prior to
1985, wood lath and plaster and one-half inch (1/2") drywall is acceptable as
one hour separation when in good shape and continuous on both sides of walls
and on ceilings, provided the floors above are of a double layer variety.
Buildings with sprinkler systems have different area separation requirements.
Consult the City of Rigby building official for more information.
   F.   Windows: Window egress is required. Each bedroom will have a window
that meets the minimum size requirements of twenty inches wide by twenty-two
inches high (20" x 22"). The windows will not be required to meet the minimum
opening area of 5.7 square feet. A permanent object (footlocker or seat) will
be allowed to be built against a wall below a window to allow sill heights
greater than forty-four inches (44"). Window wells are required to have a clear
opening twenty-four inches (24") in front of window and to have steps if window
well is deeper than forty-four inches (44"). Door hardware must not be able to
be locked so that it cannot be opened from the inside without the use of a key
or some special knowledge. Aisles, corridors and hallways or any part of the
exit, exit access or exit discharge shall not be blocked and shall be a minimum
of thirty inches (30") wide. Stairs shall be secure. Guardrails shall be
installed at any walking surface adjacent to a drop of thirty inches (30") or
greater. Doors or any part of exit, exit access or exit discharge to be in
operable condition.
   G.   Area To Be Kept Free Of Garbage: Exits and access to fire extinguishers
shall be unobstructed. Garbage and trash need to be removed from the premises
on a timely basis. Outside trash containers must be kept at a proper distance
from building for fire safety.
   H.   Fire Extinguisher: All apartments shall be equipped with an approved
wall mounted fire extinguisher. The minimum size is a 2A-10BC. The extinguisher
shall be mounted in a conspicuous location near the kitchen.
   I.   Smoke/Carbon Monoxide Detectors: Smoke detectors with carbon monoxide
detectors shall be provided on each floor of each unit. The detectors shall be
placed on a wall near ceiling but not closer than six inches (6") of the
ceiling. Smoke detectors may be battery operated or may receive their primary
power from the building wiring when such wiring is served from a commercial
source. Wiring shall be permanent and without disconnecting switches other than
those required for overload protection. Each apartment owner or manager shall
check detectors annually for operation and for battery function.
   J.   Electrical: Romex or other wire for greater than one hundred (100) volt
use shall be encased in a wall, floor, ceiling cavity or in any NEC approved
conduit or chase. Open wiring is not allowed. Electrical panels must not be
blocked or obstructed in any manner. Electrical panel doors must be able to be
closed and latched. All openings in the service panels must be plugged. All
outlets and switches will have covers. All electrical connections will be
provided with a junction box and cover. No frayed wires will be allowed. All
outlets in bathrooms, kitchens, garages and outdoors to be replaced with ground
fault devices. Improperly sized fuses or breakers must be replaced with
properly sized units. All wire entrances into metal boxes will be made with NEC
approved connectors. Overloaded panels must be replaced with adequate service.
Electrical conduits to be fastened securely to structure. Overhead wires from
outbuildings to be at least ten feet (10') above any ground surface (including
decks or raised walking surfaces). All stairs between floors to be provided
with lighting. Exterior stairs to be provided with lighting. Heating system
shall not require the use of portable electric heaters to adequately heat
building. All light fixtures are required to have canopies and to be securely
attached to structure. Extension cords are not allowed to replace proper
wiring. Electrical in general to be in safe working manner. Electrical
inspector or city inspector to inspect when any question arises.
   K.   Gas Appliances; Heaters: Require all gas meters, pipes or appurtenances
to be protected from vehicles using bollards or similar guards. Combustion air
is required to gas appliances located in small, unventilated rooms. Gas water
heaters greater than four feet (4') tall with flexible connections must be
strapped to structure. Two inches (2") minimum space for flue vents required
from any combustible construction. A twenty four inch (24") clear space is
required in front of water heaters and furnaces. This requirement may be met by
the opening of a door or an access panel. Gas water heaters or furnaces located
in a bedroom or a bedroom closet must be totally isolated from the bedroom with
a tightfitting door and must receive combustion air from another source besides
the bedroom. Require proper clearance for heating equipment (water heaters and
furnaces). All high efficiency gas furnace flue discharge points must be
located in areas that are not below doors or windows that can be opened or
within four feet (4') from such windows or doors. Storage or trash shall not be
allowed within twenty-four inches (24") of gas water heater or furnace. Gas
water heater and furnace flues must be connected with at least three (3) screws
at all joints and must be tightly installed. Require that all gravity venting
between forty five degrees (45°) and sixty degrees (60°) be considered as
horizontal venting and require that the total run of horizontal vent be less
than seventy five percent (75%) of the vertical height of the vent. Portable
gas heaters are not allowed. Corroded pressure relief valves must be replaced.
   L.   Backflow Prevention: Require backflow prevention for lawn sprinkler
systems.
   M.   Structural Components: All wooden structural components (headers,
beams, columns, rafters, trusses, joists, bearing walls, etc.) to be free of
stress cracks, fastened securely and free of rot. Steel and concrete structural
components (beams, columns, slabs, girders, purlins, footings, etc.) to be free
from defects, stress cracks, strain or fatigue that could cause loss of
structural integrity. Roof to be without leaks.
   N.   Addresses: Address must be posted on building so that it is clearly
visible from the street in a manner that is compliant with emergency services.
Contact emergency services for more information.
   O.   Exterior Property Maintenance: Exterior property maintenance,
appearance, and upkeep includes, but is not limited to, the following
requirements:
      1.   Building and outbuildings must be in good repair. Paint, siding,
rain gutters, roof, doors, and screens need to be in place and functioning.
      2.   Parking lots and sidewalks must be clean, free from hazards (such as
uneven or broken concrete).
      3.   Stairwells, railings, and steps must be safe and free from
deterioration, as well as snow and ice.
      4.   Yard and landscaping must be well maintained, mowed, trimmed,
weeded, and have a neat appearance.
      5.   The owner of the property is responsible for the enforcement of this
code relating to the removal of abandoned, inoperable, discarded or unused
objects or equipment such as automobiles, implements, and/or machinery and
personal property of any kind which is no longer safely usable for the purposes
for which it was manufactured, furniture, stoves, refrigerators, freezers,
cans, or containers.
      6.   The owner of the property will ensure an adequate and approved
refuse container is provided each apartment and the area around the containers
is kept free of overflow and accumulation on the ground.
   P.   Sleeping Areas: Space and room arrangements include, but are not
limited to, the following requirements:
      1.   Every room occupied for sleeping purposes shall contain at least
fifty (50) square feet of floor space per occupant, not including closet space.
      2.   No more than four (4) occupants shall sleep in a single bedroom.
   Q.   Bathroom Facilities:
      1.   Every bathroom shall have an outside window or exhaust fan. It is
encouraged that all apartments have fans installed to prevent mold growth.
      2.   There shall be at least one toilet, washbasin, and bathtub or shower
in good working condition with hot and cold water and approved drainage for
every six (6) tenants. They must be clean, free from mold and decaying caulk
and grout, and reasonably free from stains.
      3.   All bathroom facilities shall be located within the dwelling so as
to be reasonably accessible to all persons sharing such facilities.
   R.   Cooking And Eating Apartment Requirements:
      1.   Every apartment shall contain a kitchen sink that is connected with
hot and cold water and is also connected to the sewer drain. Damaged areas
beneath the sink must be cleaned to prevent mold growth.
   S.   Parking: Parking shall comply with city ordinances allowing for off
street parking. Parking stalls must be contained in designated lots and not on
grass, sidewalks, or the like.
   T.   Safety:
      1.   No accumulation of rubbish or combustibles shall be permitted in the
building.
      2.   No flammable materials (clothing, paper products, boxes, etc.) shall
be stored within twenty four inches (24") of the furnace or water heater.
      3.   Landlords shall make arrangements to reasonably remove snow and ice
from stairways, walkways and parking lots.
   U.   Inspection Needed For Occupancy: When an apartment is vacant and
without utility services for a period of sixty (60) days an inspection will be
needed as to compliance to this chapter before tenant occupancy can occur.
(Ord. 2012-552, 2-21-2012; amd. Ord. 2021-619, 9-14-2021)
9-3-3: ADMINISTRATION AND APPEAL:
The above list is not intended to address every safety issue that may present
itself. The inspector at his/her discretion may identify additional safety
items that need to be remedied. Situations may arise that cannot be feasibly
remedied to satisfy this list. If at any time an owner or manager thinks that
the inspection requested is excessive or unnecessary he/she may submit the
matter to the Rigby Board of Technical Review for appeal. The Board of
Technical Review shall consist of the City Police Chief, representative from
Central Fire District, and City Building Official/Inspector. The board will
then make their recommendations to the City of Rigby City Council. The Council
will have final say on the matter.
If the owner or manager of an apartment complex has reason to think that
alternative technology may satisfy the requirements of any of the life safety
issues, he/she may submit the idea to the City of Rigby Building Official for
review. If the official rejects the alternative, the owner or manager may opt
to submit the matter to the Rigby Board of Technical Review for appeal and/or
review. The Board will then make their recommendations to the City of Rigby
City Council. The Council will have final say on the matter.
The inspector will notify the State of Idaho Electrical Inspector if any
electrical problems exist that are out of the inspector's area of expertise. It
is our intent to have only one Inspector represent the City of Rigby at the
time of inspection and one inspector from the Fire Department.
All apartments renting must obtain a "permit to rent license" from the City.
The City will provide each owner with a checklist which requires compliance to
which the owner will attest his/her compliance. The City may conduct
inspections to verify compliance. Where noncompliance is noted, the owner shall
have ninety (90) days to correct the deficiencies. License will not be granted
until work is completed satisfactorily according to the plan of compliance, at
which time if owner is not compliant, such premises shall be vacated. All
apartment owners in the City of Rigby not seeking a permit to rent license will
be sent notices to provide the City of Rigby Clerk with a proposal for
compliance within ninety (90) days of such notice. Initial inspections will be
scheduled at this time. (Ord. 2012-552, 2-21-2012; amd. Ord. 2021-619, 9-14-
2021)
9-3-4: VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
Any person who violates or fails to comply with any of the provisions of this
chapter or who, having obtained a permit hereunder, willfully fails to continue
to comply with the conditions set forth in this chapter is guilty of a
misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof, may be fined in accordance with state
statutes.
Any apartment failing to obtain and pass an annual inspection and permit to
rent will have sixty (60) days for corrective action. If not corrected within
the sixty (60) day period, the occupancy permit will be voided and notice to
vacate premises issued on the apartment with suspension of utilities services.
(Ord. 2012-552, 2-21-2012; amd. Ord. 2021-619, 9-14-2021)
TITLE 10
ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
TITLE, PURPOSE, DECLARATION AND INTENT
SECTION:
10-1-1: Title
10-1-2: Purpose
10-1-3: Declaration
10-1-4: Interpretation And Intent
10-1-5: Authority
10-1-1: TITLE:
This title shall be known and entitled as THE ZONING ORDINANCE OF RIGBY, IDAHO,
and may be cited and pleaded. (Ord. 402, 5-5-1987; amd. Ord. 2021-619, 9-14-
2021)
10-1-2: PURPOSE:
The zone boundaries and regulations which apply within each of the zones have
been made in accordance with the Rigby Comprehensive Plan which is designed to
promote the health, safety, peace, convenience and general welfare of the
inhabitants of Rigby and are required:
   A.   To promote the orderly growth and development of the City;
   B.   To promote economy in the cost of fire and police protection and other
governmental services;
   C.   To lessen congestion in the streets and reduce the waste of excessive
amounts of streets;
   D.   To protect the tax base;
   E.   To foster industry;
   F.   To protect property values;
   G.   To appropriately distribute population, and prevent the overcrowding of
land;
   H.   To facilitate adequate provisions for transportation, water, sewage,
schools and other public requirements; and
   I.   To provide adequate light and air, and foster a wholesome, serviceable
and attractive City. (Ord. 402, 5-5-1987; amd. Ord. 2021-619, 9-14-2021)
10-1-3: DECLARATION:
In establishing the zones, the boundaries thereof, and the regulations applying
within each of the zones, due and careful consideration was given among other
things to the suitability of land for particular uses with a view to conserving
the value of buildings and encouraging the most appropriate use of land
throughout the City. (Ord. 402, 5-5-1987; amd. Ord. 2021-619, 9-14-2021)
10-1-4: INTERPRETATION AND INTENT:
It is the intent of the Council that the regulations and restrictions as set
forth in this title shall be so interpreted and construed as to further the
purpose of this title and objectives and characteristics of the respective
zones. (Ord. 402, 5-5-1987; amd. Ord. 2021-619, 9-14-2021)
10-1-5: AUTHORITY 1 :
These zoning regulations are authorized by title 50, chapter 13 and title 67,
chapter 65 of the Idaho Code as amended or subsequently codified and article
12, section 2, of the Idaho Constitution.
This title, as prepared, is meant to conform to above and further
interpretations may be secured therefrom above and will conform thereto. (Ord.
402, 5-5-1987; amd. Ord. 2021-619, 9-14-2021)
 
Notes
1 1. Idaho State "Local Planning Act of 1975".
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
10-2-1: Definitions And Usage
10-2-1: DEFINITIONS AND USAGE:
Words not defined herein shall be given the meaning ordinarily applied to such
words. The word "structure" shall include the word "building" and any
construction or obstruction that is more than three feet (3') in height, and
the word "lot" shall include the word "plot".
ACCESSORY BUILDING OR USE: A subordinate building or use which is located on
the same lot on which the main building or use is situated and which is
reasonably necessary and incidental to the conduct of the primary use of such
building or to the main use.
ACCESS WAY: An unobstructed way of specified width containing a drive or
roadway which provides vehicular access.
ACREAGE: Any tract or parcel of land which has not been subdivided, or platted.
ALLEY: A street or way shown on the official plat of the Municipality or its
additions and designated thereon as an alley.
APARTMENT: A room or suite of rooms in a multiple-family structure, which is
arranged, designed, used or intended to be used as a housekeeping unit for a
single family.
AUTO WRECKING OR JUNKYARD: Any place where two (2) or more motor vehicles not
in running condition, or parts thereof, and land, building or structure used
for wrecking or storing vehicles or farm machinery or parts thereof, stored in
the open and not being restored to operating condition; and including the
commercial salvaging and scavenging of any other goods, articles, or
merchandise.
AUTOMOBILE: A passenger vehicle.
AUTOMOBILE REPAIR: General repair, rebuilding or reconditioning of motor
vehicles, collision service, such as body, frame or fender straightening and
repair of motor vehicles.
AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION: An establishment where automotive fuels and
lubricants, accessories and services are sold at retail; however, where the
sale of such is only incidental, the establishment or premises shall be
classified as a public garage.
AWNING: A projecting cover extending over a door, window or wall section with
supports attached to the building and used as cover, protection, or as
decoration. In mobile homes, this consists of a roof with supports and not more
than one wall or storage cabinet substituting for a wall.
BASEMENT: A story partly or wholly underground where not more than thirty
percent (30%) of its height is above the average level of the adjoining ground;
as measured from the floor level of the basement. A basement shall not be
counted as a story for purpose of height measurement.
BILLBOARD: Any structure or portion thereof upon which are placed posters,
removable advertising material or paper material pasted in place, designed to
be changed periodically, and making pictures or lettering designed to offer
services or merchandise for sale.
   This definition does not include any bulletin boards used to display
official court or public office notices or church announcements, theater
marquees or signs attached to theater advertising films showing, real estate
office signs, with changeable metal or plastic letters, offering property for
sale or sign advertising the sale or lease of the premises on which the sign is
located.
BOARDING HOUSE: A building other than a hotel or restaurant, where meals are
provided for compensation for four (4) or more persons but not exceeding twelve
(12) persons. A boarding house is not allowed in single family residential
zoning.
BUILDABLE AREA: The buildable area of a lot is the space remaining after
adherence to the minimum open space requirements of this title.
BUILDING: Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls, and
designed or intended for the shelter support, enclosure, or protection of
persons, animals, or chattels.
BUILDING AREA: The area under a roof.
BUILDING DETACHED: A building surrounded by open space on the same lot with
permanent foundation.
BUILDING LINE: For the purpose of this title, the building line is the same as
a front yard setback line.
BUILDING NONCONFORMING: Any building not conforming to the requirements of City
Codes.
CARPORT: A structure which is open to the weather on at least two (2) sides,
intended for the use of sheltering not more than two (2) motor-driven vehicles.
CLINIC: A structure containing more than one doctor's office or dentist's
office where consultation is conducted and sick or injured persons are given
primary treatment.
CLUB HOUSE: A structure used for social or recreational activities by occupants
of a subdivision or planned unit development.
COMMISSION: The Planning and Zoning Commission of the City of Rigby, Idaho.
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: The Comprehensive Plan for the City of Rigby, or parts
thereof, projecting future growth and development and for the general location
and coordination of streets and highways, schools and recreation areas, public
building sites and other facilities, which shall have been duly adopted. This
plan shall comply with the Idaho Code as adopted or amended.
CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT: A special use permit as provided for by Idaho Code
section 67-6512 in which a use that, owing to some special characteristics such
as traffic or noise generation, parking needs, access, building size, lighting,
consistency with developed uses in the area, or other characteristics of
operation, is permitted in certain districts subject to approval by the
Commission or the Council, subject to terms and conditions, depending upon the
particular use.
COUNCIL: The Council of the City of Rigby, Idaho.
COURT: An open unoccupied space, other than a yard, on the same lot with a
building and bounded on two (2) or more sides by such building.
DOWNTOWN BUSINESS DISTRICT: A section of the downtown that allows mixed use and
requires new buildings or facades to blend into the existing architecture (see
section
9-1-4).
DWELLING: A building or portion thereof, but not a house trailer, designed
exclusively for residential occupancy, including hotels, boarding and lodging
houses, which meets the minimum requirements of the International Building
Code.
DWELLING, MULTIPLE: A building or portion thereof designed for occupancy by
three (3) or more families living independently of each other.
DWELLING, ONE-FAMILY: A detached building designed exclusively for occupancy by
one family.
DWELLING, ROW: A row of three (3) or more attached one-family dwellings.
DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY: A building designed exclusively for occupancy by two (2)
families living independently of each other.
DWELLING UNIT: One or more rooms in a dwelling or apartment hotel designed
primarily for occupancy by one family for living or sleeping purposes.
FAMILY: A group of one or more persons occupying a dwelling unit and living as
a single, nonprofit housekeeping unit, provided that at least one of the
following situations exist:
   1.   At least one of the group is related to all of the other members of the
group within the third degree of kinship;
   2.   The group is divisible into two (2) subgroups, each composed of at
least one person who is related to all other members of the subgroup within the
third degree of kinship; or
   3.   All such persons are handicapped persons as defined by the Idaho Code
section 67-6531 or in Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1968, as amended by
the Fair Housing Act Amendments of 1988, or any subsequent amendments to the
foregoing regulations.
FLOOD PLAIN: Those areas designated as Zone A or AE as shown on the current
Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) as prepared by National Flood Insurance
Program.
   Area Of Shallow Flooding: The base flood depths range from one to three feet
(1' - 3'); where a clearly defined channel does not exist and the path of
flooding is unpredictable and indeterminate, and velocity flow may be evident.
AO characterized as sheet flow and AG indicates pounding on the FIRM map.
   Area of Special Flood
   Hazard, Base Flood or
   100-Year Flood:
The land in the flood plain within a community subject to a one percent (1%) or
greater chance of flooding in any given year. Designation on maps always
includes the letter A.
   Base Flood Elevation
   (BFE):
The computed elevation to which flood water is anticipated to rise during the
"Base Flood." The base flood elevation (BFE) is depicted on the FIRM to the
nearest foot and in the FIS to the nearest 0.1 foot.
   Channel:
A natural or artificial watercourse of perceptible extent, with definite bed
and banks to confine and conduct continuously or periodically flowing water.
   Flood:
The temporary inundation of land by overflow from a river, stream, lake, or
other body of standing water. A general and temporary condition of partial or
complete inundation of normally dry land areas from the overflow of inland or
tidal waters and/or the unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff or surface
waters from any source.
   Flood Insurance Rate Map
   (FIRM):
The official map on which the Federal Insurance Administration has delineated
both the areas of special flood hazards and the risk premium zones applicable
to the community.
   Flood Insurance Study:
The official report provided by the Federal Insurance Administration that
includes flood profiles, the Flood Boundary Floodway Map, and the water surface
elevation of the base flood.
   Flood Protection Elevation
   (FPE):
As defined in Idaho Code § 46-1021(7), an elevation that shall correspond to
the elevation of the one percent (1%) chance annual flood BFE, plus any
increased flood elevation due to floodway encroachment, plus any required
freeboard. The flood protection elevation for Rigby, Idaho is equal to BFE plus
one foot (1') foot of freeboard; the freeboard accounts for any flood elevation
increases due to floodway encroachment as shown in the community's Flood
Insurance Study.
   Floodway:
The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land areas that
must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without cumulatively
increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot (1') at any point.
   Floodway Fringe:
The part of the flood plain which is beyond the flood way encroachment lines
limiting a designated flood way. Such areas will include those portions of the
flood plain which will be inundated but which may be developed for use under
land use regulations without material effect upon the flood water carrying
capacity of the flood way and the flood water levels. Such areas are
characterized by shallow flood depths and low velocities of water flow.
FRONTAGE: All property on one side of a street between two (2) intersecting
streets, or natural barriers.
GARAGE, PRIVATE: An accessory building for the storage of not more than three
(3) motor vehicles of which not more than one shall be a commercial vehicle of
not more than two (2) ton rating.
GARAGE, PUBLIC: A building other than a private garage used for the care,
repair, or equipment of automobiles, or for vehicles parked or stored for
remuneration, hire or sale.
GUESTHOUSE: A structure for human habitation, containing one or more rooms with
a bath and toilet facilities, but not including a kitchen or facilities which
would provide a complete housekeeping unit. A guesthouse must be accessory to a
dwelling and is not used as a rental. See "Tourist Home."
HOME OCCUPATION: Any use customarily conducted entirely within the dwelling,
occupying not more than fifty percent (50%) thereof, and carried on by the
inhabitants thereof, which use is clearly incidental and secondary to the use
of the dwelling for dwelling purposes, and which does not change the character
thereof; and provided that:
   1.   Clinics, doctor's offices, hospitals, dress shops, millinery shops,
real estate offices, tearooms, tourist homes, sales, servicing or repair of
motor vehicles or internal combustion motors, animal hospitals and kennels,
among others, shall not be deemed to be home occupations and are not allowed in
residential zones.
   2.   Tax consulting, software engineering, business consulting, drafting,
sewing and other low neighborhood disturbing uses are deemed compatible for
home occupations.
   3.   Semi-truck/trailer deliveries are not allowed for home occupations.
   4.   No article is allowed to be sold or offered for sale except such as may
be produced on the premises by members of the immediate family or occupants of
the dwelling.
   5.   Product may not be displayed in yard or in building windows.
   6.   Noise produced by the occupation shall be similar to the sounds of a
regular neighborhood. Noise from machinery and power tools is not allowed.
   7.   Home occupation must be served by the usual entrances to the home.
HOSPITAL OR SANITARIUM: An institution open to the public in which sick
patients or injured persons are given medical or surgical care; or for the care
of contagious diseases or incurable patients.
HOTEL: A building designed for occupancy as the more or less temporary abiding
place of individuals who are lodged with or without meals, in which there are
six (6) or more guest rooms, and in which no provisions are made for cooking in
any individual room or suite.
INSTITUTION: A building occupied by a nonprofit corporation or a nonprofit
establishment for public or semi-public use.
KENNEL : A lot or premises on which four (4) or more dogs are kept, regardless
of age, excepting puppies up to six (6) weeks old.
LABORATORY: A place devoted to experimental study such as testing and
analyzing. Manufacturing of a product or products is not to be permitted within
this definition.
LOADING SPACE: An off-street space or area on the same lot with a building, or
contiguous to a group of buildings, for the temporary parking of a commercial
vehicle while loading or unloading merchandise or materials and which abuts
upon a street, alley or other appropriate means of access.
LOT: A piece or parcel of land separated from other pieces or parcels as shown
on a recorded subdivision plat or by metes and bounds description for purposes
of sale, lease, or separate use.
   1.   Corner Lot:
A lot with frontage on two (2) or more intersecting streets where the interior
angle of intersection does not exceed one hundred thirty five degrees (135°).
Corner lots have two (2) front yards and two (2) side yards but no rear yard.
   2.   Double
      Frontage Lot:
A lot abutting two (2) parallel or approximately parallel streets. Double
frontage lots have two (2) front yards and two (2) side yards.
   3.   Flag Lot:
Lots or parcels that the City has approved with less frontage on a public
street than is normally required, with no less than twenty feet (20') of
accessible frontage, generally intended to make deeper property accessible.
   4.   Interior Lot:
A lot having but one (1) frontage abutting on a street.
   5.    Substandard
      Lot:
A lot or parcel of land that has less than the minimum area or width as
established by the zone in which it is located. Such a lot shall have been of
record as a legally created lot on the effective date of this title.
   6.   Through Lot:
A lot that has a pair of opposite lot lines along two (2) substantially
parallel streets and which is not a corner lot. On a through lot, both street
lines shall be deemed front lot lines.
LOT LINE: The boundary line of a lot.
   1.   Front Lot Line:
The property line separating the front of the lot from the public right-of-way.
   2.   Rear Lot Line:
The lot line opposite the front property line. Where the side property lines of
a lot meet in a point, the rear property line shall be assumed to be a line not
less than ten feet (10') long, lying within the lot and parallel to the front
property line. In the event that the front property line is a curved line, then
the rear property line shall be assumed to be a line not less than ten feet
(10') long, lying within the lot and parallel to a line tangent to the front
property line at its midpoint.
   3.   Side Lot Line:
Any lot line not a front or rear lot line.
   4.   Lot of Record:
A lot that is part of a subdivision, the plat of which has been recorded in the
office of the Recorder Of Jefferson County, Idaho, or any parcel of land,
whether or not part of a subdivision, that has been officially recorded by a
size that met the minimum dimensions for lots in the district in which it was
located at the time of recording or was recorded prior to the effective date of
zoning in the area where the lot is located.
   5.   Lot Width:
The horizontal distance between side lot lines measured at the required front
setback line. The width of a lot shall be:
   a.   If the side property lines are parallel, the shortest distance between
these side lines.
   b.   If the side property lines are not parallel, the width of the lot shall
be the length of a line at right angles to the axis of the lot at a distance
equal to the front setback required for the zone in which the lot is located.
The axis of a lot shall be a line joining the midpoints of the front and rear
property lines.
   c.   For rural acreage developments, the distance between the side lot
lines, measured at the street frontage.
LOT, REVERSED CORNER: A corner lot the rear of which abuts upon the side of
another lot, and which faces a street running at right angles to the alley.
MANUFACTURED HOME: Is defined under title 9 of this Code.
MAY/SHALL: The word "may" is permissive. "Shall" is mandatory.
MOBILE HOME: A manufactured, relocatable dwelling unit which may not meet the
minimum requirements of the International Residential Code. A structure
transportable in one (1) or more sections which is eight feet (8') or more in
width and is thirty-two feet (32') or more in length and which is built on a
permanent chassis and designed to be used as a year-round residential dwelling
with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities
and includes plumbing, heating, air conditioning, and electrical systems.
   Rehabilitated
   Mobile Home:
A factory-assembled structure constructed prior to June 15, 1976, or brought
into the state after July 1, 1998, which have been upgraded to comply with
Idaho Code title 44, chapter 25 and received a "Certificate of Compliance" from
the Division of Building Safety of the State of Idaho.
MOBILE HOME COURT: A tract of land retained under one ownership for the purpose
of lease or rental of spaces for the placement of mobile homes as defined in
this title.
MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION: A tract of land subdivided according to the rules and
regulations of the Subdivision Ordinance of the City of Rigby, to provide for
the sale of individual lots for the express purpose of placement of mobile
homes.
NONCONFORMING LOT: An existing lot, the area, width, size, or other
characteristic of which, fails to meet the requirements of the zone in which it
is located and which was conforming prior to the effective date of this title.
NONCONFORMING USE: A use not conforming to the provisions of this title but
which was lawfully existing at the time of adoption of this title.
NURSING HOME OR REST HOME: A private hospital for the aged or infirm, the care
of children, or a place of rest for those suffering physical or mental
disorders, but not including facilities for the treatment of sickness or
injuries or for surgical care.
PARKING AREA, PRIVATE: An open area for the parking of privately owned
automobiles and not for public use.
PARKING AREA, PUBLIC: An open area, other than a street, used for the temporary
parking of more than four (4) automobiles and available for public use whether
free, for compensation or as an accommodation for clients or customers.
PARKING SPACE: An area, enclosed or unenclosed, which has adequate access to
public street or alley, sufficient in size, as defined by this title, to store
one automobile.
PORCH: A roofed entrance to a building, projecting out from the wall or walls
of the main structure and commonly open in part to the weather.
RAMADA: A stationary structure having a roof extending over a manufactured/
mobile home, which may also extend over a patio or parking space for a motor
vehicle, and is used principally for protection from the elements.
RESIDENCE: See definition of "Dwelling" and "Dwelling Unit."
SHALL/MAY: The word "shall" is mandatory. "May" is permissive.
SIGNS, OUTDOOR ADVERTISING: A sign of any type or material, installed any place
for outdoor advertising purposes.
STORY: That portion of a building included between the surface of the floor
next above it or if there be no floor above it, then the space between such
floor and the ceiling next above.
STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS: Any change which would prolong the life of the
supporting members of a building or structure, such as bearing walls, columns,
beams or girders. Structural alteration shall not include interior or exterior
decorating or redecorating.
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or erected, either on the ground or on
something having location on the ground, fences, hedges, four feet (4') above
the established grade shall be regarded as structures.
TERRACE, OPEN: An open platform, as projecting from the outside wall of a
building.
TOURIST COURT: A group of attached or detached buildings, including auto
courts, motels or motor lodges, containing individual sleeping or living units,
designed for or used by tourists or transients, with garage attached or parking
space conveniently located to each unit.
TOURIST HOME: A dwelling in which overnight accommodations are provided or
offered for transient guests as follows:
   B&B 1:
A building that is the primary residence of the owner (or an agent that resides
in the home instead of owner) in which rooms are provided on a daily or weekly
for compensation, by the owner or agent, to persons not related by blood,
marriage, or adoption to the owner. The owner or agent must be present or on-
site while property is being used as a rental. An agent must be living on the
premise for at least thirty (30) days prior to rental contracts and visits.
   B&B 2:
A structure containing guest room(s) where lodging, with or without meals, is
provided on a daily rate basis, and a manager maintains a residential presence
on site or on an adjacent lot.
   B&B 3:
A structure containing guest room(s) where lodging, with or without meals, is
provided on a daily rate basis, and a manager does not maintain a residential
presence on site but must reside in Jefferson County.
TRAILER: A vehicle without motive power, designed to be moved by another motor
vehicle.
TRAILER CAMP, AUTOMOBILE: Any premises occupied or designed to accommodate more
than one automobile house trailer.
TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL OF A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS:
Means and includes any of the following:
   A.   The sale, lease or sublease of the business;
   B.   The transfer of securities which constitute a controlling interest in
the business, whether by sale, exchange or similar means;
   C.   The establishment of a trust, gift or other similar legal devise which
transfers ownership or control of the business, except for transfer by bequest
or other operation of law upon the death of a person possessing the ownership
or control.
TRAVEL TRAILER: Shall mean and include all living accommodation units which are
capable of unrestricted highway use, and not placed upon any foundation. The
term shall include, but not be limited to, travel trailer, motor home units,
campers mounted on automotive vehicles and trailers with camping tent tops.
TRAVEL TRAILER COURT: A tract of land retained in one ownership, for the
purpose of rental of spaces for temporary placement of travel trailers, as
defined in this title.
UNIT: For the purpose of this code, unit shall mean dwelling unit where used to
describe any structure.
USE: The purpose for which land or a building is intended, designed, arranged
or maintained.
VETERINARY CLINIC: Veterinary hospital for small animals: dogs, cats, rabbits,
rodents, and caged birds.
YARD: An open space unoccupied and unobstructed from the ground upward, on the
same lot with a main building.
YARD, FRONT: A yard extending across the full width of the lot and lying
between the front line of the lot and the nearest line of the principal
building.
YARD, SIDE: That part of the yard lying between the main building and a side
lot line, and extending from the required front yard (or from the front lot
line, if there is no required front yard) to the required rear yard.
ZONE: A section or sections of the incorporated area of the City for which the
regulations and provisions governing the use of buildings and land use uniform
for each class of use permitted therein.
ZONING ORDINANCE: The Zoning Ordinance of the City of Rigby, Idaho as presently
constituted or as may be amended hereafter. (Ord. 402, 5-5-1987; amd. Ord.
2019-599-A, 3-21-2019; Ord. 2021-619, 9-14-2021; Ord. 2025-650, 1-23-2025)
CHAPTER 3
AMENDMENT PROCEDURE
SECTION:
10-3-1: Planning And Zoning Commission
10-3-2: Initiation Of Zoning Amendments
10-3-3: Contents Of Application
10-3-4: Request To Commission
10-3-5: Public Hearing
10-3-6: Recommendation By Commission
10-3-7: Action By Council
10-3-8: Resubmission Of Application
10-3-9: Zoning Upon Annexation
10-3-10: Conditional Use Permits (CUP)
10-3-11: Variances
10-3-12: Fees
10-3-1: PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION:
   A.   Planning Commission: It is hereby provided that the City Planning
Commission shall also function as, and members thereof shall serve as, the
Zoning Commission of the city.
   B.   City Council: Whenever the public necessity, convenience, general
welfare or good zoning practices require, the Council may, by ordinance after
receipt of recommendation thereon from the Planning Commission and subject to
procedures provided by law, amend, supplement, change or repeal the
regulations, restrictions and boundaries or classification of property. (Ord.
402, 5-5-1987; amd. Ord. 2021-619, 9-14-2021)
10-3-2: INITIATION OF ZONING AMENDMENTS:
Amendments to this title may be initiated in one of the following ways:
   A.   By adoption of a motion by the Planning Commission;
   B.   By adoption of a motion by the Council; and
   C.   By the filing of an application by a property owner or a person who has
existing interest in property within the area proposed to be changed or
affected by said amendment. (Ord. 402, 5-5-1987; amd. Ord. 2021-619, 9-14-2021)
10-3-3: CONTENTS OF APPLICATION:
Applications for amendments to the Official Zone Map adopted as part of this
title shall contain at least the following information:
   A.   Name, address and phone number of the applicant;
   B.   Proposed amending ordinance, approved as to form by the Council;
   C.   Present land use;
   D.   Present zoning district;
   E.   Proposed use;
   F.   Proposed zoning district;
   G.   A vicinity map at a scale approved by the administrator showing
property lines, thoroughfares, existing and proposed zoning and such other
items as the administrator may require;
   H.   A list of all property owners and their mailing addresses who are
within three hundred feet (300') of the external boundaries of the land
considered;
   I.   A statement on how the proposed amendment relates to the Comprehensive
Plan, availability of public facilities and compatibility with the surrounding
area; and
   J.   A fee as established by Council. (Ord. 402, 5-5-1987; amd. Ord. 2021-
619, 9-14-2021)
10-3-4: REQUEST TO COMMISSION:
Zoning Districts shall be amended in the following manner:
   A.   Requests for an amendment to the Zoning Ordinance shall be submitted to
the Commission which shall evaluate the request to determine the extent and
nature of the amendment requested;
   B.   If the request is in accordance with the adopted Comprehensive Plan,
the Commission may recommend and the Council may adopt or reject the ordinance
amendment under the notice and hearing procedures as herein provided; and
   C.   If the request is not in accordance with the adopted Comprehensive
Plan, the request shall be submitted to the Planning Commission who shall
recommend that the Council may adopt or reject an amendment to the
Comprehensive Plan under the notice and hearing procedure provided in Idaho
Code section 67-6509. After the Comprehensive Plan has been amended, the Zoning
Ordinance may then be amended as hereinafter provided for. (Ord. 402, 5-5-1987;
amd. Ord. 2021-619, 9-14-2021)
10-3-5: PUBLIC HEARING:
The Commission shall hold a public hearing and make recommendations on proposed
zoning amendments. Zoning amendments may consist of text or map revisions.
   A.   Zoning Ordinance Text Amendment: The Commission, prior to recommending
a zoning ordinance text amendment to the Council shall conduct at least one
public hearing in which interested persons shall have an opportunity to be
heard. At least fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing, notice of time and
place and the amendment shall be published in the official newspaper or paper
of general circulation within the jurisdiction. Following the Commission's
hearing, if the Commission makes a material change from what was presented at
the public hearing, further notice and hearing shall be provided before the
Commission forwards the amendment with its recommendation to the Council.
   B.   Zoning Ordinance Map Amendment: The Commission, prior to recommending a
zoning ordinance map amendment that is in accordance with the Comprehensive
Plan to the Council shall conduct at least one public hearing in which
interested persons shall have an opportunity to be heard. At least fifteen (15)
days prior to the hearing, notice of time and place and the amendment shall be
published in the official newspaper or paper of general circulation within the
jurisdiction.
Additional notice shall be provided by mail to property owners and residents
within the land being considered; three hundred feet (300') of the external
boundaries of the land being considered; and any additional area that may be
impacted by the proposed change as determined by the Commission. When notice is
required to two hundred feet (200') or more property owners or residents, in
lieu of the mail notification three (3) notices in the official newspaper or
paper of general circulation is sufficient, provided that, the third notice
appears ten (10) days prior to the public hearing. Following the Commission's
hearing if the Commission makes a material change from what was presented at
the public hearing, further notice and hearing shall be provided before the
Commission forwards the amendment with its recommendation to the Council. (Ord.
402, 5-5-1987; amd. Ord. 2021-619, 9-14-2021)
10-3-6: RECOMMENDATION BY COMMISSION:
Within sixty (60) days from the receipt of the proposed amendment, the
Commission shall transmit its recommendation to the Council. The Commission may
recommend that the amendment be granted as requested, or it may recommend a
modification of the amendment requested, or it may recommend that the amendment
be denied. The Commission shall ensure that any favorable recommendations for
amendments are in accordance with the Comprehensive Plan and established goals
and objectives. (Ord. 402, 5-5-1987; amd. Ord. 2021-619, 9-14-2021)
10-3-7: ACTION BY COUNCIL:
The Council, prior to adopting, revising or rejecting the amendment to the
zoning ordinance as recommended by the Commission shall conduct at least one
public hearing using the same notice and hearing procedures as the Commission.
Following the Council hearing, if the Council makes a material change from what
was presented at the public hearing, further notice hearing shall be provided
before the Council adopts the amendment.
The Council shall accept the recommendation of the Commission's report unless
rejected by a vote of one-half (1/2) plus one of the members.
Upon granting or denying an application to amend the zoning ordinance, the
Council shall specify:
   A.   The ordinance and standards used in evaluating the application;
   B.   The reasons for approval or denial; and
   C.   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain a permit.
In the event the Council shall approve an amendment, such amendment shall
thereafter be made a part of this title upon the preparation and passage of an
ordinance. (Ord. 402, 5-5-1987; amd. Ord. 2021-619, 9-14-2021)
10-3-8: RESUBMISSION OF APPLICATION:
No application for a reclassification of any property which has been denied by
the Council shall be resubmitted in either substantially the same form or with
reference to substantially the same premises for the same purposes within a
period of one year from the date of such final action; unless there is an
amendment in the Comprehensive Plan which resulted from a change in conditions
as applying to the specific property under consideration. (Ord. 402, 5-5-1987;
amd. Ord. 2021-619, 9-14-2021)
10-3-9: ZONING UPON ANNEXATION:
Prior to annexation of an unincorporated area, the Council shall request and
receive a recommendation from the Commission on the proposed Comprehensive Plan
and zoning ordinance changes for the unincorporated area. Each Commission and
the Council shall follow the notice and hearing procedures provided in chapter
10 of this title. Concurrently or immediately following the adoption of an
ordinance of annexation, the Council shall amend the Comprehensive Plan and
Zoning Ordinance. (Ord. 402, 5-5-1987; amd. Ord. 2021-619, 9-14-2021)
10-3-10: CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS (CUP):
Pursuant to Idaho Code section 67-6512, the Council and Commission may issue
Conditional Use Permits (CUP).
   A.   Application: A narrative statement shall discuss the general
compatibility of the proposed development with adjacent properties and the
neighborhood, the relationship of the proposed use to the Comprehensive Plan,
and the effects of the following on the adjoining property: noise, glare,
traffic generated, vibration, odor, fumes, drainage, building height, massing,
and solid waste.
   B.   Studies: The Commission or Council may require that the applicant
conduct studies of the social, economic, fiscal, and environmental effects of
the proposed use.
   C.   Hearing: Prior to issuing a Conditional Use Permit, at least one public
hearing shall be held.
   D.   Authority of Commission to Review Conditional Use Permits: The
Commission may, without approval of the Council, grant the following
Conditional Use Permits (CUP):
      1.   Churches, synagogues, and temples;
      2.   Day care centers;
      3.   Funeral and crematory services;
      4.   Government buildings;
      5.   Home occupations;
      6.   Household goods warehousing and storage;
      7.   Nursery Schools;
      8.   Parks Reduced.
All other Conditional Use Permits may only be granted after review and
recommendation by the Commission and approval by the Council.
   E.   Standards For Approval: The approving body shall review the particular
facts and circumstances of each proposed conditional use and shall find
adequate evidence to show that the proposed use will comply with the following:
      1.   Be Listed As Conditional Use: Constitute a conditional use as
established in this Development Code.
      2.   Comprehensive Plan: Be in accordance with a specific or general
objective of the city's Comprehensive Plan and the regulations of this title.
      3.   Harmony With Adjacent: Be designed and constructed in a manner to be
harmonious with the existing character of the neighborhood and the zone in
which the property is located.
      4.   Nuisance: Not create a nuisance or safety hazard for neighboring
properties in terms of excessive noise or vibration, improperly directed glare
or heat, electrical interference, odors, dust or air pollutants, solid waste
generation and storage, hazardous materials or waste, excessive traffic
generation, or interference with pedestrian traffic.
      5.   Public Facilities And Services: The use will be adequately served by
essential public facilities and services such as street access, police and fire
protection, drainage structures, refuse disposal, water and sewer service, and
schools. If existing facilities are not adequate, the developer shall show that
such facilities shall be upgraded sufficiently to serve the proposed use.
      6.   Traffic: Not generate traffic in excess of the capacity of public
streets or access points serving the proposed use and will assure adequate
visibility at traffic access points.
      7.   Buffers: Be effectively buffered to screen adjoining properties from
adverse impacts of noise, building size and resulting shadow, traffic, and
parking.
      8.   Slope And Soil: Be compatible with the slope of the site and the
capacity of the soils and will not be in an area of natural hazard unless
suitably designed to protect lives and property.
      9.   Historic Features: Not result in the destruction, loss or damage of
a historic feature of significance to the community of Rigby.
      10.   Supplementary Conditions And Safeguards: In granting a Conditional
Use Permit, the approving body may prescribe appropriate conditions and
safeguards. Such conditions to be attached to the permit may include but not be
limited to:
         a.   Minimizing adverse impact on other developments.
         b.   Controlling the sequence and timing of development.
         c.   Controlling the duration of development.
         d.   Assuring the development is properly maintained.
         e.   Designating the exact location and nature of development.
         f.   Requiring the provision for on-site or off-site public facilities
of services.
         g.   Requiring more restrictive standards than those generally
required in this title.
   F.   Action By The Commission/Council: The Commission or Council may deny
the request.
   G.   Formal Notice: Formal notice will be sent to applicant after approval
of a Conditional Use Permit.
   H.   Notice will state the conditions of the permit.
   I.   Time Limit: If conditions are violated or not met, there will be a
ninety (90) day period to cure the problem. Failure to comply with the terms
may result in revocation of the Conditional Use Permit. (Ord. 2021-619, 9-14-
2021)
10-3-11: VARIANCES:
When it is made to appear by application to the Commission and when it is
recommended by said Commission after a public hearing preceded by fifteen (15)
days' public notice in the official newspaper, the Council may grant a variance
from any provision or provisions of this title providing it is made to appear
at such hearing, by clear and convincing evidence, that strict application of
the provisions and restrictions of this title would work an extreme hardship
and a unique hardship upon a particular property owner or upon particular
property owners. Whenever a hearing is held upon the application for a
variance, a record shall be kept and transcribed of the same and all expenses
of said hearing, including costs of transcript and notice, shall be borne by
the applicant.
It is further provided that a variance may be granted only upon a clear showing
that there will not be a detrimental effect by granting said variance upon the
health, safety, morals, or general welfare of the community and only upon a
clear showing that the purpose and intent of this title will be preserved
insofar as possible without resulting in an unnecessary and unreasonable
hardship upon the particular property owner petitioning for said variance.
It is further provided that when a variance is granted, it must be shown by a
preponderance of the evidence that the hardship, relied upon in said petition
for a variance, is related primarily to the particular property for which the
variance is desired as distinguished from conditions which create hardships of
similar nature to all property owners in the respective zone. (Ord. 402, 5-5-
1987; amd. Ord. 2021-619, 9-14-2021)
10-3-12: FEES:
   A.   Effective October 1, 2002, a fee in the amount of five hundred dollars
($500.00) for requests for special use, conditional use permit, variance,
ordinance change or any other administrative decision requiring hearing, or for
such additional costs which may be incurred.
   B.   The five hundred dollar ($500.00) fee shall be used to pay for the
following costs: mailing, copying, posting, advertising and associated labor.
   C.   Review and inspection time required by staff for Planning and Zoning
requests shall be charged at sixty dollars ($60.00) per hour.
   D.   The fee may be modified by resolution of the Council subject to the
limitations of law. (Ord. 501, 10-1-2002; amd. Ord. 2021-619, 9-14-2021)
CHAPTER 4
ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONES
SECTION:
10-4-1: Zones Enumerated
10-4-2: Zoning Map
10-4-3: Determination Of Boundaries
10-4-4: Impact Map And Areas
10-4-5: Zoning Classification
10-4-1: ZONES ENUMERATED:
   A.   In order to accomplish more fully the objectives and purposes of this
title, Rigby, Idaho, is hereby divided into zones which shall be known by the
symbols and names as follows:
 
RP  Residential park zone
R-1 Residential zone - single-family dwellings
R-2 Residential zone - single-family dwellings and multi-family dwellings
R-3 Residential zone - multi-family dwellings
C   Commercial zone
I   Industrial zone
RMH Residential mobile home zone
 
(Ord. 402, 5-5-1987; amd. Ord. 2021-619, 9-14-2021)
10-4-2: ZONING MAP:
   A.   The location and boundaries of each of the zones shall be detailed on a
map to be entitled "Official Zone Map Of Rigby, Idaho", and said map with all
notations, references and other information shown thereon is hereby declared to
be an official record and a part of this title.
   B.   The Official Zone Map shall be identified by the signature of the
Mayor, attested by the City Clerk, and shall bear the seal of the city under
the following words:
I hereby certify that this is the Official Zone Map of Rigby, Idaho, which was
adopted by the Council of the said City on this day of , 20.
   C.   The Official Zone Map shall be located in the office of the City Clerk
and shall accurately designate the current boundary lines of the several zones
within Rigby, Idaho.
   D.   Whenever amendments are made in zone boundaries or other matter
portrayed on the Official Zone Map, said Official Zone Map shall be promptly
changed by the Zoning Administrator.
   E.   Any area annexed to the municipality shall, upon annexation be
automatically zoned residence R-1 until otherwise zoned.
   F.   No amendment to the official zone map shall become effective, however,
until the map has been duly changed in accordance with an amending ordinance,
and the amending ordinance has been signed by the Mayor and attested to by the
City Clerk. In the event of a conflict between this or an amending ordinance
and the zone map, this or an amending ordinance shall govern. (Ord. 402, 5-5-
1987; amd. Ord. 2021-619, 9-14-2021)
10-4-3: DETERMINATION OF BOUNDARIES:
Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of various zones, the
following rules shall apply:
   A.   Where the intended boundaries on the zone map are approximately street
or alley lines, said street or alleys shall be construed to be the zone
boundaries.
   B.   Where the indicated boundaries are approximately lot lines, said lot
lines shall be construed to be the zone boundaries, unless otherwise indicated.
   C.   Where land has not been subdivided into lots, the zone boundary shall
be determined by the use of a scale of measurement shown on the map.
   D.   Where uncertainty exists, the Zoning Commission shall interpret the
map, subject to review by the Council. (Ord. 402, 5-5-1987; amd. Ord. 2021-619,
9-14-2021)
10-4-4: IMPACT MAP AND AREAS:
The impact map is on file in the City Clerk's office. (Ord. 402, 5-5-1987; amd.
Ord. 2021-619, 9-14-2021)
10-4-5: ZONING CLASSIFICATION:
Each zone is defined as follows.
   A.   RP Residential Park Zone: This zone is used for City of Rigby Parks and
Recreation uses. Private parks and recreation uses will maintain the zoning of
the subdivision.
   B.   R-1 Residential Zone: The R-1 zone is established to protect stable
neighborhoods of detached single-family dwellings on larger lots. The limited
uses allowed in this district shall be compatible with an atmosphere of large,
landscaped lawns, low building heights, ample setbacks and side yards,
predominantly off street parking, low traffic volumes, and low nuisance
potentials. Not more than one (1) single-family dwelling shall be placed on a
lot or parcel of land in the R-1 zone.
      1.   Permitted Uses: The following principal uses and structures
indicated as "P", and no others, shall be permitted in the R-1 zone. The
following uses and structures indicated as "CUP" may be permitted in the R-
1 zone only after a Conditional Use Permit has been approved, and subject to
the terms and conditions thereof.
LOW DENSITY RESIDENTIAL 1*
LOW DENSITY RESIDENTIAL 1*
Residential                Single-family dwelling - detached, manufactured P
                           Tourist home (see definition in Chapter 2)**    P
Group Housing              Group home (Disabled & Elderly; under 8         P
                           residents)
Club House                 Building (see definition in Chapter 2)          CUP
Place of Worship           Churches, Synagogues and Temples                CUP
Schools, public or private Schools                                         CUP
                           Communications                                  CUP
Utilities                  Electricity Regulating Substations              CUP
                           Utility and Public Facilities                   CUP
*Accessory uses and structures are permitted provided they are incidental to,
and do not substantially alter the character of, the permitted principal use
or structure.
**Tourist Home requires a review for Neighborhood Compatibility for Parking,
Screening, Lighting and Landscaping to be approved by the Zoning Administrator
or designee.
 
      2.   Lot Area: The minimum area of any lot or parcel of land in the R-
1 zone is eight thousand (8,000) square feet.
      3.   Lot Width: Each lot or parcel of land in the R-1 zone shall have a
width of no less than eighty feet (80').
      4.   Lot Depth: Each lot or parcel of land shall have a minimum lot depth
of sixty feet (60').
      5.   Lot Frontage: Each lot or parcel of land in the R-1 zone shall abut
a public street for a minimum distance of thirty-five feet (35'), on a line
parallel to the centerline of the street or along the circumference of a cul-
de-sac improved to City standards. Frontage on a street end, which does not
have a cul-de-sac improved to City standards, shall not be counted in meeting
this requirement. Private drives are allowed as per review by the Zoning
Administrator or Designee.
      6.   Yard Requirements: The following minimum yard requirements shall
apply in the R-1 zone:
         a.   Front Yard: Each lot or parcel in the R-1 zone shall have a
minimum front yard of at least twenty-five feet (25') from right-of-way.
         b.   Rear Yard: The minimum depth of a rear yard shall be twenty-five
feet (25').
         c.   Side Yard: Each lot or parcel of land in the R-1 zone shall have
a side yard of at least seven and one-half feet (7 1/2') or six inches (6") of
setback for every one foot (1') of building height, whichever is greater.
         d.   Accessory Building Setbacks: Accessory buildings are required to
have the same setbacks as primary structures with the exception of tool sheds
and other similar unoccupied one level structures two hundred square feet (200
sq. ft.) or smaller that may not be located in the front yard.
      7.   Building Height:
         a.   No lot or parcel of land in the R-1 zone shall have a building or
structure, which exceeds a maximum height of twenty five feet (25'), measured
at the top of building's horizontal wall.
         b.   Accessory Structure: In no case shall the height of an accessory
structure exceed the height of any main structure on the same lot.
      8.   Permissible Lot Coverage:
         a.   Building Coverage: In an R-1 zone, all buildings, including
accessory buildings and structures (including impervious surfaces, e.g.
driveways), shall not cover more than seventy percent (70%) of the area of the
lot or parcel of land.
         b.   Landscaping: At least thirty percent (30%) of the area of any lot
shall be maintained in landscaping.
         c.   Impervious Surface: On any lot, concrete or asphaltic cement
shall not cover more than forty percent (40%) of a front yard, fifty percent
(50%) of a rear yard, and one hundred percent (100%) of one (1) side yard.
      9.   Signs: Unless otherwise prohibited by law, signs of the type and
description listed below, but no others, may be placed and maintained in the R-
1 zone.
         a.   Temporary: Two (2) temporary signs with a maximum area of six (6)
square feet each, pertaining to the sale, lease, or rent of the particular
building, property, or premises upon which displayed, and no other.
         b.   Points Of Interest: Signs or monuments identifying points of
interest or sites of historic significance. The site, size and design of said
signs or monuments, shall be specifically approved by the Zoning Administrator
or Designee.
         c.   Address Signs: All dwellings shall have a permanently posted
address, which shall be placed at driveway entrance (may be on mailbox) and be
visible from both directions of travel along the road on which the address is
located. Each dwelling must also have a permanently posted address, which shall
be placed near main entry door.
         d.   Home Occupation Signs: Home occupation signs must be no larger
than two (2) square feet, may not be lit and must be located in window only.
Only one sign is allowed per dwelling.
   C.   R-2 Residential Zone: The R-2 zone is established to protect stable
neighborhoods of detached single-family dwellings, duplexes and twin homes on
medium sized lots. The uses allowed in this district shall be compatible with
an atmosphere of large, landscaped lawns, low building heights, ample setbacks
and side yards, predominantly off street parking, low traffic volumes, and low
nuisance potentials. Not more than two (2) single-family dwellings shall be
placed on a lot or parcel of land in the R-2 zone.
      1.   Permitted Uses: The following principal uses and structures
indicated as "P", and no others, shall be permitted in the R-2 zone. The
following uses and structures indicated as "CUP" may be permitted in the R-
2 zone only after a Conditional Use Permit has been approved, and subject to
the terms and conditions thereof.
LOW DENSITY RESIDENTIAL 2*
LOW DENSITY RESIDENTIAL 2*
                           Single-family dwelling, manufactured - house on P
                           permanent foundation (>24' wide)                P
Residential                Duplex**                                        P
                           Twin home**                                     P
                           Tourist home** (see definition in chapter 2)
                           Tourist home (see definition in chapter 2)**    P
Group housing              Group home (disabled & elderly; under 8         P
                           residents)
Care facilities            Assisted/residential care facility              CUP
                           Hospitals                                       CUP
Club House                 Building (see definition in Chapter 2)          CUP
                           Churches                                        CUP
Place of worship           Synagogues                                      CUP
                           Temples                                         CUP
                           Nursery                                         CUP
Schools, public or private Elementary                                      CUP
                           Junior High                                     CUP
                           High Schools                                    CUP
                           Communications                                  CUP
Utilities                  Electricity regulating substations              CUP
                           Utility and public facilities                   CUP
* Accessory uses and structures are permitted provided they are incidental to,
and do not substantially alter the character of, the permitted principal use
or structure.
** Duplex, twin home and tourist homes require a review for neighborhood
compatibility for parking, screening, lighting and landscaping to be approved
by the Zoning Administrator or designee.
 
      2.   Lot Area: The minimum area of any lot or parcel of land in the R-
2 zone for a single family residence is seven thousand (7,000) square feet.
Nine thousand (9,000) square feet is required for a duplex or twin home.
      3.   Lot Width: Each lot or parcel of land in the R-2 zone for a single
family residence shall have a width of no less than sixty feet (60') and eighty
feet (80') for a duplex or twin home.
      4.   Lot Depth: Each lot or parcel of land shall have a minimum lot depth
of sixty feet (60').
      5.   Lot Frontage: Each lot or parcel of land in the R-2 zone shall abut
a public street for a minimum distance of thirty-five feet (35'), on a line
parallel to the centerline of the street or along the circumference of a cul-
de-sac improved to City standards. Frontage on a street end, which does not
have a cul-de-sac improved to City standards, shall not be counted in meeting
this requirement. Private drives are allowed as per review by the Zoning
Administrator or Designee.
      6.   Yard Requirements: The following minimum yard requirements shall
apply in the R-2 zone:
         a.   Front Yard: Each lot or parcel in the R-2 zone shall have a
minimum front yard of at least twenty five feet (25') from right-of-way.
         b.   Rear Yard: The minimum depth of a rear yard shall be twenty feet
(20').
         c.   Side Yard: Each lot or parcel of land in the R-2 zone shall have
a side yard of at least five feet (5').
         d.   Accessory Building Setbacks: Accessory buildings are required to
have the same setbacks as primary structures with the exception of tool sheds
and other similar unoccupied one level structures two hundred square feet (200
sq. ft.) or smaller that may not be located in the front yard.
      7.   Building Height:
         a.   No lot or parcel of land in the R-2 zone shall have a building or
structure, which exceeds a maximum height of twenty five feet (25'), measured
at the top of building's horizontal wall.
         b.   Accessory Structure: In no case shall the height of an accessory
structure exceed the height of any main structure on the same lot.
      8.   Permissible Lot Coverage:
         a.   Building Coverage: In an R-2 zone, all buildings, including
accessory buildings and structures (including impervious surfaces, e.g.
driveways), shall not cover more than seventy percent (70%) of the area of the
lot or parcel of land.
         b.   Landscaping: At least thirty percent (30%) of the area of any lot
shall be maintained in landscaping.
         c.   Impervious Surface: On any lot, concrete or asphaltic cement
shall not cover more than forty (40%) percent of a front yard, fifty percent
(50%) of a rear yard, and one hundred percent (100%) of one (1) side yard.
      9.   Signs: Unless otherwise prohibited by law, signs of the type and
description listed below, but no others, may be placed and maintained in the R-
2 zone.
         a.   Temporary: Two (2) temporary signs with a maximum area of six (6)
square feet each, pertaining to the sale, lease, or rent of the particular
building, property, or premises upon which displayed, and no other.
         b.   Points Of Interest: Signs or monuments identifying points of
interest or sites of historic significance. The site, size and design of said
signs or monuments, shall be specifically approved by the Zoning Administrator
or designee.
         c.   Address Signs: All dwellings shall have a permanently posted
address, which shall be placed at driveway entrance (may be on mailbox) and be
visible from both directions of travel along the road on which the address is
located. Each dwelling must also have a permanently posted address, which shall
be placed near main entry door.
         d.   Home Occupation Signs: Home occupation signs must be no larger
than two (2) square feet, may not be lit and must be located in window only.
Only one sign is allowed per dwelling.
   D.   R-3 Residential Zone: The R-3 zone is established to protect stable
neighborhoods of detached single-family dwellings on smaller lots, duplexes,
twin homes and multi-family housing. Restoration or rehabilitation of older
homes in this district shall be encouraged. Uses shall be compatible with an
atmosphere of low building heights, low traffic volumes, ample off-street
parking, and low nuisance potentials at a higher density than R-1 and R-
2 zones. R-3 Zoning is not allowed adjacent to R-1 zoning. A buffer of R-
2 zoning is required between R-1 and R-3 zoning.
      1.   Permitted Uses: The following principal uses and structures
indicated as "P", and no others, shall be permitted in the R-3 zone. The
following uses and structures indicated as "CUP" may be permitted in the R-
3 zone only after a Conditional Use Permit has been approved, and subject to
the terms and conditions thereof.
LOW DENSITY RESIDENTIAL 3*
LOW DENSITY RESIDENTIAL 3*
                           Duplex, single-family dwelling, manufactured -
                           house on permanent foundation (>24' wide), twin
Residential                home, townhomes (8 unit maximum per building)*, P
                           apartment building (8 unit maximum per
                           building)* and condominiums (8 unit maximum per
                           building)*
                           Tourist home (see definition in chapter 2)**,
Group housing              group home (disabled & elderly; under 8         P
                           residents)
Care facilities            Assisted/residential care facility, day care    CUP
                           centers and hospitals
Club House                 Building (see definition in Chapter 2)          CUP
Place of worship           Churches, Synagogues and Temples                CUP
Schools, public or private Nursery, elementary, junior and high schools    CUP
Utilities                  Communications, electricity regulating          CUP
                           substations, utility and public facilities
*Accessory uses and structures are permitted provided they are incidental to,
and do not substantially alter the character of, the permitted principal use
or structure.
**Tourist homes, apartments and condominiums require a review for neighborhood
compatibility for parking, screening, lighting and landscaping to be approved
by the Zoning Administrator or designee.
 
      2.   Lot Area: The minimum area of any lot or parcel of land in the R-
3 zone for a single family residence is five thousand (5,000) square feet.
seven thousand (7,000) square feet is required for a duplex or twin home.
Apartment or condominium projects shall not exceed sixteen (16) units per acre.
      3.   Lot Width: Each lot or parcel of land in the R-3 zone for a single-
family residence shall have a width of no less than sixty feet (50') and
seventy feet (70') for a duplex or twin home. The minimum lot width for
apartments and condominium projects is eighty feet (80').
      4.   Lot Depth: Each lot or parcel of land shall have a minimum lot depth
of sixty feet (60').
      5.   Lot Frontage: Each lot or parcel of land in the R-3 zone shall abut
a public street for a minimum distance of thirty-five feet (35'), on a line
parallel to the centerline of the street or along the circumference of a cul-
de-sac improved to City standards. Frontage on a street end, which does not
have a cul-de-sac improved to City standards, shall not be counted in meeting
this requirement. Private drives are allowed as per review by the Zoning
Administrator or designee.
      6.   Yard Requirements: The following minimum yard requirements shall
apply in the R-3 zone:
         a.   Front Yard: Each lot or parcel in the R-3 zone shall have a
minimum front yard of at least fifteen feet (15') from right-of-way and twenty
five feet (25') from right-of-way for garage with driveway.
         b.   Rear Yard: The minimum depth of a rear yard shall be twenty feet
(20').
         c.   Side Yard: Each lot or parcel of land in the R-3 zone shall have
a side yard of at least five feet (5'). For apartments and condos next to
single family, duplexes or twin homes on separate lots, the side yard setback
is seven feet (7') or six inches (6") of setback for every one foot (1') of
building height, whichever is greater.
         d.   Accessory Building Setbacks: Accessory buildings are required to
have the same setbacks as primary structures with the exception of tool sheds
and other similar unoccupied one level structures two hundred square feet (200
sq. ft.) or smaller that may not be located in the front yard.
      7.   Building Height:
         a.   No lot or parcel of land in the R-3 zone shall have a building or
structure, which exceeds a maximum height of twenty feet (30'), measured at the
top of building's horizontal wall.
         b.   Accessory Structure: In no case shall the height of an accessory
structure exceed the height of any main structure on the same lot.
      8.   Permissible Lot Coverage:
         a.   Building Coverage: In an R-3 zone, all buildings, including
accessory buildings and structures (including impervious surfaces, e.g.
driveways), shall not cover more than seventy percent (70%) of the area of the
lot or parcel of land.
         b.   Landscaping: At least thirty percent (30%) of the area of any lot
shall be maintained in landscaping.
            (1)   Xeriscape: Reduced-water usage landscape achieved using good
planning and design, limited turf areas, soil improvements, efficient
irrigation, mulching, low water use plants, and appropriate trees, shrubs, and
ground cover.
            (2)   Zeroscape: Zero-water usage landscape made entirely of gravel
placed over a weed barrier to produce a continuously weed-free, water-free
area.
         c.   Impervious Surface: On any lot, concrete or asphaltic cement
shall not cover more than forty percent (40%) of a front yard.
      9.   Signs: Unless otherwise prohibited by law, signs of the type and
description listed below, but no others, may be placed and maintained in the R-
3 zone.
         a.   Temporary: Two (2) temporary signs with a maximum area of six (6)
square feet each, pertaining to the sale, lease, or rent of the particular
building, property, or premises upon which displayed, and no other.
         b.   Points Of Interest: Signs or monuments identifying points of
interest or sites of historic significance. The site, size and design of said
signs or monuments, shall be specifically approved by the Zoning Administrator
or designee.
         c.   Address Signs: All dwellings shall have a permanently posted
address, which shall be placed at driveway entrance (may be on mailbox) and be
visible from both directions of travel along the road on which the address is
located. Each dwelling must also have a permanently posted address, which shall
be placed near main entry door.
         d.   Home Occupation Signs: Home occupation signs must be no larger
than two (2) square feet, may not be lit and must be located in window only.
Only one sign is allowed per dwelling.
         e.   Apartment Or Condominium Complex Identification Signs:
Identification signs must be located on the property of the complex they
advertise. They must not be located in driveway site triangles unless they are
no higher than three feet (3') above ground surface. The maximum area of the
sign(s) for each complex is thirty-two (32) square feet. The sign(s) may be lit
only by a white light source aimed onto the sign. Colored, internal and neon
lighting is not allowed.
      10.   Water Lines: All water lines for multi-family buildings must be at
least two inches (2") in diameter.
      11.   Street Access: In an R-3 zone, new streets shall enter and exit
only from and to arterial streets.
   E.   C Commercial Zone: The C zone consists of two areas, the Downtown
Business District and the rest of the Commercial Zone:
The Downtown Business District was established to recognize the historic
central retail and service center of the City. Front setbacks are not common
and lot coverage may approach or be one hundred percent (100%). On-street
parking serves many of the businesses. Office and residential uses are
encouraged on the upper floors of the downtown buildings.
Attractive, inviting, and well-maintained shops, stores, offices, and other
buildings are also characteristic of this area. Signing of shops and business
establishments should be simple and attractive with signs mounted flat against
the building to reduce the sign clutter and enhance the aesthetics of the
downtown area. The uses characteristic of this zone are retail stores, banks,
office buildings, theaters, hotels, and a wide variety of specialty shops and
retail outlets. Conversely, uses which tend to create business dead spots,
cause undue scattering of business, and generally tend to thwart the use of the
land for its primary purpose have been excluded from the zone. This zone will
tend to encourage an architectural theme which will strengthen the continuity
of the downtown area and give it a "character" with which the citizens of Rigby
can identify.
The Downtown District is shown on the City of Rigby GIS map and is described as
North 1st West to West 1st North Main street to North Clark St. Part of North 1
West start at West Fremont to hwy 48.
The rest of the C zone is established to provide an area in which a general
shopping center facilities can be established to satisfy the specialty shopping
needs of the community. It is intended that the C zone will be characterized by
specialty shops situated in an attractively designed shopping center complex
surrounded by appropriate landscaping. The area will be located adjacent to
major thoroughfares or collector streets which will provide immediate access
for automobile traffic without passing through residential areas. Uses
permitted in the C zone will be characterized by a department store and a
supermarket as anchors, and by a wide range of restaurants, specialty shops and
hard goods or soft goods stores. Offices are encouraged to be built in the
Downtown area but are allowed in the rest of the C zone. Some light
manufacturing may be allowed with a Conditional Use Permit (CUP). Storage units
and other warehousing is not allowed.
      1.   Permitted Uses: The following principal uses and structures and no
others, shall be permitted in the C zone. The following uses and structures
indicated as "CUP" may be permitted in the C zone only after a Conditional Use
Permit has been approved, and subject to the terms and conditions thereof.
COMMERCIAL ZONING
Downtown Business District
COMMERCIAL ZONING
Downtown Business District
Accessory uses and structures                                               CUP
Apartments, condominiums and tourist homes above the ground floor low rise  CUP
attached to commercial or other nonresidential use as a mixed-use project**
Automobile parking lot and garages (this does not include long term storage CUP
of autos, trucks, boats, vacation trailers, etc., which is prohibited)
Athletic clubs - body building studios, spas, and aerobic centers
Business office - including banks, credit/collection services, travel
agencies, insurance, and real estate
Business services (office and retail sales only)
Call centers                                                                CUP
Churches, Synagogues, Temples, and Missions
Eating and drinking establishments
Electrical, plumbing and heating supplies (no outdoor storage)              CUP
Executive, legislative, and judicial functions
Funeral and crematory services
Furniture, home furnishings, and office equipment (no combined warehousing)
Government - including office, libraries, fire and police
Hardware
Hotels, motels and boarding house                                           CUP
Irrigation distribution channels                                            CUP
Locksmiths and key shops
Paint, glass, and wallpaper
Personal services - including photography, beauty and barber services
Professional services (except behavior, drug and alcohol treatment; office
only)
Retail trade - general merchandise
Stores - including department, discount, drug, food, jewelry, phone order,
sporting goods, surplus, variety stores and miscellaneous retail stores -
including florists, tobacco, newspapers, pet stores, and other similar
retail stores
Utility right-of-way
Veterinary hospital for small animals: dogs, cats, rabbits, rodents, and    CUP
caged birds
 
COMMERCIAL ZONING
All Other Commercial*
COMMERCIAL ZONING
All Other Commercial*
Athletic fields
Auto and truck sales, rental and wash services
Building contractor storage yards
Business office - including architectural, banks, engineer, insurance,
travel agencies, planning services, real estate and other business services
Bus passenger terminals bus garaging, equipment maintenance
Business services (office and retail sales only)
Campers and house trailers (new & used)                                     CUP
Campgrounds, travel and vehicle courts                                      CUP
Churches, Synagogues, Temples, and Missions
Eating and drinking establishments
Electric generation plants, utility and electricity regulating substations
Entertainment including amusement parks, bowling alleys, fairgrounds, golf,
ice skating, riding stables, roller skating, skate park, swimming pools
etc.
Equipment rental and leasing
Farm equipment farm products and all other wholesale
Hardware, plumbing, heating & supplies
Funeral and crematory services
Furniture, home furnishings, and office equipment (no combined warehousing)
Gasoline service stations
Government - including office, libraries, museums, police and fire
Gunsmith and ammunition reloading
Hardware
Hotels, motels and boarding house
Irrigation distribution channels
Laundry & dry cleaning
Locksmiths and key shops
Lumber yards and building materials
Marine craft & accessories
Medical including dental or physicians' offices and hospitals
Motor freight terminals including garaging and maintenance
New & used motor vehicle sales and/or repair
Nursing home
Paint, glass, and wallpaper
Personal services - including photography, beauty and barber services
Professional services (except behavior, drug and alcohol treatment; office
only)
Radio, television broadcasting station and transmission
Railroads, including terminals and yards
Reupholstering and other repair services
Retail trade - general merchandise
Schools including day cares, elementary, middle, high schools, colleges
etc.
Sewage pumping stations
Shopping centers and malls
Stores - including department, discount, dry goods, drug, food, garden
supplies, jewelry, phone order, sporting goods, surplus, variety stores and
miscellaneous retail stores - including florists, tobacco, newspapers, pet
stores, and other similar retail stores
Utility right-of-way
Veterinary hospital for small animals: dogs, cats, rabbits, rodents, and    CUP
caged birds
*Accessory uses and structures are permitted provided they are incidental to,
meet all codes, and do not substantially alter the character of, the permitted
principal use or structure.
**Tourist homes, apartments and condominiums require a review for neighborhood
compatibility for parking, screening, lighting and landscaping to be approved
by the Zoning Administrator.   
 
         a.   Permitted Accessory Uses: Accessory uses and structures are
permitted in the C zone provided they are incidental to, and do not
substantially alter, the character of the permitted principal use or structure.
Such permitted uses and structures include, but are not limited to, the
following:
            (1)   Accessory building such as garages, carports, equipment
storage buildings and supply storage buildings which are customarily used in
conjunction with and incidental to a principal use or structure permitted in
the CBC zone.
            (2)   Storage of materials used for construction of a building,
including the contractor's temporary office, provided that such use is on the
building site or immediately adjacent thereto, and provided further that such
use shall be permitted only during the construction period and thirty (30) days
thereafter.
      2.   Lot Area: The minimum area if any lot or parcel of land in the C
zone shall be five (5) acres; however, smaller lots or parcels may be created
as part of an approved and recorded Record of Survey. Said land shall be in
single ownership or single control for integrated development.
      3.   Lot Width: Each lot or parcel of land in the C zone shall have a
width of no less than one hundred feet (100'); however, smaller widths may be
allowed as per the Planning Administrator.
      4.   Lot Depth: Each lot or parcel of land in the C zone shall have a
depth of no less than one hundred feet (100'); however, smaller depths may be
allowed as per the Planning Administrator.
      5.   Lot Frontage: Each lot or parcel of land in the C zone shall abut a
public street for a minimum distance of fifty feet (50'), on a line parallel to
the centerline of the street or along the circumference of a cul-de-sac
improved to City standards. Frontage on a street end, which does not have a
cul-de-sac improved to City standards, shall not be counted in meeting this
requirement. Private drives are allowed as per review by the Zoning
Administrator.
      6.   Yard Requirements: The following minimum yard requirements shall
apply in the C zone:
         a.   Front Yard: Each lot or parcel in the C zone shall have a front
yard of no less than ten feet (10'). Said front yard shall not be used for
vehicular parking and shall be appropriately landscaped.
         b.   Side And Rear Yards: Each lot or parcel of land in the C zone
shall have a side and rear yard of at least ten feet (10') when located
adjacent to a residential zone. There shall be no requirement in those
instances where the side property line abuts a commercial or industrial zone.
         c.   Storage Units: In this zone, all storage units are required to be
built internally to a lot. During the "Conditional Use Permit" proceedings, the
applicant shall show how the storage units are being buffered from any street
rights-of-way and neighboring properties. For example, the most desirous
buffering would be commercial buildings. Areas of landscaping greater in
distance than the required yard setbacks should be included. These landscaped
areas would need large nursery stock shrubs and trees to act as buffering. The
landscaping and use of landscaping must be approved by the Planning
Administrator.
      7.   Building Height: No lot or parcel of land in the C zone shall have a
building or structure which exceeds a height of thirty-five feet (35'),
measured at the top of building's horizontal wall. Chimneys, flagpoles, or
similar structures not used for human occupancy are excluded in determining
height.
      8.   Lot Coverage: At least ten percent (10%) of the area of any lot
shall be maintained in landscaping. Impermeable surfaces may cover up to ninety
percent (90%) of the area of a lot. In a C zone in which a majority of the
perimeter is contiguous to residential zones, all buildings and structures
shall not cover an area of more than seventy percent (70%) of the lot or parcel
of land upon which they are placed. Landscaping to be approved by the Planning
Administrator.
   F.   I Industrial Zone: The I Zone is established to provide areas in the
City where light industrial firms can engage in processing, assembling,
manufacturing, warehousing, storage and wholesale distribution; and for
incidental service facilities and public facilities to serve the manufacturing
area. Heavy industrial requires a Conditional Use Permit (CUP) and is required
to be buffered from residential zones by commercial and/or light industrial
zones.
Areas in this zone require large level sites with open storage and service
areas which utilize regional transportation such as railways and state highways
and the available utilities necessary for successful manufacturing or
processes. The zone is intended to encourage sound development by providing and
protecting an environment for such development, subject to regulations
necessary to assure the orderly growth of the City of Rigby, and the protection
of residential and commercial land uses from noise and other disturbances.
      1.   Permitted Uses: The following principal uses and structures
indicated shall be permitted in the C zone. The following uses and structures
indicated as "CUP" may be permitted in the C zone only after a Conditional Use
Permit has been approved, and subject to the terms and conditions thereof.
INDUSTRIAL ZONING*
INDUSTRIAL ZONING*
Accessory uses and structures
Aircraft & accessories
Animal veterinarian
Animal hospital
Agriculture
Athletic clubs, body building studios, aerobic centers, gymnasiums, and
spas
Automobile parking lot and garages (this does not include long term storage
of autos, trucks, boats, vacation trailers, etc., which is prohibited)
Auto and truck sales, rental and wash services
Bakery, confectionery, dairy & other food products
Bottling & canning soft drinks and waters
Building contractor storage yards
Bus passenger terminals bus garaging, equipment maintenance
Call centers
Campers and house trailers (new & used)
Campgrounds, travel and vehicle courts
Canning - fruits, vegetables, preserves, jams, specialty, etc.
Caretaker dwellings
Cut stone & stone products
Electric generation plants, utility and electricity regulating substations
Electrical, plumbing and heating supplies (outdoor storage allowed)
Entertainment including amusement parks, bowling alleys, fairgrounds, golf,
ice skating, riding stables, roller skating, skate park, swimming pools
etc.
Equipment rental and leasing
Farm equipment farm products, and all other wholesale
Hardware, plumbing, heating & supplies
Farm equipment & supplies
Frozen fruits, fruit juices, vegetables, etc.
Funeral and crematory services
Furniture, home furnishings, and office equipment
Gasoline service stations
Gas storage, distribution points (natural or manufactured)                  CUP
Glass, flat, pressed or blown
Gravel pits, rock quarries                                                  CUP
Gunsmith and ammunition reloading
Hardware
Household goods warehousing and all self storage
Industrial inorganic chemicals (includes air separation)                    CUP
Industrial laundry
Irrigation distribution channels
Laundry & dry cleaning
Locksmiths and key shops
Lumber yards and building materials
Machinery
Manufacturing
Marine craft & accessories
Metal working machinery & equipment (tool & dye shops, machine shops)
Motor freight terminals including garaging and maintenance
New & used motor vehicle sales and/or repair
Nonferrous foundries (small casting only)
Paint, glass, and wallpaper
Photographic and optical goods
Plastic materials, synthetic resins and non-vulcanizable elastomers         CUP
Pottery & related products
Poultry and game dressing and packing
Printing, publishing and allied industries
Professional, scientific & controlling instruments
Radio, television broadcasting station and transmission
Railroads, including terminals and yards
Reupholstering and other repair services
Rifle and pistol range                                                      CUP
Sewage pumping stations                                                     CUP
Sewage treatment plants                                                     CUP
Utility right-of-way
Upholstery
Utilities
Warehousing
Water treatment plants
Wholesale trade
Wrecking yard                                                               CUP
*Accessory uses and structures are permitted provided they are incidental to,
meet all codes, and do not substantially alter the character of, the permitted
principal use or structure. Storage of materials used for construction of a
building, including the contractor's temporary office, provided that such use
is on the building site or immediately adjacent thereto, and provided further
that such use shall be permitted only during the construction period and thirty
(30) days thereafter.
 
      2.   Lot Area: The minimum area if any lot or parcel of land in the zone
shall be five (5) acres; however, smaller lots or parcels may be created as
part of an approved and recorded Record of Survey. Said land shall be in single
ownership or single control for integrated development.
      3.   Lot Width: Each lot or parcel of land in the I zone shall have a
width of no less than one hundred feet (100'); however, smaller widths may be
allowed as per the Planning Administrator.
      4.   Lot Depth: Each lot or parcel of land in the I zone shall have a
depth of no less than one hundred feet (100'); however, smaller depths may be
allowed as per the Planning Administrator.
      5.   Lot Frontage: Each lot or parcel of land in the I zone shall abut a
public street for a minimum distance of fifty feet (50'), on a line parallel to
the centerline of the street or along the circumference of a cul-de-sac
improved to City standards. Frontage on a street end, which does not have a
cul-de-sac improved to City standards, shall not be counted in meeting this
requirement. Private drives are allowed as per review by the Zoning
Administrator.
      6.   Yard Requirements: The following minimum yard requirements shall
apply in the I zone;
         a.   Front Yard: Each lot or parcel in the I zone shall have a front
yard of no less than ten feet (10'). Said front yard shall not be used for
vehicular parking and shall be appropriately landscaped.
         b.   Side And Rear Yards: Each lot or parcel of land in the I zone
shall have a side and rear yard of at least twenty feet (20') when located
adjacent to a residential zone. There shall be no requirement in those
instances where the side property line abuts a commercial or industrial zone.
      7.   Building Height: No lot or parcel of land in the I zone shall have a
building or structure which exceeds a height of thirty-five feet (35'),
measured at the top of building's horizontal wall. Chimneys, flagpoles, or
similar structures not used for human occupancy are excluded in determining
height.
      8.   Lot Coverage. At least ten percent (10%) of the area of any lot
shall be maintained in landscaping. Impermeable surfaces may cover up to ninety
percent (90%) of the area of a lot. In a I zone in which a majority of the
perimeter is contiguous to residential zones, all buildings and structures
shall not cover an area of more than seventy percent (70%) of the lot or parcel
of land upon which they are placed. (Ord. 2021-619, 9-14-2021; amd. Ord. 2025-
650, 1-23-2025)
CHAPTER 5
REGULATIONS WITHIN ZONES
SECTION:
10-5-1: General Provisions
10-5-1: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   All streets, alleys, and railroad rights of way, not otherwise
specifically designated, shall be deemed to be in the same zone as the property
immediately abutting upon such alleys, streets or railroad rights of way. Where
the center lines of a street or alley serve as a district boundary, the zoning
of such street or alley to the center line unless otherwise specifically
designated, shall be deemed to be that of the abutting property.
   B.   No building or structure shall be erected, converted, enlarged,
reconstructed, or structurally altered, nor shall any building or land be used
for purpose other than is permitted in the zoning district in which the
building or land is located.
   C.   No required yard or other open space around an existing building or
which is hereafter provided around any building for the purpose of complying
with provisions of this title shall be considered as providing a yard or open
space for any other building, nor shall any other building, nor shall any yard
or any other required open space on an adjoining lot to be considered as
providing the yard or open space whereon a building is to be constructed.
   D.   The minimum yards or other open spaces, including lot areas per family
required by this title for each and every building existing or for any building
hereafter erected, shall not be encroached upon or considered as yard or open
space requirements for any other building.
   E.   Every building hereafter erected or structurally altered to provide
dwelling units shall be located on a "lot" as herein defined and in no case
shall there be more than one such building in one lot unless otherwise provided
in this title.
   F.   Any separate lot, the title of which was of record at the time of the
adoption of this title, that does not meet the requirements of this title for
yards, courts or other area of open space, may be utilized for single residence
purposes; provided, the requirements for such yard or court or net area, width,
depth, or open space is within sixty percent (60%) of that required by this
title, if this variance is approved by the Council. The purpose of this
provision is to permit utilization of recorded lots which lack adequate width
or depth as long as reasonable living standards can be provided.
   G.   No building shall be constructed upon a lot or parcel of land which
does not abut upon a public street unless a variance of this provision be
granted by action of the Council. A Planned Unit Development (PUD) may have
private drives or parking lots that abut and serve buildings as part of a plat
containing a Homeowner's Association Clause that clearly identifies the
responsibility of the plats' property owners for all upkeep and snow removal
(see Chapter 11).
   H.   No wall, fence, or shrubbery shall unreasonably obstruct or interfere
with traffic visibility.
Fences within fifteen inches (15") of street right-of-way must be not higher
than three feet (3') unless they do not block visibility such as a chain link
fence.
   I.   No residential structure shall be erected upon the rear of a lot with
another dwelling, except that there may be constructed a guesthouse (without
kitchen) or rooms for guests within an accessory building; provided such
facilities are used for the occasional housing of guests of the occupants of
the main structure and not for permanent occupancy by others.
   J.   An area indicated on the Official Zone Map or other records as a public
park, or recreation area, public utility area, cemetery, public school site, or
semipublic open space, shall not be used for any other purpose and when the use
of the area is discontinued, it shall automatically be zoned "Residence" (R-1)
until otherwise zoned.
   K.   No lot or parcel of land in the Downtown Business District shall have a
building or structure, which exceeds a maximum height of thirty-five feet
(35'), measured at the top of building's vertical wall.
   L.   No lot or parcel of residential land shall have a building or
structure, which exceeds a maximum height of twenty-five feet (25'), measured
at the top of building's vertical wall. (Ord. 402, 5-5-1987; amd. Ord. 2021-
619, 9-14-2021; Ord. 2025-650, 1-23-2025)
CHAPTER 6
OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING FACILITIES
SECTION:
10-6-1: General Requirements
10-6-2: Standards
10-6-3: Parking Design And Dimensional Tables
10-6-4: Parking Space Requirements
10-6-5: General Interpretations
10-6-1: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   No building or structure shall be erected, substantially altered or its
use changed unless permanently maintained off-street parking and loading spaces
have been provided in accordance with the provisions of this title.
   B.   The provisions of this chapter, except where there is a change of use,
shall not apply to any existing building or structure created before the date
of this title. Where the new use involves no additions or enlargements, there
shall be provided as many such spaces as may be required by this title.
   C.   Whenever a building or structure constructed after the effective date
of this title is changed or enlarged in floor area, number of employees, number
of dwelling units, seating capacity or otherwise, to create a need for an
increase in the number of existing parking spaces, additional parking spaces
shall be provided on the basis of the enlargement or change. Whenever a
building or structure existing prior to the effective date of this title is
enlarged to the extent of fifty percent (50%) or more in floor area, number of
employees, number of housing units, seating capacity or otherwise, said
building or structure shall then and thereafter comply with the full parking
requirements set forth herein. (Ord. 402, 5-5-1987; amd. Ord. 2021-619, 9-14-
2021)
10-6-2: STANDARDS:
   A.   Location Of Parking Spaces: The following regulations shall govern the
location of off-street parking spaces and areas:
      1.   Parking spaces for all detached residential uses shall be located on
the same lot as the use which they are intended to serve unless part of
approved parking for platted multi-family units with a homeowner's association.
      2.   Parking spaces for commercial, industrial or institutional uses
shall be located not more than three hundred feet (300') from the principal
use; and
      3.   Parking spaces for apartments, condominiums or similar residential
uses shall be located not more than three hundred feet (300') from the
principal use.
      4.   Handicapped parking is required to be on closest access to building.
The first handicapped space is required to be a van accessible space.
Handicapped spaces are required to be sized and identified with surface paint
and pole signs as per the American National Standards. The quantity of
handicapped and handicapped van accessible spaces is required as per the
International Building Code specifications.
   B.   Loading Space Requirements And Dimensions: Off-street loading spaces
for commercial uses shall be provided in accordance with the following table:
 
Gross Floor Area in Square Feet Quantity and Type of Space
14,000 - 36,000                 (1)B
36,001 - 60,000                 (2)B
60,001 - 100,000                (2)B + (1)A
For each additional 75,000 sq. ft. or fraction thereof, an additional Type A
space will be provided.
 
      1.   Loading Space Size: The size of an off-street loading space shall
not be less than the following, exclusive of access platform and loading area:
 
Type A Spaces
Width  12 feet
Length 35 feet
Type B Spaces
Width  15 feet
Length 55 feet
 
      2.   Access To Loading Spaces: Convenient access to loading spaces from
streets or alleys shall be provided; access aisles shall not be less than
twelve feet (12') in width.
      3.   Location Of Required Loading Facilities: The off-street loading
facilities required for the uses mentioned shall not project into the public
right of way or setback area. In no case shall the required off-street loading
berths be part of the area used to satisfy the off-street parking requirements.
      4.   Design And Location: Design and location of entrances and exits for
required off-street loading areas shall be subject to review of the Planning
Administrator and the Public Works Director.
   C.   Maintenance: The owner of property used for parking/loading shall
maintain such area in good condition without holes and free of all dust, trash
and other debris.
   D.   Paving: The required number of parking and loading spaces as set forth
in this section. Parking space requirements, together with driveways, aisles
and other circulation areas, shall be improved with such material to provide a
durable and dust-free surface. The owner of property used for parking shall
maintain such area in good condition without holes and free of all dust, trash
and other debris
   E.   Drainage: All parking and loading areas shall provide for proper
drainage of surface water to prevent the drainage of such water onto adjacent
properties, walkways or into City right of way.
   F.   Lighting: Any parking/loading area which is intended to be used during
non-daylight hours shall be properly illuminated to avoid accidents. Any lights
used to illuminate a parking lot shall be so arranged as to reflect the light
away from the adjoining property.
   G.   Access: Any parking area shall be designed in such a manner that any
vehicle leaving or entering the parking area from or onto a public or private
street shall be traveling in a forward motion. Access driveways for parking
areas or loading spaces shall be located in such a way that any vehicle
entering or leaving such area shall be clearly visible by a pedestrian or
motorist approaching the access or driveway from a public or private street.
   H.   Striping: All parking areas with a capacity over four (4) vehicles
shall be striped.
   I.   Screening And/Or Landscaping: Whenever a parking area is located in or
adjacent to a residential district, it shall be effectively screened on all
sides which adjoin or face any property used for residential purposes by an
acceptably designed wall, fence or planting screen. Such fence, wall or
planting screen shall be not less than four feet (4') nor more than six feet
(6') in height and shall be maintained in good condition. The space between
such fence, wall or planting screen and the lot line of the adjoining premises
in any residential district shall be landscaped with grass, hardy shrubs or
evergreen ground cover, and maintained in good condition. In the event that
terrain or other natural features are such that the erection of such fence,
wall or planting screen will not serve the intended purpose, then no such
fence, wall or planting screen and landscaping shall be required.
Parking spaces and aisles shall be screened from the public right-of-way with
trees and bushes. The buffer shall consist of a minimum five feet (10') wide
landscaped strip to be planted with one (1) deciduous tree and five (5) shrubs
per thirty (30') lineal feet.
Landscaping: Plant material size (minimum), at time of planting:
      1.   Deciduous Trees: Two inch (2") caliper around the trunk of the tree.
      2.   Shrubs: Five (5) gallon containers.
      3.   Landscaping must be maintained as in its original design and
purpose.
   J.   Wheel Blocks: Whenever a parking lot extends to a property line, wheel
blocks or other suitable devices shall be installed to prevent any part of a
parked vehicle from extending beyond the property line.
   K.   Minimum Distance And Setbacks: No part of any parking area for more
than ten (10) vehicles shall be closer than twenty feet (20') to any dwelling
unit, school, hospital or other institution for human care located on an
adjoining lot, unless, separated by an acceptably designed screen. If on the
same lot with a one-family residence, the parking area shall not be located
within the front yard required for such building. In no case shall any part of
a parking area be closer than four feet (4') to any established street or alley
right of way.
   L.   Disabled Vehicles: The parking of a disabled vehicle within a
residential or commercial district for a period of more than two (2) weeks
shall be prohibited, unless such vehicle is stored in an enclosed garage or
other accessory building.
   M.   Permits Required: Parking lot construction shall be permitted as part
of a Building Permit. Additions to existing parking lots and any
reconfigurations require a Building Permit. Parking lots not accessory to a
structure(s) require a Conditional Use Permit.
   N.   Joint Use: Two (2) or more non-residential uses may jointly provide and
use parking spaces when their hours of operation do not normally overlap,
provided that a written agreement approved by the Zoning Administrator shall be
filed with the application for a permit. (Ord. 402, 5-5-1987; amd. Ord. 2021-
619, 9-14-2021; Ord. 2025-650, 1-23-2025)
10-6-3: PARKING DESIGN AND DIMENSIONAL TABLES:
 
                        45 degrees 60 degrees 90 degrees Parallel
Width of parking space  9'         9'         9'         9'
Length of parking space 18'        18'        19'        23'
Width of driveway aisle 15'        17'        25'        12'
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7f5177a0dd81a411fa8fa10c313552ce27fe83d0/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1745.png]
(Ord. 402, 5-5-1987; amd. Ord. 2021-619, 9-14-2021)
10-6-4: PARKING SPACE REQUIREMENTS:
For the purpose of this chapter the following parking space requirements shall
apply:
Type Of Use Parking Spaces Required
Type Of Use                               Parking Spaces Required
A . Residential:                           
                                          Three (3) parking spaces with at
                                          least 1 parking space covered by a
                                          private garage or carport. If a one-
                                          car garage is provided, that space
                                          will count toward the total spaces
   Apartments or multi-family dwelling   required. However, if a two-car
                                          garage is provided, one of the spaces
                                          will not count towards the total
                                          required.
                                          In addition, visitor parking spaces
                                          shall be provided at 10% of total
                                          parking.
    Boarding houses, rooming houses,      2 for owner or manager with 1 for
   dormitories and fraternity houses     each additional sleeping room for
    having sleeping rooms                 rent
   Mobile home park                      2 for each unit plus 10% total of all
                                          parking for visitor space
   Single-family or two-family dwelling  2 for each unit
B.  Commercial:                            
   Automobile service garages which also 1 for each 2 gasoline pumps and 2 for
    provide repair                        each service bay
   Banks, financial institutions and     1 for each 200 square feet of floor
    similar uses                          area
   Call centers                          0.75 spaces per employee
    Funeral parlors, mortuaries and       1 for each 100 square feet of floor
   similar type uses                     area in slumber rooms, parlors or
                                          service rooms
   Hotels, motels                        1 per each sleeping room plus 1 space
                                          for each 2 employees
                                          1 for every 200 square feet floor
   Medical and dental clinics            area of examination, treating room,
                                          office and waiting room
   Offices, public or professional       1 for each 400 square feet of floor
    administration or service buildings   area
   Retail stores                         1 for each 250 square feet floor area
   All other types of business or        1 for each 300 square feet of floor
    commercial uses                       area
C.  Recreational or entertainment:         
   Auditoriums, sports arenas, theaters  1 for each 4 seats
    and similar uses
                                          4 for each alley or lane plus 1
   Bowling alleys                        additional space for each 100 square
                                          feet of the area used for restaurant,
                                          cocktail lounge or similar use
   Dance floors, skating rinks           1 for each 100 square feet of floor
                                          area used for the activity
   Dining rooms, restaurants, taverns,   1 for each 200 square feet of floor
    nightclubs, etc.                      area
                                          1 for each 5 persons capacity plus 1
   Outdoor swimming pools, public or     for each 4 seats or 1 for each 30
    community or club                     square feet floor area used for
                                          seating purposes whichever is greater
D.  Institutional:                         
   Churches and other places of          1 for each 5 seats
    religious assembly
   Hospitals                             1 for each bed
   Libraries, museums and art galleries  1 for each 400 square feet floor area
    Sanatoriums, homes for the aged,
   nursing homes, children's homes,      1 for each 2 beds
    asylums and similar uses
E.  Schools; public or parochial           
   Business, technical and trade schools 1 for each 2 students
   Colleges, universities                1 for each 4 students
                                          2 for each classroom and 1 for every
   Elementary and junior high schools    8 seats in auditoriums or assembly
                                          halls
   High schools                          1 for every 10 students and 1 for
                                          each teacher and employee
   Kindergartens, childcare centers,     2 for each classroom but not less
    nursery schools and similar uses      than 6 for the building
F.  Manufacturing:                         
    All types of manufacturing, storage   1 for every 2 employees (on the
   and wholesale uses permitted in any   largest shift for which the building
    manufacturing district                is designed) plus 1 for each motor
                                          vehicle used in the business
                                          1 for every 2 employees (on the
   Express, parcel delivery and freight  largest shift for which the building
    terminal                              is designed) and 1 for each motor
                                          vehicle maintained on the premises
 
(Ord. 402, 5-5-1987; amd. Ord. 2013-560, 5-7-2013; Ord. 2021-619, 9-14-2021;
Ord. 2025-650, 1-23-2025)
10-6-5: GENERAL INTERPRETATIONS:
In the interpretation of this chapter, the following shall govern:
   A.   Parking spaces for other permitted or conditional uses not listed in
this chapter shall be determined by the Planning Administrator;
   B.   Fractional numbers shall be increased to the next whole number; and
   C.   Where there is an adequate public transit system or where for any
reason parking demand is unusually low, then the parking space provisions cited
above may be reduced proportionately by the Commission. (Ord. 402, 5-5-1987;
amd. Ord. 2021-619, 9-14-2021)
CHAPTER 7
NONCONFORMING USES
SECTION:
10-7-1: Intent
10-7-2: Incompatibility
10-7-3: Avoidance Of Undue Hardship
10-7-4: Single Nonconforming Lots Of Record
10-7-5: Lots Of Record In Combination
10-7-6: Uses Of Structures Or Of Structures And Land In Combination
10-7-7: Repairs And Maintenance
10-7-8: Uses Under Conditional Use Provisions
10-7-1: INTENT:
It is the intent of this title to permit nonconforming uses to continue until
they are removed, but not to encourage their survival. It is further the intent
of this title that nonconforming uses shall not be enlarged upon, expanded or
extended, nor be used as grounds for adding other structures or uses prohibited
elsewhere in the same district. (Ord. 402, 5-5-1987; amd. Ord. 2021-619, 9-14-
2021)
10-7-2: INCOMPATIBILITY:
Nonconforming uses are declared by this title to be incompatible with permitted
uses in the districts in which such use is located. A nonconforming use shall
not be extended or enlarged after passage of this title by attachment on a
building or premises or additional signs intended to be seen from off the
premises, or by the addition of other uses of a nature which would be generally
prohibited in the district in which such use is located. (Ord. 402, 5-5-1987;
amd. Ord. 2021-619, 9-14-2021)
10-7-3: AVOIDANCE OF UNDUE HARDSHIP:
To avoid undue hardship, nothing in this title shall be deemed to require a
change in the plans, construction or designated use of any building on which
actual construction was lawfully begun prior to the effective date of adoption
or amendment of this title and upon which actual building construction has been
carried on diligently and with Building Permit. (Ord. 402, 5-5-1987; amd. Ord.
2021-619, 9-14-2021)
10-7-4: SINGLE NONCONFORMING LOTS OF RECORD:
In any district in which single-family dwellings are permitted, a single-family
dwelling and customary accessory buildings may be erected on any single lot of
record (see definition of lot of record) at the effective date of adoption or
amendment of this title, notwithstanding limitations imposed by other
provisions of this title. Such lot must be in separate ownership and not of
continuous frontage with other lots in the same ownership (see section
10-7-5 of this chapter). This provision shall apply even though such lot fails
to meet the requirements for area or width, or both, that are generally
applicable in the district, provided that yard dimensions and requirements
other than those applying to area or width, or both, of the lot shall conform
to the regulations for the district in which such lot is located. (Ord. 402, 5-
5-1987; amd. Ord. 2021-619, 9-14-2021)
10-7-5: LOTS OF RECORD IN COMBINATION:
If two (2) or more lots or a combination of lots or portions of lots with
continuous frontage in single ownership are of record at the time of passage or
amendment of this title and if all or part of the lots with no building do not
meet the requirements established for lot width and area, the lands involved
shall be considered to be an undivided parcel for the purposes of this title
and no portion of said parcel shall be used or sold in a manner which
diminishes compliance with lot width and area requirements established by this
title, nor shall any division of any parcel be made which creates a lot with a
width or area below the requirements stated in this title. (Ord. 402, 5-5-1987;
amd. Ord. 2021-619, 9-14-2021)
10-7-6: USES OF STRUCTURES OR OF STRUCTURES AND LAND IN COMBINATION:
If a lawful use involving individual structures, or of a structure and land in
combination, exists at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this
title that would not be allowed in the district under the terms of this title,
the lawful use may be continued so long as it remains otherwise lawful, subject
to the following provisions:
   A.   No existing structure devoted to a use not permitted by this title in
the district in which it is located shall be enlarged, extended, constructed,
reconstructed, moved or structurally altered except in changing the use of the
structure to a use permitted in the district in which it is located;
   B.   No nonconforming use shall be extended to occupy any additional land
area;
   C.   If no structural alterations are made any nonconforming use of a
structure or structure and land may, upon the issuance of a Conditional Use
Permit (CUP) by the Commission, be changed to another nonconforming use,
provided that, the Commission shall find that the proposed use is safe or safer
(as per Building and Fire Codes) and equally appropriate or more appropriate to
the district than the existing nonconforming use. In permitting such change,
the Commission may require appropriate conditions and safeguards in accord with
other provisions of this title;
   D.   Any structure, or structure and land in combination, in or on which a
nonconforming use is superseded by a permitted use shall thereafter conform to
the regulations for the district, and the nonconforming use may not thereafter
be resumed;
   E.   When a nonconforming use of a structure, or structure and land in
combination, is discontinued or abandoned for more than one (1) year (except
when government action impeded access to the premises), the structure, or
structure and land in combination, shall not thereafter be used except in
conformity with the regulations of the district in which it is located; and
   F.   Where nonconforming use status applies to a structure and land in
combination, removal or destruction of the structure shall eliminate the
nonconforming status of the land. (Ord. 402, 5-5-1987; amd. Ord. 2021-619, 9-
14-2021)
10-7-7: REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE:
On any nonconforming structure, or portion of a structure containing a
nonconforming use, work may be done on ordinary repairs or on repair or
replacement of nonbearing walls, fixtures, wiring or plumbing, provided that,
the cubic content existing when it became nonconforming shall not be increased.
Nothing in this section shall be deemed to prevent the strengthening or
restoring to a safe condition of any building or part thereof declared to be
unsafe by any official charged with protecting the public safety upon order of
such official. (Ord. 402, 5-5-1987; amd. Ord. 2021-619, 9-14-2021)
10-7-8: USES UNDER CONDITIONAL USE PROVISIONS:
Any use which is permitted as a Conditional Use in a district under the terms
of this title shall not be deemed a nonconforming use in such district, but
shall, without further action, be considered a conforming use. (Ord. 402, 5-5-
1987; amd. Ord. 2021-619, 9-14-2021)
CHAPTER 8
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10-8-1: Parking Stands
10-8-2: Wrecking Yard Requirements
10-8-3: Easements And Agreements
10-8-4: Public Garages, Filling And Oiling Stations
10-8-5: Purpose; Interpretation
10-8-6: Additional Provisions
10-8-1: PARKING STANDS:
   A.   Stands for the sale of merchandise or produce shall not be permitted on
the parking areas in Zones R-1, R-2, R-3 or RMH except for temporary charity,
public, or church fundraising projects.
   B.   No building or structure shall be erected, converted, enlarged,
reconstructed or structurally altered, nor shall any building or land be used
for any purpose other than is permitted in the district in which the building
or land is located. (Ord. 402, 5-5-1987; amd. Ord. 2021-619, 9-14-2021)
10-8-2: WRECKING YARD REQUIREMENTS:
No wrecking yard or wrecking house shall be established in the City unless it
complies with all the other requirements of this title, and in addition thereto
shall be completely surrounded by a solid plank board, concrete fence or other
enclosures not less than eight feet (8') in height from the level of the ground
and completely obscuring from the outside view the wreckage of the ground and
completely obscuring from the outside view the wreckage and parts therein
contained and such wrecking yard and wrecking house shall not be established
within the City, except that a petition shall be signed by the owners of
seventy five percent (75%) both in number and in area, of all the property
owners within the radius of three hundred feet (300') of any part of the
premises of which said wrecking yard or wrecking house is to be established and
filed with the City Clerk, together with an application for a special permit
for the establishment of said wrecking yard and wrecking house and a hearing
had before the Council in the same manner and with the same fee as other
hearings before the Council for special permits. (Ord. 402, 5-5-1987; amd. Ord.
2021-619, 9-14-2021)
10-8-3: EASEMENTS AND AGREEMENTS:
It is not intended by this chapter to interfere with or abrogate or annul any
easements, covenants, or other agreements between parties; however, where this
chapter imposes a greater restriction upon the height of buildings or larger
lots or yard than are imposed or required by existing regulations or by
permits, easements, covenants or agreements, this chapter shall control. This
chapter shall be construed liberally to secure the beneficial interest and
purposes thereof. (Ord. 402, 5-5-1987; amd. Ord. 2021-619, 9-14-2021)
10-8-4: PUBLIC GARAGES, FILLING AND OILING STATIONS:
Public garages and filling and oiling stations must be located not less than
fifty feet (50') from the front lines and not less than thirty feet (30') from
any other street right-of-way line on which property faces, unless, before a
permit is issued by the Planning Administrator, there shall be on file in the
office of the City Clerk, the written consent of the owners of seventy five
percent (75%) of the area of all the property within a radius of three hundred
feet (300') of any part of the premises whereupon such filling and oiling
station or public garage is to be established or maintained and not separated
therefrom by more than one street or one alley; provided, further, that a
filling and oiling station or a public garage shall have no entrance or exit
for motor vehicles within three hundred feet (300') of an entrance or exit to a
school, playground, public library, church, hospital, children's or old
people's home, or other similar public or private institution. (Ord. 402, 5-5-
1987; amd. Ord. 2021-619, 9-14-2021)
10-8-5: PURPOSE; INTERPRETATION:
In interpreting and applying the provisions of this chapter, they shall be held
to be the minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of health, safety,
moral, comfort, convenience, or the general welfare. (Ord. 402, 5-5-1987; amd.
Ord. 2021-619, 9-14-2021)
10-8-6: ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Fencing; Screening: No fence, wall, hedge, or planting of any kind
designed to serve as a division between properties extending between the front
of the main structure to the back property line shall be more than current code
in height in the R-1, R-2, R-3 and RMH Residence Zones and the C Commercial
Zone of the City unless a Conditional Use Permit (CUP) or variance is approved
by the Commission. All of the above fences, walls, hedges, or planting
extending from the front of the main structure to within fifteen feet (15') of
the street or the right of way shall be no more than three feet (3') in height.
The division may be up to four feet (4') in height, and shall be entirely
composed of material that shall not obstruct vision. An example of approved
fencing extending up to four feet (4') in height is chain-link fencing without
wood slats.
      1.   Definitions:
 
           Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires location
Structure: on the ground or attachment to something having a fixed location on
           the ground. Among other things, structures include buildings, mobile
           homes, walls, fences, and billboards.
           A required open space, other than a court, unoccupied and
           unobstructed by any structure or portions of a structure from three
Yard:      feet (3') above the general ground level of the graded lot upward,
           provided accessories, greenbelt plantings, ornaments and furniture
           may be permitted in any yard, subject to height limitations and
           requirements limiting and obstructing visibility.
 
      2.   No wall, fence, or shrubbery shall unreasonably obstruct or
interfere with traffic visibility.
      3.   Easements for public services and facilities will not be obstructed
and access for firefighting will not be obstructed.
   B.   Setbacks: Applications for structures will follow regular procedures
and may be allowed, but not ahead of front side of side of house to front lot
line, and will provide appropriate setbacks on sides and rear as required.
Houses fronting and siding on two (2) streets shall not extend a structure
beyond the general setback of house fronts existing along the street of the
side. Ornamental divisions or shrubbery not over three feet (3') may be used as
a side division between properties from front side of houses.
   C.   Garages: Garages accessory to single-family uses may have a capacity of
no more than three (3) cars unless located detached in rear yard. Garages
accessory to multi-dwelling apartments, dwelling units, or rooming units uses
may have a capacity of no more than two (2) cars per dwelling unit, apartment
unit and/or rooming unit located on the premises.
   D.   Measurement Of Minimum Floor Area: Single-family and multi-dwelling
residences shall be measured from the outside of walls to the outside of walls,
excluding all public and group used spaces. Apartment and rooming units shall
be measured from the center line of walls to the center line of walls,
excluding all public and group used spaces.
   E.   Homes Or Buildings Moved Into A Zone: Structures must conform to the
minimum requirements of the zone into which the house is to be moved and must
conform in structure and appearance to the surrounding structures, so as not to
detract from them. Applicants must provide information to show that the
structure meets the current building codes. Building permit must be secured
before a building is moved to new property.
   F.   Lot Extends Into Two (2) Different Zones: Where a lot is located so
that it extends into two (2) separate zones, the lot shall conform to the
requirements of the most restrictive of the two (2) zones.
   G.   Loading Space: A reasonable loading space which does not interfere with
or obstruct public streets, sidewalks, parking areas or alleyways, shall be
required for all retail, wholesale, warehousing, processing, manufacturing
establishments, or other businesses, clinics, professional offices, apartments,
or other establishments requiring frequent transfer of goods or supplies.
   H.   Landscape Areas: All yards or portions thereof shall be landscaped or
cultivated and shall contain a reasonable number of trees and shrubs. All
required landscape areas must be continually maintained in an attractive and
clean condition and landscaping must be completed within one year of completion
of the building.
   I.   Lots Recorded Prior To Adoption Of This Title: Any separate lot, the
title of which was of record at the time of the adoption of this title, that
does not meet the requirements of this title for yards, courts or other area of
open space, may be utilized for single-residence purposes; provided, the
requirements for such a yard or court or net area, width, depth, or open space
is within sixty percent (60%) of that required by this title, if this variance
is approved by the Council. The purpose of this provision is to permit
utilization of recorded lots which lack adequate width or depth as long as
reasonable living standards can be provided.
If two (2) or more lots or combinations of lots and portions of lots with
continuous frontage in single ownership are of record at the time of passage or
amendment of this title, and if all or part of the lots do not meet the
requirements for lot width and area, as established by this title, the lands
involved shall be considered to be an undivided parcel for the purposes of this
title, and no portion of said parcel shall be used which does not meet lot
width and area requirements established by this title, nor shall any division
of the parcel be made which leaves remaining any lot with width or area below
the requirements stated in this title.
   J.   Lot On Public Street: No building shall be constructed upon a lot or
parcel of land which does not abut upon a public street unless part of an
approved subdivision with a private drive or with a Conditional Use Permit
(CUP) granted by action of the Council.
   K.   Accessory Structures: No residential structure shall be erected upon
the rear of a lot with another dwelling, except that there may be constructed a
guesthouse (without kitchen) or rooms for guests within an accessory building;
provided such facilities are used for the occasional housing of guests of the
occupants of the main structure and not for permanent occupancy by others.
   L.   Parks, Schools And Open Space: An area indicated on the "Official Zone
Map" or other records as a public park, or recreation area, public utility
area, cemetery, public school site or semipublic open space, shall not be used
for any other purpose and when the use of the area is discontinued, it shall
automatically be zoned "Residence" (R-1) until otherwise zoned; regulations for
the district in which such lot is located. Variance of area, width, and yard
requirements shall be obtained only through action of the Planning Commission.
   M.   Utility Transmission: Nothing in this title shall be construed to
prohibit construction or installation of a public utility use or structures
necessary for transmission of commodities or services of a utility company,
including mains or distribution lines, substations or exchanges in any zone
district. Storage, maintenance facilities and business offices shall be
restricted to their appropriate zone district. Location of power transmission
lines with a capacity of one hundred (100) KV or over shall be subject to
review by the Planning Commission and approved by the Council. Cell towers
require a Condition Use Permit (CUP) as per section 10-3-10.
   N.   Utility Easements: No structure shall be built or used that will
encroach upon any utility, street, alley, or drainage easements or right of way
or existing utility line.
   O.   Cell Towers:
      1.   Purpose And Goals: The purpose of this section is to establish
general guidelines for the sitting of wireless communications towers and
antennas. The goals of this section are to:
         a.   Protect residential areas and land uses from potential adverse
impacts of towers and antennas;
         b.   Encourage the location of towers in non-residential areas;
         c.   Minimize the total number of towers throughout the community;
         d.   Strongly encourage the joint use of new and existing tower sites
as a primary option rather than construction of additional single-use towers;
         e.   Encourage users of towers and antennas to locate them, to the
extent possible, in areas where the adverse impact on the community is minimal;
         f.   Encourage users of towers and antennas to configure them in a way
that minimizes the adverse visual impact of the towers and antennas through
careful design, sitting, landscape screening, and innovative camouflaging
techniques;
         g.   Enhance the ability of the providers of telecommunications
services to provide such services to the community quickly, effectively, and
efficiently;
         h.   Consider the public health and safety of communication towers;
and
         i.   Avoid potential damage to adjacent properties from tower failure
through engineering and careful sitting of tower structures.
         j.   In furtherance of these goals, City of Rigby shall give due
consideration to the City Comprehensive Plan, Zoning Map, existing land uses,
and Environmentally Sensitive Areas in approving sites for the location of
towers and antennas.
      2.   Definitions: The following terms are defined for this section:
 
                                       Man-made trees, clock towers, bell
                                       steeples, light poles and similar
Alternative Tower Structure:           alternative-design mounting structures
                                       that camouflage or conceal the presence
                                       of antennas or towers.
                                       Any exterior transmitting or receiving
                                       device mounted on a tower, building or
                                       structure and used in communications
Antenna:                               that radiate or capture electromagnetic
                                       waves, digital signals, analog signals,
                                       radio frequencies (excluding radar
                                       signals), wireless telecommunications
                                       signals or other communication signals.
                                       The lines that connect a provider's
                                       towers/cell sites to one or more
Backhaul Network:                      cellular telephone switching offices,
                                       and/or long distance providers, or the
                                       public switched telephone network.
F.A.A.:                                Federal Aviation Administration.
F.C.C.:                                Federal Communications Commission.
                                       Any tower or antenna for which a
                                       building permit or Conditional Use
                                       Permit has been properly issued prior to
Pre-Existing Antennas And Pre-existing the effective date of this chapter,
Towers:                                including permitted towers or antennas
                                       that have not yet been constructed so
                                       long as such approval is current and not
                                       expired.
 
      3.   New Towers And Antennas: All new towers or antennas in City of Rigby
shall be subject to these regulations:
         a.   Amateur Radio Station Operators/Receive Only Antennas: This
section shall not govern any tower, or the installation of any antenna, that is
under seventy feet (70') in height and is owned and operated by a federally-
licensed amateur radio station operator or is used exclusively for receive only
antennas.
         b.   Preexisting Towers Or Antennas: Preexisting towers and
preexisting antennas shall not be required to meet the requirements of this
section.
      4.   General Requirements:
         a.   Principal Or Accessory Use: Antennas and towers may be considered
either principal or accessory uses. A different existing use of an existing
structure on the same lot shall not preclude the installation of an antenna or
tower on such lot.
         b.   Dimensions, Lot Size: For purposes of determining whether the
installation of a tower or antenna complies with district development
regulations, including but not limited to setback requirements, lot-coverage
requirements, and other such requirements, the dimensions of the entire lot
shall control, even though the antennas or towers may be located on leased
parcels within such lot.
         c.   Aesthetics: Towers and antennas shall meet the following
requirements:
            (1)   Finish: Towers shall either maintain a galvanized steel
finish or, subject to any applicable standards of the FAA, be painted a neutral
color so as to reduce visual obtrusiveness.
            (2)   Design: At a tower site, the design of the buildings and
related structures shall, to the extent possible, use materials, colors,
textures, screening, and landscaping that will blend them into the natural
setting and surrounding buildings.
            (3)   Color: If an antenna is installed on a structure other than a
tower, the antenna and supporting electrical and mechanical equipment must be
of a neutral color that is identical to, or closely compatible with, the color
of the supporting structure so as to make the antenna and related equipment as
visually unobtrusive as possible.
      5.   Building Codes; Safety Standards: To ensure the structural integrity
of towers, the owner of a tower shall ensure that it is maintained in
compliance with standards contained in applicable state or local building codes
and the applicable standards for towers that are published by the Electronic
Industries Association, as amended from time to time.
         a.   If, upon inspection, the City of Rigby concludes that a tower
fails to comply with such codes and standards and constitutes a danger to
persons or property, then upon notice being provided to the owner of the tower,
the owner shall have thirty (30) days to bring such tower into compliance with
such standards.
         b.   Failure to bring such tower into compliance within said thirty
(30) days shall constitute grounds for the removal of the tower or antenna at
the owner(s) expense.
         c.   Buildings And Support Equipment: Buildings and support equipment
associated with antennas or towers shall comply with the requirements of
subsection O17.
      6.   Franchises: Owners and/or operators of towers or antennas shall
certify that all franchises required by law for the construction and/or
operation of a wireless communication system in City of Rigby have been
obtained and shall file a copy of all required franchises with the Planning
Department.
      7.   Inventory Of Existing Sites: Each applicant for an antenna and/or
tower shall provide to the Planning Administrator an inventory of its existing
towers, antennas, or sites approved for towers or antennas, that are either
within the jurisdiction of City of Rigby or within one mile of the border
thereof, including specific information about the location, height, and design
of each tower.
      8.   Sharing: The Planning Department may share such information with
other applicants applying for administrative approvals or Conditional Use
Permits under this title or other organizations seeking to locate antennas
within the jurisdiction of City of Rigby, provided, however that the Planning
Department is not, by sharing such information, in any way representing or
warranting that such sites are available or suitable.
      9.   Lighting: Towers shall not be artificially lighted, unless required
by the FAA or other applicable authority. If lighting is required, the lighting
alternatives and design chosen must cause the least disturbance to the
surrounding views.
      10.   Multiple Antenna/Tower Plan: City of Rigby encourages the users of
towers and antennas to submit a single application for approval of multiple
towers and/or antenna sites. Applications for approval of multiple sites shall
be given priority in the review process.
      11.   Not Essential Services: Towers and antennas shall be regulated and
permitted pursuant to this title and shall not be regulated or permitted as
essential services, public utilities, or private utilities.
      12.   Public Notice: For purposes of this title, any Conditional Use
request, variance request, or appeal of an administratively approved use or
special use shall require public notice to all abutting property owners and all
property owners of properties that are located within the corresponding
separation distance listed in Table 2 below, in addition to any notice
otherwise required by the Zoning Ordinance.
      13.   Signs: No signs shall be allowed on an antenna or tower.
      14.   State Or Federal Requirements: All towers must meet or exceed
current standards and regulations of the FAA, the FCC, and any other agency of
the state or federal government with the authority to regulate towers and
antennas. If such standards and regulations are changed, then the owners of the
towers and antennas governed by this title shall bring such towers and antennas
into compliance with such revised standards and regulations within six (6)
months of the effective date of such standards and regulations, unless a
different compliance schedule is mandated by the controlling state or federal
agency. Failure to bring towers and antennas into compliance with such revised
standards and regulations shall constitute grounds for the removal of the tower
or antenna at the owner's expense.
      15.   Permitted Uses: All uses require a Conditional Use Permit (CUP)
except those identified as administrative approved as listed below:
Administrative Approval:
         a.   General: The following provisions shall govern the issuance of
administrative approvals for towers and antennas.
         b.   The Planning Department may administratively approve the uses
listed in this section.
         c.   Each applicant for administrative approval shall apply to the
Planning Department providing the information set forth in this title and a
non-refundable fee as established by resolution of Council to reimburse City of
Rigby for the costs of reviewing the application.
         d.   The Planning Department shall review the application for
administrative approval and determine if the proposed use complies with this
subsection.
         e.   Setbacks: In connection with any such administrative approval,
the Planning Department may, in order to encourage shared use, administratively
waive any zoning district setback requirements or separation distances between
towers by up to fifty percent (50%).
         f.   Monopole: In connection with any such administrative approval,
the Planning Department may, in order to encourage the use of monopoles,
administratively allow the reconstruction of an existing tower to monopole
construction.
         g.   CUP: If an administrative approval is denied, the applicant shall
file an application for a Conditional Use Permit prior to filing any appeal
that may be available under the Zoning Ordinance.
         h.   List Of Administratively Approved Uses: The following uses may be
approved by the Planning Department after conducting an administrative review:
            (1)   Industrial And Heavy Commercial: Locating a tower or antenna,
including the placement of additional buildings or other supporting equipment
used in connection with said tower or antenna, in any industrial or heavy
commercial zoning district.
            (2)   Cable Micro Cell Network: Installing a cable micro cell
network through the use of multiple low-powered transmitters/receivers attached
to existing wireline systems, such as conventional cable or telephone wires, or
similar technology that does not require the use of towers.
            (3)   Antennas On Existing Towers: An antenna which is attached to
an existing tower may be approved by the Planning Department and, to minimize
adverse visual impacts associated with the proliferation and clustering of
towers, collocation of antennas by more than one carrier on existing towers
shall take precedence over the construction of new towers, provided such
collocation is accomplished in a manner consistent with the following:
               (A)   Modify Or Reconstruct: A tower which is modified or
reconstructed to accommodate the collocation of an additional antenna shall be
of the same tower type as the existing tower, unless the Planning Department
allows reconstruction as a monopole.
               (B)   Height: An existing tower may be modified or rebuilt to a
taller height, not to exceed thirty feet (30') over the tower's existing
height, to accommodate the collocation of an additional antenna.
               (C)   The height change may only occur one (1) time per
communication tower.
               (D)   The additional height shall not require an additional
distance separation. The tower's pre-modification height shall be used to
calculate such distance separations.
            (4)   Onsite Location:
               (A)   A tower which is being rebuilt to accommodate the
collocation of an additional antenna may be moved onsite within fifty feet
(50') of its existing location.
               (B)   After the tower is rebuilt to accommodate collocation,
only one (1) tower may remain on the site.
               (C)   A relocated onsite tower shall continue to be measured
from the original tower location for purposes of calculating separation
distances between towers.
               (D)   The onsite relocation of a tower which comes within the
separation distances to residential units or residentially zoned lands shall
only be permitted when approved by the Planning Department.
               (E)   New Towers In Non-Residential Zoning Districts: Locating
any new tower in a non-residential zoning district other than industrial or
heavy commercial, provided a licensed professional engineer certifies the tower
can structurally accommodate the number of shared users proposed by the
applicant; the Planning Department concludes the tower is in conformity with
the goals set forth in subsection O1 and the requirements of subsection O4; the
tower meets the setback requirements and separation distances; and the tower
meets the following height and usage criteria: for a single user; up to ninety
feet (90') in height, two (2) users; up to one hundred twenty feet (120') in
height; and three (3) or more users; up to one hundred fifty feet (150') in
height.
      16.   Conditional Use Permits (CUP) As Per Section
10-3-10:
         a.   General: The following provisions shall govern the issuance of
Conditional Use permits for towers or antennas by the Planning Commission:
            (1)   Conditional Use Permit Required: If the tower or antenna is
not a permitted use of this title or permitted to be approved administratively,
then a Conditional Use Permit shall be required for the construction of a tower
or the placement of an antenna in all zoning districts.
            (2)   Conditions: In granting a Conditional Use Permit, the
Commission may impose conditions to the extent they conclude such conditions
are necessary to minimize any adverse effect of the proposed tower on adjoining
properties.
            (3)   Engineering Information: Any information of an engineering
nature that the applicant submits, whether civil, mechanical, or electrical,
shall be certified by an Idaho licensed professional engineer.
            (4)   Non-Refundable Fee: An applicant for a Conditional Use Permit
shall submit the information described in this section and a non-refundable fee
as established by resolution of the Council to reimburse City of Rigby for the
costs of reviewing the application.
         b.   Towers And The Information Required: Applicants for a Conditional
Use Permit for a tower shall submit the following information with the
application, in addition to any other information required for a Conditional
Use application:
            (1)   Backhaul Network: Identification of the entities providing
the backhaul network for the tower(s) described in the application and other
cellular sites owned or operated by the applicant in the municipality.
            (2)   Existing Towers: A description of the suitability of the use
of existing towers, other structures or alternative technology not requiring
the use of towers or structures to provide the services to be provided through
the use of the proposed new tower.
            (3)   The applicant shall also identify the type of construction of
the existing tower(s) and the owner/operator of the existing tower(s), if
known.
            (4)   Feasible Locations: A description of the feasible location(s)
of future towers or antennas within the City of Rigby based upon existing
physical, engineering, technological or geographical limitations in the event
the proposed tower is erected.
            (5)   Future Users: A notarized statement by the applicant as to
whether construction of the tower will accommodate collocation of additional
antennas for future users.
            (6)   Landscape Plan: A landscape plan showing specific landscape
materials.
            (7)   Law Compliance: A description of compliance with subsections
O4 through O14 and all applicable federal, state or local laws.
            (8)   Legal Description: Legal description of the parent tract and
leased parcel (if applicable).
            (9)   Relationship To Zoned Properties: The setback distance
between the proposed tower and the nearest residential unit, platted
residentially zoned properties, and un-platted residentially zoned properties.
            (10)   Separation Distance: The distance from other towers
described in the inventory of existing sites submitted pursuant to subsection
O16f shall be shown on an updated site plan or map.
            (11)   Site Plan: A scaled site plan clearly indicating the
location, type and height of the proposed tower, on-site land uses and zoning,
adjacent land uses and zoning, all properties within the applicable separation
distances, adjacent roadways, proposed means of access, setbacks from property
lines, elevation drawings of the proposed tower and any other structures,
topography, site elevations, parking, and other information deemed by the
Planning Department to be necessary to assess compliance with this ordinance.
            (12)   Method of fencing, and finished color and, if applicable,
the method of camouflage and illumination.
         c.   Factors Considered In Granting Conditional Use Permits For
Towers: In addition to any standards for consideration of Conditional Use
Permits applications, the Commission shall consider the following factors,
although the Commission may waive or reduce the burden on the applicant of one
or more of these criteria if the Planning Commission concludes that the goals
of this title are better served thereby:
            (1)   Height and elevation of the proposed tower;
            (2)   Proximity of the tower to residential structures and
residential district boundaries;
            (3)   Nature of uses on adjacent and nearby properties;
            (4)   Surrounding topography;
            (5)   Surrounding tree coverage and foliage;
            (6)   Design of the tower, with particular reference to design
characteristics that have the effect of reducing or eliminating visual
obtrusiveness;
            (7)   Proposed ingress and egress; and
            (8)   Availability of suitable existing towers, other structures,
or alternative technologies not requiring the use of towers or structures.
         d.   Availability Of Suitable Existing Towers, Other Structures, Or
Alternative Technology: No new tower shall be permitted unless the applicant
demonstrates to the reasonable satisfaction of the Commission that no existing
tower, structure or alternative technology that does not require the use of
towers or structures can accommodate the applicant's proposed antenna.
            (1)   An applicant shall submit information requested by the
Commission related to the availability of suitable existing towers, other
structures, or alternative technology. Evidence submitted to demonstrate that
no existing tower, structure or alternative technology can accommodate the
applicant's proposed antenna may consist of any of the following:
               (A)   Geographic Area: No existing towers or structures are
located within the geographic area which meets applicant's engineering
requirements.
               (B)   Height: Existing towers or structures are not of
sufficient height to meet applicant's engineering requirements.
               (C)   Strength: Existing towers or structures do not have
sufficient structural strength to support applicant's proposed antenna and
related equipment.
               (D)   Interference: The applicant's proposed antenna would cause
electromagnetic interference with the antenna on the existing towers or
structures, or the antenna on the existing towers or structures would cause
interference with the applicant's proposed antenna.
               (E)   The fees, costs, or contractual provisions required by the
owner in order to share an existing tower or structure or to adapt an existing
tower or structure for sharing are unreasonable. Costs exceeding new tower
development are presumed to be unreasonable.
               (F)   Limiting Factors: The applicant demonstrates that there
are other limiting factors that render existing towers and structures
unsuitable.
               (G)   Alternative Technology: The applicant demonstrates that an
alternative technology that does not require the use of towers or structures,
such as a cable micro cell network using multiple low-powered transmitters/
receivers attached to a wireline system, is unsuitable. Costs of alternative
technology that exceed new tower or antenna development shall not be presumed
to render the technology unsuitable.
         e.   Setbacks: The following setback requirements shall apply to all
towers for which a Conditional Use Permit is required; provided, however, that
the Commission may reduce the standard setback requirements if the goals of
this title would be better served thereby:
            (1)   Adjoining Lot Lines: Towers must be set back a distance equal
to at least seventy-five percent (75%) of the height of the tower from any
adjoining lot line.
            (2)   Minimum Zoning Setbacks: Guys and accessory buildings must
satisfy the minimum zoning district setback requirements.
         f.   Separation: The following separation requirements shall apply to
all towers and antennas for which a Conditional Use Permit is required;
provided, however, that the Commission may reduce the standard separation
requirements if the goals of this title would be better served thereby.
            (1)   Separation From Off-Site Uses/Designated Areas:
               (A)   Tower separation shall be measured from the base of the
tower to the lot line of the off-site uses and/or designated areas as specified
in Table 1, except as otherwise provided in Table 1.
               (B)   Separation requirements for towers shall comply with the
minimum standards established in Table 1.
 
Table 1: Separation Distances From Residential Units (Measured From Base Of
Tower To Closest Building Setback Line)
Off-Site Use/Designated Area             Separation Distance
Single-family or duplex residential      200 feet or 300% height of tower
units. Includes modular homes and mobile whichever is greater
homes used for living purposes.
Vacant single-family or duplex
residentially zoned land which is either 200 feet or 300% height of tower
platted or has preliminary subdivision   whichever is greater
plan approval which is not expired
Vacant un-platted residentially zoned
lands. Includes any un-platted
residential use properties without a     100 feet or 100% height of tower
valid preliminary subdivision plan or    whichever is greater
valid development plan approval and any
multi-family residentially zoned land
greater than duplex.
Existing multi-family residential units  100 feet or 100% height of tower
greater than duplex units                whichever is greater
Non-residentially zoned lands or non-    None; only setbacks apply
residential uses
 
            (2)   Separation Distances Between Towers:
               (A)   Separation distances between towers shall be applicable
for and measured between the proposed tower and preexisting towers. The
separation distances shall be measured by drawing or following a straight line
between the base of the existing tower and the proposed base, pursuant to a
site plan, of the proposed tower.
 
Table 2: Separation Distances Between Towers (Linear Feet)
Proposed Towers       Existing Towers - Types
                      Lattice Guyed Monopole +/= 75 Ft Monopole less than 75 Ft
Lattice               5,000   5,000 1,500
Guyed                 5,000   5,000 1,500              750
Monopole +/= 75 Ft    1,500   1,500 1,500              750
Monopole less than 75 750     750   750                750
Ft
 
         g.   Security Fencing: Towers shall be enclosed by security fencing
not less than six feet (6') in height and shall also be equipped with an
appropriate anti-climbing device; provided however, that the Planning
Commission may waive such requirements, as it deems appropriate.
         h.   Landscaping: The following requirements shall govern the
landscaping surrounding towers for which a Conditional Use Permit is required;
provided, however, that the Planning Commission may waive such requirements if
the goals of this title would be better served thereby.
            (1)   Buffer: Tower facilities shall be landscaped with a buffer of
plant materials that effectively screens the view of the tower compound from
property used for residences. The standard buffer shall consist of a
land   scaped strip at least four feet (4') wide outside the perimeter of the
compound.
         (2)   In locations where the visual impact of the tower would be
minimal, the landscaping requirement may be reduced or waived.
         i.   Trees And Landform Preservation: Existing mature tree growth and
natural land forms on the site shall be preserved to the maximum extent
possible. In some cases, such as towers sited on large, wooded lots, natural
growth around the property perimeter may be sufficient buffer.
      17.   Buildings Or Other Equipment Storage:
         a.   Antennas Mounted On Structures Or Rooftops: Towers or associated
cabinets are not allowed on roof tops or existing structures.
         b.   Antenna's Support Cabinets: The equipment cabinet or structure
used in association with antennas shall be located in accordance with the
following:
            (1)   Residential equipment cabinet or structure locations provided
the cabinet or structure is no greater than eight feet (8') in height or one-
hundred (100) square feet of gross floor area:
               (A)   Front Yard: The cabinet/structure must be located a
minimum of twenty-five feet (25') from all front yard lines (lot lines).
               (B)   Side Yard: The cabinet/structure must be located a minimum
of six feet (6') from side yard setbacks (lot lines).
               (C)   Rear Yard: The cabinet/structure must be located a minimum
of twenty feet (20') from rear yard setbacks (lot lines).
               (D)   Screening: The cabinet/structure shall be screened by an
evergreen hedge with an initial planted height of at least forty-two to forty-
eight inches (42" - 48") and an ultimate height of eight feet (8').
            (2)   Commercial Or Industrial District Locations: In commercial or
industrial districts, the equipment cabinet or structure shall be no greater
than eight feet (8') in height or one hundred sixty nine (169) square feet in
gross floor area.
               (A)   Evergreen Hedge Screen: The structure or cabinet shall be
screened by an evergreen hedge with a planted height of at least thirty-six
inches (36") and an ultimate height of eight feet (8').
               (B)   Fence Screen: The structures or cabinets shall be screened
from view of all residential properties which abut or are directly across the
street from the structure or cabinet by a solid fence six feet (6') in height
or the evergreen hedge.
         c.   Antennas Located On Towers: The related unmanned equipment
structure shall not contain more than one-hundred (100) square feet of gross
floor area or be more than eight feet (8') in height, and shall be located in
accordance with the minimum yard requirements of the zoning district in which
located.
         d.   Modification Of Building Size Requirements: The requirements of
subsections O17a through O17c may be modified by the Planning Department in the
case of administratively approved uses or by the Planning Commission in the
case of uses permitted by Conditional Use to encourage collocation.
      18.   Removal Of Abandoned Antennas And Towers: Any antenna or tower that
is not operated for a continuous period of twelve (12) months shall be
considered abandoned, and the owner of such antenna or tower shall remove the
same within ninety (90) days of receipt of notice from the City of Rigby
notifying the owner of such abandonment.
         a.   Consequence: Failure to remove an abandoned antenna or tower
within said ninety (90) day shall be grounds to remove the tower or antenna at
the owner's expense.
         b.   Multiple Users: If there are two (2) or more users of a single
tower, then this provision shall not become effective until all users' cease
using the tower.
      19.   Nonconforming Uses:
         a.   No Expansion Of Nonconforming Use: Towers that are constructed
and antennas that are installed, in accordance with the provisions of this
title shall not be deemed to constitute the expansion of a nonconforming use or
structure.
         b.   Preexisting Towers: Preexisting towers shall be allowed to
continue their usage as they presently exist. Routine maintenance (including
replacement with a new tower of like construction and height) shall be
permitted on such pre-existing towers. New construction other than routine
maintenance on a pre-existing tower shall comply with the requirements of this
title.
         c.   Rebuilding Damaged Or Destroyed Nonconforming Towers Or Antennas:
Notwithstanding subsection O19, bona fide nonconforming towers or antennas that
are damaged or destroyed may be rebuilt without having to first obtain
administrative approval or a Conditional Use Permit.
            (1)   The type, height, and location of the tower onsite shall be
of the same type and intensity as the original facility approval.
            (2)   Building permits to rebuild the facility shall comply with
the then applicable building codes and shall be obtained within one hundred
eighty (180) days from the date the facility is damaged or destroyed.
               (A)   If no permit is obtained or if said permit expires, the
tower or antenna shall be deemed abandoned. (Ord. 402, 5-5-1987; amd. Ord. 475,
7-20-1999; Ord. 2021-619, 9-14-2021)
CHAPTER 9
PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
SECTION:
10-9-1: General
10-9-2: Supplemental Yard And Height Regulations
10-9-3: Supplemental General Provisions
10-9-4: Provisions For Commercial And Industrial Uses
10-9-5: Provisions For Unique Land Uses
10-9-1: GENERAL:
The purposes of performance standards is to set specific conditions for various
uses, classification of uses or areas where problems are frequently
encountered. (Ord. 402, 5-5-1987; amd. Ord. 2021-619, 9-14-2021)
10-9-2: SUPPLEMENTAL YARD AND HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
In addition to all yard regulations specified in the official schedule of
district regulations and in other sections of this title, the following
provisions shall be adhered to:
   A.   Visibility At Intersections: On a corner lot in any district, nothing
shall be erected, placed, planted or allowed to grow in such a manner as to
materially impede vision between a height of two and one-half feet (2 1/2') and
ten feet (10') above the centerline grades of the intersecting streets in the
area bounded by the right of way lines of such corner lots and a line joining
points along said street right of way lines twenty five feet (25') from the
point of intersection;
   B.   Fence And Wall Restrictions In Front Yards: In any required front yard,
no fence or wall shall be permitted within fifteen feet (15') of right-of-way
which materially impedes vision across such yard between the height of three
feet (3') and ten feet (10');
   C.   Yard Requirements For Multi-Family Dwellings: Multi-family dwellings
shall be considered as one building for the purpose of determining front, side
and rear yard requirements;
   D.   Side And Rear Yard Requirements For Non-Residential Uses Abutting
Residential Districts: Non-residential buildings or uses shall not be located
nor conducted closer than forty feet (40') to any lot line of a residential
district, except that the minimum yard requirements may be reduced to fifty
percent (50%) of the requirement if acceptable landscaping or screening
approved by the Planning Administrator is provided. Such screening shall be a
masonry or solid fence between four feet (4') and eight feet (8') in height
maintained in good condition and free of all advertising or other signs.
Landscaping provided in lieu of such wall or fence shall consist of a strip of
land not less than ten feet (10') in width planted with an evergreen hedge or
dense planting of shrubs (five (5) gallon) and deciduous two inch (2") caliper
trees spaced at twenty feet (20') on center at the time of planting;
   E.   Architectural Projections: Open structures such as covered porches,
canopies, balconies, covered platforms, carports, covered patios and similar
architectural projections shall be considered parts of the building to which
attached and shall not project into the required minimum side yard. Ten feet
(10') wide projections may project into the front yard a maximum of four feet
(4') and into a rear yard six feet (6').
   F.   Exceptions To Height Regulations: The height limitations contained in
the official schedule of district regulations do not apply to spires, belfries,
cupolas, antennas, water tanks, ventilators, chimneys or other appurtenances
usually required to be placed above the roof level and not intended for human
occupancy except where the height of such structures will constitute a hazard
to the safe landing and takeoff of aircraft at an established airport. (Ord.
402, 5-5-1987; amd. Ord. 2013-560, 5-7-2013; Ord. 2021-619, 9-14-2021; Ord.
2025-650, 1-23-2025)
10-9-3: SUPPLEMENTAL GENERAL PROVISIONS:
In addition to all other regulations as specified in this title, the following
provisions shall be adhered to:
   A.   Conversion Of Dwellings To More Units: A residence may not be converted
to accommodate an increased number of dwelling units unless:
      1.   The yard dimensions still meet the yard dimensions required by the
zoning regulations for new structures in that district;
      2.   The lot area per family equals the lot area requirements for new
structures in that district;
      3.   The floor area per dwelling unit is not reduced to less than that
which is required for new construction in that district; and
      4.   A Building Permit is procured, and the conversion is in compliance
with all other relevant codes and ordinances.
   B.   Temporary Buildings: Temporary buildings, construction trailers,
equipment and materials used in conjunction with construction work only may be
permitted in any district during the period construction work is in progress,
but such temporary facilities shall be removed upon completion of the
construction work. Storage of such facilities or equipment beyond the
completion date of the project shall require a zoning permit authorized by the
Planning Administrator;
   C.   Parking And Storage Of Certain Vehicles: Automotive vehicles or
trailers of any kind or type without current license plates shall not be parked
or stored on any residentially zoned property other than in completely enclosed
building or carport. However, one boat and one travel trailer may be stored on
the side or rear yard;
   D.   Required Trash Areas: All trash and/or garbage collection areas for
commercial, industrial and multi-family residential uses shall be enclosed on
at least three (3) sides by a solid wall of fence of at least four feet (4') in
height or within an enclosed building or structure. Adequate vehicular access
to and from such area or areas for collection of trash and/or garbage as
determined by the Planning Administrator shall be provided; and
   E.   Development Close To An Airport: The location, building height and
lighting of residential and commercial development shall be restricted within
airport approach areas as required by the State Department of Transportation,
Division of Aeronautics and Public Transportation and Federal Aviation
Administration. (Ord. 402, 5-5-1987; amd. Ord. 2021-619, 9-14-2021)
10-9-4: PROVISIONS FOR COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL USES:
No land or building in any district shall be used or occupied in any manner
creating dangerous, injurious, noxious or otherwise objectionable conditions
which could adversely affect the surrounding areas or adjoining premises,
except that any use permitted by this title may be undertaken and maintained if
acceptable measures and safeguards to reduce dangerous and objectionable
conditions to acceptable limits as established by the following performance
requirements:
   A.   Fire Hazards: Any activity involving the use or storage of flammable or
explosive materials shall be protected by adequate firefighting and fire-
prevention equipment and by such safety devices as are normally used in the
handling of any such material. Such hazards shall be kept removed from adjacent
activities to a distance which is compatible with the potential danger involved
as specified in the International Fire Code and the National Safety Foundation
publications;
   B.   Radiation Or Electrical Disturbance: No activity shall emit harmful
radiation at any point, or electrical disturbance adversely affecting the
operation of any equipment at any point other than that of the creator of such
disturbance;
   C.   Noise: Objectionable noise as determined by the Planning Administrator
which is due to volume, frequency or beat shall be muffled or otherwise
controlled. Air-raid sirens and related apparatus used solely for public
purposes are exempt from this requirement;
   D.   Vibration: No vibration shall be permitted which is discernible without
instruments on any adjoining lot or property;
   E.   Air Pollution: Air pollution shall be subject to the requirements and
regulations established by the Health Department;
   F.   Glare: No direct or reflected glare shall be permitted which is visible
from any property outside a manufacturing district or from any street;
   G.   Erosion: No erosion, by man, wind or water, shall be permitted which
will carry objectionable substances (including mud) onto neighboring
properties;
   H.   Water Pollution: Water pollution shall be subject to the requirements
and regulations established by the Health Department;
   I.   Enforcement Provisions: The Planning Administrator, prior to the
issuance of a zoning permit, may require the submission of statements and plans
indicating the manner in which dangerous and objectionable elements involved in
processing and in equipment operations are to be eliminated or reduced to
acceptable limits and tolerances; and
   J.   Measurement Procedures: Methods and procedures for the determination of
the existence of any dangerous and objectionable elements shall conform to
applicable standard measurement procedures published by the American Standards
Institute, New York, the Manufacturing Chemists' Association, Inc., Washington,
D.C., the United States Bureau of Mines, and the Health Department. (Ord. 402,
5-5-1987; amd. Ord. 2021-619, 9-14-2021)
10-9-5: PROVISIONS FOR UNIQUE LAND USES:
Certain unique land uses pose special problems that may have detrimental
influences on surrounding land uses. The following performance standards for
such unique land uses shall be adhered to in addition to all other provisions
of this title.
   A.   Accessory Building:
      1.   Will not be located in any required front yard area; and
      2.   Will not be located closer than five feet (5') from any side or rear
property line.
   B.   Agriculture (Buffer Area):
      1.   Will be maintained as an untilled filler strip or natural vegetation
provided for between tilled ground and the normal high-water elevation of any
surface water areas. The width of this strip shall vary according to the
average slope of the land as follows:
 
Average Slope of Land Between Tilled  Width of Strip Between Tilled Land and
Land and Normal High-Water Elevation  Normal High-Water Elevation (Feet Along
(percent)                             Surface of Ground)
   0-4                             20
5-9                                   50
10-14                                 90
15 and over                           110
 
      2.   Will be maintained to minimize soil erosion, sedimentation,
contamination and nutrient enrichment of ground and surface water.
   C.   Animal Clinic, Animal Hospital, Veterinary Office And Kennel:
      1.   Will be located at least three hundred feet (300') from any
residence including motels and hotels, except for an owner's residence. The
Administrator may modify these requirements if the animals are completely
housed in soundproof structures that completely screen them from view of the
abutting residential property; and
      2.   Will comply with all State and local regulations relative to such an
operation, and maintain adequate housekeeping practices designed to prevent the
creation of a nuisance and to reduce to a minimum the factors of noise and
odor.
   D.   Animal Commercial Feed Lots, Meatpacking, Processing Plant And
Slaughterhouse Facilities:
      1.   Will be located, when housing animals, feedlot or holding pens, not
less than six hundred feet (600') from any residence, except for an owner's
residence. Such facilities shall have a minimum setback of thirty feet (30')
from any property line;
      2.   Will be designed and located with full consideration to their
proximity to adjacent uses, their effect upon adjacent and surrounding
properties, and to the reduction of such nuisance factors as odor; and
      3.   Will be adequately maintained with housekeeping practices to prevent
the creation of a nuisance, and shall also be subject to the Health Authority
requirements as to the elimination of waste materials and the maintenance of
water quality control.
   E.   Bulk Storage Of Flammable Liquids And Gases, Above-Ground And For
Resale:
      1.   Require a Conditional Use Permit and will be located at least three
hundred feet (300') from a residential zone, a residence, motel, hotel, except
for an owner's residence;
      2.   Will be erected subject to the approval of the Fire Chief; and
      3.   Will have suitable loading and unloading spaces and off-street
parking facilities subject to the approval of the Fire Chief.
   F.   Chemicals, Pesticide And Fertilizer Storage And Manufacturing:
      1.   Require a Conditional Use Permit and will have adequate fire
protection, storage area, handling and disposal as approved by the Fire Chief
or Fire Marshal.
   G.   Contractors Yard:
      1.   Will be located a minimum distance of three hundred feet (300') from
any residence except for an owner's residence;
      2.   Will have a screening fence around areas utilized for storage of
equipment and materials; and
      3.   Will be limited to storage, maintenance and processing incidental to
contracting work. There shall be no general industrial or commercial uses.
   H.   Drive-In Restaurant:
      1.   Will be enclosed on the property line with landscaping and fencing,
except for ingress and egress, to prevent trash from moving onto other
properties;
      2.   Will have a six foot (6') high sight-obscuring fence along the
property lines that adjoin a residence;
      3.   Will provide for adequate trash receptacles; and
      4.   Will avoid the direction of night-lighting toward any residence; and
      5.   Location of drive aisles must be approved by the Public Works
Director.
   I.   Filling, Grading, Lagooning, Dredging, Or Other Earth-Moving Activity:
      1.   Will result in the smallest amount of bare ground exposed for the
shortest time feasible;
      2.   Will provide temporary ground cover, such as mulch;
      3.   Will use diversions, silting, basins, terraces and other methods to
trap sediment;
      4.   Will provide lagooning in such a manner as to avoid creation of fish
trap conditions;
      5.   Will not restrict a floodway, channel or natural drainageway;
      6.   Will construct and stabilize sides and bottom of cuts, fills,
channels and artificial watercourses to prevent erosion or soil failure;
      7.   Will not have below-grade excavation except for drainageways within
fifty feet (50') of any lot line or public right of way;
      8.   Will provide methods for dust control as approved by the Public
Works Director;
      9.   Will restore topsoil or loam to a depth of not less than four inches
(4"); and
      10.   When earth moving project is taking place in rainy or melting
weather or project is ongoing, contractor to provide ten feet by forty feet
(10' x 40') gravel apron to any city street or lot for tire mud and dirt
removal.
   J.   Gravel Pits, Rock Quarries, Sand And Clay Pits And Other Natural
Resources Of Commercial Value:
      1.   The extent and method of rehabilitation shall be determined in
advance of issuing a zoning certificate with due consideration given to what is
suitable and compatible with the surrounding area;
      2.   Upon depletion of the area, all temporary buildings and structures,
except property line fences and structures for the loading, measuring or
weighing of salable material in storage, shall be entirely removed from the
property; and
      3.   Safety fencing shall be erected around all pits that create a safety
hazard.
   K.   Home Occupation:
      1.   No more than one person living at the premises other than members of
the family residing on the premises shall be engaged in such occupation;
      2.   The use of the dwelling unit for the home occupation shall be
clearly incidental and subordinate to its use for residential purposes by its
occupants, and not more than twenty five percent (25%) of floor area of the
dwelling unit shall be used in the conduct of the home occupation;
      3.   There shall be no change in the outside appearance of the building
or premises, or other visible evidence of the conduct of such home occupation
other than one sign, not exceeding four (4) square feet in area, non-
illuminated and mounted flat against the wall of the principal building;
      4.   No significant traffic shall be generated by such home occupation
and businesses that require delivery by tandem truck/trailers are not allowed.
Any need for parking generated by the conduct of such home occupation shall
meet the off-street parking requirements as specified in this title, and shall
not be located in a required front yard; and
      5.   No equipment or process shall be used in such home occupation which
creates noise, vibration, glare, fumes, odors, or electrical interference
detectable to the normal senses off the lot, if the occupation is conducted in
a single-family residence, or outside the dwelling unit if conducted in other
than a single-family residence. In the case of electrical interference, no
equipment or process shall be used which creates visual or audible interference
in any radio or television receivers off the premises, or causes fluctuations
in line voltage off the premises.
   L.   Mobile Home Park (See Chapter 9-2):
      1.   Will be designed, constructed, operated and maintained so as to be
harmonious and appropriate in appearance with the existing or intended
character of the general vicinity and that such use will not change the
essential character of the same area;
      2.   Will not be hazardous or detrimental to existing or future
neighboring uses;
      3.   Will be served adequately by essential public facilities and
services such as highways, streets, police and fire protection, drainage,
refuse disposal and schools; or that the persons or agencies responsible for
the establishment of the proposed park shall be able to provide adequately any
such services;
      4.   Will be consistent with the intent and purpose of this title,
chapter 2 and the Comprehensive Plan;
      5.   Will have vehicular approaches to the property which shall be so
designed as not to create an interference with traffic on surrounding public
streets or roads;
      6.   Will not result in the destruction, loss or damage of natural,
scenic or historic features of major importance;
      7.   Will meet the minimum health standards as set forth by the Idaho
State Department of Health and Welfare; and
      8.   Will have a minimum total area for the mobile home park of four (4)
acres.
   M.   Outdoor Storage Of Commercial And Industrial Materials:
      1.   Will be screened from view from any existing adjoining residence or
residentially zoned area, whether or not such property is separated by an
alleyway or street; and
      2.   Will not be located in any front yard setback area.
   N.   Riding Stables And Schools:
      1.   Will locate all stables or loafing sheds not nearer than one hundred
feet (100') from any residence, except for an owner's residence. All facilities
shall be set back a distance of thirty feet (30') from any property line;
      2.   Will be designed and located with full consideration being given to
their proximity to adjacent uses and their effect upon adjacent and surrounding
properties, as to the storage of horse trailers, and the factors of noise and
odor; and
      3.   Will require that the owner or operator of such use shall have a
continuous obligation to maintain adequate housekeeping practices to prevent
the creation of a nuisance.
   O.   Rifle And Pistol Range:
      1.   Will be designed with a backstop;
      2.   Will be designed to avoid a line of fire that is directed towards
any residence or business within one mile;
      3.   Will incorporate landscaping that is compatible with the surrounding
landscaping; and
      4.   Will provide supervision and security measures during periods of
use.
   P.   Sanitary Landfill:
      1.   Will conform to time limits for daily operation as defined by the
Council;
      2.   Will provide a bond, for privately owned sites, to ensure compliance
with the provisions of the zoning certificate;
      3.   Will provide for a paved street to the facility; and
      4.   Will be supervised during the hours of operation.
   Q.   Wrecking Yard:
      1.   Will be completely enclosed by a solid six foot (6') high site-
obscuring fence;
      2.   Will not result in the storage of automobile, junk or salvage
material that is visible from any public right of way;
      3.   Will not result in the storage of automobiles that exceed the height
of the fence; and
      4.   Will have such landscaping that is appropriate with the surrounding
area. (Ord. 402, 5-5-1987; amd. Ord. 2021-619, 9-14-2021)
CHAPTER 10
SPECIAL USE
SECTION:
10-10-1: General
10-10-2: Contents Of Application For Special Use Permit
10-10-3: General Standards Applicable To All Special Uses
10-10-4: Public Sites And Open Spaces
10-10-5: Supplementary Conditions And Safeguards
10-10-6: Procedure For Hearing, Notice
10-10-7: Action By The Commission
10-10-8: Notification To Applicant
10-10-9: Appeal To Council
10-10-1: GENERAL:
It is recognized that an increasing number of new kinds of uses are appearing
daily, and that many of these and some other more conventional uses possess
characteristics of such unique and special nature relative to location, design,
size, method of operation, circulation and public facilities that each specific
use must be considered individually.
The Commission shall hold a public hearing on each special use permit
application as specified in the Official Schedule of District Regulations. The
Commission may approve, conditionally approve or deny a special use permit
under the conditions as herein specified and considering such additional
safeguards as will uphold the intent of this title. (Ord. 402, 5-5-1987; amd.
Ord. 2021-619, 9-14-2021)
10-10-2: CONTENTS OF APPLICATION FOR SPECIAL USE PERMIT:
A written application in substantially the following form must be submitted
prior to any action by the Commission:
   A.   Name, address and phone number of applicant;
   B.   Proposed amending ordinance, approved as to form by the Council;
   C.   Present land use;
   D.   Present zoning district;
   E.   Proposed use;
   F.   Proposed zoning district;
   G.   A vicinity map at a scale approved by the Administrator showing
property lines, thoroughfares, existing and proposed zoning and such other
items as the Administrator may require;
   H.   A list of all property owners and their mailing addresses who are
within three hundred feet (300') of the external boundaries of the land
considered;
   I.   A statement on how the proposed change relates to the Comprehensive
Plan, availability of public facilities and compatibility with the surrounding
area. (Ord. 478, 12-7-1999, eff. 1-1-2000; amd. Ord. 2021-619, 9-14-2021)
10-10-3: GENERAL STANDARDS APPLICABLE TO ALL SPECIAL USES:
The Commission shall review the particular facts and circumstances of each
proposed special use in terms of the following standards and shall find
adequate evidence showing that such use at the proposed location:
   A.   Will, in fact, constitute a special use as established on the Official
Schedule of District Regulations for the zoning district involved;
   B.   Will be harmonious with and in accordance with the general objectives
or with any specific objective of the Comprehensive Plan and/or the Zoning
Ordinance;
   C.   Will be designed, constructed, operated and maintained to be harmonious
and appropriate in appearance with the existing or intended character of the
general vicinity and that such use will not change the essential character of
the same area;
   D.   Will not be hazardous or disturbing to existing or future neighboring
uses;
   E.   Will be served adequately by essential public facilities and services
such as highways, streets, police and fire protection, drainage structures,
refuse disposal, water and sewer and schools; or that the persons or agencies
responsible for the establishment of the proposed use shall be able to provide
adequately any such services;
   F.   Will not create excessive additional requirements at public cost for
public facilities and services and will be detrimental to the economic welfare
of the community;
   G.   Will not involve uses, activities, processes, materials, equipment and
conditions of operation that will be detrimental to any persons, property or
the general welfare by reason of excessive production of traffic, noise, smoke,
fumes, glare or odors;
   H.   Will have vehicular approaches to the property which shall be so
designed as not to create an interference with traffic on surrounding public
thoroughfares; and
   I.   Will not result in the destruction, loss or damage of a natural, scenic
or historic feature of major importance. (Ord. 402, 5-5-1987; amd. Ord. 2021-
619, 9-14-2021)
10-10-4: PUBLIC SITES AND OPEN SPACES:
Public sites and open spaces shall conform to the following:
   A.   Public Uses: Where it is determined that a proposed park, playground,
school or other public use as shown on the future acquisition map, as
authorized in section 67-6517, Idaho Code, is located in whole or in part
within a proposed development the Commission shall notify the appropriate
public agency concerning the land proposed to be acquired. Within thirty (30)
days of the date of notice, the public agency may request the governing body to
suspend consideration on the permit for sixty (60) days from the date of the
request; however, if an agreement is not reached within sixty (60) days the
Commission shall resume consideration of the special use application;
   B.   Natural Features: Existing natural features which add value to
residential development and enhance the attractiveness of the community (such
as trees, watercourses, historic spots and similar irreplaceable assets) shall
be preserved in the design of the development; and
   C.   Special Developments: In the case of planned unit developments and
large-scale developments the Commission may require sufficient park or open
space facilities of acceptable size, location and site characteristics that may
be suitable for the proposed development. (Ord. 402, 5-5-1987; amd. Ord. 2021-
619, 9-14-2021)
10-10-5: SUPPLEMENTARY CONDITIONS AND SAFEGUARDS:
In granting any special use, the Commission may prescribe appropriate
conditions, bonds and safeguards in conformity with this title. Violations of
such conditions, bonds or safeguards, when made a part of the terms under which
the special use is granted, shall be deemed a violation of this title. (Ord.
402, 5-5-1987; amd. Ord. 2021-619, 9-14-2021)
10-10-6: PROCEDURE FOR HEARING, NOTICE:
Prior to granting a special use permit, at least one public hearing in which
interested persons shall have an opportunity to be heard shall be held. At
least fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing, notice of the time and place and
a summary of the proposal shall be published in the official newspaper or paper
of general circulation within the jurisdiction. Notice may also be made
available to other newspapers, radio and television stations serving the
jurisdiction for use as a public service announcement. Notice shall also be
provided to property owners and residents within the land being considered,
three hundred feet (300') beyond the external boundaries of the land being
considered, and any additional area that may be substantially impacted by the
proposed special use as determined by the Commission. When notice is required
to two hundred (200) or more property owners or residents, in lieu of the
mailing notification, three (3) notices in the newspaper or paper of general
circulation is sufficient; provided, the third notice appears ten (10) days
prior to the public hearing. (Ord. 402, 5-5-1987; amd. Ord. 2021-619, 9-14-
2021)
10-10-7: ACTION BY THE COMMISSION:
   A.   Within thirty (30) days after the public hearing, the Commission shall
either approve, conditionally approve or disapprove the application as
presented. If the application is approved or approved with modification the
Commission shall direct the Administrator to issue a special use permit listing
the specific conditions specified by the Commission for approval.
Upon granting of a special use permit, conditions may be attached to a special
use permit including, but not limited to, those:
      1.   Minimizing adverse impact on other development;
      2.   Controlling the sequence and timing of development;
      3.   Controlling the duration of development;
      4.   Assuring that development is maintained properly;
      5.   Designating the exact location and nature of development;
      6.   Requiring the provision for on-site or off-site public facilities or
services; and
      7.   Requiring more restrictive standards than those generally required
in an ordinance.
   B.   Prior to granting a special use permit, the Commission may request
studies from the planning staff or public agencies concerning social, economic,
fiscal and environmental effects of the proposed special use. A special use
permit shall not be considered as establishing a binding precedent to grant
other special use permits. A special use permit is not transferrable from one
parcel of land to another.
Upon granting or denying an application the Commission shall specify:
      1.   The ordinance and standards used in evaluating the application;
      2.   The reasons for approval or denial; and
      3.   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain a
permit.
The applicant or any person who appeared in person or in writing before the
Commission may appeal the decision of the Commission to the Council, provided
the appeal is submitted to the Council within fifteen (15) days from the
Commission's action. (Ord. 402, 5-5-1987; amd. Ord. 2021-619, 9-14-2021)
10-10-8: NOTIFICATION TO APPLICANT:
Within ten (10) days after a decision has been rendered the Administrator shall
provide the applicant with written notice of the action on the request. (Ord.
402, 5-5-1987; amd. Ord. 2021-619, 9-14-2021)
10-10-9: APPEAL TO COUNCIL:
Upon receipt of an appeal from the action of the Commission, the Council shall
set a hearing date to consider all information, testimony and Commission's
minutes of the public hearing to reach a decision to uphold, conditionally
uphold or overrule the decision of the Commission. The Council shall only
overrule the Commission by a favorable vote of one-half (1/2) plus one of the
full Council. (Ord. 402, 5-5-1987; amd. Ord. 2021-619, 9-14-2021)
CHAPTER 11
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS
SECTION:
10-11-1: Purpose
10-11-2: Provisions Governing Planned Unit Development
10-11-3: Minimum Area
10-11-4: Uses Permitted
10-11-5: Ownership Requirements
10-11-6: Common Open Space
10-11-7: Utility Requirements
10-11-8: Increased Residential Density
10-11-9: Arrangement Of Commercial Uses
10-11-10: Arrangement Of Industrial Uses
10-11-11: Procedure For Approval
10-11-12: Preapplication Meeting
10-11-13: Contents Of Application For Approval
10-11-14: Procedure For Public Notice
10-11-15: Approval In Principle By Commission
10-11-16: Approval Of Final Development Plan
10-11-17: Recommendation By Commission
10-11-18: Action By The Council
10-11-19: Expiration And Extension Of Approval Period
10-11-1: PURPOSE:
It shall be the policy to guide a major development of land and construction by
encouraging planned unit developments (PUD) to achieve the following:
   A.   A maximum choice of living environments by allowing a variety of
housing and building types and permitting an increased density per acre and a
reduction in lot dimensions, yards, building setbacks and area requirements;
   B.   A more useful pattern of open space and recreation areas and, if
permitted as part of the project, more convenience in the location of accessory
commercial uses, industrial uses and services;
   C.   A development pattern which preserves and utilizes natural topography
and geologic features, scenic vistas, trees and other vegetation and prevents
the disruption of natural drainage patterns;
   D.   A more efficient use of land than is generally achieved through
conventional development resulting in substantial savings through shorter
utilities and streets; and
   E.   A development pattern in harmony with land use density, transportation
and community facilities objectives of the Comprehensive Plan. (Ord. 402, 5-5-
1987; amd. Ord. 2021-619, 9-14-2021)
10-11-2: PROVISIONS GOVERNING PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT:
Whenever there is a conflict or difference between the provisions of this
chapter and those of the other chapters of this title, the provisions of this
chapter shall prevail. Subjects not covered by this chapter shall be governed
by the respective provisions found elsewhere in this title. (Ord. 402, 5-5-
1987; amd. Ord. 2021-619, 9-14-2021)
10-11-3: MINIMUM AREA:
A PUD for the following principal uses shall contain an area of not less than:
   A.   Five (5) acres for residential use with subordinate commercial or
industrial uses;
   B.   Ten (10) acres for commercial use; and
   C.   Ten (10) acres for industrial use. (Ord. 402, 5-5-1987; amd. Ord. 2021-
619, 9-14-2021; Ord. 2025-650, 1-23-2025)
10-11-4: USES PERMITTED:
All uses that may be allowed within the land use district are permitted within
a PUD. Also, up to thirty percent (30%) of the gross land area may be directed
to other commercial, industrial, public and quasi-public uses that are not
allowed within the land use district; provided, there is a favorable finding by
the Commission:
   A.   That the uses are appropriate with the residential uses;
   B.   That the uses are intended to serve principally the residents of the
PUD;
   C.   That the uses are planned as an integral part of the PUD;
   D.   That the uses be located and so designed as to provide direct access to
a collector or an arterial street without creating congestion or traffic
hazards; and
   E.   That a minimum of fifty percent (50%) of the residential development
occur prior to the development of the related commercial or industrial land
uses. (Ord. 402, 5-5-1987; amd. Ord. 2021-619, 9-14-2021; Ord. 2025-650, 1-23-
2025)
10-11-5: OWNERSHIP REQUIREMENTS:
An application for approval of a PUD may be filed by a property owner or a
person having an existing interest in the property to be included in the PUD.
The PUD application shall be filed in the name or names of the recorded owner
or owners of property included in the development. However, the application may
be filed by the holder(s) of an equitable interest in such property.
Before approval is granted to the final development plan, the entire project
shall be under single ownership or control and legal title must be presented
with the final development plan. (Ord. 402, 5-5-1987; amd. Ord. 2021-619, 9-14-
2021)
10-11-6: COMMON OPEN SPACE:
A minimum of ten percent (10%) of the gross land area developed in any
residential PUD project shall be reserved for common open space and
recreational facilities for the residents or users of the area being developed.
The required amount of common open space land reserved under a PUD shall either
be held in corporate ownership by owners of the project area for the use of
each owner who buys property within the development or be dedicated to the
public and retained as common open space for parks, recreation and related
uses. Public utility and similar easements and rights of way for watercourses
and other similar channels are not acceptable for common open space dedication
unless such land or right of way is usable as a trail or other similar purpose
and approved by the Commission.
The responsibility for the maintenance of all open spaces shall be specified by
the developer before approval of the final development plan.
Every property developed under the PUD approach should be designed to abut upon
common open space or similar areas. A clustering of dwellings is encouraged. In
areas where townhouses are used, there shall be no more than eight (8)
townhouse units in any contiguous group. (Ord. 402, 5-5-1987; amd. Ord. 2021-
619, 9-14-2021)
10-11-7: UTILITY REQUIREMENTS:
Underground utilities, including telephone and electrical systems, are required
within the limits of all PUDs. Appurtenances to these systems which can be
effectively screened are excepted from this requirement if the Commission finds
that such exemption will not violate the intent or character of the proposed
PUD. (Ord. 402, 5-5-1987; amd. Ord. 2021-619, 9-14-2021)
10-11-8: INCREASED RESIDENTIAL DENSITY:
To provide for an incentive for quality PUD, the Commission may authorize an
increased residential density of up to fifteen percent (15%) of the allowable
number of dwelling units. Character, identity and architectural and siting
variation incorporated in a development shall be considered cause for density
increases, provided these make a substantial contribution to the objectives of
the PUD, which are as follows:
   A.   Landscaping (a maximum increase of five percent (5%)), streetscape,
open spaces and plazas, use of existing landscaping, pedestrian way treatment
and recreational areas;
   B.   Siting (a maximum increase of five percent (5%)), visual focal points,
use of existing physical features such as topography, view, sun and wind
orientation, circulation pattern, physical environment, variation in building
setbacks and building grouping (such as clustering); and
   C.   Design features (a maximum increase of five percent (5%)), street
sections, architectural styles, harmonious use of materials, parking areas
broken by landscaping features and varied use of housing types. (Ord. 402, 5-5-
1987; amd. Ord. 2019-604, 5-16-2019; Ord. 2021-619, 9-14-2021)
10-11-9: ARRANGEMENT OF COMMERCIAL USES:
When PUDs include commercial uses, commercial buildings and establishments
shall be planned as groups having common parking areas and common ingress and
egress points in order to reduce the number of potential accident locations at
intersections. Planning screens or fences shall be provided on the perimeter of
the commercial areas abutting residential areas.
The plan of the project shall provide for the integrated and harmonious design
of buildings, and for adequate and properly arranged facilities for internal
traffic circulation, landscaping and such other features and facilities as may
be necessary to make the project attractive and efficient from the standpoint
of the adjoining and surrounding noncommercial areas.
All areas designed for future expansion or not intended for immediate
improvement or development shall be landscaped or otherwise maintained in a
neat and orderly manner. (Ord. 402, 5-5-1987; amd. Ord. 2021-619, 9-14-2021)
10-11-10: ARRANGEMENT OF INDUSTRIAL USES:
PUDs may include industrial uses if it can be shown that the development
results in a more efficient and desirable use of land.
Industrial uses and parcels shall be developed in park-like surroundings
utilizing landscaping and existing woodlands as buffers to screen lighting,
parking areas, loading areas or docks and/or outdoor storage of raw materials
or products. A planned industrial area shall provide for the harmony of
buildings and a compact grouping in order to economize in the provision of such
utility services as are required. Thoroughfares shall be kept to a minimum
throughout a planned industrial area in order to reduce through traffic.
Project side yards of forty feet (40') and a rear yard of fifty feet (50')
shall be required if the project is located adjacent to any residential uses .
All intervening spaces between the right-of-way line and areas shall be
landscaped with trees and plantings and properly maintained at all times. (Ord.
402, 5-5-1987; amd. Ord. 2021-619, 9-14-2021)
10-11-11: PROCEDURE FOR APPROVAL:
When the PUD also qualifies as a subdivision, the processing of the special use
permit and subdivision application shall occur at the same time. The granting
of a special use permit for a PUD shall require a preapplication, the
submission of a preliminary development plan and approval by the Council of a
final development plan as specified within this title. (Ord. 402, 5-5-1987;
amd. Ord. 2021-619, 9-14-2021)
10-11-12: PREAPPLICATION MEETING:
The developer shall meet with the Planning Administrator prior to the
submission of the preliminary development plan. The purpose of this meeting is
to discuss early and informally the purpose and effect of this title and the
criteria and standards contained herein, and to familiarize the developer with
the Comprehensive Plan, Zoning Ordinance, Subdivision Ordinance and such other
plans and ordinances as deemed appropriate. (Ord. 402, 5-5-1987; amd. Ord.
2019-604, 5-16-2019; Ord. 2021-619, 9-14-2021)
10-11-13: CONTENTS OF APPLICATION FOR APPROVAL:
An application for a preliminary PUD shall be filed with the Administrator by a
property owner or person having existing interest in the property for which the
PUD is proposed. At a minimum, the application shall contain the following
information filed in triplicate:
   A.   Name, address and phone number of applicant;
   B.   Name, address and phone number of registered surveyor, registered
engineer and/or urban planner assisting in the preparation of the preliminary
development plan;
   C.   Legal description of property;
   D.   Description of existing use;
   E.   Zoning districts;
   F.   A vicinity map at a scale approved by the Commission, showing property
lines, streets, existing and proposed zoning and such other items as the
Commission may require to show the relationship of the PUD to the Comprehensive
Plan and to existing schools and other community facilities and services;
   G.   A preliminary development plan titled Planned Unit Development at a
scale approved by the Commission showing topography at two foot (2') intervals;
location and type of residential, commercial and industrial land uses; layout,
dimensions and names of existing and proposed streets; rights of way; utility
easements; parks and community spaces; layout and dimensions of lots and
building setback lines; preliminary improvement drawings showing water, sewer,
drainage, electricity, telephone and natural gas and such other characteristics
as the Commission deems necessary;
   H.   Proposed schedule for the development of the site; and
   I.   Evidence that the applicant has sufficient control over the land in
question to initiate the proposed development plan within two (2) years.
The application for preliminary PUD shall be accompanied by a written statement
by the developer setting forth the reasons why, in his opinion, the PUD would
be in the public interest. (Ord. 402, 5-5-1987; amd. Ord. 2021-619, 9-14-2021;
Ord. 2025-650, 1-23-2025)
10-11-14: PROCEDURE FOR PUBLIC NOTICE:
The same provision for public hearing and legal notification as required for
special use permits shall be followed 1 . (Ord. 402, 5-5-1987; amd. Ord. 2021-
619, 9-14-2021)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  10-10-6  of this title.
10-11-15: APPROVAL IN PRINCIPLE BY COMMISSION:
Within thirty (30) days after the public hearing the Commission shall review
the preliminary development plan to determine if it is consistent with the
intent and purpose of this title; whether the proposed development advances the
general welfare of the community and neighborhood and whether the benefits,
combination of various land uses and the interrelationship with the land uses
in the surrounding area justify the deviation from standard district
regulations. The Commission's approval in principle of the preliminary
development plan shall be necessary before an applicant may submit a final
development plan. Approval in principle shall not be construed to endorse a
precise location of uses, configuration of parcels or engineering feasibility.
The Commission shall consider the general standards applicable to special use
permits and criteria for special uses before approving in principle a
preliminary development plan 1 . (Ord. 402, 5-5-1987; amd. Ord. 2021-619, 9-14-
2021)
 
Notes
  2. See sections
1 10-10-3  and
  10-10-4  of this title.
10-11-16: APPROVAL OF FINAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN:
Upon approval in principle of a preliminary development plan, an application
for approval of the final development plan may be filed with the Planning
Administrator by at least one property owner or person having a presently
existing interest in the property for which the PUD is proposed. Each
application shall be signed by the owner or lessee, attesting to the truth and
exactness of all information supplied on the application for final development
plan. Each application shall clearly state that the approval shall expire and
may be revoked if construction on the project has not begun within two (2)
years from the date of issuance of the approval. At a minimum, the application
shall contain the following information:
   A.   A survey of the proposed development site titled Planned Unit
Development, showing the dimensions and bearings of the property lines, area in
acres, topography, existing features of the development site; including major
wooded areas, structures, streets, easements, utility lines and land uses;
   B.   All the information required on the preliminary development plan; the
location and sizes of lots, location and proposed density of dwelling units,
nonresidential building intensity and land use considered suitable for adjacent
properties;
   C.   A schedule for the development of units to be constructed in
progression and a description of the design principles for buildings and
streetscapes; tabulation of the number of acres in the proposed project for
various uses; the number of housing units proposed by type; estimated
residential population by type of housing; estimated non-residential
population; anticipated timing for each unit and standards for height, open
space, building density, parking areas, population density and public
improvements proposed for each unit of the development whenever the applicant
proposes an exception from standard zoning districts or other ordinances
governing development;
   D.   Engineering feasibility studies and plans showing, as necessary, water,
sewer, drainage, electricity, telephone and natural gas installations; waste
disposal facilities; street improvements and nature and extent of earth work
required for site preparation and development;
   E.   Site plan, showing building(s), various functional use areas,
circulation and their relationship;
   F.   Preliminary building plans, including floor plans and exterior
elevations;
   G.   Landscaping plans; and
   H.   Deed restrictions, protective covenants and other legal statements or
devices to be used to control the use, development and maintenance of the land,
and the improvements thereon, including those areas which are to be commonly
owned and maintained. (Ord. 402, 5-5-1987; amd. Ord. 2021-619, 9-14-2021; Ord.
2025-650, 1-23-2025)
10-11-17: RECOMMENDATION BY COMMISSION:
Within sixty (60) days after receipt of the final development plan, the
Commission shall recommend to the Council that the final development plan be
approved as presented, approved with supplementary conditions or disapproved.
The Commission shall then transmit all papers constituting the record and the
recommendations to the Council.
The Commission shall find that the facts submitted with the application and
presented to them establish that:
   A.   The proposed development can be initiated within two (2) years of the
date of approval;
   B.   Each individual unit of the development, as well as the total
development, can exist as an independent unit capable of creating an
environment of sustained desirability and stability or that adequate assurance
will be provided that such objective will be attained; the uses proposed will
not be detrimental to present and potential surrounding uses, but will have a
beneficial effect which would not be achieved under standard district
regulations;
   C.   The streets and thoroughfares proposed are suitable and adequate to
carry anticipated traffic, and increased densities will not generate traffic in
such amounts as to overload the street network outside the PUD;
   D.   Any proposed commercial development can be justified at the locations
proposed;
   E.   Any exception from standard district requirements is warranted by the
design and other amenities incorporated in the final development plan, in
accordance with the PUD and the adopted policy of the Council;
   F.   The area surrounding said development can be planned and zoned in
coordination and substantial compatibility with the proposed development;
   G.   The PUD is in general conformance with the Comprehensive Plan; and
   H.   The existing and proposed utility services are adequate for the
population densities and non-residential uses proposed. (Ord. 402, 5-5-1987;
amd. Ord. 2021-619, 9-14-2021)
10-11-18: ACTION BY THE COUNCIL:
Within sixty (60) days after receipt of the final recommendation of the
Commission, the Council shall either approve, approve with supplementary
conditions or disapprove the application as presented. Upon granting or denying
the application the Council shall specify:
   A.   The ordinance and standards used in evaluation of the application;
   B.   The reasons for approval or denial; and
   C.   The actions if any, that the applicant could take to obtain a permit.
If the application is either approved or approved with conditions, the Council
shall direct the Administrator to issue zoning permits only in accordance with
the approved final development plan and the supplementary conditions attached
thereto. (Ord. 402, 5-5-1987; amd. Ord. 2021-619, 9-14-2021)
10-11-19: EXPIRATION AND EXTENSION OF APPROVAL PERIOD:
The approval of a final development plan for a PUD shall be for a period not to
exceed two (2) years to allow for preparation and recording of the required
subdivision plat and the development of the project. If no construction has
begun within two (2) years after approval is granted, the approved final
development plan shall be void. An extension of the time limit or modification
of the approved final development plan may be approved if the Commission finds
that such extension or modification is not in conflict with the public
interest. (Ord. 402, 5-5-1987; amd. Ord. 2021-619, 9-14-2021)
CHAPTER 12
SIGNS
SECTION:
10-12-1: Intent
10-12-2: Public Signs Excluded
10-12-3: General Requirements For All Signs And Districts
10-12-4: Measurement Of Sign Area
10-12-5: Permitted Signs
10-12-6: Special Permitted Signs
10-12-7: Setback Requirements
10-12-8: Violations
10-12-9: Supplemental Regulations
10-12-10: Prohibited Signs
10-12-1: INTENT:
The purpose of this chapter is to promote and protect the public health,
welfare and safety by regulation existing and proposed outdoor advertising,
outdoor advertising signs and outdoor signs of all types. It is intended to
protect property values, create a more attractive economic and business
climate, enhance and protect the physical appearance of the community and
preserve the scenic and natural beauty of designated areas. It is further
intended to reduce sign or advertising distractions and obstructions that may
contribute to traffic accidents, reduce hazards that may be caused by signs
overhanging or projecting over public right of way, provide more open space,
curb the deterioration of the natural environment and enhance community
development. (Ord. 402, 5-5-1987; amd. Ord. 2021-619, 9-14-2021)
10-12-2: PUBLIC SIGNS EXCLUDED:
For the purpose of this chapter "sign" does not include signs erected and
maintained pursuant to and in discharge of any governmental function, or
required by any law, ordinance, or governmental regulation. (Ord. 402, 5-5-
1987; amd. Ord. 2021-619, 9-14-2021)
10-12-3: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ALL SIGNS AND DISTRICTS:
The regulations contained in this section shall apply to all signs and all use
districts.
   A.   Any illuminated sign or lighting device shall emit a light of constant
intensity, and no sign shall be illuminated by or contain flashing,
intermittent, rotating, or moving light or lights. In no event shall an
illuminated sign or lighting device be placed or directed to permit the beams
and illumination therefrom to be directed or beamed upon a public thoroughfare,
highway, sidewalk or adjacent premises to cause glare or reflection that may
constitute a traffic hazard or nuisance;
   B.   No sign shall employ any parts or elements which revolve, rotate,
whirl, spin or otherwise make use of motion to attract attention. Subsection A
of this section and this subsection shall not apply to any sign performing a
public service function indicating time, temperature, stock market quotations
or similar services;
   C.   All writing, fittings and materials used in the construction,
connection and operation of electrically illuminated signs shall be in
accordance with the provisions of the local electrical code in effect, if any;
   D.   No projecting sign shall be erected or maintained from the front or
face of a building a distance of more than two feet (2') or four feet (4') in
the Downtown Business District, including those projecting from the face of any
theater, hotel or motel marquee. In general, projecting signs are not
encouraged except in the Downtown Business District;
   E.   No sign shall be placed on the roof of any building, except those signs
whose supporting structure is screened so the sign appears to be a continuation
of the face of the building;
   F.   No portable or temporary sign shall be placed on the front or face of a
building or on any premises, except as herein provided;
   G.   No sign or part thereof shall contain or consist of banners, posters,
pennants, ribbons, streamers, spinners or other similar moving devices. Such
devices, as well as strings of lights, shall not be used for the purpose of
advertising or attracting attention when not part of a sign;
   H.   No sign erected or maintained in the window of a building, visible from
any public or private street or highway, shall occupy more than twenty percent
(20%) of the window surface;
   I.   No sign of any classification shall be installed, erected or attached
in any form, shape or manner to a fire escape or any door or window giving
access to any fire escape;
   J.   All signs hung and erected shall be plainly marked with the name of a
person, firm or corporation responsible for maintaining the sign;
   K.   Should any sign be or become unsafe or be in danger of falling, the
owner thereof or the person maintaining the same shall, upon receipt of written
notice from the Administrator, proceed at once to put such sign in a safe and
secure condition or remove the sign;
   L.   No sign shall be placed in any public right of way except publicly
owned signs, i.e., traffic-control signs and directional signs. Signs directing
and guiding traffic and parking on private property but bearing no advertising
matter shall be permitted on any property; and
   M.   Signs along interstate and primary highways shall conform to the Idaho
State Transportation Department regulations. (Ord. 402, 5-5-1987; amd. Ord.
2021-619, 9-14-2021)
10-12-4: MEASUREMENT OF SIGN AREA:
The surface area of a sign shall be computed as including the entire area
within a regular, geometric form or combinations of regular, geometric forms
comprising all of the display area of the sign and including all of the
elements of the matter displayed. Frames and structural members not being
advertising matter shall not be included in computation of surface area. (Ord.
476, 5-18-1999; amd. Ord. 2021-619, 9-14-2021)
10-12-5: PERMITTED SIGNS:
The following signs may be permitted upon the issuance of a zoning certificate
by the Administrator:
   A.   Signs advertising the sale, lease or rental of the premises upon which
the sign is located shall not exceed twelve (12) square feet in area, except in
all residential districts where the area of the sign shall not be more than six
(6) square feet;
   B.   Professional nameplates not to exceed four (4) square feet in area;
   C.   Signs denoting the name and address of the occupants of the premises,
not to exceed two (2) square feet in area;
   D.   Temporary signs not exceeding fifty (50) square feet in area announcing
special public or institutional events, the erection of a building, the
architect, the builders or contractors may be erected for a period of sixty
(60) days plus the construction period;
   E.   On-premises wall signs pertaining to a nonconforming use shall be
permitted on the same premises of such use, provided that, the area of such
sign does not exceed twelve (12) square feet; and
   F.   Political signs, provided that, such signs shall not be posted in any
place or in any manner that is destructive to public property upon posting or
removal. No political sign shall be posted in a public right of way nor shall
any such sign be posted on a utility pole. No political sign shall be posted
more than sixty (60) days before an election. All candidates for public office,
their campaign committees or other persons responsible for the posting on
public property of campaign material shall remove such material within two (2)
weeks following election day. (Ord. 402, 5-5-1987; amd. Ord. 2021-619, 9-14-
2021)
10-12-6: SPECIAL PERMITTED SIGNS:
Signs exceeding the following requirements will not be allowed without specific
approval of the Planning Commission via variance or other administrative
action:
   A.   Signs or bulletin boards customarily incidental to places of worship,
libraries, museums, social clubs or societies, which signs or bulletin boards
shall not exceed fifteen (15) square feet in area and which shall be located on
the premises of such institution;
   B.   Any sign advertising a commercial enterprise, including real estate
developers or subdividers, in a district zoned residential shall not exceed
twelve (12) square feet in area and shall advertise only the names of the
owners, trade names, products sold and/or the business or activity conducted on
the premises where such sign is located;
   C.   In a commercial or manufacturing district, each business shall be
permitted one flat or wall on-premises sign. Projection of wall signs shall not
exceed two feet (2') measured from the face of the main building. The area of
all permanent on-premises signs for any single business enterprise may have an
area equivalent to one and one-half (1 1/2) square feet of sign area for each
lineal foot of building width, or part of a building, occupied by such
enterprise but shall not exceed a maximum area of one hundred (100) square
feet;
   D.   In a commercial or manufacturing district, two (2) off-premises signs
with a total area not exceeding six hundred (600) square feet may be permitted
at a single location. No single off-premises sign shall exceed one thousand two
hundred (1,200) square feet, nor shall off-premises signs visible to
approaching traffic have a minimum spacing of less than two hundred feet
(200'). Off-premises signs shall conform to all applicable yard and height
regulations for the appropriate zoning district, except that such signs
intended to be viewed from an elevated highway shall be not more than twenty
feet (20') above the level of the roadway at its nearest point. Off-premises
wall signs shall have all structural and supporting members concealed from
view; and
   E.   Freestanding on-premises signs not over thirty feet (30') in height,
having a maximum total sign area of one hundred (100) square feet per display
area and located not closer than ten feet (10') to any street right-of-way line
and not closer than thirty feet (30') to any adjoining lot line may be erected
to serve a group of business establishments. There shall be only one
freestanding sign for each building, regardless of the number of businesses
conducted in said building. (Ord. 402, 5-5-1987; amd. Ord. 476, 5-18-1999; Ord.
2021-619, 9-14-2021)
10-12-7: SETBACK REQUIREMENTS:
Off-premises signs shall not be erected in front of the required setback line
for the appropriate zoning district, except for the following:
   A.   For every square foot by which any on-premises sign exceeds fifty (50)
square feet, the setback shall be increased by one-half foot (1/2') but need
not exceed one hundred feet (100');
   B.   Real estate signs and bulletin boards for a church, school or any other
public, religious or educational institution within residential zoning
districts may be erected not less than ten feet (10') from the established
right-of-way line of any street or highway provided such sign or bulletin board
does not obstruct traffic visibility at street or highway intersections; and
   C.   On-premises signs where permitted shall be erected or placed in
conformity with the side and rear yard requirements of the district in which
located, except that in any residential district, on-premises signs shall not
be erected or placed within ten feet (10') of a side or rear lot line. (Ord.
402, 5-5-1987; amd. Ord. 2021-619, 9-14-2021)
10-12-8: VIOLATIONS:
In case any sign shall be installed, erected, constructed or maintained in
violation of any of the terms of this chapter, the Planning Administrator shall
notify in writing the owner or lessee thereof to alter such sign to comply with
this chapter. Political signs posted in violation of this chapter are subject
to removal by the Administrator five (5) days after written notice of
violation. (Ord. 402, 5-5-1987; amd. Ord. 2021-619, 9-14-2021)
10-12-9: SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS:
In all residential districts, a sign identifying residential use of a lot may
be located on the lot, such signs shall be limited to one per principal use and
shall not exceed one square foot in area for each dwelling unit up to a maximum
of eight (8) square feet. A sign identifying an accessory commercial use in a
residential district shall not exceed twelve (12) square feet in area and shall
be limited to one sign per accessory use. In any commercial or industrial
district, signs identifying the use of the premises may be located on the lot.
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent location of a temporary
sign in any district advertising sale or lease of the premises, provided such
sign does not exceed twelve (12) square feet in area. (Ord. 402, 5-5-1987; amd.
Ord. 2021-619, 9-14-2021)
10-12-10: PROHIBITED SIGNS:
No billboards shall be allowed within city limits. (Ord. 2025-650, 1-23-2025)
CHAPTER 13
APPEAL, VARIANCE AND ACTION
SECTION:
10-13-1: General
10-13-2: Administrative Appeals
10-13-3: Stay Of Proceedings
10-13-4: Variance
10-13-5: Application And Standards For Variances
10-13-6: Supplementary Conditions And Safeguards
10-13-7: Public Hearing
10-13-8: Action By Commission
10-13-9: Notification To Applicant
10-13-10: Appeal To Council
10-13-11: Request For Hearing
10-13-1: GENERAL:
The Commission shall consider administrative appeals where it is alleged that
an error has been made by the Administrator, variances from the terms of this
title and requests for hearings from affected persons. (Ord. 402, 5-5-1987;
amd. Ord. 2021-619, 9-14-2021)
10-13-2: ADMINISTRATIVE APPEALS:
Appeals to the Commission concerning interpretation or administration of this
title may be taken by any person aggrieved or by any officer or bureau of the
legislative authority affected by any decision of the Planning Administrator.
Such appeal shall be taken within twenty (20) days after the decision of the
Administrator by filing with the Administrator and with the Commission a notice
of appeal specifying the grounds upon which the appeal is being taken. The
Administrator shall transmit to the Commission all the papers constituting the
record upon which the appeal is based. (Ord. 402, 5-5-1987; amd. Ord. 2021-619,
9-14-2021)
10-13-3: STAY OF PROCEEDINGS:
Any appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action taken unless the
Administrator certifies to the Commission after the notice of appeal is filed
with him that by reason of facts stated in the application, a stay would, in
his opinion, cause imminent peril to life and property. In such case,
proceedings shall not be stayed other than by a restraining order which may be
granted by the Commission or by a court based upon an application, with notice
to the Planning Administrator showing due cause. (Ord. 402, 5-5-1987; amd. Ord.
2021-619, 9-14-2021)
10-13-4: VARIANCE:
The Commission may authorize in specific cases such variance from the terms of
this title as will not be contrary to the public interest where, owing to
special conditions, a literal enforcement of the provisions of this title would
result in unnecessary hardship. No nonconforming use of neighboring lands,
structures or buildings in the same district and no permitted or nonconforming
use of lands, structures or buildings in other districts shall be considered
grounds for issuance of a variance. Variances shall not be granted on the
grounds of convenience or profit, but only where strict application of the
provisions of this title would result in unnecessary hardship. (Ord. 402, 5-5-
1987; amd. Ord. 2021-619, 9-14-2021)
10-13-5: APPLICATION AND STANDARDS FOR VARIANCES:
A variance from the terms of this title shall not be granted by the Commission
unless and until a written application for a variance is submitted to the
Planning Administrator and the Commission containing:
   A.   Name, address and phone number of applicant(s);
   B.   Legal description of property;
   C.   Description of nature of variance requested; and
   D.   A narrative statement demonstrating that the requested variance
conforms to the following standards:
      1.   That special conditions and circumstances exist which are peculiar
to the land, structure or building involved and which are not applicable to
other lands, structures or buildings in the same district;
      2.   That a literal interpretation of the provisions of this title would
deprive the applicant of rights commonly enjoyed by other properties in the
same district under the terms of this title;
      3.   That special conditions and circumstances do not result from the
actions of the applicant; and
      4.   That granting the variance requested will not confer on the
applicant any special privilege that is denied by this title to other lands,
structures or buildings in the same district.
A variance shall not be granted unless the Commission makes specific findings
of fact based directly on the particular evidence presented to it which support
conclusions that the above mentioned standards and conditions have been met by
the applicant. (Ord. 402, 5-5-1987; amd. Ord. 2021-619, 9-14-2021)
10-13-6: SUPPLEMENTARY CONDITIONS AND SAFEGUARDS:
Under no circumstances shall the Commission grant an appeal or variance to
allow a use not permissible under the terms of this title in the district
involved, or any use expressly or by implication prohibited by the terms of
this title in said district. In granting any appeal or variance, the Commission
may prescribe appropriate conditions and safeguards in conformity with this
title. Violation of such conditions and safeguards, when made a part of the
terms under which the appeal or variance is granted, shall be deemed a
violation of this title. (Ord. 402, 5-5-1987; amd. Ord. 2021-619, 9-14-2021)
10-13-7: PUBLIC HEARING:
Upon receipt of the application for an appeal or a variance, the Commission
shall hold a public hearing, publish notice in a newspaper and give written
notice to all parties as required for special use permits 1 . (Ord. 402, 5-5-
1987; amd. Ord. 2021-619, 9-14-2021)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 10 of this title.
10-13-8: ACTION BY COMMISSION:
Within thirty (30) days of the public hearing the Commission shall either
approve, conditionally approve or disapprove the request for appeal or
variance.
Upon granting or denying an application the Commission shall specify:
   A.   The ordinance and standards used in evaluating the application;
   B.   The reasons for approval or denial; and
   C.   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain a permit.
The applicant or any affected person who appeared in person or in writing
before the Commission may appeal the decision of the Commission to the Council
within fifteen (15) days from the Commission's action. (Ord. 402, 5-5-1987;
amd. Ord. 2021-619, 9-14-2021)
10-13-9: NOTIFICATION TO APPLICANT:
Within ten (10) days after a decision has been rendered, the Administrator
shall provide the applicant with written notice of the action on the request.
(Ord. 402, 5-5-1987; amd. Ord. 2021-619, 9-14-2021)
10-13-10: APPEAL TO COUNCIL:
Upon receipt of an appeal from the action of the Commission, the Council shall
set a hearing date to consider all information, testimony and Commission's
minutes of the public hearing to reach a decision to uphold, conditionally
uphold or overrule the decision. The Council shall only overrule the Commission
by a favorable vote of one-half (1/2) plus one of the full Council. (Ord. 402,
5-5-1987; amd. Ord. 2021-619, 9-14-2021)
10-13-11: REQUEST FOR HEARING:
   A.   Any affected person shall mean one having an interest in real property
which may be adversely affected by the issuance or denial of a permit
authorizing the development.
   B.   Any affected person may at any time prior to final action on rezone,
special use, or variance permit, if no hearing has been held on the
application, petition the Commission or Council in writing to hold a hearing as
required in chapter 10-10 of this title provided, however, that if twenty (20)
affected persons petition for a hearing, the hearing shall be held.
After a hearing, the Commission or Council may:
      1.   Grant or deny a permit; or
      2.   Delay such a decision for a definite period of time for further
study or hearing.
   C.   An affected person aggrieved by a decision may within sixty (60) days
after all remedies have been exhausted under local ordinances seek judicial
review under the review provisions provided by the Administrative Procedure
Act, Idaho Code. (Ord. 402, 5-5-1987; amd. Ord. 2021-619, 9-14-2021)
CHAPTER 14
ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
10-14-1: Zoning Permits Required
10-14-2: Contents Of Application
10-14-3: Approval Of Zoning Permit
10-14-4: Expiration Of Zoning Permit
10-14-5: Certificate Of Occupancy
10-14-6: Temporary Certificate Of Occupancy
10-14-7: Records Maintained
10-14-8: Failure To Obtain A Zoning Permit Or Certificate Of Occupancy
10-14-9: Construction And Use To Be As Provided In Applications, Plans, Permits
And Certificates
10-14-10: Complaints Regarding Violations
10-14-11: Penalties
10-14-12: Schedule Of Fees, Charges And Expenses
10-14-1: ZONING PERMITS REQUIRED:
No building or other structure shall be erected, moved, added to or
structurally altered, nor shall any building, structure or land be established
or changed in use without a permit therefor issued by the Planning
Administrator. Zoning permits shall be issued only in conformity with the
provisions of this title. (Ord. 402, 5-5-1987; amd. Ord. 2021-619, 9-14-2021)
10-14-2: CONTENTS OF APPLICATION:
The application for zoning permit shall be signed by the owner or applicant
attesting to the truth and exactness of all information supplied on the
application. Each application shall clearly state that the permit shall expire
and may be revoked if work has not begun or is substantially completed within
one year. At a minimum, the application shall contain the following
information:
   A.   Name, address and phone number of applicant;
   B.   Legal description of property;
   C.   Existing use;
   D.   Proposed use;
   E.   Zoning district;
   F.   Plan, drawn to scale, showing the actual dimensions and the shape of
the lot to be built upon; the exact size and location of existing buildings on
the lot, if any; and the location and dimensions of the proposed building(s) or
alteration;
   G.   Building heights;
   H.   Number of off-street parking spaces or loading berths;
   I.   Number of dwelling units;
   J.   Proposed sewer and water facilities; and
   K.   Such other matters as may be necessary to determine conformance with,
and provide for, the enforcement of this title. (Ord. 402, 5-5-1987; amd. Ord.
2021-619, 9-14-2021)
10-14-3: APPROVAL OF ZONING PERMIT:
Within thirty (30) days after receipt of an application, the Planning
Administrator shall either approve or disapprove the application in conformance
with the provisions of this title. All zoning permits shall, however, be
conditional upon the commencement of work within one year. One copy of the
plans shall be returned to the applicant by the Administrator after the
Administrator shall have marked such copy either as approved or disapproved and
attested to same by his signature on such copy. One copy of plans, similarly
marked, shall be retained by the Administrator. The Administrator shall issue a
placard, to be posted in a conspicuous place on the property in question,
attesting to the fact that the use or alteration is in conformance with the
provisions of this title. (Ord. 402, 5-5-1987; amd. Ord. 2021-619, 9-14-2021)
10-14-4: EXPIRATION OF ZONING PERMIT:
If the work described in any zoning permit has not begun within one year from
the date of issuance thereof, said permit shall expire; it shall be revoked by
the Administrator and written notice thereof shall be given to the persons
affected. (Ord. 402, 5-5-1987; amd. Ord. 2021-619, 9-14-2021)
10-14-5: CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY:
It shall be unlawful to use or occupy or permit the use or occupancy of any
building or premises, or both, or part thereof thereafter created, erected,
changed, converted or wholly or partly altered or enlarged in its use or
structure until a certificate of occupancy shall have been therefor by the
Administrator stating that the proposed use of the building or land conforms to
the requirements of this title and with all conditional provisions that may
have been imposed. (Ord. 402, 5-5-1987; amd. Ord. 2021-619, 9-14-2021)
10-14-6: TEMPORARY CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY:
A temporary certificate of occupancy may be issued by the Administrator for a
period not exceeding six (6) months during alterations or partial occupancy of
a building pending its completion. (Ord. 402, 5-5-1987; amd. Ord. 2021-619, 9-
14-2021)
10-14-7: RECORDS MAINTAINED:
The Administrator shall maintain a record of all zoning permits and
certificates of occupancy and copies shall be furnished upon request to any
person. (Ord. 402, 5-5-1987; amd. Ord. 2021-619, 9-14-2021)
10-14-8: FAILURE TO OBTAIN A ZONING PERMIT OR CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY:
Failure to obtain a zoning permit or certificate of occupancy shall be
violation of this title. (Ord. 402, 5-5-1987; amd. Ord. 2021-619, 9-14-2021)
10-14-9: CONSTRUCTION AND USE TO BE AS PROVIDED IN APPLICATIONS, PLANS, PERMITS
AND CERTIFICATES:
Zoning permits or certificates of occupancy issued on the basis of plans and
applications approved by the Administrator authorize only the use, and
arrangement, set forth in such approved plans and applications or amendments
thereto, and no other use, arrangement or construction. Use, arrangement or
construction contrary to that authorized shall be deemed a violation of this
title. (Ord. 402, 5-5-1987; amd. Ord. 2021-619, 9-14-2021)
10-14-10: COMPLAINTS REGARDING VIOLATIONS:
Whenever a violation of this title occurs, or is alleged to have occurred, any
person may file a written complaint. Such complaint stating fully the causes
and basis thereof shall be filed with the Administrator. The Administrator
shall properly record such complaint, immediately investigate and take action
thereon as provided by this title. (Ord. 402, 5-5-1987; amd. Ord. 2021-619, 9-
14-2021)
10-14-11: PENALTIES:
The Prosecuting Attorney/City Attorney shall, in addition to taking whatever
criminal action deemed necessary, take steps to civilly enjoin any violation of
this title. Penalties for failure to comply with or violations of the
provisions of this title shall be as follows:
Violation of any of the provisions of this Ordinance or failure to comply with
any of its requirements shall constitute a misdemeanor. Each day such violation
continues shall be considered a separate offense. The landowner, tenant,
subdivider, builder, public official or any other person who commits,
participates in, assists in or maintains such violation may be found guilty of
a separate offense. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the Council or any
other public official or private citizen from taking such lawful action as is
necessary to restrain or prevent any violation of this Ordinance or of the
Idaho Code.
(Ord. 402, 5-5-1987; amd. Ord. 2021-619, 9-14-2021)
10-14-12: SCHEDULE OF FEES, CHARGES AND EXPENSES:
The Council shall establish a schedule of fees, charges and expenses and a
collection procedure for zoning permits, amendments, appeals, variances,
special use permits, plan approvals and other matters pertaining to the
administration and enforcement of this title requiring investigations,
inspections, legal advertising, postage and other expenses. The schedule of
fees shall be posted in the office of the Administrator, and may be altered and
amended only by the Council. Until all applicable fees, charges and expenses
have been paid in full, no action shall be taken on any application or appeal.
(Ord. 402, 5-5-1987; amd. Ord. 2021-619, 9-14-2021)
CHAPTER 15
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
10-15-1: Repeal Of Conflicting Ordinances And Saving Clause
10-15-1: REPEAL OF CONFLICTING ORDINANCES AND SAVING CLAUSE:
All other ordinances, regulations, or local statutes or parts of regulations,
ordinances, or local statutes in conflict herewith are hereby repealed, that if
any section, paragraph, subsection, clause or provision of this title shall be
held invalid, such invalidity shall apply only to the section, paragraph,
subsection, clause or provision so held invalid and the remainder of this title
shall be and remain in full force and effect.
Whenever the regulations made under authority of this title require a greater
width or size of yards or courts, or require a lower height of building or less
number of stories or require a greater percentage of each lot to be left
unoccupied, or impose other higher standards than are required in any other
statute or local ordinance or regulation, the provisions of the regulations
made under authority of this title shall govern. Wherever the provisions of any
other status or local ordinance or regulation requires a greater width or size
of wards or courts, or requires a greater percentage of each lot to be left
unoccupied, or imposes other higher standards than are required by the
regulations under the authority of this title then the provisions of such
statute or local ordinance or regulation shall govern. (Ord. 402, 5-5-1987;
amd. Ord. 2021-619, 9-14-2021)
CHAPTER 16
EFFECTIVE DATE
SECTION:
10-16-1: Effective Date
10-16-1: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This title shall be in full force and effect upon publication following passage
and approval. Regularly passed and approved by the Council on May 5, 1987.
(Ord. 402, 5-5-1987; amd. Ord. 2021-619, 9-14-2021)
TITLE 11
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
JURISDICTION AND GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
11-1-1: Title
11-1-2: Intent And Purpose
11-1-3: Jurisdiction
11-1-4: Application Of Regulations
11-1-5: Administration
11-1-6: Severability
11-1-1: TITLE:
This Title shall be known as the SUBDIVISION ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF RIGBY,
IDAHO. (Ord. 403, 7-21-1987)
11-1-2: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
   A.   Intent And Policy Of City:
      1.   It is the intent of the City in enacting this Title that the owners
and/or developers of any property that is being developed, both in and around
the City, shall dedicate to the public their share of all such developing lands
as may be needed for the creation of streets, alleys, parks, open spaces, etc.;
and all utility, pedestrian, drainage way, and other such easements as all the
above may be needed for the public health, safety, and general welfare and
improvement of the City and its inhabitants. It is further intended that all
owners or developers of such developing property shall pay for their full share
of all street improvements such as sidewalks, curbs and gutters, paving, etc.,
culinary water system improvements, sanitary sewer system improvements, storm
drain system improvements, etc., and any questions or interpretations that may
arise regarding the meaning or intent of this or any other ordinance of the
City shall be resolved in such manner as best reflects the above stated intent.
      2.   The development and subdivision of land is a privilege conferred
upon the developer by the laws of the State and through this Subdivision Title.
A developer seeking to acquire the advantages of development and lot
subdivision has the duty of compliance with reasonable conditions laid down by
the City for the design, dedication, improvement and restrictive use of the
land so as to conform to the physical and economical development of the City,
its surrounding area, and to the safety and general welfare of the future lot
owners in the subdivision and of the community at large.
      3.   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the City to consider the
development and/or subdivision of land as subject to the control of the City
pursuant to a Comprehensive Plan for the orderly, planned, efficient, physical
and economic development of the City. Land to be developed and/or subdivided
shall be of such character that it can be used safely for building purposes
without danger to health, or peril from fire, flood or other menace, and land
shall not be developed and/or subdivided until adequate provisions have been
made for public facilities and improvements as required elsewhere in this
Title, in the Zoning Ordinance and in all other applicable ordinances and
regulations.
      4.   The existing and proposed public improvements shall conform to and
be properly related to the proposals shown in any Comprehensive Plan and the
Public Facilities Map. It is intended that this Title shall supplement and
facilitate the enforcement of the provisions and standards contained in the
Building and Housing Codes, the Zoning Ordinance, the Comprehensive Plan, the
Public Facilities Map, the Land Use Plan, the City's Standard Construction
Specifications and standard drawings, and other such related ordinances, codes,
plans, maps, specifications and standards.
   B.   Purpose: The purpose of these regulations is to promote the public
health, safety and general welfare, and to provide for:
      1.   The harmonious development of the area.
      2.   The coordination of streets and roads within the subdivision with
other existing or planned streets and roads within and without the City.
      3.   Adequate open space for travel, light, air and recreation.
      4.   Adequate transportation system, water drainage and sewage collection
and treatment facilities, water supply and distribution system, parks, school
sites, and other public uses and facilities.
      5.   The avoidance of scattered subdivision of land that would result in
either of the following:
         a.   The lack of water supply, sewer service, drainage, sidewalks,
curbs and gutters, transportation or other public services and improvements.
         b.   The unnecessary imposition of an excessive expenditure of public
funds for the supply of such services or improvements.
      6.   The requirements as to the extent and the manner in which:
         a.   Roads shall be created and improved.
         b.   Water and sewer and other utility mains, piping connections, or
other facilities shall be installed.
         c.   Sidewalks, curbs and gutters shall be installed.
      7.   The manner and form of making and filing of any plat.
      8.   The establishment of reasonable standards governing the design of
and the procedures of the subdivision and resubdivision of land.
      9.   The orderly layout and use of land and to ensure proper legal
descriptions and the proper monumenting of subdivided land.
      10.   The administration of these regulations by defining the powers and
duties of approval authorities. (Ord. 403, 7-21-1987)
11-1-3: JURISDICTION:
   A.   Plat Required: No person shall subdivide any tract of land which is
located wholly or in part in the City, or within one mile of the corporate
limits of the City or such additional distance as may mutually be agreed upon
by both the City and County of Jefferson pursuant to Idaho Code sections 50-
1306 and 67-6526, unless he shall first have or cause to have made a plat
thereof as set forth within this Title.
   B.   Approval Of Plats: It shall be unlawful to receive or record plats or
replats under the jurisdiction of this Title until the Mayor and Council shall
have approved such plats and they shall bear thereon the approved endorsement
of the Public Works Director and the City Clerk. (Ord. 403, 7-21-1987; amd.
1999 Code)
11-1-4: APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS:
All "subdivisions", as defined in Section
11-2-1 of this Title, shall be submitted for approval by the City Council and
shall comply with the provisions of this Title. This Title shall supplement all
other ordinances and regulations, and where at variance with other laws,
regulations, ordinances or resolutions, the more restrictive requirements shall
apply. (Ord. 403, 7-21-1987)
11-1-5: ADMINISTRATION:
The City Council may appoint an Administrator to carry out the provisions as
herein specified and to serve at the pleasure of the Planning and Zoning
Commission. The Administrator shall receive and process all subdivision
applications. In absence of such an appointment, the City Clerk shall carry out
this function. (Ord. 403, 7-21-1987; amd. 1999 Code)
11-1-6: SEVERABILITY:
Where any word, phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph, section or other part of
these regulations are held invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, such
judgment shall affect only that part so held invalid. (Ord. 403, 7-21-1987)
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
11-2-1: Definitions
11-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this Title, the following terms, phrases, words and their
derivations shall have the meanings given herein. When not inconsistent with
the context, words used in the present tense include the future, words in the
plural number include the singular number, and words in the singular number
include the plural number.
ADMINISTRATOR: An official having knowledge of the principles and practices of
subdividing, appointed by the City to administer this Title.
ALLEY: A public way designed to serve as secondary access to the side or rear
of lots having principal access on some other street.
ANNEXATION AGREEMENT: An agreement or contract between the subdivision
developer and the City setting forth the rights, duties, obligations and
conditions of development that may apply to the parties regarding each specific
subdivision or development.
BLOCK: A group of lots, tracts or parcels within well defined boundaries,
usually streets.
BOARD: Board Of County Commissioners, Jefferson County.
BUILDING: Any structure designed or used for the support, shelter, or enclosure
of persons, animals, chattels, or movable property of any kind.
BUILDING SETBACK LINE: An imaginary line established by ordinance that requires
all buildings to be set back a certain distance from lot lines.
BUILDING SITE: An area proposed or provided and improved by grading, filling,
excavation or other means for the erection of a building.
CEMETERY: A lot or tract of land that has been platted for the selling of sites
for the burial of animal or human remains.
CITY: The word "City" shall mean the City of Rigby, Idaho.
COMMISSION: The City Planning and Zoning Commission of the City of Rigby.
COMMITTEE: The Technical Committee, appointed by the Council upon
recommendation from the Commission, to assist with the technical evaluation of
subdivisions, and to make recommendations to the Commission. The membership of
the Committee shall include, but not be limited to, persons that are engaged in
either private or public work with specific knowledge in the following areas:
   A.   Road design and construction;
   B.   Sewer and water facility design and construction;
   C.   Health requirements for water and sewer facilities;
   D.   Environmental planning criteria such as: geology, water systems,
vegetation and noise;
   E.   Solid waste; and
   F.   Recreational and open space.
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: A document also known as a Comprehensive Development Plan,
showing the general location and extent of present and proposed development,
including housing, industrial and commercial uses, streets, parks, schools and
other community facilities.
CONDOMINIUM: An estate consisting of an undivided interest in common in real
property, in an interest or interests in real property, or in any combination
thereof; together with a separate interest in real property, in an interest or
interests in real property or in any combination thereof.
COUNCIL: The City Council of the City of Rigby, Idaho.
COUNTY RECORDER: The office of the County Recorder of Jefferson County, Idaho.
CROSSWALK: A public right of way for pedestrian traffic.
CULVERT: A drain that channels water under a bridge, street, road or driveway.
DEDICATION: The deliberate appropriation of land by its owner for any general
and public use, reserving to himself no other rights, being compatible with the
full exercise and enjoyment of the public use to which the property has been
devoted. Dedicated land becomes public land only upon the acceptance of the
same by the City and/or County.
DEVELOPER: Authorized agents of a subdivider or the subdivider himself.
DWELLING UNIT: Any building or other structure proposed or built for occupancy
by people.
EASEMENT: A grant by a property owner to specific persons or to the public to
use land for specific purposes. Also, a right acquired by prescription.
ENGINEER: Any person who is licensed in the State to practice professional
engineering.
FLOOD PLAIN: The relatively flat area or low land adjoining the channel of a
river, stream, lake or other body of water which has been or may be covered by
water of a flood of 100-year frequency. The flood plain includes the channel,
floodway and floodway fringe, as established per the engineering practices as
specified by the Army Corps of Engineers, as follows:
   Channel: A natural or artificial watercourse of perceptible extent, with
definite bed and banks to confine and conduct continuously or periodically
flowing water;
   Flood: The temporary inundation of land adjacent to and inundated by
overflow from a river, stream, lake or other body of water.
   Flood Of 100-Year Frequency: A flood magnitude which has a one percent (1%)
chance of being equaled or exceed in any given year.
   Floodway: The channel of a watercourse and those portions of the flood plain
adjoining the channel which are reasonably required to carry and discharge the
flood water of any watercourse; and
   Floodway Fringe: That part of the flood plain which is beyond the floodway.
Such areas will include those portions of the flood plain which will be
inundated by a flood of 100-year frequency.
FRONTAGE: That side of a lot abutting on a street and ordinarily regarded as
the front of the lot.
FRONTAGE STREET: Any street along which development on both sides is proposed.
GOVERNING BODY: The City Council of the City of Rigby, Idaho.
GRADE: The slope of a road or street expressed in percentage (%) terms.
HIGHWAY: A street designated as a highway by an appropriate State or Federal
agency.
HIGHWAY OR STREET, LIMITED ACCESS: An expressway highway, or arterial street
providing a route for through traffic, in respect to which adjacent property
owners or occupants and others have no legal right to access to or from, except
as may be determined by the public authority having jurisdiction over such
route.
IMPROVEMENT: Any alteration to the land or other physical constructions
associated with subdivision and building site developments.
LARGE SCALE DEVELOPMENT: A subdivision, the size of which consists of fifty
(50) or more lots or dwelling units.
LOT: A parcel, plot, tract, or portion of a subdivision, or other land area of
suitable size as required in these regulations and the existing Zoning
Ordinance having frontage on a dedicated street.
LOT AREA: The area of any lot shall be determined exclusive of street, highway,
alley, road or other rights of way.
LOT TYPES: As used in these regulations, lot types are as follows:
   Corner Lot: A lot located at the intersection of two (2) or more streets.
   Interior Lot: A lot other than a corner lot with frontage on only one
street.
   Through Lot: A lot with frontage on more than one street other than a corner
lot.
MASTER PLAN: See definition of Comprehensive Plan.
MAY: The word "may" shall mean permissive at the option of the person, or
agency referred to in the sentence where used.
MOBILE HOME: A detached single-family dwelling unit with all of the following
characteristics:
   A.   Designed for long-term occupancy and contained sleeping accommodations,
a flush toilet, a tub, or shower bath and kitchen facilities with plumbing and
electrical connections provided for attachment to outside systems;
   B.   Designed to be transported after fabrication on its wheels, or on
flatbed or other trailers, or detached wheels; and
   C.   Designed to be taken to the site where it is to be occupied as a
dwelling complete, including major appliances and furniture, and ready for
occupancy except for minor and incidental unpacking and assembly operations,
location on foundation supports, connection to utilities and the like.
MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION: A subdivision designed and intended for exclusive
mobile home residential use.
MONUMENT: Any permanent marker either of concrete, galvanized iron pipe, or
iron or steel rods, used to identify any tract, parcel, lot or street lines, as
specified in Idaho Code section 50-1303.
OPEN SPACE: An area open to the sky for outdoor recreation activity, exclusive
of streets, buildings or other covered structures.
ORIGINAL PARCEL OF LAND: A lot or tract as recorded on any plat of record on
file in the office of the County Recorder, or any unplatted contiguous parcel
of land held in one ownership and of record at the effective date hereof.
OWNER: Any individual, firm, association, syndicate, partnership, corporation,
trust or any other legal entity having sufficient proprietary interest in the
land sought to be subdivided to commence and maintain proceedings to subdivide
the same under this title.
PERFORMANCE BOND: An amount of money or other negotiable security paid by the
subdivider or his surety to the city clerk, which guarantees that the
subdivider will perform all actions required by the governing body regarding an
approved plat and the related subdivision improvement plans, and provides that
if the subdivider defaults and fails to comply with the provisions of an
approved plat, the subdivider or his surety will pay damages up to the limit of
the bond, or the surety will itself complete the requirements of the approved
plat and the related subdivision improvement plans.
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT SUBDIVISION: A subdivision designed as a combination
of residential, commercial, and industrial uses planned for a tract of land to
be developed as a unit under single ownership or control, which is developed
for the purpose of selling individual estates, whether fronting on private or
dedicated streets, which may include two (2) or more principal buildings. An
estate consisting of an undivided interest in common in real property, in an
interest or interests in real property, or in any combination thereof; together
with a separate interest in real property, in an interest or interests in real
property or in any combination thereof.
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION: The Rigby planning and zoning commission.
PLAT: The drawing, mapping or planning of a subdivision, cemetery, townsite or
other tract of land or a replatting of such including certifications,
descriptions and approvals:
   Final Plat: The final and formal presentation by drawings of a subdivision
development, for approval by the city, and which, if approved, the original and
one copy of which is filed with the county clerk and recorder.
   Preliminary Plat: The first formal presentation by drawings of a proposed
subdivision.
PRINT: Any copy of an original which reproduces exactly the original drawing
from which it is made.
RESERVE STRIP: A strip of land between a partial street and adjacent property
which is reserved or held in public ownership for future street extension or
widening.
RIGHT OF WAY: A strip of land dedicated or reserved for use as a public way,
which normally includes streets, sidewalks and other public utilities or
service areas.
ROLL BACK: A curb which shall channel water to a drain or pond or holding area
and yet shall not have an abrupt shoulder such that a vehicle could drive over
the curb consistent with general engineering principles. The standards for
construction are as set forth in the "Idaho Standards For Public Works
Construction" (2000 revision and as amended) and as set forth in the
regulations established by the city of Idaho Falls engineering department. In
the event of a conflict, then a manner as approved by the public works
director.
SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM, INDIVIDUAL: A septic tank seepage type sewage disposal
system, or any other approved individual sewage treatment device.
SHALL: The word "shall" shall always mean mandatory and not merely directory.
STANDARD SPECIFICATIONS AND DRAWINGS: The specifications and drawings governing
the construction and/or installation of streets, concrete walks, water lines,
sewer lines, as specified in this title or as officially adopted by the city.
STREET: A right of way which provides access to adjacent properties, the
dedication of which has been officially accepted. The term "street" also
includes the terms "highway", "thoroughfare", "parkway", "road", "avenue",
"boulevard", "lane", "place" and other such terms.
   Arterial: A street designed for the purpose of carrying fast and/or heavy
traffic.
   Collector: A street which has the primary purpose of carrying traffic from
minor streets to other collector streets and/or arterial streets.
   Cul-De-Sac: A street connected to another street at one end only and
provided with a turnaround space as its terminus.
   Dead End: A street or portion thereof with only one outlet.
   Frontage: Minor street, parallel to and adjacent to an arterial street to
provide access to abutting properties.
   Loop: A minor street with both terminal points on the same street of origin.
   Minor: A street which has the primary purpose of providing access to
abutting properties.
   Partial: A dedicated right of way providing only a portion of the required
street width, usually along the edge of a subdivision or tract of land.
   Private: A street that is not accepted for public use or maintenance which
provides vehicular and pedestrian access.
SUBDIVIDER: Any individual, partnership, firm, association, syndicate,
corporation, trust or other legal entity commencing proceedings under this
title to effect a subdivision of land hereunder for himself or for another.
SUBDIVISION: The division of a developed or undeveloped tract or parcel of land
into two (2) or more parts for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of
sale or of building development; provided, that if any one person within one
calendar year divides any tract into two (2) or more parts, or if a new street
is involved in any subdivision of a parcel of land, such land shall be deemed a
subdivision within the meaning of this title; provided, however, that this
definition of a "subdivision" shall not include a bona fide division or
partition of agricultural land in parcels of more than five (5) acres for
agricultural purposes, nor shall it include the division of property which is
within a duly zoned commercial or industrial district for commercial or
industrial development where no new streets are required or are to be dedicated
for public use; nor shall it include or apply to the allocation of land in the
settlement of an estate, or a court decree for the distribution of property;
nor shall it apply to the sale or conveyance of any parcel of land which may be
shown as a portion of a platted lot having two (2) acres or less, the lot being
in a subdivision of which a plat heretofore has been recorded in the land
records of Jefferson County, Idaho.
SURVEYOR: Any person who is licensed in the state as a public land surveyor to
do professional surveying.
UTILITIES: Installations for conducting water, sewage, gas, electricity,
television, storm water and similar facilities providing service to and used by
the public.
VARIANCE: A modification of the strict terms of the relevant regulations where
such modification will not be contrary to the public interest and where, owing
to conditions peculiar to the property and not the result of the action of the
applicant, a literal enforcement of this title would result in unnecessary and
undue hardship.
VICINITY MAP: A small scale map showing the location of a tract of land in
relation to a larger area. (Ord. 403, 7-21-1987; amd. 1999 Code; Ord. 508, 4-6-
2004; Ord. 2025-650, 1-23-2025)
CHAPTER 3
PLATTING
SECTION:
11-3-1: Platting Required
11-3-2: Development Without Platting
11-3-1: PLATTING REQUIRED:
   A.   Filing Of Plat Required: Every owner of any piece, parcel, or tract of
land who proposes, and in fact, does divide said tract of land into two (2) or
more lots, parcels or sites for the purpose of sale, building development, or
other similar, related, or associated nonagricultural uses, whether immediate
or future, shall, before the sale of the second division of said land is
completed, prepare and file a plat thereof in conformance with the requirements
of this Title.
   B.   Exceptions: These requirements for platting shall not apply to any of
the following:
      1.   The bona fide sale, division, or partition of agricultural land for
continued agricultural purposes. A bona fide division or partition of
agricultural land for agricultural purposes shall mean the division of land
into parcels or tracts all of which are twenty (20) acres or larger in area and
which are maintained as strictly agricultural lands.
      2.   An allocation of land in the settlement of an estate of a decedent
or a court decree for the distribution of property.
      3.   The unwilling sale of land as a result of legal condemnation as
defined and allowed in the Idaho Code.
      4.   Widening of existing streets to conform to the Comprehensive Plan.
      5.   The acquisition of street rights of way by a public agency in
conformance with the Comprehensive Plan.
      6.   The exchange of land for the sole purpose of straightening property
boundaries which does not result in the change of the present land usage. (Ord.
403, 7-21-1987)
11-3-2: DEVELOPMENT WITHOUT PLATTING:
   A.   It is the overall intent of this Title that all land shall be platted
whenever and wherever such is required by Section
11-3-1 of this Chapter. However, when individual, isolated parcels of property
are encountered in and around the City where the requirements for platting do
not appear applicable or are not required under Section
11-3-1 of this Chapter, then it is the intent of this Title that as such
properties are developed (i.e., land use changed from one use to a more
intensive use, such as "agricultural" to "residential"; or "residential" to
"commercial", etc.) and built upon, that the owners and/or developers thereof
shall dedicate to the public their equitable share of said developing lands as
such is required for the creation of streets, alleys, parks, open spaces, etc.;
and utility, pedestrian, drainage way or other similar easements as the above
may be needed for the public health, safety, and general welfare and
improvement of the City and its inhabitants.
   B.   It is further intended that the owners or developers of such developing
property or property being built upon shall pay for their full share of all
street improvements (sidewalk, curb and gutter, paving, etc.), culinary water
system improvements, sanitary sewer system improvements, storm drain system
improvements, etc., in a manner equitable with that required of the owners and/
or developers of platted and subdivided ground. (Ord. 403, 7-21-1987)
CHAPTER 4
SUBDIVISION APPROVAL PROCEDURE
SECTION:
11-4-1: Approval Of Subdivision Plat Required
11-4-2: Preapplication (Sketch Plan)
11-4-3: Preliminary Plat
11-4-4: Final Plat
11-4-1: APPROVAL OF SUBDIVISION PLAT REQUIRED:
No plat shall be recorded or offered for recording with the County Recorder
until the plat has been reviewed by the Commission, and approved by the Mayor
and Council. No lots shall be sold until the plat has been recorded in the
office of the County Recorder. (Ord. 403, 7-21-1987)
11-4-2: PREAPPLICATION (SKETCH PLAN):
   A.   Application: The subdivider may submit a preapplication and sketch plan
to enable the City Clerk to review and comment on the proposed subdivision. The
preapplication submittal shall include as many copies of the sketch plan as is
deemed necessary by the City Clerk. The sketch plan shall include the entire
developmental scheme of the proposed subdivision, drawn approximately to scale,
including the following:
      1.   The general layout and approximate dimensions of the streets, blocks
and lots in sketch form;
      2.   The existing conditions and characteristics of the land on and
adjacent to the proposed subdivision site; and
      3.   The areas to be set aside for schools, parks and other public
facilities.
   B.   Fees: All fees and costs associated with the preapplication shall be as
set forth in the current subdivision fee schedule adopted by the City.
   C.   City Clerk Action: The City Clerk shall notify the subdivider within
fifteen (15) days from the date of receiving an acceptable preapplication as to
the general conformance or nonconformance of the proposal with this Title and
other applicable ordinances or regulations of the City, and shall provide the
subdivider with the necessary forms and checklists required for the submission
of the subsequent preliminary and/or final plat. At this time, the City Clerk
shall indicate: (Ord. 403, 7-21-1987; amd. 1999 Code)
      1.   If the proposed development complies with the existing City, County
or State policies, goals, objectives and the City Comprehensive Plan;
      2.   If additional special permits are needed or if ordinance conflicts,
such as rezoning requirements, special development permits, or variances are
required and the manner of handling such requirements;
      3.   If there are any unique environmental features or hazardous concerns
that may be directly or indirectly associated with the subject property, i.e.,
areas that have been designated by the State as areas of critical environmental
concern, unique plant or animal life, areas within a flood plain, airport
flight pattern, or the like; and
      4.   If there are other City, County, or State agencies or departments
that the subdivider should contact before preparing a preliminary plat or final
plat. (Ord. 403, 7-21-1987)
11-4-3: PRELIMINARY PLAT:
   A.   Application: The subdivider shall file with the City Clerk a complete
preliminary plat application form, preliminary plat, and other such related
data as may be required by this Title or the City Clerk. The required number of
copies of the application form, preliminary plat, etc., shall be established by
the City Clerk. (Ord. 403, 7-21-1987; amd. 1999 Code)
   B.   Combining Preliminary And Final Plats:
      1.   The subdivider may request that the subdivision application be
processed as both a preliminary and final plat if all the following exists:
         a.   The proposed subdivision does not exceed ten (10) lots:
         b.   No new street dedications or street widenings are involved;
         c.   No major zoning problems are expected;
         d.   No major special development considerations are involved, such as
development in a flood plain, airport clear zone, hillside development or the
like; and
         e.   All required information for both the preliminary and final plats
is complete and in an acceptable form.
      2.   A request to combine both the preliminary plat and final plat into
one application shall be acted upon by the Commission upon a favorable
recommendation for the approval of same by the Technical Review Committee.
   C.   Contents Of Preliminary Plat Submittal: The contents of the preliminary
plat submittal and related information shall be in such form as may be required
by the Commission; however, any additional maps or data deemed necessary by the
Administrator shall also be provided. The subdivider shall submit to the
Administrator at least the following:
      1.   A preliminary plat application form requesting approval of the
preliminary plat.
      2.   The appropriate number of copies of the preliminary plat of the
proposed subdivision, drawn in accordance with the requirements hereinafter
stated.
      3.   The appropriate number of copies of the proposed preliminary plat
showing by color or symbol the type of zoning that the subdivider desires for
the area contained within the preliminary plat.
      4.   The appropriate number of copies of the preliminary engineering
plans (not meant to include any detailed designs) showing all streets, water
lines, sanitary sewers, storm drainage directional flow arrows and storm drain
facilities, and other such required public improvements. (The preliminary plat
and engineering plans may be combined on one composite drawing if the amount of
detail, etc., associated with the combining of said drawings does not make the
composite drawing too cluttered and unreadable.)
      5.   Appropriate information that sufficiently details the proposed
development within any special development areas, such as hillside, planned
unit development, flood plain, airport clear zone, mobile home, large scale
development, hazardous and unique areas of development, etc.
      6.   The name and address of all adjoining and adjacent owners of
property within three hundred feet (300') of the property being considered
(whether or not bisected by a public right of way) as shown on record in the
County Assessor's office. Also when specifically requested, the names and
addresses of all other persons to whom the Commission deems it appropriate that
any notice of public hearing that may be held by the Commission should be sent
if it is determined that a public hearing is desirable.
   D.   Requirement For Preliminary Plat And Preliminary Engineering Drawings:
The preliminary plat and preliminary engineering drawings shall be drawn on
good quality paper, linen, or mylar having dimensions of not less than twenty
four inches by thirty six inches (24" x 36"). The following shall be shown on
the preliminary plat, preliminary engineering drawings, or shall be submitted
separately:
      1.   The name of the proposed subdivision;
      2.   The legal description of the subdivision;
      3.   The names, addresses and telephone numbers of the subdivider or
subdividers and the engineer and surveyor who prepared the plat and engineering
drawings;
      4.   The north point, scale, and date. The preliminary plat and
preliminary engineering drawing shall be drawn to a scale not smaller than one
inch equals one hundred feet (1" = 100');
      5.   A vicinity map showing the relationship of the proposed plat to the
surrounding area within a one-half (1/2) mile minimum radius (scale optional);
      6.   The entire area scheduled for development where the proposed
subdivision is only a portion of a larger tract of land intended for subsequent
and eventual development;
      7.   The boundary lines of the tract to be subdivided shall be accurate
in scale and bearing;
      8.   Both the existing and proposed land use and zoning of the proposed
subdivision and the adjacent land, (i.e., single-family residential, multi-
family, etc., commercial, industrial, recreational, agricultural, etc.);
      9.   Contour lines, shown at five foot (5') intervals where land slope is
greater than ten percent (10%) and at two foot (2') intervals where land slope
is ten percent (10%) or less, referenced to an established benchmark, including
location and elevation;
      10.   Any sites proposed for parks, playgrounds, schools, churches or
other public uses;
      11.   Any proposed or existing utilities, both within the tract and the
areas adjacent thereto, including, but not limited to water mains, fire
hydrants, storm and sanitary sewers, and their respective sizes, directions of
flow, etc.;
      12.   The location and, when applicable, the depth, width and/or sizes of
all other important features such as railroad lines, watercourses, canals,
irrigation ditches, irrigation laterals, drainage ditches, bridges, culverts,
exceptional topography, etc., within and contiguous to the tract to be
subdivided;
      13.   The location, widths, and other required dimensions of all proposed
streets, alleys, easements, etc. The proposed names of all the streets whether
existing, new or continuous. The new street names shall not be the same or
similar to any other street names used in the City. Street name continuity
shall be maintained to the maximum extent possible from one subdivision to
another wherever the street alignment is, in fact, continuous;
      14.   Any special dedications to the public and/or special easements,
together with a statement of location, dimensions and purpose of such;
      15.   Lot lines and blocks showing the typical dimensions and numbers of
each; (Ord. 403, 7-21-1987)
      16.   A site report as required by the District Health Department where
individual wells or septic tanks are proposed;
      17.   All additional required information for special developments as
required by this Title; and
      18.   A statement as to whether or not a variance, as specified in
Chapter 7 of this Title, will be requested with respect to any provision of
this Title describing the particular provision, the variance requested, and the
reasons therefor.
   E.   Fees: All fees and costs associated with the City's review of the
preliminary plat, etc., shall be as set forth in the current subdivision fee
schedule adopted by the City.
   F.   Administration Review:
      1.   Certification: Upon receipt of the preliminary plat and all other
required data as provided for herein, the Administrator shall certify the
preliminary plat application as complete and shall sign and date same. He
shall, thereafter, place the preliminary plat on the agenda of the Technical
Review Committee for consideration at its next regular meeting which will
normally be held no less than five (5) days after said date of certification
nor more than twenty (20) days thereafter.
      2.   Review By Other Agencies: The Administrator shall refer the
preliminary plat and other applicable information to as many City departments
and/or other agencies as deemed necessary. Such departments and agencies may
include, but are not limited to, the following:
         a.   City departments (Police, Fire, Street, Water, Sewer, Parks,
Sanitation, etc.);
         b.   Other governing bodies having joint jurisdiction;
         c.   The appropriate utility companies, irrigation companies, drainage
districts; etc.;
         d.   The superintendent of the school district; and
         e.   Other agencies having an interest in the proposed subdivision.
Upon expiration of the time allowed for department and agency review, the
Administrator shall collect all recommendations, etc., from same and shall
prepare it for consideration by the Planning and Zoning Commission.
   G.   Technical Review Committee Recommendations:
      1.   The Technical Review Committee shall review the preliminary plat
from the viewpoint of the various technical disciplines represented on the
Committee.
      2.   The Technical Review Committee shall make a recommendation to the
Planning and Zoning Commission on each preliminary plat, on each special
request that is made by the subdivider and on any other items or features that
the Committee feels are significant and appropriate. The Committee's
recommendation shall include how deficiencies or shortcomings of the
preliminary plat might be overcome. (Ord. 403, 7-21-1987; amd. 1999 Code)
      3.   The preliminary plat shall be placed on the agenda of the next
regular Commission meeting after the Committee meeting.
   H.   Public Notification: Whenever the Commission feels that a proposed
subdivision or development may generate considerable public interest or
controversy or is of significant public concern, it may direct the
Administrator to notify all adjoining property owners whose names and addresses
have been provided by the subdivider that the Commission will hold a public
meeting concerning the preliminary plat of said subdivision. This notification
shall include the subject matter and the time, date and place of said meeting.
Such written notification shall be mailed at least ten (10) days prior to the
Commission meeting. The Administrator's failure to provide each adjacent
individual with such notification shall not invalidate the Commission's action,
provided the spirit of the procedure has been observed and followed.
   I.   Commission Action:
      1.   Hearing By Commission: Within a reasonable time following receipt of
the Committee's recommendation, the Commission shall review the preliminary
plat, the report from the Committee, comments from concerned persons and
agencies and the report from the Administrator to arrive at a decision on the
preliminary plat.
      2.   Commission's Findings: In determining the acceptance of a proposed
subdivision, the Commission shall consider at least the following:
         a.   The conformance of the subdivision with the Comprehensive
Development Plan;
         b.   The conformance of the subdivision with the requirements of this
Title;
         c.   The availability of public services to accommodate the proposed
development; and
         d.   Such other health, safety or environmental problems as may be
brought to the Commission's attention.
      3.   Action On Preliminary Plat: The Commission may approve, approve
conditionally, disapprove, or table the preliminary plat for additional
information. Such action shall occur within thirty (30) days of the date of the
regular meeting at which the plat is first considered by the Commission. The
action, and the reasons for such action, shall be stated in writing by the
Administrator, and forwarded to the subdivider. The Administrator shall also
forward a statement of the action taken and the reasons for such action,
together with a copy of the preliminary plat to the City Council for their
information and record. Upon granting or denying a preliminary plat, the
Commission shall specify:
         a.   The ordinance and standards used in evaluating the application;
         b.   The reasons for approval or denial; and
         c.   The recommended actions, if any, that the applicant could
subsequently take to obtain approval of the preliminary plat.
   J.   Action On Combined Preliminary And Final Plat: If the Commission agrees
to the subdivider's request for the subdivision to be considered as both a
preliminary plat and a final plat, then the Commission's review and hearing
procedures shall be the same as those hereinafter specified for a final plat.
   K.   Appeals:
      1.   Any person or aggrieved party who appeared in person or who
submitted written testimony before the Commission, or the subdivider himself,
may appeal, in writing, the decision of the Commission relative to the final
action taken by said Commission. Such appeal must be submitted to the City
Council within ten (10) days from the date of said Commission action.
      2.   Upon receipt of an appeal regarding the action of the Commission,
the City Council shall thereupon establish a hearing date to consider all
information, testimony and the Commission's minutes of the Commission's meeting
to reach a decision to uphold, conditionally uphold or overrule the decision of
said Commission. The City Council can only overrule the Commission by a
favorable vote of one-half (1/2) plus one of the full City Council. (Ord. 403,
7-21-1987)
   L.   Preliminary Plat Approval Period:
      1.   The failure of the subdivider to secure approval of a final plat
application within a two (2) year time period after the date of the
Commission's approval of the preliminary plat shall cause all approvals of said
preliminary plat to become null and void, unless an extension of time is
applied for by the subdivider and granted by the Commission.
      2.   In the event that the development of the subdivision (as represented
by the preliminary plat) is made in successive contiguous segments (represented
by final plats) in an orderly and reasonable manner, and said successive final
plats conform substantially to the approved preliminary plat, then said final
plats, if submitted within successive intervals of two (2) years or less may be
considered for final approval without resubmission of the preliminary plat for
reapproval; however, in no case shall a preliminary plat be considered as
"approved" for more than a ten (10) year period. At the end of such a ten (10)
year approval period, the Commission may request a re-review of said
preliminary plat. The subdivider will not be required to pay any preliminary
plat fees when the Commission requests a re-review of a preliminary plat at the
end of such a ten (10) year approval period; however he must abide by the
Commission's request for a re-review and must proceed through the various
procedural and approval steps heretofore outlined for acquiring the
Commission's approval of said preliminary plat. (Ord., 8-13-1991)
      3.   The subdivider may request the Commission to review a new or
modified preliminary plat of a subdivision (even though he may have Commission
approval of an existing preliminary plat for said subdivision) at any time he
wishes by proceeding through the various preliminary platting steps heretofore
outlined in this Section, including the paying of the required fees.
   M.   City Council Approval: If no appeal is brought before the City Council
as set forth in subsection K of this Section and if the Council takes no action
to disapprove or remand the preliminary plat back to the Commission within
thirty (30) days after the preliminary plat and Commission action is presented
to it by the Administrator, the subdivider may proceed to prepare a final plat
in accordance with this Title. (Ord. 403, 7-21-1987)
11-4-4: FINAL PLAT:
   A.   Application:
      1.   After the approval or conditional approval of the preliminary plat,
the subdivider may cause the total parcel, or any part thereof, to be surveyed
and a final plat prepared in accordance with the approved preliminary plat.
(Ord. 403, 7-21-1987)
      2.   Prior to the approval of any final plat that represents only a
portion of the originally approved preliminary plat, the Commission and/or the
Public Works Director may impose such conditions upon the final platting of
said portions, phases, or divisions, as it or he deems necessary to assure the
orderly development of said separately platted areas.
      3.   The subdivider shall file with the City Clerk a complete final plat
application form, final plat, and other such related data as may be required by
this Title or the City Clerk. The required number of copies of the application
form, final plat, etc., shall be as established by the Administrator. (Ord.
403, 7-21-1987; amd. 1999 Code)
   B.   Content Of Final Plat Submittal: The contents of the final plat
submittal and related information shall be in such form as may be required by
the Commission; however, any additional maps, data, or information deemed
necessary by the Administrator shall also be provided. The subdivider shall
submit to the Administrator at least the following:
      1.   A final plat application form requesting approval of the final plat.
      2.   The appropriate number of copies of the final plat of the proposed
subdivision, drawn in accordance with the requirements hereinafter stated in
subsection C of this Section.
      3.   The appropriate number of copies of the proposed final plat shelving
by color or symbol, the types of zoning that the subdivider desires for the
area contained within the final plat.
      4.   Proof of current ownership of the real property included in the
proposed final plat and such other information as the Administrator or
Commission may deem necessary to establish whether or not all proper parties
have signed and/or approved said final plat. (Ord. 403, 7-21-1987)
      5.   Subdivision street and utility improvement drawings prepared in
accordance with the requirements hereinafter stated in subsection C of this
Section and as may be required by the Public Works Director.
      6.   The annexation agreement or development agreement setting forth the
contractual obligations and agreements between the City and the subdivider.
      7.   The names and addresses of all property owners within three hundred
feet (300') of that property being considered as a final plat as such are found
on record in the County Assessor's office. Also, the names and addresses of all
other persons to whom the Commission deems it appropriate that a notice of
public hearing should be sent.
   C.   Final Plat Requirements: The final plat shall be prepared in accordance
with the requirements of Idaho Code section 50-1304. It shall be prepared in
black opaque image upon stable base drafting film with a minimum base thickness
of 0.003 inches, by either a photographic process using a silver image emulsion
or by use of a black opaque drafting film ink, applied by mechanical or
handwritten means. The drafting film and image thereon shall be waterproof,
tear-resistant, flexible, and capable of withstanding repeated handling, as
well as providing archival permanence. If ink is used on drafting film, the ink
surface shall be coated with a suitable substance to assure permanent
legibility. The drafting film must be of a type which can be reproduced by
either a photographic or diazo process. Plats shall be eighteen inches by
twenty seven inches (18" x 27") in size, with a three and one- half inch (31/
2") margin at the left end for binding and a one- half inch (1/2") margin on
all other edges. No part of the drawing or certificates shall encroach upon the
margins. Signatures may be in reproducible black ink. The sheet or sheets which
contain the drawing or diagram representing the survey of the subdivision shall
be drawn at a scale suitable to ensure the clarity of all lines, bearings, and
dimensions. In the event that any subdivision is of such magnitude that the
drawing or diagram cannot be placed on a single sheet, serially numbered sheets
shall be prepared and match lines shall be indicated on the drawing or diagram
with appropriate references to other sheets. The required dedications,
acknowledgements and certifications shall appear on one of the serially
numbered sheets. (Ord. 403, 7-21-1987; amd. 1999 Code)
The plat shall be so drawn that the top of the sheet either faces north or
west, preferably north, whichever accommodates the drawing best.
The plat shall be drawn on a scale not smaller than one inch equals one hundred
feet (1" = 100') and shall clearly show all details. The workmanship on the
finished drawing shall be neat, clearcut, and easily readable.
The following information shall be contained upon the final plat in the
completeness, form, and accuracy limits set forth herein:
      1.   The name of the subdivision shall be set forth in bold letters at
the top of the sheet. The title shall also include the name of the City,
County, and State, and the designation of the section, township, and range in
which the subdivision is located. The name of the subdivision must not bear the
name of any other similar town or addition in the County, nor can the same word
or words similar or pronounced the same, be used in making a name for said
addition, except the words city, place, court, addition or similar words,
unless the same is contiguous and laid out and platted by the same party or
parties platting the addition bearing the same name, or a party files and
records the written consent of the party or parties who platted the addition
bearing the same name. All plats of the same name must continue the block
numbers of the plat previously filed.
      2.   The north point and scale of the plat and date.
      3.   The boundaries of the subdivision must be accurately drawn and the
proper bearings and dimensions of all boundary lines shall be clearly shown
thereon. These lines should be slightly heavier than the street or lot lines.
      4.   The subdivision shall be tied to at least two (2) governmental
survey corners, or in lieu of government survey corners, to monuments
recognized by the City surveyor.
      5.   The location, width, and names of all existing or dedicated streets,
alleys, or other public ways within or adjacent to the proposed subdivision.
      6.   The names and boundaries of all subdivisions which have been
previously recorded and which are adjacent thereto, must be shown upon the
plat. These adjacent subdivisions, subdivision streets, etc., shall be
indicated by dotted lines to show their relationship to the plat offered for
record. If adjoining land is unplatted, it should be indicated as such.
      7.   The location, dimension, and purpose of all easements.
      8.   The blocks shall be numbered consecutively throughout the entire
subdivision and the lots numbered consecutively throughout each block. Areas to
be excluded from platting shall be marked "Reserved" or "Not a Part" or
"Exclusion".
      9.   Any property, other than streets or alleys, which is offered for
dedication for public use shall be fully dimensioned by lengths and bearings,
with the area marked, "Public" and showing the proposed use.
      10.   All tract or subdivision boundary lines, property lines, lot lines,
street rights of way and center lines, alley lines, and other rights-of-way and
easement lines; also the boundaries, bearings and dimensions of all tracts of
land within the subdivision which are intended to be dedicated for the use of
the public, shall all be delimited with accurate dimensions in feet and
decimals thereof, and bearings in degrees, minutes, and seconds all to the
accuracy limits set forth below:
         a.   All linear dimensions shall be calculated to the nearest one-
hundredth of a foot (0.01'); and
         b.   All bearings shall be calculated to one second of arc. The radii,
arcs, central angles, tangents, and chord lengths shall be shown for all
curves.
      11.   The location of all monuments shall be shown. Monuments are
required and shall be shown at all street center line point of curve and point
of tangent locations, at the point of intersection of the center lines of
intersecting streets, at all points along the exterior boundary of the
subdivision where said boundary line changes direction, and at all lot corners.
(Ord. 403, 7-21-1987)
      12.   All bearings shown on the final plat shall conform to City datum.
All points requiring monuments as set forth above shall, if directed by the
Public Works Director have the coordinates for said point calculated based on
the State Plane Coordinate System, Rigby datum, and shown on said plat.
      13.   Certification by the registered land surveyor preparing the plat
certifying to the accuracy of said survey and plat.
      14.   Certification by the owner, covering the dedication of all street
and alley rights of way and sites for public use, and the granting of any
easements shown on the plat. This shall include a notary public's
acknowledgement of same.
      15.   Certification and signature of the City surveyor verifying that the
accuracy of the survey and plat complies with the requirements of the laws of
the State and the City.
      16.   Certification and signature of the Mayor and City Clerk, verifying
that the subdivision has been approved by the Council.
      17.   Signature of the Public Works Director approving the subdivision.
      18.   Sanitary restriction by District Health Department.
   D.   Number Of Copies Of Final Plat:
      1.   An original and at least three (3) drafting film copies of the final
plat shall be prepared. These shall be distributed as follows:
      County Recorder - original plus one copy
      Public Works Director - one copy
      Subdivider's engineer - one copy
      2.   All copies shall meet the basic requirements set forth in subsection
C of this Section.
   E.   City Surveyor Designated: The City shall choose and require a surveyor,
legally qualified to perform land surveying in Idaho, to sufficiently check the
plat and all computations thereon to determine that the requirements herein are
met, and said surveyor shall certify such compliance on the plat. For
performing such service, the City shall collect from the subdivider a fee as
set forth in the current subdivision fee schedule adopted by the City.
   F.   Coordinate Computations Required: When the final plat is submitted to
the City surveyor, a computation select showing the calculated coordinates on
all points based on the State Plane Coordinate System, Rigby datum, shall
accompany said plat.
   G.   Dedications Required; Hearing:
      1.   All streets, alleys, general street or utility easements and
pedestrian walkway easements within the subdivision must be dedicated for
public use.
      2.   Dedication of all other public parks or open space within the
subdivision will be required in accordance with the Master Plan of the City.
When this Plan calls for a larger amount of space than the subdivider can be
reasonably expected to dedicate, the land needed beyond the subdivider's fair
contribution is to be reserved for acquisition by the City, provided such
acquisition is made within five (5) years from the date of approval.
      3.   The action of the Mayor and Council in exercising this power to
compel dedication of public open space shall take place only after a public
hearing has been held on the matter. Anyone aggrieved by the decision of the
Mayor and Council may have the decision reviewed by a court of competent
jurisdiction.
   H.   Monuments Required: The type and location of all monuments shall be as
follows:
      1.   Monuments of concrete with a brass cap conforming to City standards,
and installed to City standards shall be set at all street center line point of
curve and point of tangent locations, and at the point of intersection of the
center lines of intersecting streets.
      2.   All points on the exterior boundary of the subdivision where said
boundary line changes direction shall be marked with monuments either of
concrete (with a brass cap conforming to City standards), galvanized iron pipe
not less than one inch (1") in diameter and thirty inches (30") long with a
brass cap thereon, or iron or steel rods not less than five-eighths inch (5/8")
in least dimension and thirty inches (30") long, or as otherwise approved by
the Public Works Director.
      3.   Points shall be plainly and permanently marked upon all of the
above-referenced monuments so that measurements taken therefrom may be acquired
to an accuracy of one-hundredth of a foot (1/100'). These monuments and the
points thereon shall be existing at the time of the City's final acceptance of
the subdivision improvements.
      4.   All lot corners shall be marked with monuments of either galvanized
iron pipe or iron or steel rods (at least 1/2 inch in diameter), and being at
least two feet (2') long. These lot markers shall all be existing at the time
of the City's final acceptance of the subdivision improvements.
   I.   Accuracy Requirements: All dimensions, both linear and angular, shall
be staked in the field by an accurate control survey which must balance and
close within a limit of one in fifty thousand (50,000).
   J.   Amended Plats: Amended plats must be filed as per an original final
plat. In the event a final plat of a subdivision has been recorded and any
changes thereto are contemplated which will change the subdivision materially,
the subdivision upon which such changes are contemplated must be vacated and an
amended plat filed in accordance with the regulations set forth in this Title.
Any proposed changes in street or alley locations will require an amended plat.
Any contemplated or actual selling of partial lots which have (or could have)
the effect of increasing the number of building sites in excess of the number
of platted lots shall require an amended plat. The Public Works Director shall
determine when an amended plat is required.
   K.   Fees: All fees and costs associated with the City's review of the final
plat, etc., shall be as set forth in the current subdivision fee schedule
adopted by the City.
   L.   Administrator Action:
      1.   Resubmittal Of Final Plat: The Administrator shall review the final
plat for compliance with the approved (or conditionally approved) preliminary
plat. If the Administrator determines that there is a substantial difference in
the final plat from that which was approved as a preliminary plat (or
conditions which have not been met), the Administrator shall require that the
final plat be resubmitted to the Technical Review Committee and Commission in
the same manner as required in the preliminary plat process.
      2.   Acceptance Of Final Plat Application: If upon receipt of the final
plat, the Administrator finds that all requirements provided for herein have
been complied with, he shall approve the final plat application as being
complete and shall sign and date same.
      3.   Submission To Commission: Upon his determination that the final plat
is in compliance with the preliminary plat and that all conditional
requirements have been met, the Administrator shall place the final plat on the
Commission agenda within forty five (45) days from the date on which said
acceptable final plat application was acknowledged by the Administrator.
   M.   Technical Committee And Agency Review: The Administrator shall transmit
one copy of the final plat and other related documents submitted therewith, to
such other departments and agencies as he deems necessary for their review and
recommendations to ensure compliance with the preliminary plat approval and/or
conditions of the preliminary plat approval. Such agencies may include the
following:
      1.   City Departments (Police, Fire, Street, Water, Sewer, Parks,
Sanitation, etc.);
      2.   Other governing bodies having joint jurisdiction;
      3.   The appropriate utility companies, irrigation companies or districts
and drainage districts;
      4.   The superintendent of the school district; and
      5.   Other agencies having an interest in the proposed subdivision.
   N.   Technical Review Committee Recommendation:
      1.   If submitted to the Technical Review Committee by the Administrator,
the Committee shall review the final plat from the viewpoint of the technical
disciplines represented on the Committee.
      2.   The Technical Review Committee shall make a recommendation to the
Commission on each final plat, on each special request that is made by the
subdivider, and on any other items or features that the Committee feels are
significant and appropriate. The Committee's recommendation shall include how
deficiencies or shortcomings of the final plat might be overcome.
      3.   After review by the Technical Committee, the final plat shall be
placed on the agenda of the next regular Commission meeting which is held not
less than fourteen (14) days after said Technical Committee meeting.
   O.   Public Hearing Notice Required:
      1.   If the Planning and Zoning Commission is considering a final plat
(or an unplatted area) and said areas are being proposed for initial zoning, or
a zone change, or annexation, the Commission shall hold one or more public
hearings as required under Idaho Code sections 67-6509, 67-6511 and 67-6525
regarding the zoning and annexation of said area. (Ord. 403, 7-21-1987; amd.
1999 Code)
      2.   At least fifteen (15) days prior to the required public hearing, a
notice of the time, date, and place, a summary of the subject matter to be
discussed, and where appropriate, a property description or map delimiting the
area being considered, shall be published in the official newspaper of the
City. The Commission shall also make available a "notice" to other newspapers,
radio, and television stations serving the City for their use as a public
service announcement. Following the Commission hearing, if the Commission makes
or requires a material change from that published or presented, a further
notice and hearing shall be provided before the Commission forwards its
recommendation to the City Council.
   P.   Property Owner Notification:
      1.   If the area under consideration by the Commission is being
considered for initial zoning (upon annexation to the City) or for a zoning
change, the Commission shall, in addition to the public hearing notice set
forth above, provide written notification (by mail) to all property owners and
residents having property or residing within the area being so considered and
also to all property owners and residents within three hundred feet (300') of
the external boundaries of the land being so considered; also, any additional
area that may be impacted by the proposed change as such area may be determined
by the Commission. When such notice is required to two hundred (200) or more
property owners or residents, alternate forms of notification (in lieu of
mailed notice) which will still provide adequate notice to said property owners
or residents may be specified and utilized by the Commission.
      2.   This notification shall include a brief summary of the subject
matter to be discussed, a map showing the area being considered if such is
deemed necessary by the Commission, and the time, date, and place of said
meeting. This notification shall be mailed, or otherwise brought to the above-
referenced property owners' and residents' attention, at least ten (10) days
prior to the Commission meeting. The Administrator's failure to provide each
individual property owner or resident with such individual notification shall
not invalidate the Commission's action, provided the spirit of the procedure
has been observed and followed.
   Q.   Commission Action:
      1.   Hearing By Commission: Within a reasonable time following the
receipt of the Technical Committee's recommendation and within the time frame
required for the required public hearing and property owner notification as set
forth above, the Commission shall review the final plat, the report from the
Technical Committee, comments from concerned persons and agencies, and the
report from the Administrator to arrive at a decision on the final plat.
      2.   Commission's Findings: In determining the acceptance of the final
plat of a proposed subdivision, the Commission shall consider at least the
following:
         a.   The conformance of the subdivision with the Comprehensive
Development Plan;
         b.   The conformance of the subdivision with the requirements of this
Subdivision Title;
         c.   The availability of public services to accommodate the proposed
development; and
         d.   Any other health, safety or environmental problems that may be
brought to the Commission's attention.
      3.   Action On Final Plat: The Commission may approve, approve
conditionally, disapprove, or table the final plat for additional information.
Such action shall occur within thirty (30) days of the date of the regular
meeting at which the plat is first considered by the Commission. The action,
and the reasons for such action, shall be stated in writing, by the
Administrator, and forwarded to the subdivider. Upon reaching a final decision
to approve or disapprove a final plat, the Commission shall specify:
         a.   The ordinances, standards, and criteria used in evaluating the
application;
         b.   The reasons for approval or disapproval; and
         c.   The recommended actions, if any, that the subdivider could
subsequently take to obtain approval of the final plat.
The above action and information shall be stated in writing, by the
Administrator, and forwarded to the subdivider. The Administrator shall also
forward a statement of the action taken and the reasons for such action,
together with a copy of the final plat to the Mayor and City Council for their
information and action if such is required.
   R.   Appeals:
      1.   Any person or aggrieved party who appeared in person or who
submitted written testimony before the Commission, or the subdivider himself,
may appeal, in writing, the decision of the Commission relative to the final
action taken by said Commission. Such appeal must be submitted to the City
Council (via the Administrator) within twenty (20) days from the date of said
Commission's final action. Upon receipt of an appeal regarding the action of
the Commission, the City Council shall thereupon establish a hearing date to
consider all information, testimony and the minutes of the Commission's meeting
to reach a decision to uphold, conditionally uphold, or override the decision
of said Commission. The City Council can only overrule the Commission's action
by a favorable vote of one-half (1/2) plus one of the full City Council.
      2.   If the subject property (subject of the appeal) is scheduled to come
before the City Council for final plat approval, annexation to the City, etc.,
then the above-referenced appeal and all related information shall be heard and
presented to the City Council at said regularly scheduled hearing or meeting.
Provided, however, that Council action on an appeal must take place within
ninety (90) days from the date on which the Administrator, on behalf of the
Mayor and/or Council, received said appeal. (Ord. 403, 7-21-1987)
   S.   Approval Period: The Commission's approval of the final plat shall be
valid for only a period of two (2) years from the date of said Commission's
approval, unless an extension of time is applied for by the subdivider and
granted by the Commission. (Ord., 8-13-1991)
   T.   City Council Action:
      1.   Public Hearing Notice And Property Owner Notification: The
requirements governing the need for a notice of public hearing and property
owner notification as such are set forth in subsections O and P of this Section
for the Commission (and Idaho Code sections 50-901, 67-6509, 67-6511, 67-6525)
shall apply to all comparable Council meetings, hearings, and actions.
      2.   Appeals; Disapproval: If an appeal is brought before the City
Council as set forth above and, after hearing all evidence and testimony
associated therewith, the Council does not agree with the action taken by the
Commission on said final plat, or if it, of its own volition, does not agree
with the action taken by the Commission on the final plat, or if it does not
agree with certain aspects or the entirety of said final plat, then the City
Council may, by a favorable vote of one-half (1/2) plus one of the full City
Council, remand said final plat back to the Commission for further
consideration or it may disapprove and reject said final plat.
      3.   City Approval:
         a.   The final plat will be brought before the City Council for its
final review and approval only upon a finding by the Administrator that all of
the following are complete, available, and/or have been complied with:
            (1)   Final plat complete and approved by the Commission (or by the
Council, if the Commission has overruled a disapproval of the Commission), the
City surveyor, and the Public Works Director.
            (2)   The subdivision improvement drawings complete and approved by
the Public Works Director.
            (3)   Annexation agreement or development agreement complete and
approved by Public Works Director and City Attorney.
            (4)   Performance bond (including cost estimate of all
improvements) complete and approved by the Public Works Director and City
Attorney.
            (5)   Notice of public hearing advertised and property owner
notifications written or otherwise properly taken care of as required by this
Title and Idaho Code sections 67-6509, 67-6511, and 67-6525.
         b.   At a duly called regular or special meeting following receipt of
the above-listed information and items from the Administrator, and after
hearing the Commission's report, reports from any concerned City personnel, the
subdivider's comments, and comments or information from any other concerned
persons or agencies, the Council may approve, approve conditionally,
disapprove, or table any action on the final plat and other related documents
for further information, study, and consideration; however, final Council
action on said final plat and related documents shall take place within forty
(40) days of the date of that meeting at which the final plat was first
considered. Upon approving or disapproving the final plat, the Council shall
specify:
            (1)   The ordinance and standards used in evaluating the
application;
            (2)   The reasons for approval or disapproval; and
            (3)   The actions, if any, that the subdivider could take to obtain
approval of said plat.
   U.   Filing Of Final Plat And Related Documents: Upon approval of the final
plat and related documents by the Council, the City surveyor or Public Works
Director shall see that the same are all properly signed by the Mayor and City
Clerk, and the District Health Department and shall, thereupon, take same to
the County Recorder for recording. The original and all copies of the final
plat shall receive the County Recorder's attestation of recording and shall be
redistributed as set forth in subsection D of this Section.
   V.   Annexation And Zoning Ordinances: Concurrently with or immediately
following the approval of the final plat and the adoption of an ordinance of
annexation, the Council shall amend the Zoning Ordinance as such action may be
required. (Ord. 403, 7-21-1987; amd. 1999 Code)
CHAPTER 5
DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS
SECTION:
11-5-1: Minimum Design And Construction Standards Required
11-5-2: General Street Location, Arrangement And Miscellaneous Items
11-5-3: Street Widths
11-5-4: [Reserved]
11-5-5: Street Grades
11-5-6: Street Alignment And Curvature
11-5-7: Street Ballast Depths
11-5-8: Street Names
11-5-9: Intersections
11-5-10: Sidewalks
11-5-11: Driveway Approaches
11-5-12: Vehicle Parking
11-5-13: Alleys
11-5-14: Easements
11-5-15: Blocks
11-5-16: Lots
11-5-17: Reserve Strips
11-5-18: Delivery Of Irrigation Water
11-5-19: Irrigation Facilities
11-5-1: MINIMUM DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS REQUIRED:
All final plats and subdivision improvement drawings submitted pursuant to the
provisions of this Title, and all subdivision improvements and facilities done,
constructed or made in accordance with said plat, subdivision improvement
drawings and these provisions shall comply with the minimum design standards
set forth hereinafter in this Title and in the water, sanitary sewer, storm
drain, and other related City ordinances and shall be in accordance with the
City standard specifications and standard drawings governing the construction
of all street, water line, sanitary sewer, and storm drain facilities.
Provided, however, that where there is any conflict between these standards and
requirements and any higher standards required by the County, Idaho Division of
Highways, Idaho Department of Health and Welfare, District Health Department,
or other such governmental agency, then said higher standard requirements shall
prevail over those set forth herein. It is further recognized that the
standards and requirements set forth herein are only very general in nature and
that further, more specific and more detailed standards, requirements,
procedures, and policies may be adopted by the Council and/or established by
the Public Works Director and that such subsequent standards, requirements,
procedures, and policies shall be followed and complied with; provided, that
they reflect the general intent of this Title and do not allow items,
facilities, or features of a lessor quality or standard than those established
and set forth herein. (Ord. 403, 7-21-1987; amd. 1999 Code)
11-5-2: GENERAL STREET LOCATION, ARRANGEMENT AND MISCELLANEOUS ITEMS:
General street location and arrangement shall conform to the following:
   A.   Official Street Plan: All arterial and collector streets shall conform
to the Official Street Plan or Comprehensive Development Plan.
   B.   Minor Streets: Minor streets shall be so arranged as to discourage
their use by through traffic. The rigid rectangular gridiron street pattern
need not be adhered to, and the use of curvilinear streets, cul-de-sacs, or U-
shaped streets is encouraged where such use will result in a more desirable
layout.
   C.   Stub Streets: Where adjoining areas are not yet subdivided, the
arrangement of streets in any new subdivisions shall be such that certain
streets are extended to the boundary line of said subdivision to make
provisions for the future extension of said streets into adjacent future
subdivisions. A reserve strip may be required and held in public ownership. If
the "stub street" is more than two hundred feet (200'), long then a temporary
cul-de- sac or turnaround area may be required on the end thereof. The
temporary turnaround may be either "T" shaped or a normal cul-de- sac shape.
The normal street right of way shall be extended to the boundary line of the
subdivision with a note on the plat that the right of way or easement area
required for the temporary turnaround shall revert to the adjacent property
owners whenever the street is ultimately extended. The subdivider shall be
financially responsible for both the temporary turnaround and the permanent
street improvements to the subdivision boundary.
   D.   Relation To Topography: Streets shall be arranged in proper relation to
topography so as to result in usable lots, safe streets and acceptable street
and driveway grades.
   E.   Alleys: Alleys shall be provided in multiple dwelling or commercial
subdivisions unless other provisions are made for service access and off-street
loading and parking and garbage collection. Dead-end alleys shall be prohibited
in all cases.
   F.   Access To Major Arterials: Where a subdivision borders on or contains
an existing or proposed major County line road or other designated arterial,
access thereto shall, wherever possible, be limited by one of the following
means:
      1.   The subdivision shall be platted so the lots back onto the arterial
and front onto a local street; no access shall be provided from the arterial
and screening shall be provided along the rear property line of such lots.
      2.   A series of cul-de-sacs, U-shaped streets, or short loops entered
from and designed generally at right angles to such a parallel street, with the
rear lines of their terminal lots backing onto the major arterial. No access
shall be provided from or to the arterial and screening shall be provided along
the rear property line of such lots.
      3.   A marginal access or service road (separated from the arterial by a
grass strip and having access thereto at designated suitable points).
      4.   Whenever individual property access is provided or allowed to any
major arterial street, section line road, or other designated arterial street,
the minimum building setback line for any building being constructed adjacent
thereto shall be sixty five feet (65') from the proposed street right-of-way
line. The driveway(s) to and from said building and the off-street parking
facilities associated therewith shall be so arranged and located that all
vehicles shall both enter from and exit onto said arterial street in a forward
direction. (Ord. 403, 7-21-1987)
   G.   Cul-De-Sac Streets: Cul-de-sac streets shall not be more than four
hundred feet (400') in length and shall terminate with an adequate turnaround
having a minimum curb diameter of one hundred five feet (105') back-of- curb to
back-of-curb and a street property line diameter of at least one hundred feet
(100'). Other special turnaround layouts or arrangements may be allowed with
the approval of the Public Works Director and City Council, provided said other
layouts or arrangements provide for turnaround capabilities at least equal to
that of the referenced one hundred seventeen foot (117') diameter cul-de-sac.
      1.   Materials: Geotextile Fabric:
         a.   The geotextile shall meet the most recent requirements of AASHTO
M 288 with Class 2 survivability. No slit film and/or heat rolled geotextiles
shall be allowed. The geotextile type (Subgrade Separation, Drainage, Erosion
Control) shall be specified in the plans and/or special provisions.
         b.   During periods of shipment and storage, the geotextile shall be
placed in a dry area off the ground and protected from damage and it shall also
be kept in an opaque, heavy-duty protective covering.
         c.   Sewn seams may be used in lieu of overlaps and shall meet the
most recent requirements of AASHTO M 288.
         d.   Certification: The contractor shall furnish the geotextile
manufacturer’s certified test results attesting that the geotextile meets the
requirements stated in these specifications. The certification shall include
the following information about each geotextile to be used.
            (1)   Manufacturer’s name and current address;
            (2)   Full product name;
            (3)   Style, merge, or product code number;
            (4)   Geotextile roll number;
            (5)   Geotextile polymer type;
            (6)   Proposed geotextile use(s); and
            (7)   Certified test results.
         e.   The certification shall give the name and address of the testing
agency and the date of tests, and shall set forth the means of identification,
including lot number, which will permit field determination of the product
delivered to the project as being the product covered by the certification.
         f.   All geotextile property requirements stated herein are minimum
average roll values. The tensile strengths shall be determined in both machine
and cross-machine directions.
   H.   Half Or Partial Streets: Half or partial streets shall be prohibited
except where unusual circumstances make such partial streets necessary for the
reasonable development of a tract in conformance with this Title and where
satisfactory assurance for dedication of the remaining part of the street is
provided. Whenever a tract to be subdivided borders on an existing half or
partial street, the other part of the street shall be dedicated with the
subdivision and development of said tract.
   I.   Private Streets: Private streets and roads shall be prohibited except
within planned unit developments and other similar type developments where
continued street maintenance, snow plowing, etc., can be assured by said
private development organization. Private streets shall be designed and
constructed to basically the same standards and requirements as those
established for public streets.
   J.   Arrangement: Street and alley arrangements must be such as to cause no
undue hardship to owners of adjoining property when they plat their land and
seek to provide for convenient access thereto. The street and alley arrangement
must also provide for the continuation of a reasonable number of utility lines.
All streets shall be laid out and aligned so they are properly related to
traffic generators; to population densities; and to the existing and planned
land use patterns. All streets shall be integrated with the existing and
proposed transportation network. The alignment and width of previously platted
and developed streets shall be continued except where physical conditions or
new requirements make a modification advisable.
   K.   Streets In Industrial And Commercial Areas: In commercial and
industrial developments, the streets and other access ways shall be planned in
connection with the grouping of buildings, location of rail facilities, and the
provision of alleys, truck loading and maneuvering areas, walks and parking
areas so as to minimize conflict of movement between the various types of
traffic, including pedestrian.
   L.   Traffic Control: The subdivider shall provide traffic signals,
channelization and lane additions when the traffic generation from his
development is sufficient to warrant said improvements within a five (5) year
period, all in accordance with the standards of the Manual on Uniform Traffic
Control Devices for Streets and Highways.
   M.   Prohibition Of Signs: Only authorized and official signs shall be
permitted to be placed, displayed or maintained within the right of way of any
public street or alley.
   N.   Position Of Mailboxes: Mailboxes shall be grouped or clustered at
convenient intervals and locations outside of the public street or alley rights
of way. Mailbox clusters shall be located far enough from street intersections
so that the traffic to and from said mailbox clusters does not create a traffic
hazard at adjacent intersections.  (Ord. 403, 7-21-1987; amd. 1999 Code; Ord.
2019-603, 5-16-2019)
11-5-3: STREET WIDTHS:
   A.   Street Curbed Or Paved Widths: Minimum width of streets measured from
back-of-curb to back-of-curb or edge-of-oil shall be as shown on the approved
typical section sheets on file in the Public Works Director's office and/or as
shown on the approved subdivision improvement drawings. In general, these
widths are as follows:
 
Highway And Street Types        Curbed or Paved Widths Right-of- Way Widths
                                                      
Major arterial                  90 feet or more        114 or more feet
Existing arterial in existing   67 feet                90 feet
built-up area
Industrial or commercial street 48 feet                70 feet
Collector or secondary streets  48 feet                70 feet
Minor streets and cul-de-sacs   42 feet                70 feet
 
      2.   The above stated widths may be increased as required at
intersections to provide the additional lane widths and lengths needed at said
intersections.
   B.   Street Right-Of-Way Widths:
      1.   Requirements And Specifications: A street with a seventy-foot (70')
right-of-way width is permissible only in single-family residential zones where
no more than twenty (20) lots are to be served on a cul-de-sac street or where
no more than forty (40) lots are to be served on a loop street. A street with a
seventy foot (70') right-of-way width is required for all other residential or
other type zones; for all streets adjacent to institutional uses (churches,
schools, public and quasi-public buildings) in any zone; and for all streets
where the criteria outlined above for seventy foot (70') streets is not met.
Streets serving any commercial or industrial zoned area where large volumes of
vehicular traffic and/or large numbers of trucks are to be expected shall have
a seventy foot (70') right-of-way width. Collector streets having at least a
seventy foot (70') right-of-way width as set forth above and a reasonably
straight alignment shall be provided approximately every one-fourth (1/4) mile.
The alignment of these collector streets and the adjacent streets feeding into
them shall be such that the collector street(s) collect the traffic from the
adjacent local streets and carry it expeditiously to the adjacent arterials.
   C.   Collector Streets: Collector streets may function with two (2) lanes of
vehicular traffic and "on-street" vehicle parking or with four (4) lanes of
traffic and no "on-street" vehicle parking, depending upon the size of the area
served and the amount of traffic generated within the area being served by the
collector. (Ord. 403, 7-21-1987; amd. Ord. 2025-650, 1-23-2025)
11-5-4: [RESERVED]:
11-5-5: STREET GRADES:
   A.   Streets shall be constructed with a minimum street grade of at least
forty hundredths percent (0.40%) on straight or gently curved sections of
street.
   B.   On sharp curves (R = 100 feet or less) and around intersection corners
the minimum allowable street grade shall be sixty one- hundredths percent
(0.60%).
   C.   Street cross-drains (valley gutters) shall have a minimum grade of at
least one percent (1.0%).
   D.   Maximum street grades shall not exceed ten percent (10%) for local or
minor streets, six percent (6%) for collector or secondary streets, and four
percent (4%) for arterial streets.
   E.   Where existing facilities, rock excavations, or other truly unusual
features or circumstances are encountered, grades flatter or steeper than those
listed above may be used if the Public Works Director finds that the use of
such flatter or steeper grades is the best way of resolving the problems
associated with said unusual and unique circumstances or conditions. (Ord. 403,
7-21-1987; amd. 1999 Code)
11-5-6: STREET ALIGNMENT AND CURVATURE:
   A.   Horizontal Alignment: When street center lines deflect from each other
by more than five degrees (5°) in alignment, the center lines shall be
connected by a curve having a minimum radius as follows:
      2,865 feet for a major arterial
      1,145 feet for any arterial street
      475 feet for collector or secondary streets
      80 feet for local or minor streets
Between reverse curves on collector and arterial streets, there shall be a
minimum tangent distance of at least two hundred feet (200').
   B.   Vertical Alignment: Minimum stopping sight distances shall be two
hundred feet (200') for minor streets and designed in accordance with a design
speed of thirty five (35) miles per hour for collector streets and fifty (50)
miles per hour for arterial streets. (Ord. 403, 7-21-1987)
11-5-7: STREET BALLAST DEPTHS:
   A.   Depths Established: Street ballast depths (i.e., compacted depths of
plant mix pavement and crushed gravel) for normal subgrade conditions and soils
shall be as follows:
Low traffic volume residential streets       2 inch plant mix and
                                             6 inch crushed gravel
High volume residential collector streets    3 inch plant mix and
                                             6 inch crushed gravel
Low volume commercial or industrial streets  3 inch plant mix and
                                             6 inch crushed gravel
High volume commercial or industrial streets 3 1/2 inch plant mix and
                                             8 inch crushed gravel
Arterial streets                             4 inch plant mix and
                                             10 inch crushed gravel
 
   B.   Change Approved By City: Where unusually good or poor subgrade soils
are encountered or where exceptionally high or low traffic volumes are
anticipated or projected, the above-listed ballast depths may be changed as
approved or required by the Public Works Director. Any such ballast depth
changes shall be based upon documented test results showing the actual strength
("R" value and other required test data) of the on-site subgrade soils and/or
the calculated traffic volumes for the street.
   C.   Final Depths Shown On Plans: The final approved ballast depths shall be
those shown on the subdivision improvement plans. (Ord. 403, 7-21-1987; amd.
1999 Code)
11-5-8: STREET NAMES:
The naming of streets shall conform to the following:
   A.   Duplication Of Existing Names Prohibited: Street names shall not
duplicate any existing street name within the County except where a new street
is a continuation of an existing street. Street names that may be spelled
differently but sound the same as existing streets shall not be used.
   B.   Rules For Naming: All new streets shall be named as follows: streets
having predominantly north-south direction shall be named "Avenue" or "Road";
streets having a predominantly east-west direction shall be named "Street" or
"Way"; meandering streets shall be named "Drive", "Lane", "Path" or "Trail",
and cul-de- sacs shall be named "Circle", "Court", and "Place".
   C.   Street Signs: Street name signs shall be furnished and installed by the
subdivider in accordance with City specifications. The subdivider may name
streets subject to approval of the City Council.
   D.   Other Signs And Barricades: All other types of signs and barricades
required in the subdivision shall also be furnished and installed by the
subdivider in accordance with City specifications and the Manual on Uniform
Traffic Control Devices. (Ord. 403, 7-21-1987)
11-5-9: INTERSECTIONS:
Intersections shall conform to the following:
   A.   Angle Of Intersection: Streets shall intersect at ninety degrees (90°)
or closely thereto as possible, and in no case shall streets intersect at less
than seventy five degrees (75°) unless said lesser angle of intersection has
been approved by the Public Works Director as being the best way to handle or
solve a unique situation or set of circumstances.
   B.   Sight Triangles: Minimum clear sight distance at all minor street
intersections shall permit vehicles to be visible to the carrier of another
vehicle when each is one hundred feet (100') from the center of the
intersection.
   C.   Number Of Streets: No more than two (2) streets shall cross at any one
intersection.
   D.   T Intersections: T intersections may be used whenever such design will
not restrict the free movement of traffic.
   E.   Street Center Line Offsets: Street center lines shall be offset by a
distance of at least the following:
 
Street To Offsets Along Minimum  Desirable
Minor street            125 feet 160 feet
Collector street        300 feet 400 feet
Arterial street         400 feet 600 feet
Major arterial street   Approximately 1,320 feet but requires Public Works
                        Director's approval.
 
   F.   Vertical Alignment Of Intersection: A relatively flat grade is
desirable within intersections and approximately one hundred feet (100') each
way from the intersection. A maximum intersection approach grade of two percent
(2%) is allowable in rolling terrain, and four percent (4%) in hilly terrain.
   G.   Curbs At Street Intersections; Handicap Accessible: Curbs at street
intersections shall be rounded with curves having a minimum radius of twenty
five feet (25') or such larger radius as is shown on the subdivision
improvement drawings. The curb and sidewalk shall be depressed at all
intersection corners to accommodate the handicapped. (Ord. 403, 7-21-1987; amd.
1999 Code)
11-5-10: SIDEWALKS:
   A.   Minimum Requirements: Sidewalks shall be a minimum of five feet (5') in
width and may be required to be of a greater width in areas near shopping
centers, schools, or where pedestrian traffic may otherwise warrant a greater
width. Sidewalk cross slope, thickness and the construction thereof shall be as
required in the City standard specifications and standard drawings.
   B.   Easements And Cul-De-Sacs: Concrete sidewalks for pedestrian walkways
through easements at mid-block, cul-de-sacs or other approved or required
locations shall be not less than six feet (6') in width, and shall be required
where deemed essential to provide circulation or access to schools,
playgrounds, shopping areas, transportation, or any other community facility.
(Ord. 403, 7-21-1987)
11-5-11: DRIVEWAY APPROACHES:
   A.   Driveway Widths:
      1.   Residential driveways shall have a minimum width of sixteen feet
(16') and a maximum width of forty feet (40'). All other driveways (multi-
family, commercial, etc.) shall have a minimum width of twenty five feet (25')
and a maximum width of forty feet (40').
      2.   No more than one-half (1/2) of the property frontage along any
street can be utilized for driveway purposes along that street. The above
stated driveway widths indicate the "fully depressed" portion of the driveway.
That is, the tapered or transition sections (from full height curb to depressed
curb) on both sides of the driveway widths.
      3.   Where individual private driveways are permitted along arterial
streets, said driveway approaches shall be limited to the fewest number
possible to provide access to the adjacent property.
   B.   Concrete Thickness: Driveways to single-family residences shall have a
concrete thickness of not less than four inches (4") and need not be reinforced
with reinforcing steel. Driveways to all buildings or establishments other than
single-family residences shall have a concrete thickness of not less than six
inches (6") and shall be reinforced with reinforcing steel. Driveway layout,
concrete depths, amount of reinforcing steel, etc., shall be in accordance with
the standard drawings.
   C.   Concrete Driveway Slab Required: All driveway approaches shall have a
concrete driveway slab at least five feet (5') wide (perpendicular to the curb
line) for the full length of and immediately adjacent to the depressed driveway
curb and gutter (even when concrete sidewalk is not required in an area) to
protect said depressed curb and gutter from tilting, damage, and distortion due
to vehicular traffic using the driveway. Asphalt paving, gravel, dirt, or other
such driveway material is not permitted immediately adjacent to the concrete
curb and gutter. Effective May 1, 2004, in areas zoned R-1, with the approval
of the Rigby planning and zoning administrator, the city may allow roll back
curbing. Such curbing shall void the need for the depressed driveway curb and
gutter.
   D.   Prohibited Locations: Driveways shall not be located on a corner or so
near thereto as to constitute a traffic hazard. Where any street corner right
of way lines have not been rounded off by a connection radius line, the edge of
any proposed driveway shall be kept at least twenty five feet (25') back from
the apex of the corner formed by said right of way lines so that the driveway
will not be located within the corner area when said corner is rounded off. The
edge of any driveway shall be kept at least five feet (5') from any property
line. Private driveways shall be prohibited on all controlled access streets as
such are designated by the council and shall be kept to an absolute minimum on
all arterial streets.
   E.   Utility Or Landscaping Strips: Where utility or landscaping (trees,
plantings, lawn, etc.) strips are located between the curb and gutter and the
adjacent sidewalk, the concrete driveway slab shall be constructed across same
at each driveway location. Where the utility or landscaping strip is six feet
(6') or more in width, the driveway shall be uniformly sloped from back of curb
to front edge of sidewalk. Where the utility or landscaping strip is less than
six feet (6') in width, the driveway (and sidewalk) shall be uniformly sloped
from the back of curb to the back of sidewalk.
      1.   Mow Strip: All new subdivisions must have a five foot (5') wide mow
strip (can be green or zeroscape) between the curb/gutter and the adjacent
sidewalk.
      2.   Concrete: Where utility or landscaping (trees, plantings, lawn,
etc.) strips are located between the curb and gutter and the adjacent sidewalk,
the concrete driveway slab shall be constructed across same at each driveway
location. Where the utility or landscaping strip is six feet (6') or more in
width, the driveway shall be uniformly sloped from back of curb to front edge
of sidewalk. Where the utility or landscaping strip is less than six feet (6')
in width, the driveway (and sidewalk) shall be uniformly sloped from the back
of curb to the back of sidewalk.
   F.   Standard Specifications And Drawings: All driveway construction shall
be done in accordance with the city standard specifications and standard
drawings. All driveways must be approved by the public works director before
any work is started on same.
   G.   Breaking Off Curb Prohibited: Breaking off the top of the curb down to
the gutter flow line to construct the depressed driveway section is not
permitted. If the curb was not depressed for the driveway during the original
construction of the curb and gutter, then the entire curb and gutter section(s)
shall be completely removed and then replaced with new concrete curb and gutter
having the appropriate and required depressed section and transition or tapered
sections.
   H.   Variances: Where, due to unusual or unique circumstances, any of the
above requirements impose an undue hardship upon any particular property, the
owner of same may request the public works director to review the circumstances
and situation associated with said hardship, and the public works director is
herewith granted authority to allow such variances to the above listed driveway
requirements as he feels is equitable. (Ord. 403, 7-21-1987; amd. 1999 Code;
Ord. 508, 4-6-2004; Ord. 2025-650, 1-23-2025)
11-5-12: VEHICLE PARKING:
   A.   Compliance With Requirements: All vehicle parking requirements shall be
totally met or satisfied by the provision of off street parking spaces (i.e.,
parking spaces provided on the private property whereon any new, or existing
residence, building, etc., is constructed or situated). On street vehicle
parking, where such is allowed, shall be utilized only for temporary,
transient, or other such short time parking needs.
   B.   Entry And Exit In Forward Direction: All driveways and the off street
parking facilities associated therewith shall be arranged in such manner that
all vehicles shall both enter from and exit onto the adjacent street in a
forward direction.
   C.   Backing Into Street: The only exception to the above is that single-
family residences located along minor streets or low- volume collector streets
may have driveways and off-street parking spaces that are so located and
arranged that they safely provide for but still allow backing out into the
street from said driveways and parking spaces. (Ord. 403, 7-21-1987)
11-5-13: ALLEYS:
   A.   Location: Alleys may be required along the rear lot lines of multi-
family and commercial property, and along the rear of all lots fronting on
arterial streets.
   B.   Width: The minimum width of any dedicated alley shall be sixteen feet
(16') with a twenty foot (20') wide alley required in any commercial areas.
   C.   Alignment Changes: Alley intersections and sharp changes of alley
alignment shall be avoided, but where necessary, corners shall be cut off or
rounded sufficiently to permit safe convenient vehicular movement.
   D.   Radius Of Curvature: The minimum radius of curvature on the inside edge
of the alley right of way shall be fifty feet (50').
   E.   Construction: All alleys shall be constructed in accordance with the
typical cross section and ballast depths shown on the subdivision improvement
drawings or the City standard drawings. (Ord. 403, 7-21-1987)
11-5-14: EASEMENTS:
   A.   Widths:
      1.   Where easements are deemed necessary for poles, wires, conduits,
storm or sanitary sewer lines, gas lines, water lines, fill or cut slopes,
etc., the following minimum easement widths shall be required along each of the
so-indicated lot lines.
 
Rear lot lines  10 feet
Side lot lines  8 feet
Front lot lines 10 feet
 
      2.   Easements of greater width may be required along such lot lines,
right-of-way lines, etc., as are deemed necessary by the Public Works Director
for such items as surface drainage ditches or facilities, major trunk line
(water, sanitary sewer, etc.) facilities, high fill or cut slopes, etc. (Ord.
403, 7-21-1987; amd. 1999 Code)
   B.   Access To Facilities: Easements providing access to facilities may also
be required even though the facilities themselves may not actually be located
in said access easements.
   C.   Adjoining Waterways: When a subdivision is traversed by a waterway,
intermittent stream, or drainage right of way conforming substantially with the
lines of same, and such easement shall include an additional area at least
fifteen feet (15') in width adjoining one edge of any waterway, drainage way,
or intermittent stream that measures twenty feet (20') or less from bank to
bank. Where the distance from bank to bank is more than twenty feet (20'), such
easement shall include an additional area at least fifteen feet (15') in width
adjoining both edges of the waterway or intermittent stream. Where ditch
drainage is used in lieu of storm sewers, as such may be permitted herein, the
easement shall be of sufficient width to allow future construction of a storm
sewer main adequate to carry the ultimate runoff of the watershed. Such
easement shall be not less than twenty feet (20') in width. The fifteen foot
(15') working area adjoining a stream shall be continuous through the
subdivision and adjoin existing easements. The area of any public way
immediately adjacent to the waterway or intermittent stream may be taken into
consideration in providing said fifteen foot (15') working area.
   D.   Removal Of Features Or Facilities: All easements shall be kept
unobstructed by any permanent features or facilities (houses, sheds, trees,
fireplaces, etc.). Temporary features or facilities (fences, bushes, flower
beds, gardens, etc.) shall be removed by their owner when the City or utility
company (who has facilities within an easement or needs access through an
access easement) requires that said temporary features or facilities be
removed. If the owner does not remove said features or facilities, or if an
emergency situation arises whereby it is necessary that the City or utility
company gain immediate access to or through said easement, then the City or
utility company needing access to or through said easement may remove all
temporary (or permanent) features and facilities encountered therein as it
deems such removal to be necessary to accommodate its entry for any
maintenance, surveillance, construction or other such activities as may be
required. (Ord. 403, 7-21-1987)
11-5-15: BLOCKS:
   A.   Specifications: The length, widths, and shapes of blocks shall be such
that they provide:
      1.   Lot sizes and dimensions meeting the applicable zoning requirements;
      2.   Adequate building sites for the type of use contemplated;
      3.   Convenient access, circulation, control and safety for vehicular and
pedestrian traffic; and
      4.   Adequate consideration of both the limitations and opportunities of
the site topography, oils, and drainage.
   B.   Length: Block lengths shall generally not be longer than one thousand
one hundred feet (1,100') nor shorter than four hundred feet (400'). Exceptions
to the above may be allowed or required when topography, property shape, access
control along arterial streets or other unique circumstances indicate that
shorter or longer block lengths will provide a better overall subdivision
layout.
   C.   Pedestrian Walkways: Where blocks are nine hundred feet (900') or more
in length, mid-block pedestrian walkways connecting adjoining streets shall be
provided. Pedestrian walkways connecting adjoining streets shall be provided.
Pedestrian walkways may also be required in shorter blocks or at other than
mid-block locations (such as pedestrian walkways connecting cul- de-sacs to
adjacent streets) whenever and wherever such are deemed essential to provide
circulation or access to schools, playgrounds, churches, shopping areas,
transportation facilities, or any other community facilities. (Ord. 403, 7-21-
1987)
11-5-16: LOTS:
   A.   Conformance With Zoning Regulations: All lots shown on the subdivision
plat must conform to the minimum requirements of the appropriate zoning
regulations.
   B.   Side Lots: Side lot lines shall be approximately at right angles or
radial to the street right-of-way lines unless a variation therefrom will give
a better street and lot arrangement.
   C.   Corner Lots: All corner lots shall have a minimum radius of twenty feet
(20') on the property lines comprising the adjacent street right-of-way lines.
   D.   Lot Remnants: All remnants of lots below minimum size that are left
over after the subdivision of a larger tract must be added to adjacent lots
rather than be allowed to remain as unusable parcels.
   E.   Sewage Disposal System: Where individual septic tanks have been
authorized, sufficient area shall be provided for a replacement sewage disposal
system.
   F.   Frontage:
      1.   All lots shall front on a usable street and shall be provided with
access from said street.
      2.   Lot frontage shall be large enough to provide for the anticipated
building width plus the side yard setback requirements. It shall also provide
enough street frontage so that no more than one-half (1/2) the lot frontage is
utilized for driveway approach purposes.
   G.   Off-Street Parking And Loading: The depth and width of lots utilized
for business, commercial, or industrial purposes shall adequately provide for
the off-street parking and the loading and unloading facilities and space
required for the type of use or development contemplated and/or as required by
the Zoning Ordinance.
   H.   Double Frontage Or Reverse Frontage: Double frontage or reverse
frontage lots shall be utilized only when required to overcome disadvantages of
shape, topography, orientation, and/or street access control. Residential lots
adjoining an expressway, major arterial, railroad, sewage treatment facilities,
sanitary landfill, or land zoned for business or industrial use, shall have a
lot depth great enough to provide at least a ten foot (10') wide landscaping or
planting screen or strip adjacent to such developments or features. Such
landscaping or planting strips shall be owned and maintained by the property
owner.
   I.   Lots Abutting Pedestrian Walkways: A minimum side yard setback
restriction of ten feet (10') shall be required for all residential lots
abutting mid-block or other such pedestrian walkways.
   J.   Lots Affected By Surface Waters: If any portion of a lot falls within
the boundaries of a flood plain, or if a lot is traversed by an intermittent
stream or other such waterway, then that portion of said lot being utilized as
a flood channel plain, stream, canal, etc., shall be excluded from the
buildable area of said lot. When this situation results in the separation of
the buildable area of a lot from the road by which it has access, provisions
shall be made for the installation of a culvert or other structure of a design
approved by the entity having jurisdiction of or control over said waterway.
(Ord. 403, 7-21-1987)
11-5-17: RESERVE STRIPS:
Privately held reserve strips controlling access to streets shall be
prohibited. Public reserve strips having a width of one foot (1') or more may
be required along partial width streets within a subdivision to control future
access to said partial street. When such reserve strips are required, they
shall be deeded to the City in fee simple for future street widening purposes.
(Ord. 403, 7-21-1987)
11-5-18: DELIVERY OF IRRIGATION WATER:
   A.   Requirement To Provide: When a subdivision is proposed and all or any
part of said subdivision is located within the boundaries of an existing
irrigation district or other canal company, ditch association, or like
irrigation water delivery entity, hereinafter called "irrigation entity" for
the purposes of this Section, no subdivision plat will be accepted, approved,
and recorded unless:
      1.   Transfer Of Water Rights: Surface water rights related to,
appurtenant to, or held by the landowner for use on lands in said subdivision
are transferred from the owner of said lands to the City of Rigby;
      2.   System Provided By Subdivider: The subdivider has provided for an
underground pipe system or a combination underground piping and open ditch
system to permit the delivery of water to those landowners within the
subdivision who are also within the irrigation entity, with the following
appropriate approvals:
         a.   For proposed subdivisions within the incorporated limits of a
city, the irrigation system must be approved by the City Planning and Zoning
Commission, Public Works Director, and the City Council with the advice of the
irrigation entity charged with the delivery of water to said lands.
         b.   For proposed subdivisions located outside incorporated cities but
within one mile outside the incorporated limits of any city, both city and
county zoning authorities, city and county engineers, and city council and
county commissioners must approve such irrigation system in accordance with
Idaho Code section 50-1306. In addition, the irrigation entity charged with the
delivery of water to said lands must be advised regarding the irrigation
system.
   B.   Provide Information To Purchaser: In the event that the provisions of
either subsection A1 or A2 of this Section have not been complied with, the
assessments of the irrigation entity for operation, maintenance, construction,
and other valid charges permitted by statute shall in no way be affected.
However, any person offering such lots for sale, or selling such lots shall,
prior to the sale, advise the purchaser in writing as follows:
      1.   That water deliveries have not been provided; and
      2.   That the purchaser of the lot must remain subject to all assessments
levied by the irrigation entity; and
      3.   That the individual purchaser shall be responsible to pay such legal
assessments; and
      4.   That the assessments are a lien on the land within the irrigation
entity; and
      5.   That the purchaser may at a future date petition the appropriate
irrigation entity for exclusion from the irrigation district.
   C.   Disclosure Statement: A disclosure statement executed by the purchaser,
and duly acknowledged, containing the representations required in subsection B
of this Section shall be obtained by the seller at the time of receipt of the
earnest money from the purchaser, and affixed to the proposed sales contract
and a copy thereof shall be forwarded to the appropriate irrigation entity 1.
   D.   Verification Of Compliance: The subdivider, or his engineer, shall be
responsible for seeing that all of the above-listed actions, approvals,
requirements, etc., are taken, secured, and fulfilled, and shall provide
written verification of same. (Ord. 403, 7-21-1987; amd. 1999 Code; Ord. 2019-
601, 3-21-2019)
11-5-19: IRRIGATION FACILITIES:
   A.   Location: All irrigation ditches, turnout gates and control facilities,
etc., shall be located or relocated outside of the rights of way of any public
streets, alleys, pedestrian ways, etc. All existing or new irrigation pipe that
is located within any public rights of way shall be constructed or
reconstructed in such manner and with such materials that said irrigation pipe
line meets all of the requirement for City sanitation sewer or storm drain
lines and all applicable standard specifications and drawings covering same.
   B.   Notice Of Changes: The irrigation entity charged with the delivery of
irrigation water to, through or utilizing the above- referenced system of
relocated and reconstructed ditches, turn- out gates and control facilities,
underground pipes, etc., must be kept advised of any changes regarding the
same. The subdivider, or his engineer, shall be responsible for securing the
irrigation entity's approval of said relocated and reconstructed irrigation
system and shall provide written verification of same. (Ord. 403, 7-21-1987)
CHAPTER 6
REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
11-6-1: Improvement Plans
11-6-2: Required Public Improvements
11-6-3: As-Built Drawings; Certification
11-6-4: Water Lines
11-6-5: Sewer Lines
11-6-6: Sewage Lift Stations
11-6-7: Storm Drainage Facilities
11-6-8: Bridges, Streets And Alleys
11-6-9: Arterial Street And Bridge Fee And Fund
11-6-1: IMPROVEMENT PLANS:
   A.   Required: The subdivider of every proposed subdivision shall be
responsible for having a complete set of subdivision improvement plans prepared
for his subdivision. All subdivision improvement plans must be designed,
signed, and sealed by a registered professional engineer licensed in the State.
The subdivision improvement plans shall be on linen or mylar (3 mil or thicker)
sheets, twenty three inches by thirty six inches (23" x 36") in size. Lines and
lettering shall be in heavy black pencil or black ink.
   B.   Contents: The plans shall clearly and completely show all street
facilities (including right-of-way lines, sidewalks, curb and gutter, cross
drains, dimensions, grades, widths, curve data, typical street cross sections,
signs, barricades, etc.) both in plan and profile. They shall also show the
sizes and locations of all water lines, sanitary sewer lines, storm drain
lines, irrigation lines (including all their various appurtenances such as
valves, tees, crosses, reducers, manholes, service lines, inlet boxes, catch
basins, storm drainage directional flow arrows, sanitary sewage or storm
drainage lift stations, etc.) both in plan and profile. Other utilities such as
electricity, gas, telephone, cable TV, power poles, telephone poles, guy poles,
etc., shall also be shown on said plans. Stations and offsets, distances,
depths, elevations, etc., shall all be utilized as required to adequately
locate all survey control points, corners, street intersections, utilities and
their various appurtenances, etc., for design, construction, and as- built
record or archival purposes. (Ord. 403, 7-21-1987)
   C.   Scale: The subdivision improvement plans shall be drawn at a scale of
one inch equals ten feet (1" = 10') or one inch equals twenty feet (1" = 20')
unless circumstances indicate that a different scale would be more suitable, in
which case the Public Works Director's approval of the use of said different
scale must be secured.
   D.   Conformity With Plats And Drawings: The subdivision improvement plans
shall be in general conformity with the approved preliminary plat, preliminary
engineering drawing and the final plat.
   E.   Lettering; Symbology:
      1.   Lettering size, line width, symbology, etc., used on the subdivision
improvement plans shall all be as approved by the Public Works Director.
      2.   Lettering shall be readable from the bottom of the sheet or from the
right-hand side of the sheet.
   F.   Written Approval: All subdivision improvement plans must be received by
and have the Public Works Director's approval written thereon. (Ord. 403, 7-21-
1987; amd. 1999 Code)
11-6-2: REQUIRED PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS:
Every subdivider or owner shall be required to install at least the following
listed public improvements. All such improvements shall be installed in
accordance with the applicable City standard specifications and standard
drawings governing and depicting the type of construction associated therewith.
All such construction work and facilities shall also be constructed and
installed in accordance with the requirements of this Title, the Water
Ordinance, the Sanitary Sewer Ordinance, the Storm Drainage Ordinance, and in
accordance with the approved subdivision improvement plans and the applicable
annexation or development agreement, as such are approved by the City Council
and the Public Works Director. (Ord. 403, 7-21-1987; amd. 1999 Code)
   A.   Monuments: Monuments shall be required, located and installed in
accordance with the standard drawings, subdivision improvement plans, and
chapter 5 of this title.
   B.   Streets And Alleys: All streets and alleys shall be paved with an
asphalt or concrete surface constructed in accordance with the subdivision
improvement plans, this title and the above referenced standard specifications
and standard drawings, etc. All subdividers are responsible for applying and
paying for the first chip seal coat on all apshalt.
   C.   Curbs And Gutters: Curb and gutter shall be constructed on all
collector and arterial streets. Curb and gutter shall be constructed on all
minor streets.
   D.   Sidewalks And Pedestrianways:
      1.   Sidewalks shall be required on both sides of all collector and
arterial streets. Sidewalks shall also be required on both sides of all minor
streets except as such may be exempted herein for large lot subdivisions.
      2.   Sidewalks for pedestrians shall be required wherever they are so
shown on the subdivision improvement plans or required by this title.
   E.   Driveways:
      1.   Concrete driveways shall be constructed in all areas where curb and
gutter sidewalks are required. They shall be constructed in accordance with
this title and the above referenced standard specifications and standard
drawings.
      2.   Rural type paved driveways shall be required in those areas where
curb and gutter and sidewalk are not required. These rural type driveways shall
be constructed in accordance with the applicable requirements of this title,
the subdivision improvement plans, and the city standard drawings and
specifications covering same.
   F.   Bicycle Paths: Bicycle pathways may be required within subdivisions as
part of the public street or alley rights of way or easements where specified
and required on the subdivision improvement plans or in the overall bicycle
plan as such may be adopted by the city council.
   G.   Public Water System: All public water supply and distribution systems
(serving 2 or more separate premises or households) shall be constructed in
accordance with the above referenced city standard specifications, standard
drawings, water ordinance, etc. All new public water systems shall be an
extension of the existing public water system whenever possible. In the event
that the proposed public water system is not an extension of the existing
public water system, there must be a showing by the subdivider that the
extension of said public water system is not in the best interest of the
public. The city will maintain and operate such a separate public or private
water system only under such circumstances and conditions as are set forth in
the annexation or development agreement. All private water systems shall
conform in all respects to those standards established for the city's public
water system.
   H.   Public Sanitary Sewer System: All public sanitary sewer systems
(serving 2 or more separate premises or households) shall be constructed in
accordance with the above referenced city standard specifications, standard
drawings, sanitary sewer ordinance, etc. All new public sanitary sewer systems
shall be an extension of the existing public sanitary sewer system whenever
possible. In the event that the proposed public sanitary sewer system is not an
extension of the existing public sanitary sewer system, there must be a showing
by the subdivider that the extension of said public sanitary sewer system is
not feasible and/or not in the best interest of the public. The city will
maintain and operate such a separate public or private sanitary sewer system
only under such circumstances and conditions as are set forth in the annexation
or development agreement. All private sanitary sewer systems shall conform in
all respects to those standards established for the city's public sanitary
sewer system.
   I.   Public Storm Drainage System: An adequate storm drainage system shall
be provided in all subdivisions. The requirements for each particular
subdivision shall be as established by the public works director or the city
council. The installation and construction of said system shall be done in
accordance with the above referenced standard specifications, standard
drawings, ordinances, etc.
   J.   Fire Protection System: An adequate fire protection system and
facilities shall be required and provided in all subdivisions, and all fire
hydrants, fire hydrant location and spacing, water main sizes, pump sizes,
motor sizes, etc., shall be in accordance with the city water ordinance and
other such appropriate standards, policies, and requirements as have been
adopted by the city council.
   K.   Maintenance And Operation Of Public Services: Where the City does not
agree to provide the necessary maintenance and operation of the public water,
fire protection, sanitary sewer, storm drain and/or street systems, the
subdivider shall be responsible for providing such services, and shall, as part
of the requirements for the approval of said subdivision, provide for a
perpetual method of maintenance and operation of said systems to ensure the
continued usefulness and operation of same.
   L.   Utility Connections: All individual service connections for sanitary
sewer, domestic water, storm drainage, natural gas, electricity, telephone,
cable TV, etc., shall be installed to a point at least ten feet (10') behind
the street or alley right of way (i.e., 10 feet into the adjacent lot) before
the placement of any crushed gravel base or other such new street surfacing is
started. All such utility improvements shall be installed in accordance with
the City standard specification requirements and the installation, backfill and
compaction of the trenches for same must be inspected and approved by the
Public Works Director.
   M.   Installation Of Public Utilities: All utilities are encouraged to
locate or install their facilities under ground and such undergrounding may be
required subject to the City Council's adopted policies and ordinances.
   N.   Street Signs And Barricades: Street name signs, no parking signs, stop
signs, yield signs, etc., and barricades at the ends of dead-end streets or at
other hazardous locations, shall all be installed at their appropriate
locations (i.e., at street intersections, at the ends of streets, etc.) in
accordance with the subdivision improvement drawings, the Manual on Uniform
Traffic Control Devices and/or in accordance with local standards and
requirements. Whichever regulations or requirements are the more restrictive or
demanding are those which shall apply.
   O.   Street Lighting: Street lights shall be required to be installed at
intersections throughout the subdivision. The subdivider shall conform to the
requirements of the City and the public utility providing such lighting. The
costs of such street lighting shall be the responsibility of the subdivider.
      1.   In the interest of maintaining safe streets for pedestrian use, as
well as accommodating public utility functions such as garbage collection, snow
removal, and other water and wastewater services during the non-daylight hours,
the City of Rigby hereby establishes a street lighting system intended to
create safe travel and protection of property within the corporate limits of
the City of Rigby.
      2.   The following streetlight criteria and standards have been applied
and shall hereafter apply to provide uniform lighting within the City
sufficient for public safety and the protection of improved real property:
      3.   On arterial streets, lights shall be placed at all intersections and
at all highway overpasses; provided, however, that the placement of such lights
shall be determined by the Public Works Director in conformance with the
policies and purposes expressed in this chapter.
      4.   On connector streets, lights shall be placed at every intersection
where practical. Where blocks are longer than one thousand feet (1,000'), an
additional light shall be placed near the middle of the block.
      5.   On minor streets, lights shall be placed at intersections where
practical. Where blocks exceed six hundred feet (600') in length, lights shall,
where practical, be placed so that no property frontage is a distance of more
than three hundred feet (300') from the nearest lights.
   P.   Greenbelts: Greenbelts, landscaping, or screening may be required for
the protection of residential properties from adjacent arterial streets,
waterways, railroad rights of way, commercial or industrial areas, or other
such incompatible features. The subdivision plat shall show the location of any
such greenbelt or landscaping areas, and the subdivision improvement plans
shall show the types of trees, bushes plantings, watering or sprinkling
systems, etc., to be installed therein. The subdivider shall be responsible for
the plantings within these greenbelt or landscaped areas and the property owner
(on whose property said facilities are situated) shall be responsible for the
continued maintenance and upkeep of said greenbelt, landscaping, or screening
facilities. (Ord. 403, 7-21-1987; amd. Ord. 455, 5-7-1996; 1999 Code; Ord. 508,
4-6-2004; Ord. 2013-564, 8-20-2013; Ord. 2019-603, 5-16-2019; Ord. 2025-650, 1-
23-2025)
11-6-3: AS-BUILT DRAWINGS; CERTIFICATION:
As-built or record drawings of all subdivision improvement plans shall be
prepared by a professional engineer and the corrected original drawings or a
duplicate mylar copy of the corrected original drawings shall be provided to
the City. As-built plans shall include a certification thereon signed by the
registered professional engineer in charge of the work that the as-built
drawing of the street facilities, water line system, sewer line system, storm
drainage system, etc., are all true and correct in that he (the registered
professional engineer) inspected the construction of all such facilities and
that the materials and the installation of same was all done in conformance
with the City standard specifications and standard drawings governing the
construction of same and that such are also in conformance with the applicable
Water Ordinance, Sewer Ordinance, Storm Drainage Ordinance, etc., for such
facilities. (Ord. 403, 7-21-1987)
11-6-4: WATER LINES:
   A.   Construction Required: The owner or developer of any piece of property
or tract of land is responsible for the construction of the water line (or for
the water line costs) along any of the property sides or frontages of the
property along which a water line is needed for the overall completeness and
continuity of the City's water main system. If it is a large tract of land, the
owner or developer of said land shall also be responsible for the necessary and
required system of water lines within the interior of the tract of land.
   B.   Deposit In Lieu Of Construction: The owner or developer of any piece of
property shall construct all needed water lines (of the approved size) within
and along all sides or frontage of any piece of property prior to the time any
building constructed thereon is occupied or utilized unless phased construction
of the water main system is specifically allowed or provided for in the
annexation or development agreement. In lieu of actually constructing said
required water line or water lines, the property owner or developer may deposit
adequate monies with the City to fully cover the cost(s) of said required water
line construction.
   C.   Size Of Water Line; Responsibility For Cost: The owner or developer of
any property or subdivision will normally be responsible only for the cost of
up to an eight inch (8") diameter water line. The additional cost of providing
a water line of a diameter or size greater than eight inches (8") will normally
be a City responsibility. The City will reimburse the developer for the extra
cost of the additional water line size (over the 8 inch diameter size
referenced above) as set forth in the annexation or development agreement
between the developer and the City. Provided, however, that if proposed
subdivision or development is of such size or magnitude that it requires a
water main size larger than eight inches (8") in diameter, then the owner or
developer of such subdivision or development shall be responsible for the
entire cost of whatever size of water main is required for said subdivision or
development.
   D.   One Side Of Property: If the property owner or developer owns or is
developing the property on only one side (as compared to both sides) of any
street, alley, or easement where a water line is located or required, he shall
be responsible for only one-half (1/2) of the cost of said water line
construction. However, in the absence of any mutual agreement between the two
(2) (or more) property owners, the City will participate with the first owner
or developer to the extent of paying for one-half (1/2) the cost of up to an
eight inch (8") diameter water line along or across said referenced property
frontage. The second (or other) property owner(s) will thereafter be
responsible for reimbursing the City for his one-half (1/2) of the costs of
this water line construction at the time he (the other adjacent property owners
or developers) begins to develop or build upon his property that is adjacent to
the water line installed by the first property owner. (Ord. 403, 7-21-1987)
   E.   City Option To Decline Participation In Cost: Provided further,
however, that if the water line construction is for an area or a development
that is outside of the City limits or if the length of water line construction
in which the City would be participating (as referred to above) exceeds one
thousand (1,000) lineal feet, the City may decline to participate in the cost
of said water line construction except to pay for the extra cost differential
between an eight inch (8") diameter line and the actual size of the line that
the City designates shall be installed to meet its Master Plan requirements.
When this situation or set of circumstances exists, the property owner or
developer who first initiates or actually begins the development of his
property shall be responsible for front-ending the entire cost of the water
line construction and for actually constructing said water line. The second (or
other) property owner(s) will thereafter be responsible for reimbursing the
first property owner for his share of the costs of the water line construction
along his frontage at the time he (the other adjacent property owners or
developers) begin(s) to develop or build upon his property adjacent to the
water line installed by the first property owner. In the absence of any
agreement between the first property owner or developer and the other adjacent
property owners or developers covering the cost of said water line(s), the
referenced other adjacent property owners or developers shall pay to the City
the amount of twelve dollars ($12.00) per lineal foot (or such other amount as
the City Council may hereinafter establish and adopt by resolution) for the
length of water line across his frontage. The City, in turn, will reimburse
this same amount to the first party, which reimbursement shall be deemed
adequate and appropriate compensation for his share of the cost of said water
line. (Ord. 403, 7-21-1987; amd. 1999 Code)
11-6-5: SEWER LINES:
   A.   Construction By Owner:
      1.   The owner or developer of any piece of property or tract of land is
responsible for the construction of the sewer line (or for the sewer line
costs) along any of the property sides or frontages of the property along which
a sewer line is needed for the overall completeness and continuity of the
City's sewer main system. If it is a large tract of land, the owner or
developer shall also be responsible for the necessary and required system of
sewer lines within the interior of the tract of land.
      2.   The owner or developer of any piece of property shall construct all
needed sewer lines (of the approved size) within and along all sides or
frontages of any piece of property prior to the time any building constructed
thereon is occupied or utilized unless construction of the sewer main system is
specifically allowed or provided for in the annexation or development
agreement. In lieu of actually constructing said required sewer line or sewer
lines, the property owner or developer may deposit adequate monies with the
City to fully cover the cost(s) of said required sewer line construction.
   B.   Size Of Sewer Line:
      1.   The owner or developer of any property or subdivision will normally
be responsible only for the cost of up to an eight inch (8") diameter sanitary
sewer line.
      2.   The additional cost of providing a sanitary sewer line of a size
greater than eight inches (8") will normally be a City responsibility. The City
will reimburse the developer for the extra cost of the additional sanitary
sewer line size (over the 8 inch diameter size referenced above) as set forth
in the annexation or development agreement between the developer and the City.
Provided further, however, that if any proposed subdivision or development is
of such size or magnitude that it requires or necessitates a sewer size larger
or than an eight inch (8") diameter line or if the type of development is such
as to produce a wastewater flow in excess of the capacity of an eight inch (8")
diameter sewer line, then the owner or developer of said subdivision or
development shall be responsible for the entire cost of whatever size of sewer
line is needed to accommodate his development.
      3.   The additional cost of providing any extra sewer line depth required
by the City (over and above that sewer line depth required to adequately serve
the owner's or developer's property when assuming at least a 12 foot sewer line
depth at the upper most end of the sewer line extended through or along said
property) will be a City responsibility and the City will reimburse the owner
or developer for the cost of said extra depth of sewer line as agreed upon and
as set forth in the annexation or development agreement between the developer
and the City.
   C.   One Side Of Property:
      1.   If the property owner or developer owns or is developing the
property on only one side (as compared to both sides) of any street, alley, or
easement where a sewer line is located or required, he shall be responsible for
only one-half (1/2) of the cost of said sewer line while the property owner on
the other side of said street, alley, or easement shall be responsible for the
other one-half (1/2) of the cost of said sewer line construction. However, in
the absence of any mutual agreement between the two (2) property owners, the
City may participate with the first owner or developer to the extent of paying
for one-half (1/2) the cost of an eight inch (8") diameter sewer line across
said referenced property frontage. The second property owner will thereafter be
responsible for reimbursing the City for his one-half (1/2) of the costs of
this sewer line construction at the time he (the second property owner or
developer) begins to develop or build upon his property that is adjacent to the
sewer line installed by the first property owner. (Ord. 403, 7-21-1987)
      2.   Provided further, however, that if the sewer line construction is
for an area or a development that is outside of the City limits or if the
length of sewer line construction in which the City would be participating, (as
referred to above) exceeds one thousand (1,000) lineal feet, the City may
decline to participate in the cost of said sewer line construction except to
pay for the extra cost differential between the size and depth of sewer line
required to serve the development and the actual size and depth of line that
the City designates shall be installed to meet the requirements of its Sewer
System Master Plan. When this situation or set of circumstances exists, the
property owner or developer who first initiates or actually begins the
development of his property shall be responsible for front-ending the entire
cost of the sewer line construction and for actually constructing said sewer
line. The second (or other) property owners(s) will thereafter be responsible
for reimbursing the first property owner for his frontage at the time he (or
they, the other adjacent property owners or developers) begin(s) to develop or
build upon his property adjacent to the sewer line installed by the first
property owner. In the absence of any agreement between the first property
owner or developer and the other adjacent property owners or developers
covering the cost of said sewer line(s), the referenced other adjacent property
owners or developers shall pay to the City the amount of fifteen dollars
($15.00) per lineal foot (or such other amount as the City Council may
hereinafter establish and adopt by resolution) for the length of sewer line
across his frontage. The City, in turn, will reimburse this same amount to the
first party, which reimbursement shall be declared adequate and appropriate
compensation for his share of the cost of said sewer line. (Ord. 403, 7-21-
1987; amd. 1999 Code)
11-6-6: SEWAGE LIFT STATIONS:
   A.   Design: Sewer mains shall be kept as deep as practicable to keep sewage
lift stations to the smallest number possible. When a sewage lift station and
its related facilities is required, it and the sewer main system directing
sewage to it shall generally be designed for an entire definable area and not
just to serve a single property owner or developer.
   B.   Responsibility For Cost: The cost of the sewage lift station and hook
up to the SCADA shall be paid by the developer. (Ord. 403, 7-21-1987; amd. Ord.
2025-650, 1-23-2025)
11-6-7: STORM DRAINAGE FACILITIES 1 :
   A.   Owner Responsible For Installation: The owner or developer of any piece
of property or tract of land shall be responsible for taking care of the storm
drainage from said property and for providing and installing the storm drainage
facilities or for the storm drainage costs of any such storm drainage
facilities required within or along said piece of property.
   B.   Large Tract: If it is a large tract of ground, the owner or developer
shall also be responsible for the necessary and required system of storm
drainage lines or other required facilities within the interior of the tract of
land. The owner or developer of any piece of property shall construct all
needed storm drainage lines (of the approved sizes) within and along all sides
or frontages of any piece of property prior to the time any building
constructed thereon is occupied or utilized unless phased construction of the
storm drainage system is specifically allowed or provided for in the annexation
or development agreement. In lieu of actually constructing said required storm
drain line or lines, the owner or developer may deposit adequate monies with
the City to fully cover the costs of said required storm drainage construction.
   C.   Permanent Containment And Disposal: The owner or developer will
normally be expected to collect all of the storm drainage from the tract of
ground that he owns or is developing, and take it (the storm drainage) either
by overland flow or through a system of storm drain pipes to a common exterior
location at the edge of the property or subdivision being developed, whereat he
shall make provision for the permanent containment and disposal of said storm
drainage water or shall provide pumping facilities and shall pump said storm
drainage to an adjacent creek or irrigation canal, or shall provide adequate
and approved underground disposal facilities that will permanently and lawfully
take care of all of the storm drainage waters collected from and within said
tract of property or subdivision being developed. (Ord. 403, 7-21-1987)
 
Notes
1 1. See Section 8-2-2 of this Code.
11-6-8: BRIDGES, STREETS AND ALLEYS:
The responsibilities of the developer and of the City regarding the
construction of bridges, streets, and alleys shall be is follows:
   A.   Cost Borne By Developer: Bridges, pipes or culverts which are required
across canals, ditches, and streams lying entirely within a single subdivision
and primarily for the benefit of circulating local traffic shall be paid for
entirely at the cost of the developer.
   B.   City Responsibility: The City shall construct all bridges and all pipes
or culverts having an inside diameter of six feet (6') or more on local,
collector, and arterial streets when such bridges, pipes, or culverts are
deemed necessary by the City, except where such are the responsibility of the
developer as defined in subsection A above. Pipes or culverts having an inside
diameter of less than six feet (6') shall be the responsibility of the
developer.
   C.   Controlled Access Streets: Construction of controlled access streets
shall be the responsibility of the City. However, the developer shall be
responsible for obtaining and dedicating to the public a maximum of fifty seven
feet (57') of width for right-of-way purposes for such streets. Standards and
typical sections for controlled access or major arterial street construction
are on file in the office of the Public Works Director and all construction
shall comply therewith. (Ord. 403, 7-21-1987; amd. 1999 Code)
   D.   Arterial And Collector Streets: The development and construction of
arterial and collector streets, where local individual property access is
allowed, shall be primarily the owner's or developer's responsibility. The
owner or developer shall be responsible for the dedication of the right of way
for said arterial street up to a maximum width of fifty seven feet (57') per
each side of the street along which the subdivision borders. The owner or
developer shall be responsible for the construction of the sidewalk, curb and
gutter, and a two and one- half foot (21/2') width of street surface (per each
side of the street along which the subdivision has frontage).
      1.   Geotextile Fabric: The owner or developer shall install geotextile
fabric over the road surface prior to installation of asphalt plant mix. Such
geotextile fabric shall meet the most recent requirements of AASHTO M 288 with
Class 2 survivability. No slit film and/or heat rolled geotextiles shall be
allowed. The geotextile type (subgrade separation, drainage, erosion control)
shall be specified in the plans and/or special provisions.
      2.   The ballast depth of the paved street surface for which the owner or
developer has responsibility shall consist of up to a three-tenths of a foot
(0.3') depth of asphalt plant mix and an eight-tenths of a foot (0.8') depth of
three- fourths inch (3/4") crushed gravel (3/4 inch aggregate for base)
irrespective of the type of development or zoning designation. The City shall
be responsible for the costs of the extra width of street paving (over and
above the 21.5 foot width per side of the street defined above as the
developer's responsibility) and the extra depth of street paving and crushed
gravel (over and above that maximum ballast depth defined above as the owner or
developer's responsibility) required to complete the street construction in
conformance with the approved typical section for the street; provided,
however, that:
      3.   If the developer chooses to develop his subdivision in such manner
that there is no individual private access to an adjacent arterial street (even
though said arterial street has not been designated as one of the controlled
access streets defined above), the developer shall only be responsible for the
cost of   the construction of the curb and gutter, sidewalk and storm drainage
facilities along said arterial street frontage; and the City shall be
responsible for the cost of the construction of the entire paved street
surfacing along said arterial street frontage.
      4.   If the developer chooses to develop his subdivision in such manner
that there is no individual private access to an adjacent collector or local
street, the developer shall still be responsible for the costs of constructing
the sidewalk, curb and gutter, paved street surfacing and storm drainage
facilities along said collector or local street frontage even though he may
have chosen to not provide individual property access to said street.
      5.   If the developer chooses to develop his subdivision in such a manner
that any street therein is roughly parallel with and immediately adjacent to a
canal, river, freeway, controlled access arterial street or other such similar
facility whereby the access to and use of said subdivision street is from one
side only, the developer shall be entirely responsible for the complete
development (including all sidewalk and curb and gutter along both sides of the
street, full width street paving and storm drainage facilities) of said street.
(Ord. 403, 7-21-1987; amd. 1999 Code; Ord. 2019-603, 5-16-2019)
11-6-9: ARTERIAL STREET AND BRIDGE FEE AND FUND:
   A.   Fees Assessed; Collection:
      1.   Arterial Street And Bridge Fee Required: An arterial street and
bridge fee shall be assessed to each developer developing land in the City.
This fee shall be based upon the number of acres that are being developed. The
amount of the fee is five hundred dollars ($500.00) per acre in a Residential
R-1 zone and one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), per acre, in Residential R-
2 zone and residential mobile home zones (RMH) and one thousand five hundred
dollars ($1,500.00) per acre in all Commercial (C-l) zones.
   B.   Payment Of Fees:
      1.   For all lands annexed within the city and with a current zone but
not developed that require a payment of two thousand five hundred dollars
($2,500.00) per acre or more in fees, a payment of at least ten percent (10%)
of the total calculated arterial street and bridge fee shall be paid to the
City at or before the time the development agreement is submitted to the City
Council for approval. The development agreement, signed by the developer, shall
contain a schedule for payment of the balance of said fee and shall become
binding when approved by the City Council. Such schedule must provide for full
payment of the total fee not to exceed five (5) years after the date the signed
and accepted development agreement. (Ord. 403, 7-21-1987; amd. 1999 Code; Ord.
2020-614, 8-20-2020)
CHAPTER 7
VARIANCES
SECTION:
11-7-1: Purpose
11-7-2: Findings
11-7-1: PURPOSE:
The Commission may recommend to the Council as a result of unique circumstances
such as topographic-physical limitations or a planned unit development, a
variance from the provisions of this Title on a finding that undue hardship
results from the strict compliance with specific provisions or requirements of
this Title, or that application of such provision or requirement is
impracticable. (Ord. 403, 7-21-1987)
11-7-2: FINDINGS:
No variance shall be favorably acted upon by the Council unless there is a
finding upon recommendation by the Commission, as a result of a public hearing,
that all of the following exist:
   A.   That there are such special circumstances or conditions affecting the
property that the strict impact of the provisions of this Title would clearly
be impracticable or unreasonable. In such cases, the subdivider shall first
state his reasons in writing as to the specific provision or requirement
involved.
   B.   That strict compliance with the requirements of this Title would result
in extraordinary hardship (as distinguished from mere inconvenience) to the
subdivider because of the particular physical surroundings, shape, unusual
topography, or other such conditions which are not self inflicted, or that
those conditions would result in inhibiting the achievement of the objectives
of this Title.
   C.   That the conditions upon which the request for a variance are based are
unique to the property for which the variance is sought and are not applicable
generally to other property.
   D.   That the variance is the least deviation from this Title which will
mitigate the hardship.
   E.   That the granting of the specified variance will not be detrimental to
the public safety, health, or welfare or injurious to other property or
improvements in the area in which the property is situated.
   F.   That such variance will not violate the provisions of the Idaho Code.
   G.   That such variance will not have the effect of nullifying the interests
and purpose of this Title and the Comprehensive Plan. (Ord. 403, 7-21-1987)
CHAPTER 8
ENFORCEMENT; PENALTIES
SECTION:
11-8-1: Enforcement
11-8-2: Violations; Penalties
11-8-1: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   City Authority:
      1.   It shall be the duty of the Administrator to enforce this Title and
to bring to the attention of the City Council any violations or lack of
compliance herewith.
      2.   The City Council shall thereupon take appropriate action to assure
compliance with this Title.
      3.   No subdivision plat required by this Title or the Idaho Code shall
be admitted to the public land records of the County Recorder until such
subdivision plat has received final approval by the Council.
      4.   No public board, agency, commission, official or other authority
shall proceed with the construction of or authorize the construction of any of
the public improvements required by this Title until the final plat has
received the approval by the Council.
      5.   The City Attorney shall, in addition to taking whatever criminal
action deemed necessary, take steps to civilly enjoin any violation of this
Title.
   B.   County Report To City:
      1.   Whenever it shall come to the knowledge of the County Recorder that
any of the provisions of this Title have been violated, it shall be his duty to
notify the Administrator and the City Attorney.
      2.   The County Clerk, the County Planner and the County Building
Administrator are hereby instructed not to divide for assessment or taxing
purposes any properties that are being subdivided contrary to the rules and
regulations as herein set forth until such time as the Administrator and the
City Attorney have been notified.
   C.   Provisions Not Exclusive: The provisions of this Section shall not be
deemed exclusive and shall not be deemed to prevent the maintenance of any
other action or proceeding in law or equity to enforce the provisions of this
Title or to vacate any map or plat made and recorded in violation of this
Title. (Ord. 403, 7-21-1987)
11-8-2: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
   A.   City Approval And Filing With County Required: No owner, or agent of
the owner, of any parcel of land located in a proposed subdivision shall
transfer or sell any such parcel before a plat of such subdivision has been
approved by the City Council in accordance with the provisions of this Title,
and filed with the County Recorder.
   B.   Intent To Evade: The subdivision of any lot or any parcel of land by
the use of metes and bounds description for the purpose of sale, transfer or
lease with the intent of evading this Title, shall not be permitted. All such
described subdivisions shall be subject to all of the requirements contained in
these regulations.
   C.   Building Permit Issuance Upon Compliance With Title: No building permit
shall be issued for the construction of any building or structure located on a
lot or plat subdivided or sold in violation of the provisions of this Title.
   D.   Plat Approval Required: No plat of subdivision shall be approved which
does not comply with all the provisions of this Title.
   E.   Committing Violation: Violation of any of the provisions of this Title
or failure to comply with any of its requirements shall be considered a
separate offense. The landowner, tenant, subdivider, builder, public official
or any other person who commits, participates in, assists in or maintains such
violation may each be found guilty of a separate offense. Nothing herein
contained shall prevent the City Council or any other public official or
private citizen from taking such lawful action as is necessary to restrain or
prevent any violation of this Title or of the Idaho Code.
   F.   Penalty Assessed Per Lot Or Block: Whoever shall sell, or offer for
sale, or lease any lot or block in any subdivision before complying with all of
the requirements of this Title shall be subject to a fine of twenty five
dollars ($25.00) for each lot or block or part thereof so disposed of, offered
for sale or lease. Each day that sales or offers to sell or lease continue in
violation of this Title shall constitute a separate offense, subject to the
above penalties. (Ord. 403, 7-21-1987)
   G.   General Penalty: Whoever shall violate any of the provisions of this
Title shall be subject to a fine of not more than three hundred dollars
($300.00) for each violation thereof. Each day that the violation continues
shall be considered a separate offense. (Ord. 403, 7-21-1987; amd. 1999 Code)
TITLE 12
ANNEXATION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
ANNEXATION REGULATIONS
SECTION:
12-1-1: Annexation Regulations
12-1-1: ANNEXATION REGULATIONS:
The City of Rigby agrees to the following process for expansion or realignment
of Areas of City Impact.
   A.   The City of Rigby agrees to follow the requirements and procedures for
annexation recorded in Idaho Code 50-222, 67-6525, and 67-6526.
   B.   Idaho Code 567-6526, states that, "Subject to the provisions of 550-
222, an Area of City Impact must be established before a city may annex
adjacent territory."
   C.   The City of Rigby shall limit its annexation to those lands within the
Area of City Impact. If the City of Rigby wishes to annex lands outside of its
Area of City Impact, it shall renegotiate its Area of City Impact boundary with
Jefferson County in accordance with Idaho Code 567-6526(d) and the procedures
outlined in this agreement. The City of Rigby agrees to renegotiate Area of
City Impact boundaries for all annexation, including Category A annexation as
described in Idaho Code 550-222, Annexation by Cities. (Ord. 2025-650, 1-23-
2025)
