CITY CODE
of
RUPERT, IDAHO
1977
Code current through:
Ord. 24-503, passed 8-27-2024
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
This code of the City of Rupert, as supplemented, contains ordinances up to and
including ordinance 23-502, passed 7-11-2023. Ordinances of the City adopted
after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the extent that
they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the City office in
order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has been
amended, superseded or repealed.
American Legal Publishing
Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not affect the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
ORDINANCE NO. 23-501
ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF RUPERT, AMENDING RUPERT CODE TITLE 8 CHAPTER 3,
PROVIDING FOR SEIZURE AND IMPOUNDING OF DOGS, PROVIDING INFRACTION FOR
UNCONTROLLED DOGS, MISDEMEANOR FOR DANGEROUS AND AT-RISK DOGS, REQUIRING AND
DEFINING SECURE ENCLOSURE OF DANGEROUS AND AT-RISK DOGS, PERMITTING COURT ORDER
FOR DESTRUCTION OF DOGS.
WHEREAS, Rupert previously amended Rupert Code providing for adoption and other
provisions under Ordinance No. 21-508; and
               WHEREAS, various parties have sought additional clarification in
Rupert’s Code; now
   BE IT ORDAINED by the Mayor and Council of City of Rupert as follows:
   1.   Rupert Code Section 8-3 shall be amended as follows:
      8-3-2: TAG AND COLLAR; TAKING UP DOGS; DOGS AT LARGE:
…
Idaho Code 25-2804 shall apply to all dogs without tag and collar within the
City. Any City employee, or other designated official, may seize and impound
any dog
A. without tag and collar;
B. at large without an attendant or master, not securely confined or leashed
whether by tether or trained voice command so that it does not stray;
C. that threatens, aggressively intimidates or harasses, or bites any person,
livestock, poultry, or domestic animal; or
D. that defecates on the property of any other person, other than the owner,
that is not immediately cleaned.
Adopting the purpose of Idaho Code 25-2805, any person who permits any dog
owned or possessed or harbored by him to be, or run at large without a
competent and responsible attendant or master, within the City, or willfully or
negligently fails, neglects, or refuses to keep any such dog securely confined
within the limits of his own premises when not under the immediate care and
control of a competent and responsible attendant or master, shall be guilty of
an infraction punishable as provided in Idaho Code 18-113A.
 
8-3-3: CONTROL OF DOGS:
…
B. Dangerous and At-Risk Dogs: Idaho Code 25-2810 is deemed to apply within the
City, but expanded to include not just persons but any domestic animal. … Any
person who shall violate this provision shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and
upon conviction thereof shall be punished as found in 8-3-8.
…
It shall be unlawful for the owner of the dangerous or at-risk dog, or the
owner or tenant of premises where such a dog is present, to harbor such a dog
outside a secure enclosure. It shall be unlawful to fail to maintain such the
enclosure to prevent the escape of a dangerous or at-risk dog. A secure
enclosure is one from which such a dog cannot escape and for which exit and
entry is controlled by the owner or tenant of the premises. It shall be
unlawful to remove a vicious animal from a secure enclosure unless the animal
is restrained in a manner sufficient to control such dog.
…
C. Dog Bites: Any dog which has bitten any person shall be surrendered to and/
or confiscated by a peace officer or animal control officer. The dog…. If the
dog is not claimed by an owner and/or person responsible for the animal within
the observation period, it shall be destroyed.
No dog which has bitten a person shall be adopted out or surrendered to any
third party if the owner or other person responsible for the animal is not
located.
8-3-8: PENALTY:
Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
guilty of a infraction, unless otherwise provided, and upon conviction thereof
shall be punished as follows:
…
D. Violations of 4-2A-4 pursuant to references of Idaho Code 25-2810 shall also
trigger the related penalties under Idaho Code 25-2811.
E. Violations of 8-3-2, or any other misdemeanor under this chapter, in
addition to civil liability, may be subject to maximum penalties of one hundred
eighty (180) days in jail and/or one thousand dollar ($1,000) fine, or both.
F. At sentencing on a violation of this chapter, the court may in its
discretion, in the interest of public safety, order the owner, or appropriate
authorities, to destroy the animal. Similar to Idaho Code 25-2810, both the
prosecution and the owner of the animal may present evidence relevant to the
propriety of the destruction of the dog.
G. A City or Board Attorney may file a motion or suit for a determination under
Idaho Code 25-2810 requesting destruction of the animal, terms for release of
the dog back to its owners, and/or recovery of actual fees or costs.
   2.   Any and all ordinances, or parts of ordinances, in conflict with this
ordinance are, or to the extent in conflict, repealed.
   3.   This ordinance shall be in full force and effect upon passage,
approval, and publication according to law.
 
      
   PASSED and ADOPTED by the City Council of City of Rupert, State of Idaho.
   DATED 25th May 2023
THE CITY OF RUPERT
 
 
BY: Michael D. Brown, Mayor
 
ATTEST
Bayley Maughan, City Clerk
ORDINANCE No. 23-502
AN ORDINANCE OF THE MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF RUPERT, IDAHO,
AMENDING TITLE 9, CHAPTER 5, SECTION 4, OF THE RUPERT CITY CODE FOR THE
PURPOSES OF RESTRICTING PARKING IN THE CITY, AND PROVIDING AN EFFECTIVE DATE.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Mayor and the City Council of the City of
Rupert, Idaho, as follows:
Section 1:    Rupert City Code, Title 9, Chapter 5, Section 4, is hereby
amended and shall read as follows:
 
9-5-4: TRUCK, TRUCK-TRACTOR, SEMITRAILER, AND IMPLEMENT PARKING RESTRICTIONS:
It shall be unlawful to park any of the following trucks, truck- tractor, or
semitrailer or combination thereof, or implements on any street, easement, or
alley located inside or bordering all RL, RM, RH, CL, or CG residential and
commercial zones of the city including areas in designated truck routes:
    A. Two (2) axle single unit trucks.
    B. Three (3) axle single unit trucks.
    C. Two (2) axle truck-tractor with one or two (2) axle semitrailer.
    D. Three (3) axle truck-tractor with two (2) or three (3) axle semitrailer.
    E. Implements of any kind, including, but not limited to, backhoes,
tractors, construction implements, or "implements of husbandry" (as defined by
Idaho Code section 49-110(2)).
The registered owner of the truck, truck-tractor, or semitrailer shall be
presumed to be the owner at the time the offense is committed and subject to
the penalty thereof, except where the use thereof was secured without the
consent of the owner. The meaning of the words "truck", "truck-tractor" and
"semitrailer" are as defined in Idaho Code section 49-120(10) and sections 49-
121(6) and (9); For the purposes of this section, "truck" shall additionally be
defined as any vehicle designed or operated for the purpose of transportation
of property with a licensed vehicle weight that exceeds twenty-six thousand
pounds (26,000 lbs.). (Ord. 752, 1-7-1997, eff. 7-1-1997; amd. Ord. 22-505, 5-
24-2022)
 
Section 2:    All other portions of Rupert City Code Title 9, Chapter 5,
Section 4 shall remain unchanged and in full force and effect.
 
Section 3:   This Ordinance shall be effective after passage and publication as
required under Idaho law.
 
PASSED AND APPROVED this 11th day of July, 2023, by the Mayor and City Council
of the City of Rupert by a vote of 4 in favor and 0 against.
 
CITY OF RUPERT
BY: Michael D. Brown, Mayor
 
ATTEST:
Bayley Maughan, City Clerk
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 602
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING THE CITY CODE OF RUPERT, IDAHO
   BE IT ORDAINED by the mayor and city council of the city of Rupert, Idaho,
an Idaho municipal corporation:
   Section 1: From and after the date of passage of this ordinance, the city
code of the city of Rupert, Idaho, prepared by Sterling Codifiers, Inc., under
the direction of the governing body of the city, containing all ordinances of a
general nature in effect at the time of such codification, shall be accepted in
all courts without question as the official code and law of the city as enacted
by the mayor and city council.
   Section 2: There is hereby adopted, as a method of perpetual codification,
the loose-leaf type of binding together with the continuous supplement service,
provided by Sterling Codifiers, Inc., whereby each newly adopted ordinance of a
general and permanent nature amending, altering, adding to or deleting
provisions of the official city code is identified by the proper catchline and
is inserted in the proper place in each of the official copies. Each such new
provision shall become effective upon the passage of the ordinance and the
insertion of the proper replacement pages in the copies of the code, three (3)
copies of which shall be maintained in the office of the city clerk, certified
as to correctness and available for inspection at any and all times that said
office is regularly open.
   Section 3: All ordinances of a general nature included in this official city
code shall be considered as a continuation of said ordinance provision and the
fact that some provisions have been deliberately eliminated by the governing
body shall not serve to cause any interruption in the continuous effectiveness
of ordinances included in said official city code. All ordinances of a special
nature, such as tax levy ordinances, bond ordinances, franchises, vacating
ordinances and annexation ordinances shall continue in full force and effect
unless specifically repealed or amended by a provision of the city code. Such
ordinances are not intended to be included in the official city code.
   Section 4: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of such code, or
to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such
code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the city to be
misrepresented thereby.
Any person, firm or corporation violating this section shall be punished as
provided in section
1-4-1 of the city code of Rupert, Idaho.
   Section 5: All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are,
to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
   Section 6: This ordinance and the code adopted by the same shall be in full
force and effect from and after its passage and approval in accordance with
law, as printed and published in book form by order of the mayor and city
council.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/21409897ec1ce452d301c034aec37f90dba90c99/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1624.gif]
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL CITY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Interpretations
1-1-5: Code Alteration
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon adoption by the city council, this code is hereby declared to be and shall
hereafter constitute the official city code of the city of Rupert. Any
reference made to the number of any section contained herein shall be
understood to refer to the position of the same under its appropriate chapter
and title heading, and to the general penalty clause relating thereto, as well
as to the section itself, when reference is made to this code by title in any
legal document. (1977 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
The city code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in all administrative tribunals in this
state as the ordinances of the city of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (1977 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending this code shall set forth the title, chapter and section
number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall constitute
sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to the
amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this code. Each such replacement page shall be
properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of the city
code. (1977 Code)
1-1-4: INTERPRETATIONS:
In the determination of the provisions of each section of this code the
following rules shall be observed:
   A.   Intent To Defraud: Whenever an intent to defraud is required in order
to constitute an offense, it shall be sufficient if an intent appears to
defraud any person.
   B.   Liability Of Employers And Agents: When the provisions of any section
of this code prohibit the commission of an act, not only the person actually
doing the prohibited act or omitting the directed act, but also the employer
and all other persons concerned with or in aiding or abetting the said person
shall be guilty of the offense described and liable to the penalty set forth.
(1977 Code)
1-1-5: CODE ALTERATION:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages may
be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by the
city council. The clerk shall see that the replacement pages are properly
inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of the clerk. Any
person having in his custody an official copy of the city code shall make every
effort to maintain said code in an up to date and efficient manner. He shall
see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement pages when such are
delivered to him or made available to him through the office of the city clerk.
Said code books, while in actual possession of officials and other interested
persons, shall be and remain the property of the city and shall be returned to
the office of the clerk when directed so to do by order of the city council.
(1977 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the city passed prior to the adoption of this code
are hereby repealed, except such as are referred to herein as being still in
force or are by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to
the saving clauses contained in the following sections), from which are
excluded the following ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy
ordinances; appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and
annexations; franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights
to persons or corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing
execution of a contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances;
ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public
places; improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to
elections; ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by
or from the city; and all special ordinances. (1977 Code)
When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision shall
itself be repealed, such repeal shall not be construed to revive such former
ordinance, clause or provision, unless it shall therein be so expressly
provided. (1960 Code, Sec. 1-411)
1-2-2: PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroads or railroad crossings with streets and other
public ways, or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public
utilities shall be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this code or by virtue
of the preceding section, excepting as this code may contain provisions for
such matters, in which case this code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (1977 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former ordinance
whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to any offense
committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any penalty,
forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued to claim arising
under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such offense
or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so
incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance takes
effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform to the
ordinance in force at the time of such proceedings, so far as practicable. If
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment be mitigated by any provision of a new
ordinance, such provision may be, by the consent of the party affected, applied
to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes effect.
This section shall extend to all repeals, either by express words or
implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any new provisions
upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed as abating any action now
pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance of the city herein
repealed, and the provisions of all general ordinances contained in this code
shall be deemed to be continuing provisions and not a new enactment of the same
provision; nor shall this chapter be deemed as discontinuing, abating,
modifying or altering any penalty accrued or to accrue, or as affecting the
liability of any person, firm or corporation, or as waiving any right of the
city under any ordinance or provision thereof in force at the time of the
adoption of this code. (1977 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this code or any part thereof is for any reason held to be unconstitutional
or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision
shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of the remaining portions of
this code, or any part thereof. The city council hereby declares that it would
have passed each section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause
or phrase thereof irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections,
subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases be
declared unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective. (1977 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: Definitions, General
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
Whenever any word in any section of this code importing the plural number is
used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or persons, any single
matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included, although distributive
words may not have been used.
When any subject matter, party or person is referred to in this code by words
importing the singular number only, or the masculine gender, several matters,
parties or persons and females as well as males and bodies corporate shall be
deemed to be included; provided, that these rules of construction shall not be
applied to any section of this code which contains any express provision
excluding such construction or where the subject matter or context may be
repugnant thereto.
The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the city has been changed
in the content of this code to "title", "chapter", "section" and/or
"subsection" or words of like import for organizational and clarification
purposes only. Such change to the city's ordinances is not meant to amend the
passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (1977 Code)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another.
CITY: The city of Rupert, county of Minidoka, state of Idaho.
EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this code to a city employee by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the city of
Rupert".
FEE: A sum of money charged by the city for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
KNOWINGLY: Imports only a knowledge that the facts exist which brings the act
or omission within the provisions of this code. It does not require any
knowledge of the unlawfulness of such act or omission.
MISDEMEANOR: An act committed or omitted, in violation of any city ordinance
forbidding or commanding it, and is punishable for each offense upon conviction
as follows:
   By fine;
   By fine and costs;
   By imprisonment;
   By both fine and imprisonment.
NEGLIGENT: The word "negligent", as well as "neglect", "negligence" and
"negligently" imports a want of such attention to the nature of probable
consequences of the act or omission as a prudent man ordinarily bestows in
acting in his own concern.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive or obnoxious to the health and welfare of the
inhabitants of the city; or any act or thing repugnant to, or creating a hazard
to, or having a detrimental effect on the property of another person or to the
community.
OCCUPANT: Applied to a building or land shall include any person who occupies
the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this code.
OFFICERS: Whenever reference is made in this code to a city officer by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the city of
Rupert".
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: Applied to a building or land shall include any part owner, joint owner,
tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of such
building or land.
PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Shall include every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things in small quantities
direct to the consumer.
RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
STREET: Shall include alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places and sidewalks.
TENANT: Applied to a building or land shall include any person who occupies the
whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with others.
WHOLESALER: The word "wholesaler" and "wholesale dealer" as used in this code,
unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate to the
sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things in quantity to persons who
purchase for the purpose of resale.
WILFULLY: When applied to the intent with which an act is done or omitted,
implies simply a purpose or willingness to commit the act or make the omission
referred to. It does not require any intent to violate law, or to injure
another, or to acquire an advantage.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: The words "written" or "in writing" may include printing
and any other mode of representing words and letters, but when the written
signature of any person is required by law to any official or public writing or
bond required by law, it shall be in the proper handwriting of such person, or
in case he is unable to write, by his proper mark. (1960 Code, Sec. 10-101;
amd. 1977 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of this code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section thereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or
reenacted. (1977 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty And Penalty For Infractions
1-4-2: License
1-4-3: Application
1-4-4: Liability Of Officers
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY AND PENALTY FOR INFRACTIONS:
Any persons convicted of a violation of any section of this code, except a
person found to have committed an "infraction" as defined by the Idaho traffic
infractions act (chapter 353 of the session laws of the Idaho legislature,
1982), shall be fined in a sum not to exceed three hundred dollars ($300.00)
for any one offense, and the person may be confined in the city jail for a
period of not more than six (6) months, or both such fine and penalty may be
imposed 1 .
A person who is found to have committed an "infraction" as defined by the Idaho
traffic infractions act (chapter 353 of the session laws of the Idaho
legislature, 1982), shall be penalized according to the schedule of penalties
for infractions established from time to time by the Idaho legislature and/or
the Idaho supreme court. (Ord. 654, 2-15-1983, eff. 3-1-1983)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 50-302.
1-4-2: LICENSE:
When a person is convicted of a violation of any section of this code, any
license previously issued to him by the city may be revoked by a court of
competent jurisdiction or by the city council. (1977 Code)
1-4-3: APPLICATION:
The penalty provided in this chapter for infractions shall apply to all
offenses declared by the Idaho legislature to be infractions under the Idaho
traffic infractions act, the same as though it were part of each and every
separate section describing an act punishable as an infraction under the Idaho
traffic infractions act.
The general penalty provided in this chapter shall be applicable to every
section of this code the same as though it were part of each and every separate
section excluding sections describing acts punishable as infractions under the
Idaho traffic infractions act. Any person convicted of a violation of any
section of this code, where any duty is prescribed or obligation imposed, or
where any action which is of a continuing nature is forbidden or declared to be
unlawful, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, unless such offense is an
infraction under the Idaho traffic infractions act. A separate offense, whether
misdemeanor or infraction, shall be deemed committed upon each day such duty or
obligation remains unperformed or such act continues, unless otherwise provided
in this code. (Ord. 654, 2-15-1983, eff. 3-1-1983)
In all cases where the same offense is made punishable or is created by
different clauses or sections of this code, the prosecuting officer may elect
under which to proceed; but not more than one recovery shall be had against the
same person for the same offense; provided, that the revocation of a license or
permit shall not be considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other
penalty being enforced.
Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act constitutes a
breach of any section or provision of this code and there shall be no fine or
penalty specifically declared for such breach, the provisions of this chapter
shall apply and a separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day
during or on which a breach or violation occurs or continues. (1977 Code)
1-4-4: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intention of
the council to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or employee is
specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the duty. (1977
Code)
CHAPTER 5
MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-5-1: Powers And Duties Of Mayor
1-5-2: Election, Number Of Councilmen
1-5-3: Quorum
1-5-4: Rules And Order Of Business
1-5-5: Meetings
1-5-6: Duties Of City Clerk
1-5-7: City Administrator
1-5-8: Corporate Seal
1-5-9: Ordinances
1-5-1: POWERS AND DUTIES OF MAYOR:
   A.   Generally: The mayor, the superintending and administrative officer of
the city, shall devote so much of his time to the duties of his office as an
efficient and faithful discharge thereof may require. He shall from time to
time give the council such information and recommend such measures as he may
deem beneficial to the city, he shall examine the grounds of all complaints
against any of the officers of the city to determine existence of a violation
or neglect of duty, and report the evidence thereof, if deemed sufficient for
the removal of said officer to the council. He shall require that every
officer, on the expiration of his term of office or resignation or removal from
the same, deliver to his successor all monies, books, papers, maps, plats,
furniture, fixtures, apparatus, machinery, tools and instruments and
appurtenances belonging to such office. He shall perform all other duties
imposed by the laws of the state.
   B.   Sign Contracts: The mayor is authorized and empowered to sign his name
officially for and on behalf of the city on all contracts, including deeds,
bonds, bills, notes, obligations and other agreements, documents and papers to
which the city is a party, and to require that the conditions in the said
instruments are faithfully performed and to borrow money on the credit of the
city when authorized by the council.
   C.   Veto Power: The mayor shall have power to veto or sign any ordinance
passed by the council, provided that any ordinance vetoed by the mayor shall be
passed over his veto by a vote of one-half (1/2) plus one of the members of the
council elected, notwithstanding the veto, and should the mayor neglect or
refuse to sign any ordinance and return the same with his objection in writing
at the next regular meeting of the council, the same shall become law without
his signature.
   D.   Accounts And Reports Of Officers: The mayor shall have the power, when
he deems it necessary, to require any officer of the city to exhibit his
accounts or other papers, and to make reports to the council in writing
touching any subject or matter he may require pertaining to his office.
   E.   Police Power: The mayor shall have jurisdiction over all places within
five (5) miles of the corporate limits of the city for the enforcement of any
health or quarantine ordinance and regulation thereof, and shall have
jurisdiction in all matters, excepting taxation, within one mile of the
corporate limits.
   F.   Require Aid: The mayor is hereby authorized to call on every male
inhabitant in the city over twenty one (21) years of age to aid in enforcing
the laws.
   G.   Other Powers: The mayor shall have all other powers granted by the laws
of the state. (1977 Code)
1-5-2: ELECTION, NUMBER OF COUNCILMEN:
There shall be four (4) councilmen for the city who shall be elected from the
city at large at the time and in the manner as provided by the laws of the
state. (Ord. 483, 8-19-1969)
1-5-3: QUORUM:
A majority of the members of the council shall constitute a quorum. (1960 Code,
Sec. 1-302)
1-5-4: RULES AND ORDER OF BUSINESS:
The council shall establish such rules and order of business as they see fit
for the conduct of its meetings and for the transaction of such business as may
properly come before it. Such rules and order of business may be amended at any
time by a majority vote of the council. (1960 Code, Sec. 1-303)
1-5-5: MEETINGS:
   A.   Regular Meetings: The regular meetings of the mayor and city council
are hereby fixed and designated as the second and fourth Tuesdays of each month
at the hour of seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. of said days at the city council's
chambers located in city hall, 624 F. Street, Rupert, Idaho. (Ord. 10-501, 2-2-
2010)
   B.   Special Meetings: The mayor or one-half (1/2) plus one members of the
full council shall have the power to call special meetings of the city council,
the object of which shall be submitted to the council in writing; the call and
object, as well as the disposition thereof, shall be entered upon the journal
by the clerk.
   C.   Open To Public: All meetings of the city council shall be open to the
public and all persons shall be permitted to attend any meeting except as
otherwise provided by this section.
The city council shall not hold a meeting at any place where discrimination on
the basis of race, creed, color, sex, age or national origin is practiced.
   D.   Notice Of Meetings: If an executive session only will be held, the
notice shall be given to the members of the city council and to the general
public, stating the reason and the specific provision of law authorizing the
executive session. Special meetings may be held upon such notice as is
appropriate to the circumstances, or as otherwise provided by law.
The notice provided in this subsection may be dispensed with in the event a
special meeting is called to deal with an emergency involving injury or damage
to persons or property or the likelihood of such injury or damage.
   E.   Minutes Of Meetings:
      1.   The city council shall provide for the taking of written minutes of
all its meetings. Neither a full transcript nor a recording of the meeting is
required except as otherwise provided by law. All minutes shall be available to
the public within a reasonable time after the meeting, and shall include at
least the following information:
         a.   All members of the city council present;
         b.   All motions, resolutions, orders, or ordinances proposed and
their disposition;
         c.   The results of all votes, and upon the request of a member, the
vote of each member, by name.
      2.   Minutes of executive sessions may be limited to material the
disclosure of which is not inconsistent with the provisions of subsection F of
this section.
   F.   Executive Sessions, When Authorized:
      1.   Nothing contained in this section shall be construed to prevent,
upon a two-thirds (2/3) vote recorded in the minutes of the meeting by
individual vote, the city council from holding an executive session during any
meeting, after the presiding officer has identified the authorization under
this subsection for the holding of such executive session. An executive session
may be held:
         a.   To consider the employment of a public officer, employee, staff
member or individual agent. This subsection does not apply to filling a vacancy
in an elective office;
         b.   To consider the dismissal or disciplining of, or to hear
complaints or charges brought against, a public officer, employee, staff member
or individual agent;
         c.   To conduct deliberations concerning student discipline and
student attendance;
         d.   To conduct deliberations concerning labor negotiations or to
acquire an interest in real property;
         e.   To consider records that are exempt by law from public
inspection;
         f.   To consider matters of trade or commerce;
         g.   To consider the evaluation of the superintendent of the school
district.
      2.   Labor negotiations may be conducted in executive session if either
side requests closed meetings. Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection D
of this section, subsequent sessions of the negotiations may continue without
further public notice.
      3.   No executive session may be held for the purpose of taking any final
action or making any final decision. (1977 Code)
1-5-6: DUTIES OF CITY CLERK:
   A.   The city clerk shall attend all meetings of the council and keep a
correct journal of its proceedings. (1960 Code, Sec. 1-305)
   B.   The city clerk shall have custody of the corporate seal of the city and
all records, papers and files relating to the proceedings or business of the
council; he shall have custody of all ordinances and when the same are
published he shall record the same at length together with the affidavit of
publication in an ordinance book which shall be designated as "Ordinance Book
Number            Of The City Of Rupert". The original of all ordinances shall
be filed and preserved by the city clerk in an orderly file maintained for that
purpose. (1960 Code, Sec. 1-308)
1-5-7: CITY ADMINISTRATOR:
There is established for the city the position of city administrator. The
rights, duties, obligations, manner of appointment, and discharge of the said
city administrator shall be fixed by resolution. (Ord. 747, 9-3-1996)
1-5-8: CORPORATE SEAL:
   A.   Design: The corporate seal of the city shall be circular in form with
inner and outer circles. It shall bear upon the space between the two (2)
circles the words, "City Of Rupert, Minidoka County, Idaho" and upon the space
within the inner circle the words, "Corporate Seal". (1960 Code, Sec. 1-306;
amd. Ord. 747, 9-3-1996)
   B.   Seal Adopted: The seal described in subsection A above is hereby
adopted as the corporate seal of the city. (1960 Code, Sec. 1-307; amd. Ord.
747, 9-3-1996)
1-5-9: ORDINANCES:
   A.   Presentment: All ordinances of a general or permanent nature shall be
written or printed and presented to the council by a member, at a regular or
special meeting. (1960 Code, Sec. 1-401; amd. Ord. 747, 9-3-1996)
   B.   Reading, Discussion, Passage: Every ordinance shall be read in meetings
of the council on three (3) different days. At each reading of an ordinance it
shall be open for discussion and amendment and may be referred to a committee,
and shall be passed to the next reading, unless by a vote of the meeting some
other disposition is made. All ordinances that have been amended shall be
engrossed, as amended by the clerk after the second reading. On final passage
the ayes and nays shall be called and recorded and a concurrence of the
majority of all the members elected to the council shall be required for
passage. Provided, that three- fourths (3/4) of the members of the council may,
by yea and nay vote, recorded in the minutes, dispense with the three (3)
readings of the ordinance, and pass the same at one meeting. (1960 Code, Sec.
1-402; amd. Ord. 747, 9-3-1996)
   C.   Signing And Approval: When any such ordinance is passed it shall be
signed by the clerk and the date of its passage by the council shall be added
thereto; and it shall, within three (3) days thereafter, be presented to the
mayor or, in case of his absence from the city, to the president of the council
for his approval. If he approves the same, he shall attach his signature
thereto. (1960 Code, Sec. 1-403; amd. Ord. 747, 9-3-1996)
   D.   Duty Of Mayor And Clerk When Disapproved: Should the mayor not approve
the ordinance, he shall, before the next regular meeting after such ordinance
is presented to him for his approval, return the same to the council with his
objections to the same in writing. When any ordinance is so returned by the
mayor, it shall be reconsidered by the council at the first regular meeting
thereafter. If on such reconsideration, one-half (1/2) plus one of the members
elected to the council shall vote in the affirmative, the ordinance shall
become a law, notwithstanding the mayor's veto. (1960 Code, Sec. 1-404; amd.
1977 Code; Ord. 747, 9-3-1996)
The clerk, in such a case, shall annex a certificate to the ordinance stating
that the same was vetoed by the mayor, and that, on its reconsideration, it
received the required majority of votes. (1960 Code, Sec. 1-404; amd. Ord. 747,
9-3-1996)
   E.   Certificate To Be Attached When Not Signed By Mayor: Should the mayor
refuse or neglect to sign such ordinance and return the same with his
objections in writing at the next regular meeting after the same has been
presented to him, it shall become a law without his signature.
The clerk shall annex to such ordinance a certificate to the effect that the
mayor has failed to sign or veto the same, and it has therefore become a law
without his signature. (1960 Code, Sec. 1-405; amd. Ord. 747, 9-3-1996)
   F.   When Ordinance Passed: An ordinance shall be considered passed on the
date of its first approval by the mayor, and in case of his vetoing an
ordinance, on the date of the passage of such ordinance over such veto, and in
case of the failure of the mayor to sign or veto an ordinance, on the date of
the next regular meeting after such ordinance shall be presented to him. (1960
Code, Sec. 1-406; amd. Ord. 747, 9-3-1996)
   G.   When Ordinance Effective: All ordinances shall take effect and be in
force from and after their passage, approval and publication. Publication shall
be made by inserting in one issue of some newspaper published in the city, or
if no paper is published within the city, then in some paper having general
circulation therein. (1960 Code, Sec. 1-407; amd. Ord. 747, 9-3-1996)
   H.   Clerk To Preserve Ordinances: The clerk shall safely keep the originals
and engrossed copies of all ordinances and shall record the same in a book
provided for that purpose, and attach to each a certificate over the seal of
the city, that the same is a true and correct copy of the original ordinance as
passed. (1960 Code, Sec. 1-408; amd. Ord. 747, 9-3-1996)
   I.   Special Ordinances:
      1.   Presentation: All ordinances of a special nature and resolutions in
the nature of ordinances, and orders to enter into contracts, shall be
presented in writing or printing to the council by one of its number. (1960
Code, Sec. 1-414; amd. Ord. 747, 9-3-1996)
      2.   Disposition: Such orders, resolutions or ordinances may be disposed
of on one reading, or otherwise as the council may determine. (1960 Code, Sec.
1-415; amd. Ord. 747, 9-3-1996)
      3.   Passage: On the final passage of any such ordinances, resolutions or
orders, the yeas and nays shall be called and recorded, and the concurrence of
a majority of the whole number elected to the council shall be necessary to
pass the same. (1960 Code, Sec. 1-416; amd. Ord. 747, 9-3-1996)
   J.   Presentation To Mayor For Signature: Such ordinances, resolutions or
orders, if amended, shall be engrossed by the clerk and signed by him when
finally passed by the council and he shall then present the same to the mayor
or president of the council for his consideration, in the same manner and
within the same time as in the case of ordinances of a general nature. (1960
Code, Sec. 1-417; amd. Ord. 747, 9-3-1996)
   K.   Course Of Procedure: Thereafter such ordinances, resolutions or orders
shall take the same course as ordinances of a general or permanent nature,
except that the clerk shall not be required to publish resolutions or orders
unless their publication is required by law. (1960 Code, Sec. 1-418; amd. Ord.
747, 9-3-1996)
CHAPTER 6
CITY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-6-1: Collector Of Water, Electrical Services And Licenses
1-6-2: Deputy Collector, Appointment
1-6-3: Salaries Of Officers And Employees
1-6-4: Bonds Of Certain Officers
1-6-5: Duties Of Attorney
1-6-6: Adoption Of Affirmative Action Program
1-6-7: Reimbursement For Use Of Privately Owned Vehicles
1-6-1: COLLECTOR OF WATER, ELECTRICAL SERVICES AND LICENSES:
   A.   Office Created, Appointment: There is hereby created the office of
collector of water, electrical services and licenses. The mayor, by and with
the consent of the council, shall appoint a collector of water, electrical
services and licenses who shall hold office during the pleasure of the mayor
and council, and the mayor, by and with the consent of the council, may declare
the office vacant at any time he sees fit so to do. (1960 Code, Sec. 1-501;
amd. Ord. 817, 9-4-2001)
   B.   Duties: The collector of water, electrical services and licenses shall
collect all water charges, light and power charges and license fees. He shall
turn all collections over to the city treasurer upon proper forms not less than
once each month. (1960 Code, Sec. 1-502; amd. Ord. 817, 9-4-2001)
1-6-2: DEPUTY COLLECTOR, APPOINTMENT:
The mayor, by and with the consent of the council, may appoint a deputy
collector of water, electrical services and licenses. Such deputy shall perform
all duties required by the collector of water, electrical services and licenses
and all acts of such deputy shall be done in the name of the collector. Such
deputy collector of water, electrical services and licenses shall hold office
during the pleasure of the mayor and council. (1960 Code, Sec. 1-503; amd. Ord.
817, 9-4-2001)
1-6-3: SALARIES OF OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES:
   A.   Elective Officers: The following elected city officers shall receive as
compensation for their services to the city, as such officers, the following
amounts respectively:
 
Mayor           $1,050.00 per month.
                $300.00 for each meeting attended, provided, however, that the
Council members maximum amount paid in any 1 month for attendance in meetings,
                whether regular or special meetings of the city council, shall
                not exceed $600.00 per month.
 
In recognition of the time spent by the council members on city business in
addition to attendance at council meetings, each member of the city council
shall have the discretionary right to excuse himself or herself from attendance
at two (2) regular council meetings in a calendar year and still receive
compensation for said meetings. The council member shall give the city clerk
written notice of his or her intent to take a discretionary excused absence
prior to the end of the monthly pay period in which the excused absence is
taken, or an absence during the pay period will be an excused absence without
pay.
In addition to the two (2) discretionary excused absences which each council
member enjoys, a council member may be excused from attendance at three (3)
additional meetings with compensation during any calendar year by the majority
vote of a quorum of the remaining council members if the council member makes a
timely request that his or her absence be excused, the reason for his or her
absence is reasonable, the absence will not interfere with the conduct of
council business, and the members of the council voting on the excused absence
are satisfied that the member seeking the excused absence is performing his or
her duties in an adequate manner and carrying a fair share of the workload of
the council.
A council member need not use an excused absence to receive his or her full
monthly pay if he or she has attended two (2) regular or special meetings of
the full council in any calendar month.
The mayor and council members may participate in group life, health and
accident insurance provided by the city on the same basis as regular full time
city employees. (Ord. 11-504, 8-12-2011)
   B.   Appointive Officers And Employees: All appointive officers and
employees shall receive as compensation for their services to the city as such
officers and employees such salaries as shall be fixed by the mayor and council
from time to time. (Ord. 401, 7-5-1961, eff. retroactive to 5-1-1961; amd. 1977
Code)
1-6-4: BONDS OF CERTAIN OFFICERS:
After the effective date hereof and before entering upon the duties of their
respective offices, following their election or appointment, the following city
officers shall furnish the city with an official bond in the following amounts:
(1960 Code, Sec. 1-506; amd. 1977 Code)
 
City clerk                                           $ 5,000.00
Collector of water, electrical services and licenses 6,000.00
Deputy collector                                     5,000.00
City treasurer                                       30,000.00
 
Said bonds shall be subject to the approval of the mayor and council, and the
premiums thereon shall be paid by the city. (1960 Code, Sec. 1-506; amd. 1977
Code; Ord. 817, 9-4-2001)
1-6-5: DUTIES OF ATTORNEY:
The city attorney shall perform such duties as are prescribed by law and that
may be imposed by the mayor and city council from time to time. (1960 Code,
Sec. 1-507)
1-6-6: ADOPTION OF AFFIRMATIVE ACTION PROGRAM:
It is, and hereafter shall continue to be, the policy of the city that the city
shall not discriminate in any aspect of its employment practices because of
race, color, creed, religion, national origin, age, sex nor physical handicap.
The city hereby elects to adopt by reference as if set out in full herein the
affirmative action program to assure equal employment opportunities to all
qualified persons and to encourage qualified persons to seek employment and
advancement with the city.
All department heads and supervisors of the city are directed to implement the
city's affirmative action program in all aspects of the employment process.
(Res. 111, 5-1-1979)
1-6-7: REIMBURSEMENT FOR USE OF PRIVATELY OWNED VEHICLES:
From and after October 1, 1979, all claims for reimbursement by private
individuals for authorized use of privately owned motor vehicles on behalf of
the city, properly verified and presented to the city clerk, shall be
reimbursed at the rate of eighteen cents ($0.18) per mile for each mile
actually traveled. Said claim shall be presented and approved for payment in
the order and course of city business in the same manner as payment of other
open accounts payable by the city. (Res. 117, 9-4-1979)
CHAPTER 7
CITY ELECTIONS; VOTING PRECINCTS
SECTION:
1-7-1: Appointment Of Officers Of Election
1-7-2: Term Of Office
1-7-3: Notice Of Appointment
1-7-4: Vacancies, How Filled
1-7-5: Polling Places Designated, Supplies Furnished
1-7-6: Compensation Of Judges, Clerks Of Election
1-7-7: Voting Precincts
1-7-8: Hours Of Polling Places
1-7-1: APPOINTMENT OF OFFICERS OF ELECTION:
The city council shall, at its regular meeting in October, prior to each
biennial election, appoint three (3) capable and discreet persons, possessing
the qualifications of electors, in each voting precinct as election officers.
Two (2) of such persons shall be designated as judges of election and one of
such persons as clerk of election. (Ord. 484, 8-19-1969)
1-7-2: TERM OF OFFICE:
Such officials shall hold office for the period of two (2) years and shall be
the officials of all elections, both general and special, during that period.
(1960 Code, Sec. 1-1102)
1-7-3: NOTICE OF APPOINTMENT:
The city clerk shall give such appointees notice of their appointment and shall
request each appointee to give notice of his acceptance or declination of his
appointment to the city clerk within ten (10) days thereafter. (1960 Code, Sec.
1-1103)
1-7-4: VACANCIES, HOW FILLED:
Any vacancies arising in the office of election officials shall be filled by
the city council at any regular or special meeting called for that purpose. If
such vacancy does not become apparent until the time for the opening of the
polls, the duly qualified electors present may fill such vacancies from any
electors present. (1960 Code, Sec. 1-1104)
1-7-5: POLLING PLACES DESIGNATED, SUPPLIES FURNISHED:
The city council shall designate suitable polling places within the city and
cause the same to be provided with suitable voting compartments, supplies,
official stamps, ballot boxes and such other supplies as county commissioners
are required to provide for state elections. (Ord. 484, 8-19-1969; amd. 1977
Code)
1-7-6: COMPENSATION OF JUDGES, CLERKS OF ELECTION:
The compensation of judges and clerks of election shall be fixed by the mayor
and council at the time of appointment. (1960 Code, Sec. 1-1106)
1-7-7: VOTING PRECINCTS:
The city shall have voting precincts for general and special elections to be
held in the city, to be established by the city council.
All of the city shall be included in one voting precinct to be known as voting
precinct no. 1. (Ord. 483, 8-19-1969)
1-7-8: HOURS OF POLLING PLACES:
The polls for all general and special elections shall be open from eight
o'clock (8:00) A.M. Mountain Standard Time and remain open until eight o'clock
(8:00) P.M. Mountain Standard Time. (Ord. 846, 10-7-2003)
CHAPTER 8
CITY DEPOSITORIES; OFFICIAL NEWSPAPER
SECTION:
1-8-1: City Depositories
1-8-2: Official Newspaper
1-8-1: CITY DEPOSITORIES:
The city hereby designates as depository banks for all funds of the city,
including all tax receipts, the following banks located in the city:
   U.S. Bank, or its successor in interest, Rupert branch, Rupert, Idaho.
   Wells Fargo, or its successor in interest, Rupert branch, Rupert, Idaho.
   D.L. Evans Bank, Rupert branch, Rupert, Idaho. (Ord. 823, 4-9-2002)
In addition to the banks designated above, the city also designates First
Federal Savings Bank (Rupert branch) as an official depository of the city of
Rupert, subject to the limitations contained in section 50-1013(m) of the Idaho
Code. The city officials who deposit funds to public depositories identified in
this section shall make reasonable efforts to balance the deposits among the
depositories designated in this section, including both the banks and the
savings and loan association identified herein, but the deposits to the savings
and loan association shall not exceed the limitations of section 50-1013(m) of
the Idaho Code. (Ord. 696, 1-2-1990)
1-8-2: OFFICIAL NEWSPAPER:
The official newspaper of the city shall be and hereby is designated as the
"Weekly News Journal", a newspaper published in the city of Burley, Idaho, and
all publications of notices of the city shall be made in such newspaper. (Ord.
10-505, 12-28-2010)
CHAPTER 9
LOCAL IMPROVEMENT GUARANTEE FUND
SECTION:
1-9-1: Fund Created, Purpose
1-9-2: Annual Tax Levy
1-9-3: Payment On Bonds
1-9-4: Rights Of Bond Holders; Surplus Funds
1-9-5: Disposition Of Monies
1-9-6: Replenish Fund
1-9-7: Excess Money In Fund
1-9-8: Procedure Upon Final Payment Of Bonds
1-9-9: Provisions Considered Contract
1-9-1: FUND CREATED, PURPOSE:
There is hereby created in the city a special fund known and designated as
"Local Improvement Guarantee Fund" of the city. Said fund is created for the
purpose of guaranteeing to the extent of said fund the payment of bonds or
warrants, or both, and interest thereon, hereafter issued against any local
improvement district in the city for the payment of improvements therein. (Ord.
494, 3-27-1970)
1-9-2: ANNUAL TAX LEVY:
In order to provide money for the local improvement guarantee fund and for the
use and purposes of said fund, the mayor and council shall levy an annual tax
of one mill per year, beginning with the tax due and collectible in the year
1970, on all of the taxable property in the city; provided, however that the
city may reduce the amount of said levy if the city appropriates from other
proper sources, as may be determined by the city, a sum approximately equal in
amount to the sum which it is estimated will be not collected but would have
been collected except for said reduction of the levy; and provided, further,
that the total sum so levied and/or appropriated in any year shall not be more
than is sufficient to pay the outstanding warrants on said fund and to
establish therein a balance, which combined levy and appropriations in any one
year shall not exceed five percentum (5%) of the outstanding obligations
thereby guaranteed; and provided further, that the city shall not levy any tax
as herein provided when the amount of monies in the local improvement guarantee
fund equals ten percentum (10%) of the total outstanding obligations to be
guaranteed. The tax levies herein authorized and directed shall be additional
to and, if need be, in excess of any and all statutory and charter limitations.
(Ord. 494, 3-27-1970)
1-9-3: PAYMENT ON BONDS:
When any bond, warrant or coupon drawn against any local improvement fund is
presented to the city for payment and there is not sufficient amount in said
local improvement fund against which to draw to pay the same, unless otherwise
requested by the holder, payment therefor shall be made by warrant drawn
against the local improvement guarantee fund. Such warrants, when presented to
the city treasurer for payment, if not paid, shall be registered and shall draw
interest at a rate not to exceed six percentum (6%) per annum as may be fixed
by the city council. Neither the holder nor the owner of any bond or warrant
hereafter issued in any local improvement district shall have any claim
therefor except for the payment from the special assessment made for the
improvement for which said bond or warrant was issued and except against the
local improvement guarantee fund herein provided. The city shall not be liable
to any holder or owner of said bond or warrant for any loss to the guarantee
fund occurring in the lawful operation thereof by the city. (Ord. 494, 3-27-
1970)
1-9-4: RIGHTS OF BOND HOLDERS; SURPLUS FUNDS:
Wherever there shall be paid out of the local improvement guarantee fund any
sum on account of principal or interest of a local improvement bond or warrant,
the city, as trustee for the fund, shall be subrogated to all of the rights of
the holders or owners of the bonds or interest coupons or warrants so paid, and
the policies thereof, or the assessment underlying the same, shall become part
of the guarantee fund. There shall be paid into the guarantee fund any surplus
remaining in any local improvement fund after the payment of all outstanding
bonds or warrants payable out of such local improvement fund. Bonds or warrants
guaranteed by such fund shall have no preference except in the order of
presentation for payment.
The holder or owner of any local improvement bond or warrant issued hereafter
shall have no claim thereon against the city, except to the extent of the funds
created and received by assessments against the property within any local
improvement district and to the extent of his pro rata share of the local
improvement guarantee fund, authorized and issued under the provisions of this
chapter. (Ord. 494, 3-27-1970)
1-9-5: DISPOSITION OF MONIES:
All monies derived from the assignment of delinquent certificates, redemptions,
sales of property under foreclosure for delinquent local improvements
assessments or from the rent or sale of property, title to which has been
obtained by the city pursuant to chapter 17, title 50, Idaho Code, and the
terms of this chapter, and all other laws amendatory thereof and supplemental
thereto, shall be paid into the local improvement guarantee fund, and all
delinquency certificates issued and such property acquired shall be held by the
city for the benefit of such guarantee fund. Money from the guarantee fund may
be used to redeem property subject to local improvement assessments from
general tax delinquencies, underlying bonds or warrants guaranteed by the fund,
or to purchase such property at county tax sales, or otherwise, from the county
for the purpose of protecting the guarantee fund. After so acquiring title to
real property, the city may lease or sell and convey the same for such price
and on such terms as may be determined by the council, and any provision of
law, charter or ordinance to the contrary notwithstanding, and all proceeds
resulting therefrom, shall belong to and be paid into the guarantee fund;
provided, however, that in any event the city purchases said property at tax
sale, or otherwise, it shall not be sold for a lesser sum than the city paid
therefor. (Ord. 494, 3-27-1970)
1-9-6: REPLENISH FUND:
Whenever there is not a sufficient amount of cash in the local improvement
guarantee fund at any time to pay any and all warrants, together with interest
thereon, drawn against said fund, the city council may replenish said local
improvement guarantee fund by transferring or appropriating to it, monies from
the general fund of the city or other available sources, as may be determined
by the council, subject, however, to the limitations herein prescribed.
Warrants drawing interest as herein provided may be issued against said local
improvement guarantee fund to meet any financial liability against it; but, at
the time of making its next annual tax levy, the city shall provide for the
levy of a sum sufficient with other resources of the guarantee fund to pay
warrants so issued and outstanding, the tax for this purpose not to exceed one
mill in any one year. (Ord. 494, 3-27-1970)
1-9-7: EXCESS MONEY IN FUND:
If at any time the local improvement guarantee fund herein created exceeds in
amount of monies held therein ten percent (10%) of the total outstanding
obligations thereby guaranteed, then the city council may, by ordinance,
authorize the treasurer or appropriate official of the city to return and pay
such said excess or any part thereof to the general fund of the city, to return
and pay such said excess or any designated part thereof all or any part of
local improvement district bonds of the municipality then issued and
outstanding or to be issued. The passage of such ordinance shall require the
affirmative vote of at least three-fourths (3/4) of the full council. (Ord.
494, 3-27-1970)
1-9-8: PROCEDURE UPON FINAL PAYMENT OF BONDS:
At such time, and not before, when all bonds and coupons of all local
improvement districts in the city hereafter issued shall have been paid in
full, the mayor and council may provide by ordinance that the amounts and all
property rights in said "local improvement guarantee fund" shall revert to the
general fund of the city and said local improvement guarantee fund shall
terminate and be nonexistent thereafter. (Ord. 494, 3-27-1970)
1-9-9: PROVISIONS CONSIDERED CONTRACT:
After the bonds of any local improvement district for the city have been
hereafter issued, this chapter shall constitute a contract by the city and the
holder or holders of said bonds and shall be and remain irrepealable until said
bonds and the interest accruing thereon shall have been fully paid, satisfied
and discharged. (Ord. 494, 3-27-1970)
CHAPTER 10
LOST, STOLEN OR ABANDONED PROPERTY
SECTION:
1-10-1: Sale Of Unclaimed Property
1-10-1: SALE OF UNCLAIMED PROPERTY:
   A.   Unclaimed Personal Property, Right To Sell: Any personal property which
remains unclaimed in the custody of the city for at least six (6) months may be
sold by the city at a public sale and such sale shall be conducted by the head
of the department of the city which has custody of said property. (1960 Code,
Sec. 1-1201; amd. 1977 Code)
   B.   Notice Of Sale: Prior to said sale the city clerk shall give notice of
said sale in substantially the following form:
      Notice is hereby given that in compliance with Section
1-10-1, of the City Code the following described personal property will be
offered for sale at       the       day of           , 20   , at (City office
or police station) in the City of Rupert: (description of personal property).
The City of Rupert retains the right to reject any and all bids and to sell
property by the individual piece or as a whole.
      Dated                .
                                            
          (City Clerk)
The clerk shall give such notice by causing the same to be published in two (2)
consecutive issues of a weekly newspaper having general circulation within the
city and said sale shall be conducted at least three (3) days after the second
and final publication of said notice. (1960 Code, Sec. 1-1202)
   C.   Sale: Such sale of unclaimed personal property by the city shall be by
public auction to the highest bidder for cash and said personal property may be
sold by the piece or as a whole to one or more bidders, and the city shall have
the right to reject any or all bids. (1960 Code, Sec. 1-1203)
   D.   Disposition Of Proceeds: Immediately after such sale, all proceeds
thereof shall be delivered to the city clerk, and the clerk shall cause said
proceeds to be deposited to the credit of the general fund as other funds are
so deposited and credited. (1960 Code, Sec. 1-1204)
CHAPTER 11
INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM
SECTION:
1-11-1: Creation Of Right Of Initiative And Referendum
1-11-2: Number Of Petitioners Required
1-11-3: Form Of Petition
1-11-4: Time For Filing Petitions
1-11-5: Printing Of Petition And Sheets For Signatures; Time Limit For
Perfecting Petition
1-11-6: Verification On Sheets For Signatures
1-11-7: Filing Fees
1-11-8: Examination And Certification Of Signatures
1-11-9: Sufficiency Of Petition; Notification; Effect Of Control; Action;
Election
1-11-10: Form Of Ballot
1-11-11: Conduct Of Election
1-11-12: Canvass Of Returns, Votes Required For Approval
1-11-13: Effective Date Of Measure
1-11-14: Prohibited Acts; Penalties
1-11-1: CREATION OF RIGHT OF INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM:
The people of this city shall have the right to enact ordinances through the
initiative process, and to repeal ordinances through the referendum process,
according to the procedures set forth herein, but no ordinance may be adopted
by initiative, and none can be repealed by referendum if the effect of such
direct legislation would impair the financial integrity of the city by
authorizing or directing expenditures in excess of anticipated revenues or by
reducing revenues below those projected by any annual appropriation ordinance
which has been duly adopted. This ordinance shall not apply to bond elections
governed by the Idaho Code 1 . (Ord. 627, 1-2-1980)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 2001 et seq.
1-11-2: NUMBER OF PETITIONERS REQUIRED:
A petition to enact an ordinance by initiative or to repeal an ordinance by
referendum, shall be required to contain the signatures of qualified voters of
the city equal in number to at least twenty percent (20%) of the total number
of voters registered to vote at the last general election in the city. (Ord.
627, 1-2-1980)
1-11-3: FORM OF PETITION:
The initiative (or referendum) petition shall be in substantially the following
form:
   INITIATIVE (OR REFERENDUM) PETITION TO THE MAYOR AND COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF
RUPERT, IDAHO: We, the undersigned citizens and legal voters of the City of
Rupert, respectfully demand that the following proposed ordinance, to-wit:
(setting out full text of measure proposed) shall be submitted to the legal
voters of the City of Rupert, for their approval or rejection at an election to
be called in accordance with Idaho Code Section 50-501, and each for himself
says: I have personally signed this petition; I am a legal voter of the City of
Rupert; my residence and post office are correctly written after my name.
   Name                                     Street Number
                              
   Post Office                          
(Here follow numbered lines for signature and the verification required by
section
1-11-6 of this chapter.)
The petition for referendum on any ordinance passed by the city council shall
be in substantially the same form with appropriate title and changes, setting
out in full the text of the ordinance to be referred to the people for their
approval or rejection. (Ord. 627, 1-2-1980)
1-11-4: TIME FOR FILING PETITIONS:
Referendum petitions with the requisite number of signatures attached shall be
filed with the city clerk not less than sixty (60) days following the date of
publication of the ordinance to be subject to referendum. (Ord. 627, 1-2-1980)
1-11-5: PRINTING OF PETITION AND SHEETS FOR SIGNATURES; TIME LIMIT FOR
PERFECTING PETITION:
   A.   Before or at the time of beginning to circulate any petition for
initiative or referendum, the person or persons, organization or organizations
under whose authority the petition is to be circulated, shall send or deliver
to the city clerk a copy of such petition duly signed by at least twenty (20)
electors eligible to sign such petition. The clerk shall immediately examine
the petition and specify the form and kind and size of paper on which the
petition shall be printed and circulated for further signatures. All petitions
and sheets for signatures shall be printed on a good quality bond or ledger
paper, on pages eight and one-half inches (81/2") in width by thirteen inches
(13") in length, with a margin of one and three-fourths inches (13/4") at the
top of binding, and the sheets for signatures shall have numbered lines thereon
from one to twenty (20) for signatures. The petition shall be prepared in
sections, with each section numbered consecutively. Each section of a petition
must have a printed copy of the petition as the first page, and each section
shall have attached to it not more than ten (10) sheets for signatures.
   B.   The city clerk shall indicate in writing on the petition that he has
approved it as to form or shall indicate, in writing, why he cannot approve the
petition as to form. If the petition is approved as to form, the clerk shall
inform the person or persons, organization or organizations under whose
authority the petition is to be circulated, in writing, that the petition must
be perfected with the required number of certified signatures within sixty (60)
days following the date of approval as to form. Any petition that has not been
perfected with the required number of certified signatures within the sixty
(60) days allowed shall be declared null and void ab initio in its entirety.
(Ord. 627, 1-2-1980)
1-11-6: VERIFICATION ON SHEETS FOR SIGNATURES:
Each and every signature sheet of each petition containing signatures shall be
verified on the face thereof in substantially the following form by the person
who circulated said sheet of the petition, by his or her affidavit thereon, as
a part thereof:
   STATE OF IDAHO )
            ) ss.
   County of Minidoka )
   I,                , swear, under penalty of perjury, that every person who
signed this sheet of the foregoing petition signed his or her name thereto in
my presence. I believe that each has stated his or her name and the
accompanying required information on the signature sheet correctly, and that
the person was eligible to sign this petition. I further swear that I am a
qualified voter of the City of Rupert.
   Signature                          
   Post Office Address                
Subscribed and sworn to before me this      day of        , 20  .
   Notary Public                      
(NOTARY SEAL)
   Residing at
(Ord. 627, 1-2-1980)
1-11-7: FILING FEES:
The person, persons or organization directing the petition effort shall pay to
the city clerk a filing fee of five hundred dollars ($500.00) at the time the
signed petitions are presented to the city clerk for filing pursuant to the
following section of this chapter. Said filing fee shall be deposited to the
general fund of the city. The filing fee so paid shall be refunded to the
person or organization who paid the same if the city council shall enact an
ordinance embodying the principles set forth in the petitions provided in
section
1-11-9 of this chapter, or if the electorate shall approve the proposition at
the election held to consider the petition, but the filing fee shall not be
refundable under any other circumstances. (Ord. 627, 1-2-1980)
1-11-8: EXAMINATION AND CERTIFICATION OF SIGNATURES:
   A.   All petitions with attached signature sheets shall be presented on the
same day to the city clerk, who shall make a cursory examination of them to
determine whether the petitions apparently contain the necessary number of
signatures.
      1.   If the total number of signatures on the petitions is not sufficient
to satisfy the number required by section
1-11-2 of this chapter, all petitions with attached signature sheets shall be
retained by the city clerk who shall notify in writing the person filing the
petition of the number of signatures needed, and further signatures may be
gathered, if within the time limit of section
1-11-5 of this chapter.
      2.   If the cursory examination of the signature sheets reveals:
         a.   Erasures on any signatures;
         b.   Illegible or undecipherable signatures;
         c.   Signatures not properly identified by all of the information
required on the sheet;
         d.   Duplicate signatures;
         e.   Signatures of persons who have requested in writing to have their
names removed from the petition;
The city clerk shall summarily reject such signatures and they shall not be
counted. Each rejected signature shall be drawn through with ink and initialed
by the clerk. If the total number of signatures not rejected is not sufficient
to satisfy the number required by section
1-11-2 of this chapter, all petitions with attached signature sheets shall be
retained by the clerk who shall notify in writing the person filing the
petition of the number of signatures needed, and further signatures may be
gathered, if within the time limit of section
1-11-5 of this chapter.
   B.   All petitions presented to the city clerk found to apparently contain
the necessary number of signatures, after the cursory examination provided for
above, shall be filed with the city clerk and become public records of the city
not to be returned. The city clerk shall examine each such signature purported
to be that of a registered elector of the city, and compare each such signature
with the registration documents available to the city clerk. The city clerk
shall summarily reject all signatures which are not the signatures of
registered electors of the city; and such rejected signatures shall not be
counted. Each rejected signature shall be drawn through with ink and initialed
by the city clerk. The city clerk may take not to exceed ten (10) days after
filing of the petition to complete his examination. The city clerk shall
certify each signature found to comply with all of the requirements of this
chapter by an appropriate mark following each signature.
The city clerk shall total the number of certified signatures, and if found to
total the number of signatures required by section
1-11-2 of this chapter, shall proceed as provided in section
1-11-9 herein. (Ord. 627, 1-2-1980)
1-11-9: SUFFICIENCY OF PETITION; NOTIFICATION; EFFECT OF CONTROL; ACTION;
ELECTION:
   A.   In the event that a petition filed with a city clerk does not contain
the required number of certified signatures, the city clerk shall inform the
person or organization under whose authority the petition was circulated that
the petition is defective for lack of certified signatures, and specify the
number of additional signatures required to make the petition valid. The
petition must be perfected within thirty (30) days of the date that the city
clerk finds the petition defective for lack of certified signatures. If the
petition is not perfected within the thirty (30) day period, the clerk shall
declare the petition null and void ab initio in its entirety.
   B.   In the event that a petition filed with the city clerk is found by the
city clerk to contain the required number of certified signatures, the city
clerk shall promptly, by certified mail, inform the petitioners, and shall also
notify the city council at its next meeting, that the initiative or referendum
petition is in proper form.
      1.   If the petition is for a referendum, the city council shall have
thirty (30) days from the date of certification of the petition to repeal the
ordinance being referred to the voters. In the event the council repeals the
ordinance, the referendum petition shall be declared null and void.
      2.   If the petition is an initiative petition, the city council shall
have thirty (30) days to pass an ordinance substantially as proposed by the
petition. In the event the council passes such an ordinance, the initiative
petition shall be null and void.
      3.   In the event the city council neither repeals the ordinance which is
the subject of a referendum petition, nor enacts an ordinance which is the
subject of an initiative petition, an election shall be ordered by the city
clerk to be conducted citywide. A special election for initiative or referendum
shall be provided not more than ninety (90) days following the certification of
the petition, provided that in the event a municipal election will occur within
the ninety (90) days, the initiative or referendum shall be submitted at the
time of the municipal election, if there is sufficient time to comply with the
notice requirements for general city elections. (Ord. 627, 1-2-1980)
1-11-10: FORM OF BALLOT:
The city council shall prepare a ballot for an initiative or referendum
election in one of the following ways:
   A.   If the full text of the ordinance or proposed ordinance to be voted
upon does not exceed two hundred fifty (250) words in length, it may be set out
in full on the election ballot; or
   B.   If the full text of the ordinance or proposed ordinance to be voted
upon exceeds two hundred fifty (250) words in length, and the council votes not
to have it printed in length on the election ballot, it shall, with the
assistance of the city attorney, prepare a short title and description of the
ordinance or proposed ordinance which shall clearly and impartially state its
purpose and effect, which short title and description shall be printed on the
election ballot. (Ord. 627, 1-2-1980)
1-11-11: CONDUCT OF ELECTION:
Initiative or referendum elections, whether special or general, shall be
conducted and the results thereof canvassed and certified in all respects as
near as practicable, in like manner as general elections, except as otherwise
provided. (Ord. 627, 1-2-1980)
1-11-12: CANVASS OF RETURNS, VOTES REQUIRED FOR APPROVAL:
The mayor and council shall meet within five (5) days after said election to
canvass the votes cast at such election, and the city clerk shall immediately
announce the results of the election following the canvass. In order to be
approved, the measure must have received a majority of all votes cast at said
election, or, if the matter has been submitted to the electorate at an election
other than a general city election it must be approved by the majority of
persons voting at the special election or the majority of the number of persons
voting at the most recent general election of the city, whichever number is
greater. (Ord. 627, 1-2-1980)
1-11-13: EFFECTIVE DATE OF MEASURE:
If the election results in approval of a new ordinance by the electorate, the
ordinance shall be published in the legal newspaper of the city in the first
edition in which it can be published following canvass of the returns. The
ordinance shall become effective upon publication in the same manner as other
ordinances become effective, unless the effective date of the ordinance is
delayed by its own terms, in which event the later date specified by the
ordinance. If the election results in repeal of an existing ordinance, or part
thereof, the existing ordinance or part thereof so repealed shall be repealed
as of the date of publication of said repealer in the same manner as
publication of an ordinance approved by initiative, unless the repealer shall
have a delayed effective date, in which event the latter date shall control.
(Ord. 627, 1-2-1980)
1-11-14: PROHIBITED ACTS; PENALTIES:
A person is guilty of misdemeanor who:
   A.   Signs any name other than his own to any initiative or referendum
petition.
   B.   Knowingly signs his name more than once on the same initiative or
referendum petition.
   C.   Knowingly signs his name to any initiative or referendum petition if he
is not a registered city elector.
   D.   Wilfully or knowingly circulates, publishes or exhibits any false
statement or representation concerning the contents, purport or effect of any
initiative or referendum petition for the purpose of obtaining any signature to
any such petition, or for the purpose of persuading any person to sign any such
petition.
   E.   Presents to any officer for filing any initiative or referendum
petition to which is attached, appended or subscribed any signature which the
person so filing such petition knows to be false or fraudulent, or not the
genuine signature of the person purporting to sign such petition or whose name
is attached, appended or subscribed thereto.
   F.   Circulates or causes to circulate any initiative or referendum petition
knowing the same to contain false, forged or fictitious names.
   G.   Makes any false affidavit concerning any initiative or referendum
petition or the signatures appended thereto.
   H.   Offers, proposes or threatens for any pecuniary reward or
consideration:
      1.   To offer, propose, threaten or attempt to sell, hinder or delay any
initiative or referendum petition or any part thereof or any signatures
thereon.
      2.   To offer, propose or threaten to desist from beginning, promoting or
circulating any initiative or referendum petition.
      3.   To offer, propose, attempt or threaten in any manner or form to use
any recall petition or any power of promotion or opposition in any manner or
form for extortion, blackmail or secret or private intimidation of any person
or business interest. (Ord. 627, 1-2-1980)
CHAPTER 12
SURPLUS PERSONAL PROPERTY
SECTION:
1-12-1: Disposition Of Valuable Surplus Personal Property
1-12-2: List Of Surplus Property
1-12-3: Action By Council
1-12-4: Notice And Conduct Of Sale
1-12-5: Disposition Of Funds
1-12-6: Property Sold By Departments
1-12-1: DISPOSITION OF VALUABLE SURPLUS PERSONAL PROPERTY:
No employee of the city is authorized to sell, transfer or give away valuable
personal property of the city without prior approval of the city council duly
recorded in minutes of the council. The unauthorized sale or transfer of
valuable personal property of the city shall be grounds for dismissal. Personal
property shall be presumed to be valuable for the purpose of this chapter if it
is disposed of by means other than being discarded as waste material at the
sanitary landfill or similar approved depository for refuse. (Ord. 629, 2-5-
1980)
1-12-2: LIST OF SURPLUS PROPERTY:
Each department head of the city shall maintain a list of personal property in
the possession of his or her department which is unnecessary to the operation
of the department. A copy of the list of surplus personal property shall be
given to the director of public services who shall report such surplus property
to the city council at the first council meeting of the following month. (Ord.
629, 2-5-1980)
1-12-3: ACTION BY COUNCIL:
The city council may direct that surplus property be retained by the
department; that it be transferred to another department; that it be sold or
transferred to another governmental unit; that the property be discarded as
waste if the cost of marketing it would exceed the revenue which might be
realized. In all other cases the council shall direct that the property be sold
at public auction to the highest cash bidder after notice as provided in
section
1-12-4 of this chapter. (Ord. 629, 2-5-1980)
1-12-4: NOTICE AND CONDUCT OF SALE:
After the council has approved the sale of surplus personal property a notice
of sale shall be published in at least two (2) issues of a newspaper of general
circulation in the city generally describing the property to be sold, the time
and place of sale and the place at which the property can be seen prior to the
sale. It shall also state that the property is sold "as is" and without express
or implied warranties. The sale may not be held sooner than three (3) days
after the second publication. The sale shall be conducted by the mayor or by
the director of public works in the absence of the mayor. The city clerk or the
designated deputy shall serve as the clerk for the sale. Each item of property
shall be sold separately. Unless the council has established a minimum sale
price, the highest cash bidder for an item shall be the purchaser. A bill of
sale, executed by the person conducting the sale on behalf of the city, shall
be delivered to each purchaser. (Ord. 629, 2-5-1980)
1-12-5: DISPOSITION OF FUNDS:
All funds from the sale of surplus personal property shall be deposited in the
general fund of the city. (Ord. 629, 2-5-1980)
1-12-6: PROPERTY SOLD BY DEPARTMENTS:
In the alternative to the above said disposition of surplus personal property,
in the discretion of the city administrator, and with the approval of the mayor
and city council at a regularly scheduled meeting thereof, surplus personal
property may be sold by the department; provided, however, that the department
head shall submit to the city administrator for review by the mayor and city
council prior to the sale a list of the said property, an estimate of the fair
market value of the said property, and a statement that the said property is no
longer used for municipal purposes. With the approval of the majority of the
council, said property may be sold to the public at the stated price with all
funds from the sale being deposited in the account of the department from which
the said property is sold. (Ord. 764, 1-20-1998)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
BOARD OF LIBRARY DIRECTORS 1
SECTION:
2-1-1: Membership, Term Of Office
2-1-2: Organization Of Board
2-1-3: Report To State Library Commission
2-1-4: Authorized To Accept Donations
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 10, chapter 4 of this code.
2-1-1: MEMBERSHIP, TERM OF OFFICE:
For the government of the library and reading room, established by section
10-4-1 of this code, there shall be a board of five (5) directors appointed by
the council of the city from among the citizens thereof at large, and not more
than one member of the council shall, at any time, be a member of the board of
library directors. Such directors shall hold their office for five (5) years
from the date of appointment. All vacancies shall be immediately reported to
the city council by the library board of directors, and shall be filled by
appointment in the same manner as appointments are originally made.
Appointments to complete an unexpired term shall be for the residue of the term
only. No compensation shall be paid or allowed to any director in any manner
whatsoever. (Ord. 799, 2-1-2000)
2-1-2: ORGANIZATION OF BOARD:
The board of library directors shall, immediately after their appointment, meet
and organize by the election of one of their number as president, and by the
election of such other officers as they may deem necessary. They shall make and
adopt such bylaws, rules and regulations for their guidance and for the
government of the library and reading room as may be expedient.
The library board directors shall have the exclusive control of the expenditure
of all monies collected for the library fund, and the supervision, care and
custody of the room or building constructed, leased or set apart for that
purpose; and such money shall be drawn from the treasury by the proper
officers, and properly authenticated vouchers of the board of library
directors, without otherwise being audited. They may, with the approval of the
mayor and city council, lease and occupy, or purchase or erect on purchased
ground, an appropriate building; provided, that not more than one-half (1/2) of
the income in any one year can be set apart in said year for such purchase or
building. They may appoint a librarian and assistants, and prescribe rules for
their conduct. (1960 Code, Sec. 1-603)
2-1-3: REPORT TO STATE LIBRARY COMMISSION:
The board of library directors shall make an annual itemized report to the
state library commission on September 1 of each year, stating the condition of
their trust, and the various sums of money received from the library fund and
from all sources, and how much has been expended, the number of books and
periodicals on hand, and the number added by purchase, gift or otherwise during
the year, the number lost or missing, the number of books loaned out and the
general character of such books, with such other statistics, information and
suggestions as they may deem of general interest and as the state library
commission may require. (1960 Code, Sec. 1-605; amd. 1977 Code)
2-1-4: AUTHORIZED TO ACCEPT DONATIONS:
The library board is hereby authorized to accept donations of money, personal
property or real estate for the benefit of such library. Title to such property
shall be vested in said board of directors to be held in control by the board,
when accepted according to the terms of the deed or gift, devise or bequest of
such property, and as to such property said board shall be held and considered
to be the special trustees. (1960 Code, Sec. 1-606)
CHAPTER 2
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-2-1: Definitions
2-2-2: Members, Terms Of Office
2-2-3: Rules, Organization And Meetings
2-2-4: Duties
2-2-5: Maps, Plats, Replats
2-2-6: Employees, Expenditures
2-2-7: Commission Bylaws
2-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter:
APPOINTIVE MEMBERS: All members of the commission.
COMMISSION: The planning and zoning commission created by this chapter.
GOVERNING BOARD: The city council, Rupert, Idaho. (Ord. 595, 4-5-1977)
2-2-2: MEMBERS, TERMS OF OFFICE:
The commission shall consist of six (6) members. They shall be appointed by the
mayor and confirmed by the city council. Five (5) members shall be residents of
the city and must reside within the city while serving on the commission. One
member shall be selected from the area of impact. The term of office for the
initial appointment of members shall be between three (3) and five (5) years.
Thereafter, appointments shall be for a period of three (3) years. All
vacancies shall be filled in the same manner as original appointments. Members
may be removed after public hearing by a majority vote of the governing body.
Members shall be selected without respect to political affiliations, and shall
receive as compensation for their services to the city such salaries as shall
be fixed from time to time by the mayor and city council. (Ord. 725, 2-15-1994)
2-2-3: RULES, ORGANIZATION AND MEETINGS:
The commission shall elect its own chairman and create and fill such offices as
it may determine necessary for the proper conduct of the affairs and business
of the commission. Meetings of the commission shall be held when duly called by
the chairman by written or oral notice. At least one regular meeting shall be
held each month for not less than nine (9) months in a year. A majority of
voting members of the commission shall constitute a quorum. All meetings shall
be open to the public. Written rules consistent with this chapter and the laws
of the state of Idaho for the transaction of business of the commission shall
be adopted. Written records of meetings, hearings, resolutions, findings,
studies, permits and actions shall be mentioned and open to the public. (Ord.
595, 4-5-1977)
2-2-4: DUTIES:
   A.   It shall be the duty of the planning and zoning commission to:
      1.   Conduct a planning process designed to prepare, implement, review
and update a comprehensive plan that includes all lands within the governing
board's jurisdiction.
      2.   Hold public hearings prior to recommendations of the comprehensive
plan, recommended changes to the plan and prior to recommending ordinances.
      3.   Provide ways and means to obtain citizen participation in the
planning process.
      4.   Recommend subdivision and zoning ordinances.
      5.   Recommend changes to a comprehensive plan and the zoning title prior
to annexation of an unincorporated area.
      6.   Recommend a map, a governing plan and ordinances for an area of the
city impact that is within the unincorporated area of a county.
   B.   It shall be the duty of the zoning commission to:
      1.   Provide ways and means to obtain citizen participation in the
administration of ordinances.
      2.   Prepare a procedure for processing zoning permits; namely: special
use permits, rezone applications, planned unit development proposals and
variance applications.
      3.   Recommend changes to a comprehensive plan and the zoning title prior
to annexation of an unincorporated area.
      4.   Hear all requests for amendment to the zoning title, hold at least
one public hearing and make its recommendation to the governing board. (Ord.
595, 4-5-1977)
2-2-5: MAPS, PLATS, REPLATS:
Any and all maps, plats and replats of lands which require approval of the
governing board or of an officer or employee shall first be submitted to the
commission for its suggestions (within a time frame specified within the zoning
and subdivision title of this code). (Ord. 595, 4-5-1977)
2-2-6: EMPLOYEES, EXPENDITURES:
Any expenditures of the commission (exclusive of gifts) shall be within the
amounts appropriated and set aside by the governing board for the purposes of
the commission as set forth in this chapter. Within such limits, the commission
is authorized to hire such employees and technical advisors as it deems
necessary for the accomplishment of its authorized purposes and work. (Ord.
595, 4-5-1977)
2-2-7: COMMISSION BYLAWS:
ARTICLE I. PLANNING COMMISSION
The planning and zoning commission will be hence known as the commission. The
commission shall be made up of six (6) members. These members will include the
committee chairpersons and one commission chairperson.
ARTICLE II. DUTIES OF COMMISSION OFFICERS
The duties of officers shall be such as are usually prescribed for similar
officers in any organization:
   Chairperson: The chairperson shall preside at all meetings of the
commission. He/she shall not be chairperson of any committee except the
commission itself.
   Vice Chairperson: The vice chairperson shall perform all duties of the
chairperson in the absence of the chairperson and in the event the office of
chairperson is vacated he shall succeed to the office of chairperson until the
next monthly meeting.
   Secretary: The secretary shall record and keep minutes of the meetings of
the commission. A nonmember secretary may be approved to assist the secretary
in the performance of these duties.
ARTICLE III. VACANCIES
A vacancy shall consist of death, resignation or missing three (3) unexcused,
consecutive meetings.
In the event any office is vacant, an election shall be held at the next
regular meeting of the planning and zoning commission.
ARTICLE IV. COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP
Committee membership shall be open to the public. An alternate chairperson from
the committee shall be appointed by the committee chairperson to act in his/her
absence. Also this alternate will represent the chairperson in his/her absence
at the commission meeting with full voting rights.
ARTICLE V. QUORUM
A simple majority of the members of the commission shall constitute a quorum. A
quorum shall be as follows: One-half (1/2) plus one is simple majority.
ARTICLE VI. VOTING
Each member, except the chairperson of the commission shall have one vote. The
chairperson shall cast one vote in the event of a tie vote, and it shall be
cast to break the tie.
ARTICLE VII. MEETINGS
Monthly Meeting: The monthly meeting shall be held on the second and fourth
Thursday of every month unless it falls on a legal holiday; then the meeting
will be held on an appropriate day. Notification of the date, time and place of
the meeting shall be furnished members of the commission at least one week in
advance for the meeting in the form of minutes and agenda.
Special Meetings: Special meetings of the commission may be called by the
chairperson, by two (2) or more members of the commission, or the planning
coordinator. Notification of the meeting shall be furnished each member at
least forty eight (48) hours prior to the meeting.
ARTICLE VIII. PARLIAMENTARY RULES
The commission shall conduct its meetings according to Robert's Rules of Order.
ARTICLE IX. MOTIONS
A motion must be made by a commission member and must be seconded by a
commission member.
ARTICLE X. AMENDMENTS
These bylaws may be amended by a simple majority vote of the members of the
commission.
ARTICLE XI. ADOPTION
These bylaws were adopted by motion and passed at a meeting duly called and
held on April 5, 1977, and signed by duly authorized official of member
governments.
(1977 Code; amd. Ord. 725, 2-15-1994)
CHAPTER 3
TRAFFIC SAFETY COMMISSION 1
SECTION:
2-3-1: Creation, Membership, Terms Of Office
2-3-2: Vacancies
2-3-3: Organization
2-3-4: Meetings
2-3-5: Duties
 
Notes
1 1. See title 9, "Traffic Regulations", of this code.
2-3-1: CREATION, MEMBERSHIP, TERMS OF OFFICE:
There is hereby created and established a commission to be known as the "Rupert
Traffic Safety Commission". The traffic safety commission shall consist of six
(6) members to be appointed by the mayor, with the consent and approval of the
city council. Members of said commission shall hold office for a period of
three (3) years each and said terms shall be staggered in such a manner so that
the terms of not more than two (2) members shall expire in any one year. Two
(2) of such members shall hold office for a term of one year, two (2) members
for two (2) years and two (2) members for three (3) years, the respective terms
of office to be determined by lot at the first meeting of the commission.
Thereafter the term of office of each appointive member shall be for three (3)
years. Said members of the commission shall serve without compensation. (Ord.
485, 9-2-1969)
2-3-2: VACANCIES:
Vacancies shall be filled by appointment of the mayor, with the consent of the
council. (Ord. 485, 9-2-1969)
2-3-3: ORGANIZATION:
The traffic safety commission shall elect its own chairman and secretary, and
create and fill such other offices as it may determine necessary, and adopt
such rules as it shall deem necessary to carry out its purposes. (Ord. 485, 9-
2-1969)
2-3-4: MEETINGS:
The traffic safety commission shall hold one regular meeting each month for not
less than nine (9) months in each year. A majority of the appointive members of
the commission shall be necessary to constitute a quorum at any meeting. All
meetings shall be open to the public. A written record of its meetings,
resolutions, findings and determinations shall be kept, which record shall be
public.
The commission may require the attendance at any meeting of such other city
officials as it may deem necessary. (Ord. 485, 9-2-1969)
2-3-5: DUTIES:
It shall be the duty of the traffic safety commission to recommend and make
suggestions to the council for the adoption of plans for traffic safety as
recommended by the national safety council study of 1968; to coordinate all
Rupert city traffic safety plans into the state of Idaho plan; to make
suggestions for projects designed to increase safety in pedestrian and school
traffic in the city and to generally recommend to the council plans to improve
traffic safety in the entire city. (Ord. 485, 9-2-1969)
CHAPTER 4
GAS FITTERS EXAMINING BOARD
SECTION:
2-4-1: Appointment, Terms Of Office
2-4-2: Qualifications
2-4-3: Duties And Powers
2-4-4: Examinations
2-4-5: Certificate Of Competency
2-4-6: Revocation Of Certificate
2-4-7: Appeals
2-4-8: Compensation
2-4-9: Disposition Of Fees
2-4-1: APPOINTMENT, TERMS OF OFFICE:
A board to be known as the gas fitters examining board shall be appointed by
the mayor. It shall consist of three (3) members selected from nominees
recommended by an organized, generally recognized association of responsible
firms or individuals engaged in the gas fitting or related pipe fitting
industry and who shall qualify as hereinafter prescribed. The members of the
first board shall serve for the following terms: one member for one year, one
member for two (2) years and one member for three (3) years. Thereafter, upon
the expiration of each term, the board members shall be appointed for a term of
three (3) years. All board members shall be subject to removal by the mayor for
malfeasance in office, neglect of duty or incapacity to serve. (1960 Code, Sec.
3-522)
2-4-2: QUALIFICATIONS:
All members of the gas fitters examining board shall be United States citizens,
residents of the state of Idaho for not less than one year, qualified by
integrity, knowledge and experience to judge the competency of applicants for
gas fitters certificates. Not less than one member of the board shall have had
five (5) years or more experience as a gas fitting contractor, or gas fitting
journeyman, or as an engineer experienced in the design, construction and
operation of gas systems. (1960 Code, Sec. 3-523)
2-4-3: DUTIES AND POWERS:
The gas fitters examining board shall conduct examinations for the purpose of
determining the competency of applicants who are required to have a license
under title 3, chapter 5 of this code, and to issue certificates of competency
to such persons as may be entitled thereto. The board shall elect a chairman
from its members who shall be the executive officer and preside at all meetings
and a secretary who shall keep such records as are proper for efficient
discharge of the board's duties, which records pertaining to an applicant's
qualifications shall be kept intact and available in the event of dispute for a
period of not less than one year following the date of issuance of the
certificate of competency. The board shall determine the character and extent
of the examination based on the requirements of this code, and shall grade and
pass or reject the applicant on the basis of equaling or exceeding, or failing
to equal, a minimum percentage grade of seventy percent (70%). The board shall
issue certificates of competency to successful applicants and shall have the
power to revoke such certificates under conditions hereinafter provided. (1960
Code, Sec. 3-524)
2-4-4: EXAMINATIONS:
   A.   Application: Any person required by title 3, chapter 5 of this code to
be licensed shall make application on the form provided to the city clerk,
acting for the board, for the examination for a certificate of competency, and
pay the examination fee. (1960 Code, Sec. 3-525)
   B.   Examination Fee:
      1.   The applicant shall pay to the city clerk, at the time of making
application, an examination fee in accordance with the following schedule:
 
Examination for gas fitting contractor certificate $15.00
Examination for journeyman gas fitter certificate  15.00
 
      2.   Apprentice gas fitters shall not be required to be examined but
shall be registered with the board and shall maintain their certificate cards
showing classification. (1960 Code, Sec. 3-526)
   C.   Time Of Examination: The board shall so schedule its meetings to
examine a single applicant or as many applicants at one time as circumstances
dictate, but in no case shall an applicant be required to delay his examination
more than sixty (60) days from the date the application is accepted. Each
applicant shall be notified by the board of the time and place for examination
not less than forty eight (48) hours prior to examination time. Notification by
registered letter directed to the address given on the application shall be
considered notification. Failure of the applicant to appear for examination
does not entitle him to a refund of the examination fee. (1960 Code, Sec. 3-
527)
   D.   Reexamination: Any person who, for sufficient cause in the judgment of
the board, was unable to appear for examination at the stated time, may apply
and be given an examination after thirty (30) days for the original fee
payment. Any person who fails to pass the examination may apply for
reexamination after a period of thirty (30) days upon the payment of the
examination fee. Should any person fail to pass the examination the second time
the board may refuse the application until the expiration of six (6) months
from the date of the second examination. (1960 Code, Sec. 3-528)
2-4-5: CERTIFICATE OF COMPETENCY:
Upon successful completion of an examination, the gas fitters examining board
shall issue to the applicant a certificate of competency in the form of a card,
providing thereon the applicant's name, classification, year which current,
space for the applicant's signature and license number, and the signature of
the chairman of the board of examiners. (1960 Code, Sec. 3-529)
2-4-6: REVOCATION OF CERTIFICATE:
A certificate of competency may be revoked by the gas fitters examining board
if it has good and sufficient evidence that such certificate was obtained by
fraud, or that the holder demonstrates lack of knowledge or incompetency, in
matters relevant to such certificate. In such cases the board may order
reexamination, or may refuse application for reexamination as conditions may
dictate. (1960 Code, Sec. 3-530)
2-4-7: APPEALS:
Any person who shall feel aggrieved by any action of the gas fitters examining
board in denying or revoking a certificate of competency may appeal therefrom
to the district court of Minidoka County. Such appeal shall be perfected by
filing with the clerk of the district court within thirty (30) days after the
action by the board of which complaint is made a petition setting forth briefly
the action complained of and wherein the petitioner has been deprived of any
legal right. The petition shall constitute the complaint, and summons may be
issued thereon directed to the board and served upon the president or secretary
thereof. The pleadings thereafter shall conform to the rules of civil
procedure. The court in its decree may sustain or reverse the action of the
board and direct the board to take such further or other action as the court
may deem just and proper in the premises. (1960 Code, Sec. 3-531)
2-4-8: COMPENSATION:
The members of the gas fitters examining board shall each receive from the city
as the only compensation for their services the sum of five dollars ($5.00) for
each gas fitting contractor and for each journeyman fitter examined. (1960
Code, Sec. 3-532)
2-4-9: DISPOSITION OF FEES:
All monies derived from the payment of examination fees shall be placed in the
general fund. (1960 Code, Sec. 3-533)
CHAPTER 5
PUBLICATIONS ADVISORY BOARD
SECTION:
2-5-1: Board Created
2-5-2: Duties Of Board
2-5-1: BOARD CREATED:
There is hereby created a publications advisory board which shall consist of
five (5) members appointed by the mayor and who shall serve at his pleasure.
The members shall be residents of the city. The mayor shall designate one
member as chairman and another member as secretary. In addition, the city
attorney and chief of police shall be ex officio members of the board. (1960
Code, Sec. 9-805)
2-5-2: DUTIES OF BOARD:
The publications advisory board shall keep informed of the contents of
publications found by it in the city, and shall notify the chief of police and
city attorney of any publications which the board, by majority vote, believes
should be investigated by them to determine whether there is a violation of
section
8-2-5 of this code. The board shall make such reports to the mayor and city
council as may be requested. The board shall have the right to express its
views as to the propriety or legality of any publication available to minors
within the city, but it shall have no power to enforce its views by direct or
indirect threats of prosecution, or otherwise. The members of the board shall
serve without pay, but shall be allowed their reasonable and necessary expenses
in carrying out their duties, including, but not limited by, stationery,
postage and purchase of publications to be studied, all in such amount as may
be fixed by the mayor and city council. All publications purchased by the board
for study shall be the property of the city. (1960 Code, Sec. 9-806)
CHAPTER 6
RUPERT RENAISSANCE COMMISSION
(Expired 9-30-2004)
CHAPTER 7
BOARD OF APPEALS
SECTION:
2-7-1: Established
2-7-2: Membership
2-7-3: Notice Of Appeal
2-7-4: Appeal Of Decision By Board
2-7-1: ESTABLISHED:
There is established a board of appeals empowered to hear and decide appeals of
orders, decisions, and determinations made by the building official of the city
and to determine the suitability of alternative materials and types of
construction and to provide for reasonable interpretations of the provisions of
the uniform building code and uniform fire code. (Res. 358, 4-7-1998)
2-7-2: MEMBERSHIP:
   A.   Generally: The board of appeals shall consist of an appointment of an
electrician, a representative of a local area electrical utility, a builder
(general contractor), a plumber, and a certified engineer.
   B.   Building Code Appeals: In addition to the above said members, the board
of appeals hearing administrative appeals regarding the uniform building code
shall also include the building official as an ex officio member and secretary,
which building official shall have no vote on any matter before the board.
   C.   Fire Code Appeals: In addition to the above said members, the board of
appeals hearing administrative appeals regarding the uniform fire code shall
also include the fire marshal as an ex officio member acting as a secretary of
the board, which fire marshal shall have no vote on any matter before the
board. (Res. 358, 4-7-1998)
2-7-3: NOTICE OF APPEAL:
Subsequent to any order, decision, determination, or other action by the
building official of the city, or fire marshal of the city, an aggrieved
individual may file with the city clerk a notice of appeal. Any such appeal
shall be taken within fourteen (14) days of any such order, decision, or
determination made under the purview of either the uniform building code or the
uniform fire code. Any notice of appeal which is timely filed shall be
submitted to either the building official or to the fire marshal, who shall
call and schedule a meeting of the board of appeals, which meeting and hearing
shall be held within fourteen (14) days of the filing of the notice of appeal.
(Res. 358, 4-7-1998)
2-7-4: APPEAL OF DECISION BY BOARD:
Any appellant not satisfied with the results of the determination of the board
of appeals for either the uniform building code or uniform fire code may make
an appeal directly to the city council. The said appeal should be filed within
fourteen (14) days of any order, decision, or determination deemed to be
adverse by the appellant. The city council shall schedule the appellant for a
review of the decision of the board of appeals within fourteen (14) days of the
receipt of the appeal, or at the next regularly scheduled meeting, whichever is
sooner. (Res. 358, 4-7-1998)
CHAPTER 8
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
SECTION:
2-8-1: Definitions
2-8-2: Creation
2-8-3: Charter
2-8-4: Board Of Directors
2-8-5: Conflict Of Interest
2-8-6: Powers Of Corporation
2-8-7: Liability
2-8-8: Earnings
2-8-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words shall have the following meanings:
ACT: Idaho Code title 50, chapter 27.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS: The board of directors of the public corporation.
CITY: The city of Rupert, Idaho.
CORPORATION: The Industrial Development Corporation of the city of Rupert,
Idaho.
FACILITIES: Land, rights in land, buildings, structures, docks, wharves,
machinery, transmission equipment, landscaping, utilities, approaches, roadways
and parking, handling and storage areas, and similar ancillary facilities.
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT FACILITY OR INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT FACILITIES:
Manufacturing, processing, production, assembly, warehousing, transportation,
pollution control, solid waste disposal, and energy facilities. (Ord. 767, 3-3-
1998)
2-8-2: CREATION:
   A.   The city does hereby create a public corporation to carry out the
purpose of Idaho Code title 50, chapter 27 (the "act") as that law may from
time to time hereinafter be amended.
   B.   The name of the public corporation shall be "The Industrial Development
Corporation Of The City Of Rupert, Idaho" (the "corporation").
   C.   The corporation shall have all the powers and be subject to all the
limitations and provisions contained in the act, as that law may hereinafter
from time to time be amended. (Ord. 767, 3-3-1998)
2-8-3: CHARTER:
A charter shall be issued to the corporation by the city, which shall grant to
the corporation authority to act pursuant to the act. A copy of the initial
charter to be issued is attached to the ordinance codified herein marked
exhibit "A" on file in the city attorney's office. Said charter may be amended
from time to time by the city and shall contain the limitations set forth in
the act. (Ord. 767, 3-3-1998)
2-8-4: BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
   A.   Appointment; Quorum: The board of directors of the corporation shall be
designated and appointed by the city. A majority of the members of the board of
directors shall constitute a quorum.
   B.   Membership; Bylaws: The affairs of the corporation shall be conducted
and carried out by the board of directors. The board shall elect among its own
members, its president, a vice president, a treasurer and a secretary, one of
whom shall be eligible to hold two (2) offices. The board of directors shall
adopt bylaws (rules and regulations) governing the conduct of the corporation.
   C.   Compensation: Members of the board of directors shall serve with such
compensation as may be provided in the bylaws to be adopted by the board of
directors. (Ord. 767, 3-3-1998)
2-8-5: CONFLICT OF INTEREST:
No director, officer, agent or employee of the corporation shall have directly
or indirectly any financial interest in any property to be included in or any
contract for property, service or materials to be furnished or used in
connection with the industrial development facilities financed through the
corporation. (Ord. 767, 3-3-1998)
2-8-6: POWERS OF CORPORATION:
The corporation shall have all the powers granted by, as well as limited by,
the act, and shall include the following:
   A.   To construct and maintain one or more industrial development
facilities.
   B.   To lease to a lessee all or any part of any industrial development
facility for such rentals and upon such terms and conditions, including options
to purchase, as its board of directors considers advisable and not in conflict
with the act.
   C.   To sell by installment contract or otherwise and convey all or any part
of any industrial development facility for such purchase price and upon such
terms and conditions as its board of directors considers advisable, which are
not in conflict with the act.
   D.   To make loans for the purpose of providing temporary or permanent
financing or refinancing of all or part of the project cost of any industrial
development facility, including the refunding of any outstanding obligations,
mortgages, or advances issued, made, or given by any person for the project
costs; and to charge and collect interest on the loans for the loan payment
upon such terms and conditions as its board of directors considers advisable,
which are not in conflict with the act.
   E.   To issue revenue bonds for the purpose of financing all or part of the
project cost of any industrial development facility and to secure the payment
of the revenue bonds as provided by the act.
   F.   As security for the payment of the principal of and interest on any
revenue bonds issued and any agreements made in connection therewith, to
mortgage, pledge, or otherwise encumber any or all of its industrial
development facilities or any part or parts thereof, whether then owned or
thereafter acquired, and to assign any lease or mortgage and repledge any
security conveyed to the corporation and to pledge the revenues and receipts
therefrom.
   G.   To sue and be sued, complain, and defend in its corporate name.
   H.   To make contracts and to execute all instruments necessary or
convenient for the carrying out of its business.
   I.   To have a corporate seal and to use the same by causing it, or a
facsimile thereof, to be impressed or affixed or in any other manner
reproduced.
   J.   Subject to the limitations of Idaho Code section 50-2706 to borrow
money, accept grants from or contract with any local, state, or federal
governmental agency or with any financial public or private corporation.
   K.   To make and alter bylaws not inconsistent with its charter for the
administration and regulation of the affairs of the corporation.
   L.   To collect fees or charges from users or prospective users of
industrial development facilities to recover actual or anticipated
administrative costs.
   M.   To execute financing incidental to the powers enumerated in this
section.
   N.   The corporation created under this chapter may not operate any
industrial development facilities as a business other than as lessor, seller,
or lender. The other security interests and contracting for any servicing
thereof is not considered the operation of an industrial development facility.
   O.   The corporation created by this chapter may not exercise any of the
powers authorized in this section or issue any revenue bonds with respect to
any industrial development facility unless the industrial development facility
is located wholly within the boundaries of the city.
   P.   The city may not give or lend any money or property nor exercise its
power of eminent domain in aid of the corporation. This provision shall not
preclude the city from dealing with the corporation on an arm's length basis.
   Q.   The corporation may not issue revenue obligations except upon approval
of the city within whose planning jurisdiction the proposed industrial
development facility lies. (Ord. 767, 3-3-1998)
2-8-7: LIABILITY:
Every person who was or is a party, or is threatened to be made a party to, or
is involved in any action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal,
administrative or investigative, by reason of the fact that he or a person of
whom he is the legal representative is or was a director or officer of the
corporation, or is or was serving at the request of the corporation as a
director or officer of another corporation, or as its representative in a
partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, shall be indemnified and
held harmless to the fullest extent legally permissible under the law of the
state of Idaho from time to time against all expenses, liability and loss
(including attorney fees, judgments, fines and amounts paid or to be paid in
settlement), reasonably incurred or suffered by him in connection therewith.
Such rights of indemnification shall be a contract right which may be enforced
in any manner desired by such person. Such right of indemnification shall not
be exclusive of any other right which such directors, officers, or
representatives may have or hereafter acquire, and without limiting the
generality of such statement, they shall be entitled to their respective rights
of indemnification under any bylaw, agreement, vote of stockholders, provision
of law, or otherwise, as well as their rights under this section. The board of
directors may adopt bylaws from time to time with respect to indemnification to
provide at all times the fullest indemnification permitted by the laws of the
state of Idaho, and may cause the corporation to purchase and maintain
insurance on behalf of any person who is or was a director or officer of the
corporation as a director or officer of another corporation, or as its
representative in a partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise,
against any liability asserted against such person and incurred in any such
capacity or arising out of such status, whether or not the corporation would
have the power to indemnify such person. (Ord. 767, 3-3-1998)
2-8-8: EARNINGS:
Any net earnings of the corporation, beyond those necessary for retirement of
indebtedness incurred by it, shall inure to the city, and not for the benefit
of any other person. Alteration of the charter of or dissolution of or audits
of the corporation shall be as provided by the act and by subsequent
resolutions of the city. Upon dissolution of the corporation, title to all
property owned by the corporation shall vest in the city. (Ord. 767, 3-3-1998)
CHAPTER 9
HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-9-1: Purpose
2-9-2: Definitions
2-9-3: Commission Created; Terms
2-9-4: Organization; Officers; Meetings
2-9-5: Powers, Duties, And Responsibilities
2-9-6: Special Restrictions
2-9-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to promote the educational, cultural, economic
and general welfare of the public of the city of Rupert through identification,
evaluation, designation, and protection of those buildings, sites, areas,
structures, and objects that reflect significant elements of the city's, the
state's, and the nation's historic, architectural, archaeological, and cultural
heritage. (Ord. 804, 7-5-2000)
2-9-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases when used in this chapter shall have, unless
the context clearly indicates otherwise, the following meanings:
CITY: The city of Rupert.
COMMISSION: The historic preservation commission of the city of Rupert.
HISTORIC PRESERVATION: The research, documentation, protection, restoration and
rehabilitation of buildings, structures, objects, districts, areas, and sites
significant in the history, architecture, archaeology or culture of this state,
its communities or the nation.
HISTORIC PROPERTY: Any building, structure, area or site that is significant in
the history, architecture, archaeology or culture of this community, the state,
or the nation. (Ord. 804, 7-5-2000)
2-9-3: COMMISSION CREATED; TERMS:
   A.   There is hereby created a historic preservation commission which shall
consist of no less than three (3) and no more than seven (7) members; the mayor
shall determine the number of members who shall serve on the commission and
said members shall be appointed by the mayor with the advice and consent of the
council. (Ord. 08-501, 3-18-2008)
   B.   All members of the commission shall have a demonstrated interest,
competence, or knowledge in history or historic preservation. The council shall
endeavor to appoint at least two (2) members with professional training or
experience in the disciplines of architecture, history, architectural history,
urban planning, archaeology, engineering, law, or other historic preservation
related disciplines. (Ord. 804, 7-5-2000)
   C.   All appointments to the commission shall be made for three (3) year
terms at regular intervals to provide that not all terms shall expire in the
same calendar year. Commission members may be reappointed to serve additional
terms. Vacancies shall be filled in the same manner as original appointments
and the appointee shall serve for the remainder of the unexpired term. (Ord.
08-501, 3-18-2008)
   D.   The members of the commission may be reimbursed by the city for
expenses incurred in connection with their duties. (Ord. 804, 7-5-2000)
2-9-4: ORGANIZATION; OFFICERS; MEETINGS:
   A.   The commission shall have the power to make whatever rules are
necessary for the execution of its duties as set forth in this chapter. Rules
of procedure and bylaws adopted by the commission shall be available for public
inspection.
   B.   The commission shall elect officers from among the commission members.
The chairperson shall preside at meetings of the commission. The vice
chairperson shall, lacking the chairperson, perform the duties of the
chairperson.
   C.   All meetings of the commission shall be open to the public, and follow
the requirements of Idaho's open meetings law. The commission shall keep
minutes and other appropriate written records of its resolutions, proceedings,
and actions.
   D.   The commission may recommend to the council, within the limits of its
funding, the employment of or the contracting with other parties for the
services of technical experts or other persons as it deems necessary to carry
on the functions of the commission. (Ord. 804, 7-5-2000)
2-9-5: POWERS, DUTIES, AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
The commission shall be advisory to the council and shall be authorized to:
   A.   Conduct a survey of local historic properties.
   B.   Recommend the acquisition of fee and lesser interests in historic
properties, including adjacent or associated lands, by purchase, bequest, or
donation.
   C.   Recommend methods and procedures necessary to preserve, restore,
maintain and operate historic properties under the ownership or control of the
city.
   D.   Recommend the lease, sale, other transfer or disposition of historic
properties subject to rights of public access and other covenants and in a
manner that will preserve the property.
   E.   Contract, with the approval of the council, with the state or federal
government, or any agency of either, or with any other organization.
   F.   Cooperate with the federal, state, and local governments in the
pursuance of the objectives of historic preservation.
   G.   Make recommendations in the planning processes undertaken by the
county, the city, the state, or the federal government and the agencies of
these entities.
   H.   Recommend ordinances and otherwise provide information for the purposes
of historic preservation in the city.
   I.   Promote and conduct an educational and interpretive program on historic
preservation and historic properties in the city.
   J.   Commission members, employees or agents of the commission may enter
private property, buildings, or structures in the performance of its official
duties only with the express consent of the owner or occupant thereof.
   K.   Review nominations of properties to the National Register of Historic
Places for properties within the city's jurisdiction. (Ord. 804, 7-5-2000)
   L.   Grant permits for construction, demolition, or development of
facilities of any type within the historical preservation district in
accordance with the procedures and standards as set forth in title 4, chapter
12 of this code. (Ord. 815, 11-20-2001)
2-9-6: SPECIAL RESTRICTIONS:
Under the provision of Idaho Code 67-4612, the city of Rupert may provide by
ordinance, special conditions or restrictions for the protection, enhancement
and preservation of historic properties. (Ord. 804, 7-5-2000)
CHAPTER 10
FINANCE COMMITTEE
SECTION:
2-10-1: Committee Established
2-10-2: Members
2-10-3: Chairman; Compensation Of Members
2-10-4: Duties
2-10-5: Meetings; Access To Financial Information
2-10-1: COMMITTEE ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established a city of Rupert finance committee as a standing
city committee for the purpose of providing review and recommendations
regarding significant city financial policies, city budgets, and auditing
procedures. The finance committee shall also act as the city's audit committee
to review the city's annual financial statements and any reports from
independent auditors. (Ord. 07-503, 4-17-2007)
2-10-2: MEMBERS:
The committee shall consist of five (5) members, each being selected from the
city of Rupert's residents and/or business community; each member shall be
appointed by the mayor and confirmed by the city council and serve minimum
three (3) year terms; provided, however, that the mayor shall appoint and the
city council shall confirm the initial committee membership for terms as
follows: Three (3) members shall have three (3) year terms, two (2) members
shall have two (2) year terms so as to stagger the committee membership's
turnover. Subsequent committee membership terms shall thereafter be the
aforementioned three (3) year terms. Additionally, one councilperson from the
city of Rupert city council, appointed by the mayor, the city's financial
officer, and the city supervisor or administrator shall be ex officio members
of the committee. (Ord. 07-503, 4-17-2007)
2-10-3: CHAIRMAN; COMPENSATION OF MEMBERS:
The committee shall elect a chairman and vice chairman from its members, to
serve one year terms each. The committee members shall not be entitled to
compensation from the committee or the city for service on the committee;
provided, however, that reimbursements can be paid to committee members for
expenses incurred on behalf of the committee if said expenses are authorized by
the city council. (Ord. 07-503, 4-17-2007)
2-10-4: DUTIES:
Members of the committee shall not be full time employees of the city of Rupert
and each member must have the ability to understand and resolve issues raised
by any independent audit of the city's financial statements. The committee
shall oversee the annual independent audit of the city's financial statements,
including, but not limited to, selection of the independent auditor, review of
audit materials, and formation of recommendations for the city of Rupert. The
committee shall report to the city council during its public meeting when the
city's annual audit is presented and make its own recommendations and findings
as needed; additionally, the committee should present an annual written report
to the city council and mayor, which shall be available to the public,
regarding how it has discharged its duties and met its responsibilities. The
committee shall report to the city council, from time to time, as requested by
the city council or mayor. (Ord. 07-503, 4-17-2007)
2-10-5: MEETINGS; ACCESS TO FINANCIAL INFORMATION:
The committee shall meet at least quarterly during the city's fiscal year to
perform its duties. The committee shall have access to any city reports of any
internal auditors, budgets, financial statements, financial reports, and any
annual internal audit work plans. (Ord. 07-503, 4-17-2007)
CHAPTER 11
RUPERT SQUARE ACTION COMMITTEE
SECTION:
2-11-1: Established
2-11-2: Membership
2-11-3: Leadership; Compensation
2-11-4: Duties; Responsibilities
2-11-5: Meetings
2-11-1: ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established a Rupert Square action committee as a standing city
committee for the purpose of: a) assisting the city of Rupert in implementing,
managing, and funding improvements to the Rupert Square Park, its
infrastructure, improvements, and surrounding vicinity; b) advising the city of
Rupert on matters related to Rupert Square planning, programming, public use,
and maintenance; and c) coordinating efforts with other city committees,
commissions, private entities, and community groups to accomplish city adopted
goals and plans associated with the Rupert Square Park and related facilities.
(Ord. 15-505, 1-12-2016)
2-11-2: MEMBERSHIP:
The committee shall consist of five (5) executive, voting members. One
executive member shall be a representative of the city's administration, one
member shall be a member of the Rupert city council, and the remaining shall be
selected from the city of Rupert's employees, residents and/or business
community. Each member of this executive committee shall be appointed by the
mayor and confirmed by the city council and serve minimum three (3) year terms;
provided however, that the mayor shall appoint and the city council shall
confirm the initial committee membership for terms as follows: Three (3)
members shall have three (3) year terms, two (2) members shall have two (2)
year terms so as to stagger the committee membership's turnover. Subsequent
committee membership terms shall thereafter be the aforementioned three (3)
year terms. Additionally, the mayor may appoint up to five (5) ex officio
members of the committee to provide further advice and representation to the
committee from other sectors of the community. The mayor may remove any member
without council action. (Ord. 15-505, 1-12-2016)
2-11-3: LEADERSHIP; COMPENSATION:
The committee shall elect a chairman and vice chairman from its members, to
serve one year terms each. The committee members shall not be entitled to
compensation from the committee or the city for service on the committee,
provided, however, that reimbursements can be paid to committee members for
expenses incurred on behalf of the committee if said expenses are authorized by
the city council. (Ord. 15-505, 1-12-2016)
2-11-4: DUTIES; RESPONSIBILITIES:
The committee shall report to the city council as requested by the mayor. The
committee shall also regularly review any master plan adopted by the city and
make its own recommendations and findings as needed; additionally, the
committee should present an annual written report to the city council and
mayor, which shall be available to the public, regarding how it has discharged
its duties and met its responsibilities. The committee shall report to the city
council, from time to time, as requested by the city council or mayor. (Ord.
15-505, 1-12-2016)
2-11-5: MEETINGS:
The committee shall meet at least quarterly during the city's fiscal year to
perform its duties. The committee shall have access to any city reports and/or
plans necessary to carry out its work. (Ord. 15-505, 1-12-2016)
CHAPTER 12
RUPERT PICKLEBALL COMMITTEE
SECTION:
2-12-1: Establishment
2-12-2: Membership
2-12-3: Election
2-12-4: Reports
2-12-5: Responsibilities
2-12-1: ESTABLISHMENT:
That there is hereby established a RUPERT PICKLEBALL COMMITTEE as a standing
City committee for the purpose of:
   A.   Assisting the City of Rupert in implementing, managing, and funding
improvements to the Rupert pickleball facilities located at the Neptune Park/MC
Fitness campus, its infrastructure, improvements, and surrounding vicinity;
   B.   Advising the City of Rupert on matters related to Rupert pickleball
facilities' planning, programming, public use, and maintenance; and
   C.   Coordinating efforts with other City committees, commissions, private
entities, and community groups to accomplish City's goals and plans associated
with the Rupert pickleball courts and related facilities. (Ord. 22-506, 5-24-
2022)
2-12-2: MEMBERSHIP:
The Committee shall consist of five (5) executive, voting members. One
executive member shall be a representative of the City's administration or a
member of the Rupert City Council, and the remaining shall be selected from the
City of Rupert's employees, residents and/or business community. Each member of
this Executive Committee shall be appointed by the Mayor and confirmed by the
City Council and serve minimum three (3) year terms; provided however, that the
Mayor shall appoint and the City Council shall confirm the initial Committee
membership for terms as follows: Three members shall have three (3) year terms,
two members shall have two (2) year terms so as to stagger the committee
membership's turnover. Subsequent committee membership terms shall thereafter
be the aforementioned three-year terms. Additionally, the Mayor may appoint up
to five ex-officio members of the Committee to provide further advice and
representation to the committee from other sectors of the community. The Mayor
may remove any member without Council action. (Ord. 22-506, 5-24-2022)
2-12-3: ELECTION:
The Committee shall elect a chairman and vice chairman from its members, to
serve one (1) year terms each. The Committee members shall not be entitled to
compensation from the Committee or the City for service on the Committee,
provided, however, that reimbursements can be paid to Committee members for
expenses incurred on behalf of the Committee if said expenses are authorized by
the City Council. (Ord. 22-506, 5-24-2022)
2-12-4: REPORTS:
The Committee shall report to the City Council as requested by the Mayor. The
Committee shall also regularly review any master plan adopted by the City and
make its own recommendations and findings as needed; additionally, the
Committee should present an annual written report to the City Council and
Mayor, which shall be available to the public, regarding how it has discharged
its duties and met its responsibilities. The Committee shall report to the City
Council, from time to time, as requested by the City Council or Mayor. (Ord.
22-506, 5-24-2022)
2-12-5: RESPONSIBILITIES:
The Committee shall meet at least quarterly during the City's fiscal year to
perform its duties. The Committee shall have access to any City reports and/or
plans necessary to carry out its work. (Ord. 22-506, 5-24-2022)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
AMUSEMENTS; THEATERS
SECTION:
3-1-1: License Required; Fees
3-1-2: License Conditions
3-1-3: Theaters Open On Sunday
3-1-1: LICENSE REQUIRED; FEES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to carry on any of the businesses, trades
or amusements hereinafter named without first having procured a license so to
do, and such persons shall pay the city clerk therefor the following fees:
(1960 Code, Secs. 2-1001, 2-1004)
Carnivals or tent shows:
from 1 to 5 attractions                                        $ 50.00 per day
from 5 to 10 attractions                                       100.00 per day
from 10 to 15 attractions                                      150.00 per day
from 15 to 20 attractions                                      200.00 per day
Circuses, caravans or menageries                               75.00 per day
Fortune tellers, palm readers, mind readers, phrenologists,
astrologists or any means or device whereby the past or future 25.00 per day
is intended to be told
Merry-go-rounds and any other mechanical ride                  10.00 per day
Shooting galleries                                             5.00 per month
 
(1960 Code, Sec. 2-1004)
3-1-2: LICENSE CONDITIONS:
   A.   Signed By Clerk, Contents Of License: All licenses shall be issued and
signed by the city clerk. The clerk shall keep a list of all licenses issued,
stating the number, name, time, kind of business for which issued, together
with the amount paid. (1960 Code, Sec. 2-1002)
   B.   Not Transferable: Every license shall specify the name of the person to
whom issued, and no license issued under the provisions of this chapter will be
transferable or assignable. (1960 Code, Sec. 2-1003)
3-1-3: THEATERS OPEN ON SUNDAY:
Theaters and moving picture shows are hereby permitted, in accordance with the
request of a majority of the electors in the city made by petition presented to
and filed with the council and mayor, to keep and remain open on Sundays in the
city; provided, however, that the owner, proprietor and manager have complied
or do comply with all other provisions of statute or ordinance relating to the
conduct, operation or management of theaters and moving picture shows. (1960
Code, Sec. 2-601)
CHAPTER 2
TAXICABS
SECTION:
3-2-1: Definition
3-2-2: Application For License; Approval
3-2-3: Contract Of Insurance Required
3-2-4: License Fees; Expiration
3-2-5: Suspension And Revocation Of License
3-2-6: Stands Designated
3-2-1: DEFINITION:
"Taxicabs" or "motor vehicles used for hire", for the purpose of this chapter,
shall be defined as any vehicle used for transportation of passengers for hire
within the corporate limits of the city. (1960 Code, Sec. 2-301)
3-2-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; APPROVAL:
No person shall engage in the business of operating a taxicab or taxicabs
within the corporate limits of the city without first complying with all of the
provisions of this chapter. Verified applications for a license for taxicabs
shall be made by the owner thereof upon blanks to be furnished by the city
clerk. Such application shall contain the full name and address of the owner,
the make, model, motor and factory number of the motor vehicle and the Idaho
license number for the current year. (1960 Code, Sec. 2-302)
Before the city clerk shall issue a license for any taxicab, the application
shall be first presented to the mayor and city council for approval, and upon
such approval and the payment of the necessary fee and compliance with all
sections of this chapter, the city clerk shall issue a license upon a card of
the form and size as may be prescribed by the city clerk. Said card shall
contain the date of its issuance, the official license number of the motor
vehicle and the make and model thereof. (1960 Code, Sec. 2-305)
3-2-3: CONTRACT OF INSURANCE REQUIRED:
Before any license is issued for any taxicab the owners thereof shall be
required to file with the city clerk a certified copy of a policy of insurance
executed by an insurance company authorized to do business within the state of
Idaho, insuring the public against any loss or damage that may result to any
person from the operation of said taxicab, provided the limited amount of
liability in such policy of insurance specified shall be as follows: property
damage, not less than ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00); public liability for
two (2) or more persons, not less than twenty thousand dollars ($20,000.00).
(1960 Code, Sec. 2-303; amd. 1977 Code)
The license to operate such taxicabs shall expire of itself or terminate upon
the cancellation of said insurance for failure to pay premiums or for any other
reasons, and no license shall be granted or be effective unless the taxicab for
which said license is requested has been fully covered with insurance as herein
specified. (1960 Code, Sec. 2-303)
3-2-4: LICENSE FEES; EXPIRATION:
Owners of taxicabs licensed hereunder shall pay to the city clerk a yearly
license fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00) for all vehicles under the same
ownership. Such license shall expire on December 31 next following the issuance
thereof and must be renewed before January 1 of each following year. (1960
Code, Sec. 2-304)
3-2-5: SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
Any license granted under this chapter may be revoked or suspended at any time
by the city council for any violation of the provisions of this chapter, or any
other provisions of this city code, or law of the state of Idaho, or if such
vehicle shall be used for any immoral, illegal, disorderly or improper purpose.
(1960 Code, Sec. 2-306)
3-2-6: STANDS DESIGNATED:
The city council shall, upon issuance of a license, designate taxicab stands,
which shall be used exclusively for the purpose or purposes designated by order
of the city council. (1960 Code, Sec. 2-307)
CHAPTER 3
ELECTRICIANS 1
SECTION:
3-3-1: License Required, Fees
3-3-2: Exemptions
3-3-3: Qualifications For City License
3-3-4: Duration And Renewal Of License
3-3-5: Revocation Of License
 
Notes
1 1. See title 4, chapter 2 of this code.
3-3-1: LICENSE REQUIRED, FEES:
All installations in the city, of wires and equipment to convey current and
installation of apparatus to be operated by such current, except as hereinafter
provided, shall be commenced, installed or completed only by an electrical
contractor or journeyman licensed by the state of Idaho and the city, except as
hereinafter provided.
Licenses shall be issued and renewed by the city clerk to whom the following
fees shall be paid with applications for licenses or renewals:
   Electrical contractor   $10.00
   Electrical journeyman   5.00
(Ord. 743, 4-9-1996)
3-3-2: EXEMPTIONS:
Nothing herein shall be deemed to apply to the installation or maintenance of
communication circuits, wires and apparatus; nor to any electrical public
utility, or its employees, in the installation and maintenance of electrical
wiring, circuits, apparatus and equipment by or for such public utility, or
comprising a part of its plants, lines or system; nor to a person doing his own
work on his own property, personally or through regularly employed maintenance
electricians; provided, that all such persons shall comply with all applicable
ordinances, rules and regulations in regard to electric wiring and
installations. (1960 Code, Sec. 2-402)
3-3-3: QUALIFICATIONS FOR CITY LICENSE:
All persons having a valid certificate of competency from the state of Idaho
are qualified to receive a license from the city upon application and payment
of license fees. (1960 Code, Sec. 2-403)
3-3-4: DURATION AND RENEWAL OF LICENSE:
All licenses shall bear the date of issue, and shall expire on July 1 next
following the date of issue, unless renewed. A license once issued, unless
revoked as herein provided, may be renewed at any time during the month of July
following its issuance on the payment of the fees herein provided if the person
seeking renewal then holds a valid certificate of competency from the state of
Idaho. (1960 Code, Sec. 2-404)
3-3-5: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
A revocation of a certificate of competency by the state of Idaho shall operate
as a revocation of the city license held by the same person. (1960 Code, Sec.
2-405)
CHAPTER 4
PLUMBERS 1
SECTION:
3-4-1: Definitions
3-4-2: License, Registration Required; Fees
3-4-3: Exemptions
3-4-4: Qualifications For City License
3-4-5: Duration And Renewal Of License, Registration
3-4-6: Revocation Of License
 
Notes
1 1. See title 4, chapter 3 of this code.
3-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
PLUMBING: Means and includes the business, trade, practice or work, materials
and fixtures used in the design, construction, installation, improvement,
extension and alteration of all piping, fixtures, appliances and appurtenances
in connection with any plumbing system.
PLUMBING SYSTEM, PUBLIC OR PRIVATE: Means and includes:
   A.   Plumbing fixtures, interconnecting pipes and traps;
   B.   Soil, waste and vent pipes;
   C.   Building drains and building sewers;
   D.   Sanitary and storm water drainage facilities;
   E.   Liquid waste and sewerage facilities;
   F.   Water supply system and distribution and disposal pipes of any
premises;
   G.   Water treating and water using equipment attached to a plumbing system;
and
   H.   All the respective connections, devices and appurtenances of any
plumbing system, public or private, within or adjacent to any building,
residence or structure to and including a connection with any point of a public
or private supply, distribution or disposal system or other acceptable
terminal. (1960 Code, Sec. 2-501)
3-4-2: LICENSE, REGISTRATION REQUIRED; FEES:
The business, trade, practice or work of plumbing in the city shall be engaged
in only by a licensed plumbing contractor or journeyman, or registered
apprentice under the supervision and direction of a plumbing contractor or
journeyman, except as hereinafter provided. (1960 Code, Sec. 2-502)
Licenses shall be issued and renewed and apprenticeship registrations received
and renewed by the city clerk to whom the following fees shall be paid with
applications for licenses or registrations or their renewals:
   Plumbing contractor   $25.00
   Plumbing journeyman   5.00
   Plumbing apprentice   2.00
(1960 Code, Sec. 2-507)
3-4-3: EXEMPTIONS:
Nothing herein shall be deemed to apply to plumbing systems constructed or
maintained by a person doing his own work on his own property, personally or
through regularly employed maintenance plumbers; provided, that all such
persons shall comply with all applicable ordinances, rules and regulations in
regard to plumbing and plumbing systems; nor to piping systems in industrial
processing plants located outside the incorporated limits of the city unless
such systems are connected to the city water or sewer system. (1960 Code, Sec.
2-503)
3-4-4: QUALIFICATIONS FOR CITY LICENSE:
All persons having a valid certificate of competency from the state of Idaho
are qualified to receive a license from the city upon application and payment
of license fees; and all apprentices registered with the state of Idaho are
qualified to register as an apprentice with the city. (1960 Code, Sec. 2-504)
3-4-5: DURATION AND RENEWAL OF LICENSE, REGISTRATION:
All licenses and registrations of apprentices shall bear the date of issue, and
shall expire on December 31 next following the date of issue, unless renewed. A
license once issued, unless revoked as herein provided, and a registration of
apprentice may be renewed at any time during the month of December following
its issuance on the payment of the fees herein provided if the person seeking
renewal then holds a valid certificate of competency or is registered, as the
case may be, from or with the state of Idaho. (1960 Code, Sec. 2-505)
3-4-6: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
A revocation of a certificate of competency by the state of Idaho shall operate
as a revocation of the city license held by the same person. (1960 Code, Sec.
2-506)
CHAPTER 5
GAS INSTALLATION CONTRACTORS
SECTION:
3-5-1: Qualified Installing Agency
3-5-2: Classifications Of Qualified Agencies
3-5-3: License Required
3-5-4: License Fees; Disposition
3-5-5: Expiration And Renewal Of License
3-5-6: Display Of License
3-5-7: Revocation Of License
3-5-1: QUALIFIED INSTALLING AGENCY:
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the work or business of making
gas installations in the city unless such person or responsible person
representing the firm or corporation as hereinafter prescribed has successfully
passed an examination conducted by the gas fitters examining board 1 , and has
issued to him a certificate of competency by said board in accordance with
provisions of this chapter. (1960 Code, Sec. 3-514)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 2, chapter 4 of this code.
3-5-2: CLASSIFICATIONS OF QUALIFIED AGENCIES:
There shall be three (3) classifications of competency as herein defined:
   A.   Gas Fitting Contractor: Such contractor shall be any person or firm
skilled in the planning and supervision of the installation of gas piping,
venting and equipment, and who is familiar with the laws, rules and regulations
covering the same, and who is competent to assume work on a contract basis and
to direct the work of qualified employees. A gas fitting contractor who does
gas fitting work shall also be qualified as a journeyman gas fitter, or have in
his employ on all gas fitting work a qualified journeyman gas fitter.
   B.   Journeyman Gas Fitter: A journeyman gas fitter shall be any person who,
as part of his principal occupation, is engaged in the practical installation
of gas piping and equipment, and who is familiar with the code requirements
governing the same, and who works under the direction of a gas fitting
contractor.
   C.   Apprentice Gas Fitter: An apprentice gas fitter is any person other
than a journeyman who, as part of his principal occupation, is engaged in
learning and assisting in the installation of gas piping and equipment.
Apprentices shall not perform gas installation except under the supervision of
a licensed journeyman gas fitter. (1960 Code, Sec. 3-515)
3-5-3: LICENSE REQUIRED:
Before any person shall carry on or engage in the work or business of making
gas installations, he shall procure a license applicable to the classification
in which he proposes to work and pay the annual license fee imposed on such
classification. Such license shall not be transferable. Every applicant for
license shall present a certificate of competency as proof that he has been
approved by the board of examiners as competent for the classification sought.
If the applicant is a partnership, firm or corporation, the application shall
be made by a bona fide member or agent thereof; provided, however, that any
person in actual charge of the licensee's gas installation business, where the
licensee is a partnership, firm or corporation, shall be a licensed gas fitting
contractor. When any person is designated and authorized to be or act as an
agent for the applicant, such authorization shall be in writing, signed by the
applicant and the person designated, one copy of which shall be filed with the
examining board and one copy filed in the office of the city clerk. (1960 Code,
Sec. 3-516)
3-5-4: LICENSE FEES; DISPOSITION:
Before any license is issued the applicant shall pay to the city clerk a
license fee in accordance with the following schedule:
   Gas fitting contractor      $25.00
   Journeyman gas fitter      10.00
   Apprentice gas fitter      1.00
Upon payment of the above fee and presentation of a valid certificate of
competency, together with a policy of public liability insurance written by a
liability insurance company authorized to transact a casualty business in the
state of Idaho, with policy limits of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) for
each person injured or killed and one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00)
for each occurrence where persons are injured or killed and property damage
limitations of not less than fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00), the city
clerk shall issue a license certificate indicating clearly thereon the name of
the holder, classification and the year for which it is valid. The public
liability insurance policy hereinbefore referred to shall insure the holder of
such certificate and must be written for a term so that the same will not
expire during the period of time for which the holder is licensed. (1960 Code,
Sec. 3-517)
All money derived from gas fitter licenses shall be placed in the general fund.
(1960 Code, Sec. 3-521)
3-5-5: EXPIRATION AND RENEWAL OF LICENSE:
Gas fitter licenses shall expire on December 31 of each year unless sooner
revoked and shall be renewed not later than the following January 15 upon
payment of one-half (1/2) of the original license fee as a renewal fee. (1960
Code, Sec. 3-518)
3-5-6: DISPLAY OF LICENSE:
All persons holding a valid gas fitting contractor license shall display for
public view such license certificate in their place of business. All journeyman
and apprentice gas fitters holding a valid license shall have available on his
person during working hours his certificate of competency card with his current
license number endorsed thereon. It shall be unlawful for any person to display
evidence of license or competency unless so qualified under this chapter. (1960
Code, Sec. 3-520)
3-5-7: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
Any person holding a license shall not lend such license to any other person or
allow any other person to do gas installation work under his license except
licensed journeymen in his employ. Violation of this provision shall be cause
for revocation of license, in addition to other penalties provided therefor.
(1960 Code, Sec. 3-519)
CHAPTER 6
AUCTION SALES
SECTION:
3-6-1: License Required; Fee
3-6-2: Application For License
3-6-1: LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE:
No person shall offer goods, wares or merchandise of any kind or description
for sale at public auction within the limits of the city without first paying
into the treasury of the city a license fee of one dollar ($1.00) for each day
in advance; provided, that this section shall not apply to sheriff's or
constable's sales under judicial process. (1960 Code, Sec. 2-701)
3-6-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Before receiving such license, application shall be made to the mayor and city
council who shall have full power to grant or reject the issuance thereof.
(1960 Code, Sec. 2-702)
CHAPTER 7
ITINERANT MERCHANTS
SECTION:
3-7-1: Purpose
3-7-2: Definition
3-7-3: Application Requirements
3-7-4: Duties Of City Clerk And Issuance Of License
3-7-5: License Fees And Bond
3-7-6: Prohibited Acts And Penalties
3-7-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to assist in protecting consumers who purchase
goods in the city by requiring that all "itinerant merchants", as defined in
section
3-7-2 of this chapter, register with the city clerk before commencing business
within the city, and that each such merchant provide sufficient information as
to his or her identity so that a consumer will be able to identify and locate
the itinerant merchant in the event the consumer should wish to pursue claims
for breach of warranties, fraud, misrepresentation or other claims which may
arise from consumer transactions. Persons who have been residents of the city
for more than one year are exempt from registration as itinerant merchants
under this chapter because of the relative ease with which they can be
identified and located. (Ord. 652, 1-1983)
3-7-2: DEFINITION:
An "itinerant merchant" is any person present within the city who sells or
offers to sell to retail customers any goods, wares or merchandise unless such
person is one or more of the following:
   A.   An individual who has been a permanent resident of the city for more
than one year who is conducting such business activity as owner or consignee of
the goods, wares or merchandise being sold or offered for sale.
   B.   A principal or an agent of a person, firm or corporation whose
principal has been continuously engaged in business at least one hundred (100)
hours per month, within the city for the preceding two (2) calendar months. A
principal or an agent of a principal who registers as an itinerant merchant but
who intends to engage in business within the city at least one hundred (100)
hours per month for the two (2) calendar months following registration;
provided the principal has posted the bond required by section
3-7-5 of this chapter.
   C.   An agent of a business properly licensed or exempt from licensing under
this chapter.
   D.   A member of a tax exempt charitable, fraternal, civic or religious
organization selling or offering to sell goods, wares or merchandise on behalf
of said organization for tax exempt purposes of the organization as defined by
the internal revenue code, who provides proof of authority to act on behalf of
said tax exempt organization.
   E.   A person selling used furniture, household goods, sporting equipment
and clothing of his family during a period not to exceed forty eight (48) hours
who has not previously participated in more than one such sale within the city
during the same calendar year.
   F.   A guardian, conservator or personal representative selling personal
assets of the decedent or ward.
   G.   A person, firm or corporation which limits the prices of the goods,
wares and merchandise it sells or offers for sale to twenty five dollars
($25.00) or less per item and which does not sell or offer for sale any goods,
wares or merchandise at a price greater than twenty five dollars ($25.00).
(Ord. 652, 1-1983)
3-7-3: APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS:
An itinerant merchant shall apply to the city clerk for an itinerant merchant
license during regular business hours of the city clerk's office at least four
(4) such hours before selling or offering for sale any goods, wares or
merchandise within the city. The application shall be made by the principal or
an agent of the principal who is authorized to make the application on behalf
of the principal.
The applicant shall supply, on a form provided by the city clerk, all of the
following:
   A.   The name, social security number, driver's license number if different,
telephone number, current permanent mailing address, and a current permanent
street address of the person making the application, temporary mailing address
and temporary phone number while the applicant is in the Rupert area; make,
model, state of registration and license number of all vehicles being used by
the applicant or agents of the applicant while preparing for and conducting
business within the city.
   B.   The name and current mailing address and current street address of any
principal on whose behalf the application is made.
   C.   If the itinerant merchant is a person other than the applicant acting
on his own behalf, the person making the application shall supply the
following:
      1.   The name, address, title, and telephone number of the principal or a
responsible officer of the principal who can verify the authority of the person
to make the application and do business on behalf of the principal.
      2.   The legal status of the principal as a person.
      3.   The tax identification number of the principal for Idaho sales tax.
      4.   The state of incorporation, the names and addresses of the president
and secretary of the corporation if the principal is a corporation.
      5.   The names and addresses of all general partners if the principal is
a partnership.
   D.   A general description of the type of goods, wares or merchandise to be
offered for sale.
   E.   The location at which the business will be transacted within the city,
including the names and addresses of the owner of said business location.
   F.   The duration of the business venture within the city.
   G.   A list of all cities and counties in which the itinerant merchant has
conducted business within the preceding ninety (90) day period and the dates
said business has been conducted in each of said places.
   H.   The names and addresses of all persons who will be conducting business
on behalf of the itinerant merchant while the itinerant merchant is doing
business within the city.
   I.   The names, addresses and phone numbers of at least three (3) references
as to the character and business responsibility of the applicant, excluding the
person making the application and the principals, partners, officers and
directors of the applicant.
   J.   The number of calendar quarters for which the application is made.
   K.   The application form shall be signed by the person making the
application, under a statement attesting to the truth and accuracy of the
information supplied on the application form. (Ord. 652, 1-1983)
3-7-4: DUTIES OF CITY CLERK AND ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
Upon receipt of the completed registration form and the appropriate license
fee, the city clerk shall review the application to see if the required
information has been provided. If the application has been properly submitted,
the clerk will issue a receipt indicating the calendar quarters for which the
itinerant merchant is authorized to do business in the city and said receipt
shall constitute proof that the itinerant merchant named on the receipt is
licensed to do business within the city during the calendar quarters indicated
on the receipt.
The city clerk shall file one copy of the application and receipt in the office
of the city clerk and shall forward a copy of the application and license to
the chief of police who may conduct such investigation of the applicant as he
or his authorized agent may deem appropriate for the protection of consumers
within the city. (Ord. 652, 1-1983)
3-7-5: LICENSE FEES AND BOND:
Each applicant shall pay to the city clerk, at the time of submission of an
application for an itinerant merchant license the sum of ten dollars ($10.00)
for the first quarter of the calendar year during which the applicant intends
to conduct business in the city, plus two dollars ($2.00) for each successive
additional calendar quarter of the current calendar year or succeeding calendar
year during which the applicant intends to do business as an itinerant merchant
within the city. The four (4) calendar quarters are January 1 through March 31,
April 1 through June 30, July 1 through September 30, and October 1 through
December 31.
An applicant who wishes to extend his license for successive additional
quarters may do so after his license has been issued, by tendering the fee for
such successive additional quarter or quarters to the clerk prior to the
expiration of the license. A new application shall not be required of the
applicant if there have been no material changes in the information supplied
when the license was first issued if the license has not expired at the time
the extension fee is tendered. Upon receipt of said fee, the clerk shall issue
a new receipt extending the license by the number of quarters for which payment
has been received and shall file a copy in the clerk's office and forward a
copy to the chief of police.
A person claiming to be exempt from licensing as an itinerant merchant under
subsection 3-7-2B of this chapter may submit an application in the form
required by section
3-7-3 of this chapter and post a bond of ten dollars ($10.00) in lieu of
payment of the license fee. If the applicant has continuously engaged in
business in the city for one hundred (100) hours per month for two (2)
succeeding calendar months following registration, the clerk upon application
by the itinerant merchant and receipt of proof of exemption, shall refund the
bond.
The clerk shall have the right to refuse to accept personal or business checks
in payment of registration fees and may insist upon cash or a cashier's check
of a local bank or a postal money order. (Ord. 652, 1-1983)
3-7-6: PROHIBITED ACTS AND PENALTIES:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of an
"itinerant merchant" as defined in this chapter, unless such person has
registered as an itinerant merchant for the calendar quarter in which said
business activity is being conducted and has received a receipt showing payment
of said license fee for the applicable calendar quarter.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to act as an agent or employee of
an itinerant merchant who is not properly registered and licensed under this
chapter for the calendar quarter in which such person conducts or attempts to
conduct business for such principal. It shall be the duty of each such agent to
determine whether the principal is in fact authorized to do business as an
itinerant merchant by inquiring at the office of the city clerk, and the agent
shall not be excused for violating this chapter by reason of the fact he or she
received erroneous information from any other source.
   C.   A person may be charged in the alternative with violating subsection A
or B of this section, but he may not be convicted both as a principal and agent
in the same transaction. If a reasonable doubt is raised as to his status as an
agent or employee of an unlicensed principal, he shall be presumed to be a
principal.
   D.   It shall be unlawful for any person to submit false information on an
application for an itinerant merchant license.
   E.   Violation of any portion of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor. Upon
conviction of a violation of this chapter the defendant shall be subject to a
fine of three hundred dollars ($300.00) and a jail sentence of six (6) months,
or both. The conviction of an agent for violation of this chapter shall not bar
conviction of the principal nor shall conviction of a principal bar the
conviction of an agent; if a person is charged.
   F.   The city clerk may revoke a license and registration receipt of an
itinerant merchant upon discovering a materially false representation of fact
on the application or upon dishonor of a check received in payment of license
fees. Revocation shall be deemed effective twenty four (24) hours after notice
if mailed to the permanent business address of the principal, as shown on the
application, by certified mail with return receipt requested, postage prepaid,
or by actual notice to the itinerant merchant or any agent of the itinerant
merchant, whichever occurs first. (Ord. 652, 1-1983)
CHAPTER 8
LIQUOR BY THE DRINK REGULATIONS
SECTION:
3-8-1: Declaration Of Policy
3-8-2: Definitions
3-8-3: License Required; Fees
3-8-4: Application For License
3-8-5: Investigation Of Application
3-8-6: Form, Conditions Of License
3-8-7: Unqualified Persons
3-8-8: Classifications Of Licenses And Applicants; Limitations
3-8-9: Bartenders
3-8-10: Hours Of Sale
3-8-11: Restriction Of Sales By Licensee
3-8-12: Gaming Prohibited
3-8-13: Revocation Of License
3-8-14: Possession In Motor Vehicles
3-8-15: Violation, Penalty
3-8-1: DECLARATION OF POLICY:
The city, being empowered to grant licenses to qualified persons to sell liquor
by the drink by virtue of chapter 9 of title 23 of the Idaho Code, and
amendments thereto, and by election held pursuant thereto on April 23, 1963,
the restrictions, regulations and provisions contained in this chapter are for
the protection, health, welfare and safety of the people of the city, and for
the purpose of the necessary control and regulation of the sale of liquor by
the drink within the city, and of promoting and encouraging temperance in the
use of alcoholic beverages within the city. (Ord. 534, 12-19-1972)
3-8-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases used in this chapter shall be given the
following interpretations:
BARTENDER: Any person, whether agent, servant, employee, licensee or in any
other capacity, who pours, mixes, prepares, serves or delivers any liquor by
the drink upon any licensed premises.
GAMING: Any and all gambling or games of chance defined in chapters 38 and 49
of title 18 of the Idaho Code, or any section or sections thereof, as amended,
whether said games are licensed or unlicensed.
INTERDICTED PERSON: A person to whom the sale of liquor is prohibited under the
laws of the state of Idaho.
LICENSE: A license issued by the city council to a qualified person, under
which it shall be lawful for the licensee to sell and dispense liquor by the
drink at retail, as provided in this chapter.
LICENSEE: The person to whom a license is issued under the provisions of this
chapter.
LIQUOR: All kinds of liquor sold by and in a state liquor store of the state of
Idaho.
PERSON: Every individual, partnership, corporation, organization or association
holding a retail liquor license, whether conducting the business singularly or
collectively.
PREMISES: The building in which the sale of liquor by the drink at retail is
authorized under the provisions of this chapter.
All other words and phrases used in this chapter, the definition of which is
not herein given, shall be given the ordinary, and commonly understood and
accepted meaning. (Ord. 534, 12-19-1972)
3-8-3: LICENSE REQUIRED; FEES:
Every license issued under this chapter shall be issued by the city council,
signed by the mayor, countersigned by the city clerk, and bear the seal of the
city, to qualified applicants, as herein provided, whereby the licensee shall
be authorized and permitted to sell liquor by the drink at retail and, upon the
issuance of such license, the licensee therein named shall be authorized to
sell liquor at retail by the drink but only in accordance with the provisions
of this chapter; and it shall be unlawful to sell liquor by the drink without
having first obtained such license.
Each licensee licensed under the provisions of this chapter shall pay an annual
license fee to the city in the amount of five hundred sixty two dollars fifty
cents ($562.50) per annum; provided, however, that any licensee who operates
for only a portion of a year may have his license fee prorated from the date he
commences operation to the end of the calendar year, but in no event for less
than six (6) months. Licenses issued hereunder shall expire at one o'clock (1:
00) A.M. on January 1 after the calendar year for which issued. (Ord. 534, 12-
19-1972)
3-8-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Prior to the issuance of a license, as herein provided, the applicant shall
file with the city clerk an application in writing, subscribed and sworn to by
the applicant before a person authorized to administer oaths. The application
shall be accompanied by the license fee herein required. The application shall
contain such information and statements relative to the applicant and the
premises where the liquor is to be sold as may be required by the city council,
and, in addition, the application must show the qualifications of the applicant
required by this chapter, and the following:
   A.   A detailed description of the premises for which a license is sought,
and its location within the city, and the name and detailed address of the
owner of the premises.
   B.   A detailed statement of the assets and liabilities of the applicant.
   C.   The names and detailed addresses of all persons who will have any
financial interest in any business to be carried on in and upon the licensed
premises, whether such interest results from open loans, mortgages, conditional
sales contracts, silent partnerships, trusts or any other basis than open trade
accounts incurred in the ordinary course of business, and the amounts of such
interests.
   D.   If the premises to be licensed are not owned by the applicant, then a
certified copy of the lease by which he will occupy the premises showing that
the owner consents to the sale of liquor by the drink on such premises, must
accompany the application.
   E.   The name and address of the applicant, which shall include all members
of a partnership or association, and the officers, members of the governing
board, and ten (10) principal stockholders of a corporation; and if the
applicant is a married person, then the name and detailed address of the
spouse.
   F.   A copy of the articles of incorporation and bylaws of any corporation,
the articles of association and the bylaws of any association, or the articles
of partnership of any partnership, shall accompany the application.
   G.   If, during the period of any license issued hereunder, any change shall
occur in any of the requirements of subsections A to F inclusive, of this
section, the licensee shall immediately make a report of such change to the
city council, signed and sworn to by the applicant before a person authorized
to administer oaths. (Ord. 534, 12-19-1972)
3-8-5: INVESTIGATION OF APPLICATION:
Upon receipt of an application for a license under this chapter, accompanied by
the necessary license fee, the city council may make or cause to be made such
investigation of all matters pertaining thereto as it deems proper. If the city
council shall determine that the contents of the application are true, that
such applicant is qualified to receive a license, that the premises to be
licensed are suitable for the carrying on of the business, and that the
requirements of this chapter are met and complied with, license shall issue;
otherwise, the application shall be denied and the license fee, less the costs
and expenses of investigation, shall be returned to the applicant. (Ord. 534,
12-19-1972)
3-8-6: FORM, CONDITIONS OF LICENSE:
   A.   Every license issued under this chapter shall be signed by the mayor,
countersigned by the city clerk, and shall bear the seal of the city; and shall
set forth the name of the person to whom issued, the location by street and
number, or other definite designation of the premises, and such other
information as the city council shall deem necessary. If issued to a
partnership, the names of the persons constituting such partnership, as silent
or active partners, shall be set forth. If issued to a corporation or
association, the names of the principal officers and the governing board shall
be set forth. Such license shall be signed by the licensee. Every license
issued under the provisions of this chapter is separate and distinct and no
person except the licensee therein named, except as hereinafter provided, shall
exercise any of the privileges granted thereunder. All licenses shall expire at
one o'clock (1:00) A.M. on January 1 of the calendar year following the year
for which issued. No person shall be granted more than one license for any one
year; and no partnership, association or corporation holding a license under
this chapter shall have as a member, officer or stockholder any person who has
any financial interest of any kind in, or is a member of, another partnership
or association or an officer of another corporation holding a license in the
city for the same year; provided, however, that this section shall not prevent
any person who owns two (2) or more buildings on connected property in the city
from making application for and receiving licenses permitting the sale of
liquor by the drink in each such building. Every licensee shall at all times
keep posted in a conspicuous place on the licensed premises the license issued
by the city.
   B.   Application to transfer any license issued pursuant to this chapter
shall be made to the city clerk. Upon receipt of such application, the same
procedures shall be had as in the case of an original application for license
except for the payment of license fee; and if it is determined that all of the
conditions of this chapter are met and complied with by the proposed
transferee, then the license shall be endorsed over to the proposed transferee
by said licensee for the remainder of the period for which such license has
been issued, and the city clerk shall note the approval thereof by the city
council upon such license. (Ord. 534, 12-19-1972)
3-8-7: UNQUALIFIED PERSONS:
No license shall be issued to:
   A.   An individual who is not a citizen of the United States or who has not
been a bona fide resident of the state of Idaho for at least thirty (30) days
next preceding the granting of such license; or to a partnership unless all
members thereof are citizens of the United States and have been residents of
the state of Idaho for at least thirty (30) days next preceding the granting of
such license; or to a corporation or association unless the same is organized
under the laws of the state of Idaho or qualified under the laws of the state
of Idaho to do business in this state, and unless the principal officers and
the members of the governing board are citizens of the United States and
residents of the state of Idaho for at least thirty (30) days next preceding
the granting of such license.
   B.   Any person, or any one of its members, officers or governing board, who
has been convicted of any violation of the laws of the United States, the state
of Idaho, or any other state of the United States, relating to the importation,
transportation, manufacture or sale of liquor; or who has been convicted of any
felony.
   C.   Any person or any one of its members, officers or governing board, who
is engaged in the operation, or interested therein, of any house or place for
the purpose of prostitution, or who has been convicted of any crime or
misdemeanor opposed to decency and morality.
   D.   A person whose license issued under this chapter or by the state of
Idaho has been revoked; an individual who was a member of a partnership or
association which was a licensee of the state of Idaho or under this chapter
and whose license has been revoked; an individual who was an officer, member of
the governing board or one of the ten (10) principal stockholders of a
corporation which was a licensee of the state of Idaho or under this chapter
and whose license has been revoked; a partnership or association one of whose
members was a licensee of the state of Idaho or under this chapter and whose
license was revoked; a corporation one of whose officers, members of the
governing board or ten (10) principal stockholders was a licensee of the state
of Idaho or under this chapter and whose license has been revoked; an
association or partnership, one of whose members was a member of a partnership
or association licensed under the provisions of this chapter or by the state of
Idaho and whose license has been revoked; partnership or association, one of
whose members was an officer, a member of the governing board, or one of the
ten (10) principal stockholders of a corporation licensed under the provisions
of this chapter or by the state of Idaho and whose license has been revoked; a
corporation, one of whose officers, members of the governing board, or ten (10)
principal stockholders was a member of a partnership or association licensed
under the provisions of this chapter or by the state of Idaho and whose license
was revoked; a corporation, one of whose officers, members of the governing
board, or ten (10) principal stockholders was an officer, member of the
governing board, or one of the ten (10) principal stockholders of a corporation
licensed under the provisions of this chapter or by the state of Idaho and
whose license was revoked.
   E.   Any officer or employee of the state of Idaho, or any county or
municipality of the state of Idaho.
   F.   Any officer, agent or employee of any distillery, winery, brewery or
any wholesaler or jobber of liquor or malt beverages.
   G.   A person who does not hold a retail beer license issued under the laws
of the state of Idaho and the city of Rupert.
   H.   A person licensed under this chapter or the laws of the state of Idaho
as a bartender and whose permit as bartender has been revoked.
   I.   A person not within the classifications of persons set forth in section
3-8-8 of this chapter. (Ord. 534, 12-19-1972)
3-8-8: CLASSIFICATIONS OF LICENSES AND APPLICANTS; LIMITATIONS:
   A.   Every license issued under this chapter shall be issued only to
qualified applicants, as herein provided, who come within the following
classifications as the same are herein defined:
      1.   Cafe Or Restaurant: A cafe or restaurant is an establishment
provided with special space and accommodations where, in consideration of
payment, prepared food is habitually furnished to the public, but does not
include drugstores, soda fountains, lunch counters or confectioneries, and such
cafe or restaurant being provided, in the judgment of the city council, with
adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining equipment and capacity for preparing,
cooking and serving suitable food to and for its patrons; provided, however,
that the preparation, cooking and serving of suitable food is hereby construed
to mean the preparation, cooking and serving of complete meals customarily
denominated breakfast, lunch, dinner and supper; and provided further, however,
that the habitual furnishing of prepared food is hereby construed to mean the
habitual furnishing of: a) such breakfast, lunch, dinner and supper; b) such
breakfast, lunch and dinner; c) such lunch, dinner and supper; or d) such
dinner and supper; and provided further, that the service of only fry orders,
sandwiches, hamburgers, hot dogs, salads or snacks shall not be deemed a
compliance with this classification.
      2.   Unclassified: In addition to the licenses which may be issued to
applicants under the foregoing classification, not more than two (2) premises
shall be licensed under this classification.
   B.   No license shall be issued for any premises in any neighborhood which
is predominantly or zoned residential, or within three hundred feet (300') of
any public school, church or any other place of worship, measured in a straight
line to the nearest entrance to the licensed premises, except with the approval
of the city council; provided, however, that this limitation shall not apply to
any licensed premises that at the time of licensing did not come within the
restricted area, but subsequent to licensing was included therein. (Ord. 534,
12-19-1972)
3-8-9: BARTENDERS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to act as a bartender in any premises
licensed under this chapter unless such person shall hold a permit therefor
from the state of Idaho. (Ord. 534, 12-19-1972)
3-8-10: HOURS OF SALE:
No liquor shall be sold, offered for sale or given away from any licensed
premises during the following hours:
   A.   Memorial Day, Thanksgiving and Christmas from one o'clock (1:00) a.m.
to ten o'clock (10:00) a.m. the following day and Sundays from one o'clock (1:
00) a.m. to twelve o'clock (12:00) noon and from eight o'clock (8:00) p.m. to
ten o'clock (10:00) a.m. the following day; provided, however, that when New
Year’s Eve occurs on a Sunday, liquor may be sold, offered fro sale and/or
given away from any licensed premises from twelve o’clock (12:00) noon until
two o’clock (2:00) a.m. on New Year’s Day.
   B.   On any other day between one o'clock (1:00) a.m. and ten o'clock (10:
00) a.m. (Ord. 09-505, 8-18-2009; amd. Ord. 20-501, 2-11-2020)
3-8-11: RESTRICTION OF SALES BY LICENSEE:
No licensee or his or its employed agents, servants or bartenders shall sell,
deliver or give away, or cause or permit to be sold, delivered or given away,
any liquor to:
   A.   Any person under the age of nineteen (19) years.
   B.   Any person actually, apparently or obviously intoxicated.
   C.   A habitual drunkard.
   D.   An interdicted person.
   E.   Be taken from or consumed off or away from the licensed premises; nor
shall any licensee, or his or its employed agents, servants or bartenders sell,
give away, dispense, vend or deliver any liquor in any fashion or by means or
devise, except upon the licensed premises. (Ord. 534, 12-19-1972)
3-8-12: GAMING PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any licensee to permit, conduct, play, carry on, open
or cause to be opened any gaming in or upon the licensed premises or in or upon
any premises directly connected by a door, hallway or other means of access
from the licensed premises. (Ord. 534, 12-19-1972)
3-8-13: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
If it is made to appear to the city council, and it so finds, that any of the
provisions of this chapter have been violated, including the making of any
false statements in the application for license, with respect to any licensed
premises hereunder, it may revoke the license, and if such license is revoked,
no part of the license fees therefor shall be refundable. Proceedings for
revocation shall be initiated by filing with the city council a verified and
concise statement of the facts; thereupon, the city council may issue its order
to the licensee ordering him or it to appear before the city council, not less
than five (5) days from the date of service of the order and copy of the
verified statement upon the licensee, to show cause, if any there be, why said
license should not be revoked and cancelled. In lieu of revocation, the city
council may suspend the said license for such period as it deems proper. (Ord.
534, 12-19-1972)
3-8-14: POSSESSION IN MOTOR VEHICLES:
No person may, while operating or riding in or upon a motor vehicle upon a
public highway of this state, have in his possession any liquor in an open or
unsealed container of any kind. (1977 Code)
3-8-15: VIOLATION, PENALTY:
A violation of any of the provisions of this chapter, including the making of
any false statements in the application for license, shall constitute an
offense hereunder and, upon conviction thereof, the violator shall be
punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 534, 12-19-1972; amd. 1977 Code)
CHAPTER 9
BEER REGULATIONS
SECTION:
3-9-1: License Required; Fees
3-9-2: Application For License
3-9-3: Licenses Granted By Council
3-9-4: License Conditions; Hours Of Sale
3-9-5: Revocation Of License
3-9-6: Possession In Motor Vehicle
3-9-7: Alcohol Consumption In City Operated Parks And Facilities
3-9-1: LICENSE REQUIRED; FEES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell at retail, in the city, for
consumption either on or off the premises where sold, any beer, as defined by
the laws of the state of Idaho, without first having procured a retail beer
license as in this chapter provided. (Ord. 660, 3-6-1984)
The fee for a license to sell beer at retail, whether draught or bottled and
whether to be consumed on the premises of the retailer, shall be one hundred
dollars ($100.00) per annum, and the fee for a license to sell beer at retail
for consumption off the premises of the retailer shall be twenty five dollars
($25.00) per annum. No license shall be issued for any shorter period than the
balance of the calendar year and all licenses shall expire on December 31
following issuance. No license shall be issued until the fee therefor shall
have been paid. Where application for license is made during the first quarter
of the year, the full annual license shall be paid; when made during the second
quarter, three- fourths (3/4) thereof shall be paid; when made during the third
quarter, one-half (1/2) thereof shall be paid and when made during the fourth
period, one-fourth (1/4) thereof shall be paid. All licenses issued under the
authority of this chapter shall name the person or persons to whom issued and
the room where sale is authorized. No license shall be transferred to another
room or person except by the express approval of the city council. (Ord. 758,
6-2-1997)
3-9-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Every person desiring to obtain a license for the sale of beer at retail for
consumption on or off the premises where sold shall first make written
application therefor in such form and containing such information as the city
may require, and pay, when application is made, the fee required for the
license for the balance of the calendar year. (1960 Code, Sec. 2-102)
3-9-3: LICENSES GRANTED BY COUNCIL:
The mayor and city council shall have the authority to issue to any person who
is a citizen of the United States or who has resided in the state of Idaho for
the period of at least thirty (30) days immediately preceding the date of such
application and who is of good moral character and who has not been convicted
of any crime involving moral turpitude or of a violation of any law prohibiting
or regulating the sale of or possession of alcoholic beverages or intoxicating
liquors, a license authorizing the licensee named therein to sell in the room
therein definitely fixed and not elsewhere, bottled or draught and bottled beer
at retail for consumption either on or off the premises. (1960 Code, Sec. 2-
103; amd. 1977 Code)
3-9-4: LICENSE CONDITIONS; HOURS OF SALE:
The license shall be conspicuously posted in the room or place designated
therein. No beer shall be sold or served for immediate consumption except in
the interior of the room described in such license which shall be well lighted.
The door leading to such room from the street shall not be locked or barred
while persons other than the licensee or employees remain therein. No alcoholic
beverage other than beer shall be sold, served or its consumption permitted at
any place described in any such license, unless the licensee possesses a valid
license for the sale of such other alcoholic beverage or beverages. No beer
shall be permitted to be consumed, sold or dispensed on any day between the
hours of one o'clock (1:00) A.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. at any place
described in any such license. No beer shall be served to any minor under the
age of nineteen (19) years and no minor under that age shall be permitted to
loiter about or in any place where beer is sold and served for immediate
consumption. Every place wherein beer is sold shall be conducted in an orderly
manner. (Ord. 664, 8-6-1985)
3-9-5: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
If complaint shall be made that any licensee is conducting a place in such
manner as to violate the provisions of this chapter, the mayor and council
shall cause notice to be served upon such licensee containing the substance of
the charge made against him and requiring him to appear before the city council
at a time and place named therein, not less than two (2) days from the date of
service of such notice, and show cause why the license should not be revoked.
If it appears to the city council that sufficient cause therefor appears, such
license may be immediately revoked and cancelled. (1960 Code, Sec. 2-106)
3-9-6: POSSESSION IN MOTOR VEHICLE:
No person may, while operating or riding in or upon a motor vehicle upon a
public highway of this state, have in his possession any beer in an open or
unsealed container of any kind. (1977 Code)
3-9-7: ALCOHOL CONSUMPTION IN CITY OPERATED PARKS AND FACILITIES 1 :
   A.   Beer may be consumed by persons of legal age in Flake Field also
referred to as Neptune Ball Park during adult softball games which have been
scheduled with the city. The sponsoring organization shall deposit fifty
dollars ($50.00) as a cleanup fee for each calendar date scheduled. The city
shall have the discretion to assess a cleanup fee for actual costs associated
with cleanup and/or repair of city facilities following said event and shall
have authority to refund the unused portion of the cleanup deposit to the
sponsoring organization. No one shall be allowed to bring glass beverage
containers into Flake Field.
   B.   Upon application to the city and payment of a cleanup deposit of fifty
dollars ($50.00) for each calendar date scheduled, a responsible organization
may be authorized by the director of the city parks and recreation department
to schedule exhibition and tournament games at Big Valley Ball Park.
Responsible adult organizations may be authorized by city administration to
allow consumption of beer at scheduled adult softball exhibition games and
tournament games at Big Valley Ball Park. The city shall be authorized to
assess a cleanup fee for actual costs associated with cleanup and/or repair of
city facilities. The balance of the cleanup deposit shall be refunded to the
sponsoring organization. No glass containers shall be brought into the Big
Valley Ball Park.
   C.   Upon application to the city and payment of a fifty dollar ($50.00)
permit fee, an alcoholic beverage permit may be issued for special events,
subject to approval of the city administrator and city council, allowing the
consumption of alcoholic beverages in the Rupert Square or Fremont Plaza in
combination with an approved park or facility rental. No glass containers shall
be brought into any city-operated parks. Any event requesting an alcohol
beverage permit, where twenty-five (25) people attend or are anticipated to
attend, will be required to provide adequate security staffing for said event
at the cost of the event organizer(s). The city shall have the discretion to
assess a cleanup fee for actual costs associated with cleanup and/or repair of
city facilities following said event.
   D.   No authorization by the city shall be effective unless it is issued in
advance of the event in writing. The authorization shall contain a beginning
time and expiration time. (Res. 235, 12-7-1989; amd. Ord. 22-510, 8-9-2022)
 
Notes
1 1   See also section
  8-2-1 of this code.
CHAPTER 10
WINE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
3-10-1: Definitions
3-10-2: License Required; Fees
3-10-3: Application For License
3-10-4: Qualifications Of Applicant
3-10-5: Issuance Of License
3-10-6: License Restrictions
3-10-7: Consumption On Premises
3-10-8: Possession In Motor Vehicle
3-10-9: Misrepresentation Of Age
3-10-10: Revocation Of License
3-10-11: Violation
3-10-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following terms as used in this chapter are hereby defined as follows:
DIRECTOR: The director of law enforcement of the state of Idaho.
RETAIL WINE LICENSE: A license by the director, authorizing a person to sell
wine at retail.
RETAILER: A person to whom a retail wine license has been issued.
WINE: Any alcoholic beverage containing not more than fourteen percent (14%)
alcohol by volume obtained by the fermentation of the natural sugar content of
fruits or other agricultural products containing sugar.
WINE BY THE DRINK LICENSE: A license to sell wine by the individual glass or
opened bottle at retail, for consumption on the premises only. (Ord. 552, 11-
16-1971; amd. 1977 Code)
3-10-2: LICENSE REQUIRED; FEES:
It shall be lawful for any person to sell wine at retail or by the drink within
the corporate limits of the city after having first procured a license
therefor. A person holding a valid license to sell liquor by the drink in the
city shall be deemed to have a valid license to sell wine by the drink and
shall be authorized to sell wine by the drink without being licensed under this
chapter. (Ord. 662, 2-19-1985)
The license fee to sell "wine" as herein defined shall be the sum of one
hundred dollars ($100.00) per year. No license shall be issued for any shorter
period than the balance of the calendar year and all licenses shall expire on
December 31 following issuance. No license shall be issued until the fee
therefor shall have been paid. Where application for license is made during the
first quarter of the year, the full annual license shall be paid; when made
during the second quarter, three-fourths (3/4) thereof shall be paid; when made
during the third quarter, one-half (1/2) thereof shall be paid; and when made
during the fourth quarter, one- fourth (1/4) thereof shall be paid. All
licenses issued under the authority of this chapter shall name the person or
persons to whom issued and the premises where sales shall be made. (Ord. 758,
6-2-1997)
3-10-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Application for license shall be in writing, signed and sworn to by the
applicant upon application forms furnished by the clerk. Such application shall
be filed by the clerk and presented to the mayor and council at the next
meeting of the council for their approval, rejection or further consideration.
(Ord. 522, 11-16-1971; amd. 1977 Code)
3-10-4: QUALIFICATIONS OF APPLICANT:
The applicant for a license shall possess all of the qualifications necessary
to obtain a license from the director of law enforcement of the state, as
prescribed by the laws of the state, and maintain such qualifications
throughout the period for which such license is issued. The possession of
licenses regularly issued by the department of law enforcement and the county
in addition to a city beer license, shall be prima facie evidence of the
applicant's qualifications to receive a license hereunder. (Ord. 522, 11-16-
1971; amd. 1977 Code)
3-10-5: ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
Upon filing the application for a license and production of evidence as
required by section
3-10-4 of this chapter as to the qualifications of the applicant and by the
payment of the required license fee, the clerk shall, upon approval of the
council, issue to the applicant a license to sell wine at retail within the
municipality for such calendar year or the remainder thereof. (Ord. 522, 11-16-
1971; amd. 1977 Code)
3-10-6: LICENSE RESTRICTIONS:
The assignment or transfer of a wine license shall be the same as provided by
section
3-9-1 of this title for the assignment or transfer of a beer license. (Ord.
522, 11-16-1971; amd. 1977 Code)
3-10-7: CONSUMPTION ON PREMISES:
Retailers who do not possess a valid license for the retail sale of wine by the
drink or who do not possess a valid license for the retail sale of liquor by
the drink shall not permit consumption of wine on the licensed premises and may
sell the wine only in its original unbroken, sealed container. Wine sold for
consumption on the retailer's premises may be sold only during hours that
liquor by the drink may be sold pursuant to the laws of the state 1 . Wine sold
by the retailer for consumption off the premises of the retailer may be sold
only during the hours that beer may be sold pursuant to the provisions of this
code 2 . (Ord. 664, 8-6-1985)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  3-8-10 of this title.
2 2. See section
  3-9-4 of this title.
3-10-8: POSSESSION IN MOTOR VEHICLE:
No person may, while operating or riding in or upon a motor vehicle upon a
public highway of this state, have in his possession any wine in an open or
unsealed container of any kind. (Ord. 522, 11-16-1971; amd. 1977 Code)
3-10-9: MISREPRESENTATION OF AGE:
   A.   No person under the age of nineteen (19) years may purchase, consume or
possess wine.
   B.   No person shall give, sell or deliver wine to any person under the age
of nineteen (19) years.
   C.   No person under the age of nineteen (19) years shall by any means
represent to any retailer or distributor or to any agent or employee of such
retailer or distributor that he is nineteen (19) years or more of age for the
purpose of inducing such retailer or distributor, or his agent or employee, to
sell, serve or dispense wine to such person.
   D.   No person shall, by any means, represent to any retailer or distributor
or the agent or employee of such retailer or distributor, that any other person
is nineteen (19) years or more of age, when in fact such other person is under
the age of nineteen (19) years, for the purpose of inducing such retailer or
distributor, or the agent or employee of such retailer or distributor, to sell,
serve or dispense wine to such other person. (Ord. 522, 11-16-1971; amd. 1977
Code)
3-10-10: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
The right shall be and remain at all times vested in the mayor and council, and
the mayor and council may, as hereinafter provided, revoke or cancel any
license for fraud or misrepresentation in its procurement, or for a violation
of any of the provisions of this chapter, or for any conduct or act of the
licensee or his employees or any conduct or act permitted by him or them on the
premises where such business is conducted, or in connection therewith or
adjacent thereto, tending to render such business or such premises where the
same is conducted as a public nuisance or a menace to the health, peace, safety
or general welfare of the city; provided, that revocation or suspension of the
state license by the director of law enforcement shall be deemed prima facie
evidence for revocation or suspension of the license issued herein. (Ord. 522,
11-16-1971; amd. 1977 Code)
3-10-11: VIOLATION:
Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter or fails to
comply with any of the terms and conditions of this chapter shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor. (Ord. 522, 11-16-1971; amd. 1977 Code)
CHAPTER 11
OFF SITE BUSINESS LOCATIONS
SECTION:
3-11-1: Definitions
3-11-2: Prohibiting Conduct Of Business On Public Streets And Places;
Exceptions
3-11-3: Issuance Of License And Regulation Of Activities
3-11-4: Unlawful Conduct
3-11-5: Appeal From Denial Of License Application
3-11-6: Revocation Of License
3-11-7: License Not Transferable
3-11-8: Penalties For Violation
3-11-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings given them:
 
CITY:                          The city of Rupert, Idaho.
CITY CLERK:                    The duly appointed city clerk of the city of
                               Rupert, Idaho.
CITY COUNCIL:                  The duly elected city council of the city of
                               Rupert, Idaho.
                               The selling, soliciting, advertising or offering
ENGAGE IN OR CONDUCT BUSINESS: for sale any items of personal property, or real
                               property, or any interest therein.
                               To engage in or conduct business outside of any
                               permanent building (deck or courtyard accessory
                               thereto) and shall include any public street or
OFF SITE LOCATION:             public place, within the city of Rupert, Idaho.
                               "Off site locations" shall include, but not be
                               limited to, trailers, stands, booths, tents, on
                               foot, or from any vehicle or any other type of
                               conveyance.
                               Any individual, corporation, partnership, joint
PERSON:                        venture, limited partnership or any other
                               business entity.
                               As used herein any sidewalk, street, alley,
                               highway, public right of way, park, parking lot
                               or other place owned in fee by the city of
                               Rupert, Idaho, or in, on or over which an
PUBLIC STREET OR PLACE:        easement exists in the name of or held by the
                               city of Rupert, Idaho, or which exists for the
                               benefit and use of the public. (Ord. 726, 4-5-
                               1994; amd. Ord. 813, 6-19-2001; Ord. 22-509, 8-
                               9-2022)
 
3-11-2: PROHIBITING CONDUCT OF BUSINESS ON PUBLIC STREETS AND PLACES;
EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Conduct Of Business On Public Streets Or Public Places: It shall be
unlawful for any person to engage in or conduct any business in, on, over or
upon any public street or public place within the city or to employ any person
to engage in or conduct any business in, on, over or upon any public street or
public place within the city, unless specifically authorized by the city.. Once
the city grants an offsite business use for a particular OFF SITE LOCATION and/
or time, the grantee may exclude other offsite vendors. When multiple vendors
participate in a permitted event, each such vendor must have an offsite permit.
   B.   Distribution Of Materials On Public Streets: It shall be unlawful for
any person to distribute to the public or place on any vehicle in the public
street or place any cards, circulars, handbills, samples of merchandise or any
advertising matter whatsoever on any public street or place within the city or
to employ any person to do same in, on, over or upon any public street or place
within the city except as herein provided.
   C.   Off Site Locations: It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in or
conduct business on any off site location within the city without having first
obtained a license to do so as herein provided, or to employ any person to
engage in or conduct any business on any off site location within the city
without said person having first obtained a license to do so as herein
provided; provided that, persons who own and engage in the sale of foodstuffs
or garden products from a stall, booth, wagon, motor vehicle or similar
conveyance shall obtain a license as herein provided for said stall, booth,
wagon, motor vehicle and said license shall be valid for any and all employees
thereof for the sale of prepared foodstuffs only.
   D.   Exceptions: The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to:
      1.   Any sales under court order.
      2.   A bona fide auction sale.
      3.   Traveling salespersons, commercial travelers or the like who
exclusively or primarily sell to, or solicit orders for future delivery, from
local retailers, local businesses, local governments, local schools or local
wholesale firms, catering services or the sale of prepared foodstuffs entering
private property with permission of occupants for sale or distribution to said
occupants.
      4.   The sale and distribution of newspapers.
      5.   Contribution solicitation where the person being solicited to
contribute personally knows the identity of the person soliciting the
contribution, the name of the group or organization he represents, and the
nature of the services performed or offered by the group or organization.
      6.   The sale of tickets by local school students to a function of their
school or similar fundraising activities; or fundraising sales by local service
clubs or groups such as Elks, Kiwanis, Lions, Boy or Girl Scouts, etc.
      7.   Any person engaged in political activities including funds or
membership solicitations.
      8.   Garage, yard or similar sales by individuals at their residence or
place of business not exceeding twice in one calendar year, which sales shall
not include business inventory.
      9.   Any solicitation of information for a telephone book or a city
directory by a company representative.
      10.   Any organization exempt from taxation as provided by 26 USC 501 and
meeting all the requirements for the exemption provided by USC 503.
      11.   A sale made pursuant to prior negotiations between the parties at a
business establishment at a fixed location in the city whose goods or services
are offered or exhibited for sale.
      12.   A sale of services to be furnished or performed in the future to or
by a business establishment at a fixed location in the city.
      13.   The handing out of business cards by an individual upon request of
the receiving party.
      14.   Advertising materials displayed inside buses and taxi.
      15.   Sales of any items sanctioned by the Mini-Cassia chamber and
approved by the city council.
      16.   A sale of goods or services provided by a business establishment on
the existing and functioning business property of a business establishment in
the city. (Ord. 726, 4-5-1994; amd. Ord. 813, 6-19-2001; Ord. 22-509, 8-9-2022)
3-11-3: ISSUANCE OF LICENSE AND REGULATION OF ACTIVITIES:
   A.   Any person who desires to engage in or conduct business in an off site
location shall make application to and receive a license from the city clerk
prior to engaging in or conducting business.
   B.   Applicants for said license shall file a complete application for said
license with the city clerk not less than seventy two (72) hours prior to the
date said person desires to engage in or conduct business. The application
shall be furnished by the city clerk and shall contain, but not necessarily be
limited to, the following information:
      1.   Name and description of the applicant; if the applicant is an
association company or corporation, then it shall submit a separate application
for each person who will be soliciting in the city and each shall receive and
maintain a separate license.
      2.   Address both legal and local.
      3.   A brief description of the nature of business and the goods to be
sold and in the case of products of farm or orchard, whether produced or grown
by the applicant.
      4.   If employed, the name and address of the employer, together with
credentials establishing the exact relationship between the employer and the
applicant.
      5.   The date or dates for which the license is requested.
      6.   If a vehicle is to be used, a description of the same, together with
license number or other means of identification.
      7.   Has a permit or license to the applicant been revoked during the
past five (5) years, and if so, where and when.
      8.   Proposed method of operation.
      9.   Social security and/or driver's license of applicant.
      10.   A statement as to whether or not the applicant has been convicted
of any crime, misdemeanor or violation of any municipal laws, the nature of the
offense and the date, and the punishment or penalty assessed therefor.
      11.   The place where the goods or property proposed to be sold, or
orders taken for the sale thereof, are manufactured or produced, where such
goods or products are located at the time said application is filed, and the
proposed method of delivery.
      12.   A one inch by one inch (1" x 1") photograph of the applicant,
showing the head and shoulders of the applicant in a clear and distinguishable
manner.
      13.   When the applicant proposes to peddle any food or product for human
consumption, a certification by the central health district shall be required
prior to issuance of a license.
      14.   License fee.
      15.   Property description of each location of proposed off site location
and written and notarized permission of the owner or owners of said real
property for the applicant to engage in or conduct business thereon. Should any
question exist as to the owner of said real property, it shall be the duty of
the applicant, as part of the application, to satisfactorily establish same.
      16.   State sales tax number and federal tax number.
      17.   A photograph of any wagon, booth, stand, trailer or other stall
which the applicant uses or will use to conduct off site sales from.
      18.   Evidence of a valid electrical inspection for any stall, booth,
wagon or similar conveyance or structure when applicable.
      19.   Evidence of a valid fire inspection for any stall, booth, wagon or
similar conveyance or structure, when applicable.
   C.   The license fee shall be paid in advance at the time of filing the
application and the fee for said license shall be as follows:
      1.   Daily license fee shall be ten dollars ($10.00) per day or any
portion thereof.
      2.   Annual license fee shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00) and said
license shall be valid for one year from date of issuance.
   D.   An issued license shall be valid for any and all employees thereof at
the off site location for which said license is issued.
   E.   Each vendor shall display the license issued hereunder at the location
of sales at all times while engaged in or conducting said business activity and
the same shall be displayed in a clearly visible manner.
   F.   No trailer, wagon, stand, booth or motor vehicle or any other type of
conveyance may be used for off site location sales unless it meets the
following criteria:
      1.   Adequate garbage cans.
      2.   All signs and lights thereon must conform to zoning ordinance
requirements presently in effect or hereafter amended or adopted.
   G.   The license shall list the parcels of real property upon which the
permittee may conduct off site location activities pursuant to this chapter. It
shall be unlawful for any persons to engage in or conduct business at any off
site location not listed on said license. (Ord. 726, 4-5-1994; amd. Ord. 22-
509, 8-9-2022)
3-11-4: UNLAWFUL CONDUCT:
   A.   Prohibited Acts: It shall be unlawful for a licensee hereunder to do
any of the following acts:
      1.   Make physical contact with the person being solicited unless that
person's permission is obtained.
      2.   Misrepresent the purpose of the solicitation.
      3.   Misrepresent the affiliation of those engaged in the solicitation.
      4.   Continue efforts to solicit from an individual once that individual
informs the solicitor that he does not wish to give anything to or to buy
anything from that solicitor.
      5.   Represent the issuance of any license under this chapter as an
endorsement or recommendation of the solicitation.
      6.   To go in or upon private residences within the city not having been
requested or invited to do so by the owner or occupant, or to enter in or upon
any other premises when the same is posted with a sign stating "No Peddlers
Allowed" or "No Solicitation Allowed" or other words to such effect.
      7.   Knowingly make any false statement on an application for a license
hereunder.
      8.   To shout at or otherwise call out to individuals in order to attract
their attention or engage in solicitation.
      9.   To engage in or conduct business by means of any sound amplification
equipment, loudspeaker or similar device.
      10.   To sell to any person who is standing in the public street or
place.
   B.   Enforcement: It shall be the duty of any police officer of the city to
enforce this chapter. The chief of police shall report to the city clerk all
violations of this chapter. (Ord. 726, 4-5-1994)
3-11-5: APPEAL FROM DENIAL OF LICENSE APPLICATION:
   A.   Within five (5) days, excluding weekends and legal holidays, from the
refusal of the city clerk to issue a license under this chapter, the applicant
for a license may appeal to the city council for the purpose of having the city
council review the action of the city clerk.
   B.   The appeal by the applicant whose license has been refused must be in
writing, and set forth in concise language the reasons such license should not
have been refused.
   C.   The city council shall provide the applicant on appeal a due process
hearing within fourteen (14) days, excluding weekends and legal holidays, after
the filing thereof, and shall render its decision within seven (7) days,
excluding weekends and legal holidays, after the said hearing. The decision of
the majority of the city council shall be final as to the issuance of the
license. (Ord. 726, 4-5-1994)
3-11-6: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
Any license issued under this chapter shall be subject to revocation by the
city council for any of the following causes:
   A.   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
application for license.
   B.   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in the course of
carrying on his business.
   C.   Violation of any provision, rule or regulation of this chapter.
   D.   Violation of any ordinance or regulation of the city or the laws of the
state.
Prior to said revocation, the permittee shall be afforded the opportunity to a
due process hearing before the city council in conformance with the procedures
set forth in subsections 3-11-5B and C of this chapter. (Ord. 726, 4-5-1994)
3-11-7: LICENSE NOT TRANSFERABLE:
No license issued pursuant to this chapter shall be assigned or transferred,
nor shall any such license authorize any person to engage in or conduct
business thereunder except the person to whom the same has been issued. (Ord.
726, 4-5-1994)
3-11-8: PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION:
Any person who shall violate any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, subject to a fine of not more than five
hundred dollars ($500.00) or imprisonment for a period not to exceed six (6)
months, or both such fine and imprisonment. (Ord. 726, 4-5-1994; amd. Ord. 22-
509, 8-9-2022)
TITLE 4
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODES
SECTION:
4-1-1: Codes Adopted
4-1-2: Adoption By Reference
4-1-3: Building Permit Fees
4-1-4: Violation
4-1-1: CODES ADOPTED:
The following codes and provisions are hereby adopted for the City of Rupert,
Minidoka County, State of Idaho: (Ord. 10-504, 12-28-2010)
   A.   Building Code: The International Building Code (IBC), 2015 edition, and
appendices E, G, H, I, and J, published by the International Code Council, and
amendments, as follows: (Ord. 18-502, 3-27-2018, eff. 3-27-2018)
      1.   IBC section 101.1 is amended to insert the "city of Rupert" in place
of [name of jurisdiction].
      2.   The IBC is amended to delete IBC sections 101.4.3 and 2901.1 for
referenced standard for plumbing installation provisions, and any reference to
codes and any reference to codes and standards dealing with plumbing
installations which shall be governed by the codes and standards as established
by Idaho Code § 54-2601.
      3.   IBC section 1612.3 is amended to insert city of Rupert in place of
[name of jurisdiction] and September 6, 1977 in place of [date of issuance].
      4.   IBC section 3410.2 is amended to insert January 1, 1968 in place of
[date to be inserted by the jurisdiction].
      5.   For the purpose of enforcement and administration of this code the
Minidoka County building department will hereby be designated as the department
of building safety for the city of Rupert, with the director being designated
as the code official.
   B.   Residential Code: The International Residential Code (IRC), 2009
edition, and appendices G, H and J, excepting parts VII and VIII, published by
the International Code Council, but amended as follows:
      1.   IRC section R101.1 is amended to insert the "city of Rupert" in
place of [name of jurisdiction],
      2.   IRC section R315.2 to provide the following:
Where work requiring a permit occurs in existing dwellings that have attached
garages or in existing dwellings within which fuel-fired appliances exist,
carbon monoxide alarms shall be provided in accordance with section R315.1 with
the following exceptions:
         a.   Work involving the exterior surfaces of dwellings, such as, but
not limited to, replacement of roofing or siding, or the addition or
replacement of windows or doors, or the addition of a porch or deck, or
electrical permits, are exempt from the requirements of this section.
         b.   Installation, alteration or repairs of noncombustion plumbing or
mechanical systems are exempt from the requirements of this section.
      3.   The 2009 international residential code (IRC), section N1102.4.3 to
provide as follows:
"New wood burning fire places shall have tight- fitting doors and outdoor
combustion air."
      4.   For the purpose of enforcement and administration of this code the
Minidoka County building department will hereby be designated as the department
of building safety for the city of Rupert and the director thereof being
designated as the building official.
(Ord. 14-502, 3-25-2014)
   C.   Mechanical Code: The International Mechanical Code (IMC), 2009,
published by the International Code Council with the following amendments:
Amending IMC section 101.1 inserting "city of Rupert, Minidoka County, Idaho"
in place of [name of jurisdiction].
Amending IMC section 103.2 to read as follows: The code official shall be
appointed by the chief appointing authority of the jurisdiction.
Amending IMC section 106.5.2 to read as follows: The fees for mechanical work
shall be established by resolution of the Rupert city council.
Amending IMC section 106.5.3 inserting "seventy-five percent (75%)" in place of
[specify percentage] in both subsections 2 and 3.
Amending IMC section 108.4 to read as follows: Any person who violates a
provision of this code or fails to comply with any of the requirements thereof
or who erects, installs, alters or repairs mechanical work in violation of the
approved construction documents or directive of the code official or of a
permit or certificate issued under the provisions of this code, shall be
subject to penalties as prescribed by law. Each day that the violation
continues after due notice has been served shall be deemed a separate offense.
Amending the last sentence of IMC section 108.5 to read as follows: Any person
who shall continue any work on the system after having been served with a stop
work order, except such work as that person is directed to perform to remove a
violation or unsafe condition, shall be subject to penalties as prescribed by
law.
For the purpose of enforcement and administration of this code the Minidoka
County building department will hereby be designated as the department of
mechanical inspection for the city of Rupert, with the director being
designated as the code official.
   D.   Fuel Gas Code: The International Fuel Gas Code (IFGC), 2009 edition,
and appendices A, B, and C, published by the International Code Council, with
the following amendments:
Amending IFGC section 101.1 inserting "city of Rupert, Minidoka County, Idaho"
in place of [name of jurisdiction],
Amending IFGC section 103.2 to read as follows: The code official shall be
appointed by the chief appointing authority of the jurisdiction.
Amending IFGC section 106.5.2 to read as follows: The fees for mechanical work
shall be established by resolution of the Rupert city council.
Amending IFGC section 106.5.3 inserting "seventy-five percent (75%)" in place
of [specify percentage] in both subsections 2 and 3.
Amending IFGC section 108.4 to read as follows: Any person who violates a
provision of this code or fails to comply with any of the requirements thereof
or who erects, installs, alters or repairs mechanical work in violation of the
approved construction documents or directive of the code official or of a
permit or certificate issued under the provisions of this code, shall be
subject to penalties as prescribed by law. Each day that the violation
continues after due notice has been served shall be deemed a separate offense.
Amending the last sentence of IFGC section 108.5 to read as follows: Any person
who shall continue any work on the system after having been served with a stop
work order, except such work as that person is directed to perform to remove a
violation or unsafe condition, shall be subject to penalties as prescribed by
law.
For the purpose of enforcement and administration of this code the Minidoka
County building department will hereby be designated as the department of
inspection for the city of Rupert, with the director being designated as the
code official.
   E.   Energy Conservation Code: The International Energy Conservation Code
(IECC), 2009 edition, published by the International Code Council, with the
following amendments:
Amending IECC section 101.1 inserting "city of Rupert, Minidoka County, Idaho"
in place of [name of jurisdiction],
For the purpose of enforcement and administration of this code the Minidoka
County building department will hereby be designated as the department of
inspection for the city of Rupert, with the director being designated as the
code official.
(Ord. 10-504, 12-28-2010)
   F.   Fire Code: The International Fire Code (IFC), 2015 edition, published
by the International Code Council, and appendices B, C, D, E, and F, with the
following amendments: (Ord. 10-504, 12-28-2010; amd. Ord. 18-502, 3-27-2018,
eff. 3-27-2018)
Amending IFC section 101.1 inserting "city of Rupert, Minidoka County, Idaho"
in place of [name of jurisdiction].
Amending IFC section 103.2 to read as follows: The code official shall be
appointed by the chief appointing authority of the jurisdiction.
Further amending IFC as amended and adopted by the Idaho state fire marshal of
the Idaho department of insurance as set forth IDAPA 18 title 01 chapter 50
subsections 010–052.
For the purpose of enforcement and administration of this code the city of
Rupert fire department will hereby be designated as the department of fire
prevention for the city of Rupert, with the fire chief being designated as the
code official.
   G.   School District Plan Review: For the purpose of compliance with Idaho
Code section 39-4113(4), the City hereby adopts all current editions of codes
enumerated in Idaho Code section 39-4109. This provision shall only apply to
plan review and construction of new schools and additions and alterations of
existing schools, pursuant to Idaho Code section 39-4113(4).
   H.   Schedule Of Fees: The Minidoka cities/County schedule of fees relating
to building permit fees is hereby substituted for and shall become table 1A of
the 1997 edition of the Uniform Building Code as adopted by the County of
Minidoka, and the fees established by said table shall be charged and collected
by the Building Department for all building permit applications submitted after
the effective date hereof. See section
4-1-3 of this chapter for schedule of fees. (Ord. 10-504, 12-28-2010)
   I.   Existing Building Code: The International Existing Building Code
(IEBC), 2015 edition, published by the International Code Council, with the
following amendments: (Ord. 10-504, 12-28-2010; amd. Ord. 18-502, 3-27-2018,
eff. 3-27-2018)
Amending IEBC section 101.1 inserting "city of Rupert, Minidoka County, Idaho"
in place of [name of jurisdiction].
Amending IEBC section 1301.2 inserting "January 1, 1968" in place of [date to
be inserted by the jurisdiction].
(Ord. 10-504, 12-28-2010)
   J.   Property Maintenance Code: The International Property Maintenance Code
(IPMC), 2015 edition, published by the International Code Council, with the
following amendments:
Amending IPMC section 101.1 inserting "city of Rupert, Minidoka County, Idaho"
in place of [name of jurisdiction].
(Ord. 18-502, 3-27-2018, eff. 3-27-2018)
4-1-2: ADOPTION BY REFERENCE:
The codes mentioned in section
4-1-1 of this chapter are hereby adopted by reference pursuant to Idaho Code.
The City Clerk is directed to maintain at the County offices the number of
copies of the codes adopted herein as required by law. (Ord. 10-504, 12-28-
2010)
4-1-3: BUILDING PERMIT FEES:
Effective April 1, 2004, the following fee schedule shall apply:
BUILDING PERMIT FEE SCHEDULE
Valuation
From To Fee
Valuation
From      To         Fee
$ 1.00    $ 500.00   $ 15.00
501.00    600.00     18.00
601.00    700.00     20.00
701.00    800.00     23.00
801.00    900.00     25.00
901.00    1,000.00   27.00
1,001.00  1,100.00   29.00
1,101.00  1,200.00   31.00
1,201.00  1,300.00   33.00
1,301.00  1,400.00   35.00
1,401.00  1,500.00   37.00
1,501.00  1,600.00   39.00
1,601.00  1,700.00   41.00
1,701.00  1,800.00   43.00
1,801.00  1,900.00   45.00
1,901.00  2,000.00   47.00
2,001.00  3,000.00   50.00
3,001.00  4,000.00   59.00
4,001.00  5,000.00   67.00
5,001.00  6,000.00   76.00
6,001.00  7,000.00   84.00
7,001.00  8,000.00   93.00
8,001.00  9,000.00   101.00
9,001.00  10,000.00  110.00
10,001.00 11,000.00  119.00
11,001.00 12,000.00  127.00
12,001.00 13,000.00  135.00
13,001.00 14,000.00  144.00
14,001.00 15,000.00  152.00
15,001.00 16,000.00  161.00
16,001.00 17,000.00  170.00
17,001.00 18,000.00  178.00
18,001.00 19,000.00  186.00
19,001.00 20,000.00  195.00
20,001.00 21,000.00  203.00
21,001.00 22,000.00  212.00
22,001.00 23,000.00  220.00
23,001.00 24,000.00  229.00
24,001.00 25,000.00  237.00
25,001.00 26,000.00  244.00
26,001.00 27,000.00  250.00
27,001.00 28,000.00  256.00
28,001.00 29,000.00  262.00
29,001.00 30,000.00  268.00
30,001.00 31,000.00  274.00
31,001.00 32,000.00  280.00
32,001.00 33,000.00  286.00
33,001.00 34,000.00  292.00
34,001.00 35,000.00  298.00
35,001.00 36,000.00  305.00
36,001.00 37,000.00  311.00
37,001.00 38,000.00  317.00
38,001.00 39,000.00  323.00
39,001.00 40,000.00  329.00
40,001.00 41,000.00  335.00
41,001.00 42,000.00  341.00
42,001.00 43,000.00  348.00
43,001.00 44,000.00  354.00
44,001.00 45,000.00  360.00
45,001.00 46,000.00  366.00
46,001.00 47,000.00  372.00
47,001.00 48,000.00  378.00
48,001.00 49,000.00  384.00
49,001.00 50,000.00  390.00
50,001.00 51,000.00  394.00
51,001.00 52,000.00  398.00
52,001.00 53,000.00  403.00
53,001.00 54,000.00  407.00
54,001.00 55,000.00  411.00
55,001.00 56,000.00  416.00
56,001.00 57,000.00  420.00
57,001.00 58,000.00  424.00
58,001.00 59,000.00  428.00
59,001.00 60,000.00  432.00
60,001.00 61,000.00  437.00
61,001.00 62,000.00  441.00
62,001.00 63,000.00  445.00
63,001.00 64,000.00  450.00
64,001.00 65,000.00  455.00
65,001.00 66,000.00  458.00
66,001.00 67,000.00  462.00
67,001.00 68,000.00  467.00
68,001.00 69,000.00  471.00
69,001.00 70,000.00  475.00
70,001.00 71,000.00  479.00
71,001.00 72,000.00  483.00
72,001.00 73,000.00  488.00
73,001.00 74,000.00  492.00
74,001.00 75,000.00  496.00
75,001.00 76,000.00  500.00
76,001.00 77,000.00  505.00
77,001.00 78,000.00  509.00
78,001.00 79,000.00  513.00
79,001.00 80,000.00  517.00
80,001.00 81,000.00  522.00
81,001.00 82,000.00  526.00
82,001.00 83,000.00  530.00
83,001.00 84,000.00  534.00
84,001.00 85,000.00  539.00
85,001.00 86,000.00  543.00
86,001.00 87,000.00  547.00
87,001.00 88,000.00  551.00
88,001.00 89,000.00  556.00
89,001.00 90,000.00  560.00
90,001.00 91,000.00  564.00
91,001.00 92,000.00  568.00
92,001.00 93,000.00  573.00
93,001.00 94,000.00  577.00
94,001.00 95,000.00  581.00
95,001.00 96,000.00  585.00
96,001.00 97,000.00  590.00
97,001.00 98,000.00  594.00
98,001.00 99,000.00  598.00
99,001.00 100,000.00 602.00
 
$100,001.00 to $500,000.00 – $3.40 per additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof
of valuation.
$500,001.00 to $1,000,000.00 – $2.90 per additional $1,000.00 or fraction
thereof of valuation.
$1,000,001.00 and up – $2.20 per additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof of
valuation.
(Res. 447, 3-2-2004)
4-1-4: VIOLATION:
Any violation of this chapter shall constitute a misdemeanor, and any person,
upon conviction of such violation, shall be punished accordingly. (Ord. 07-509,
12-4-2007, eff. 1-1-2008)
CHAPTER 2
ELECTRICAL CODE 1
SECTION:
4-2-1: National Electrical Code Adopted
4-2-2: Scope Of Code
4-2-3: Special Requirements
4-2-4: Alterations To Existing Wiring
4-2-5: Electrical Inspector
4-2-6: Authority To Disconnect
4-2-7: Electrical Permit And Application For Inspection
4-2-8: Schedule Of Inspection Fees
4-2-9: Service Entrance, Meter Installation Regulations
4-2-10: Noncompliance
 
Notes
1 1. See title 3, chapter 3 of this Code.
4-2-1: NATIONAL ELECTRICAL CODE ADOPTED:
All installations in the City of wires and equipment to convey electric current
and installations of apparatus to be operated by such current shall be in
substantial accord with the 2015 Electrical Code (NEC), relating to such work
as far as the same covers fire and personal injury hazards, and as the National
Electrical Code shall be amended, revised, compiled and published from time to
time, which code is hereby adopted as the Electrical Code of the City, three
(3) copies thereof being on file in the Office of the City Clerk and properly
certified as being the officially adopted and certified Electrical Code of the
City; provided, however, that to the extent the said code is modified by the
provisions of this chapter, said provisions shall apply within the City and be
controlling over the said 2015 Electrical Code (NEC) and be a part of the
Electrical Code of the City. (Ord. 564, 7-16-1974; amd. 1977 Code; Ord. 18-502,
3-27-2018, eff. 3-27-2018)
4-2-2: SCOPE OF CODE:
All installations in the City of wiring and equipment to convey electric
current, and all installations of apparatus to be operated by such electric
current, shall come under the regulations of this Code, unless specifically
exempt. Electrical circuits, wiring and apparatus of a communication public
utility or an electrical power utility, when such equipment comprises a part of
its generation, control or distribution system, are exempt. Electrical wiring
in railway cars or automotive equipment is also exempt.
Formal inspection and fees will not be required for minor repairs or
alterations where there is no change in the service entrance; no additional
circuit is required; and the wiring cost does not exceed fifty dollars
($50.00). However, nothing herein shall relieve any person from performing such
changes in accordance with section
4-2-4 of this chapter, and other applicable regulations of the Electrical Code.
(Ord. 564, 7-16-1964)
4-2-3: SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS:
All public, commercial and industrial buildings, all apartment buildings with
more than three (3) dwelling units and all buildings, of any kind, located
within the fire zone, shall be wired to conform to any of the following
designated articles of the National Electrical Code:
   Article 346, rigid metal conduit; article 348, electrical metallic tubing;
article 350, flexible metal conduit; article 352, surface metal raceway;
article 362, wireways; article 364, busways; article 354; under-floor raceways;
article 356, cellular metal floor raceways; article 358, cellular concrete
floor raceways; article 330, mineral insulated cable; article 331, aluminum
sheath cable; article 347, rigid nonmetallic conduit may be used only where
installed underground, embedded in concrete, or in indoor locations where
subject to severe corrosive influences.
(Ord. 564, 7-16-1964)
4-2-4: ALTERATIONS TO EXISTING WIRING:
When extensions or alterations are made to any electrical circuit in or on any
building or structure, coming under the provisions of the Electrical Code,
which said circuit was not originally installed in a manner complying with the
provisions of said code or the provisions of this Code, said electric circuit,
in its entirety, shall be made to conform to such provisions of the Electrical
Code as are particularly applicable thereto. (Ord. 564, 7-16-1964)
4-2-5: ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR:
The Mayor is hereby authorized and directed to enter into an agreement with the
Idaho state electrical board, department of law enforcement, to furnish
electrical inspection service to the city as authorized by the appropriate
sections of the Idaho Code 1 , electrical inspections made under such an
agreement shall be made in accordance with the electrical code by a duly
appointed state electrical inspector acting as electrical inspector for the
city and such inspections shall conform with state fees. (Ord. 564, 7-16-1964)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 67-2326.
4-2-6: AUTHORITY TO DISCONNECT:
If any electrical installation made after the effective date hereof is found to
be defective or defectively installed, or otherwise not in conformity with the
electrical code, the electrical Inspector may order such installation
disconnected from the source of supply until the necessary corrections have
been made, provided that the owner of the premises, the tenant, if any, and
city electrical department shall be notified in writing. (Ord. 564, 7-16-1964)
4-2-7: ELECTRICAL PERMIT AND APPLICATION FOR INSPECTION:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to install or cause to be installed
any electric wiring or equipment coming under the provisions of the electrical
code unless an electrical inspection application, properly completed, has been
secured from the city clerk's office not later than forty eight (48) hours
after commencement of such work.
   B.   The city electrical department shall not connect or energize any
electrical installation coming under the provisions of the electrical code
unless it has in possession an inspection application covering the installation
to be energized.
   C.   Inspection applications will be received only by a duly licensed
electrical contractor or his agent and must bear his signature, or by a
property owner who is doing his own wiring on his own property, or by a
maintenance electrician regularly employed for wiring at the place of his
employment. Applications from a property owner or maintenance electrician must
contain a certification stating that the person making the application is in
fact the owner of the property concerned, or is employed as a maintenance
electrician for the property owner, and that the installation will be made by
him, or in the case of a property owner by a member of his immediate family who
resides, or will reside, in the unit to be wired, and whose name shall be
given.
   D.   The inspection fees hereinafter set forth shall be paid for said
inspection. If the work is done by an electrical contractor, the contractor
shall remit the inspection fee for the owner. If the work is done by the owner,
then he shall remit the inspection fee. If the work is done by a maintenance
electrician, he shall remit the fee for his employer. (Ord. 564, 7-16-1974)
4-2-8: SCHEDULE OF INSPECTION FEES:
   A.   Temporary Services: Fee of $15.00. A temporary service is a service
entrance which will be used for construction purposes only and will be removed
when the permanent service is installed. All other services are classified as
permanent.
   B.   Residential:
 
Service rated 100 ampere or less     $20.00, plus $3.50 for each room in which
                                     any wiring is installed
Service rated over 100 ampere to 200 $25.00, plus $3.50 for each room in which
ampere                               any wiring is installed
Over 200 ampere                      $30.00, plus $3.50 for each room in which
                                     any wiring is installed
 
Included shall be all finished and unfinished rooms including basements,
residential garages and carports, etc. (Areas such as a combination kitchen-
dining shall be counted as a room for each indicated use.) Apartment buildings,
including 8 units, come under this subsection and each apartment shall be
counted as an individual residence.
When there is no change in service, the following shall apply: Extension or
addition to an existing circuit, $15.00. Installation of one new circuit,
$15.00. Installation of sub-feed panel or feeder and additional circuits, same
as residential for size and number of rooms wired.
Installation of more than one circuit $20.00, plus $3.50 for each room in which
any wiring is installed.
   C.   Residential Electric Space Heating:
 
1 to 5 kW $20.00 plus $4.00 for each 5 kW or fraction thereof in excess of 5 kW
 
These fees are in addition to the fees for general wiring covered in subsection
B hereof.
   D.   Domestic Water Pump: $10.00 in addition to required residential fee.
When separate from residential construction, permit $30.00.
   E.   Mobile Homes, Each Connection Or Reconnection:
 
                                  $30.00, plus $10.00 for each additional
Service rated 100 amperes or less feeder or branch circuit connected at the
                                  same time as mobile home
                                  $40.00, plus $10.00 for each additional
Services over 100 ampere          feeder or branch circuit connected at same
                                  time as mobile home
 
   F.   Other Installations Including Industrial And Commercial: The inspection
fees listed in this subsection shall apply to any and all electrical
installations not specifically mentioned elsewhere in this schedule. The wiring
cost shall be the cost to the owner of all labor charges and all wiring
materials and equipment installed as part of the wiring system. When labor is
performed by the owner for uniformity of fee, such labor cost shall be based
upon the market value of said labor and used or re-used materials shall be
based at 50 percent of new retail cost or actual cost, whichever is greater.
The value of factory installed wiring switches and controls on equipment shall
be included in wiring costs and paid through the permittee by those furnishing
such equipment. Motors, appliances and utilization equipment (except light
fixtures) need not be included.
      1.   Apartment buildings with 9 or more dwelling units come under this
schedule.
      2.   Mobile home parks: Distribution wiring including pedestal or service
is under this schedule. Note: This does not include or permit the connection of
the mobile home. See subsection E of this section.
      3.   Recreation vehicle parks, service conductors, distribution and lot
supply to individual units come under this schedule, plus $5.00 per lot.
 
Wiring cost not exceeding $100.00       $20.00
Wiring cost over $100.00, not exceeding $20.00, plus 21/2% of total wiring cost
$2,000.00
Wiring cost over $2,000.00 not          $70.00, plus 1% of total wiring cost
exceeding $10,000.00
Wiring cost over $10,000.00             $180.00, plus 0.5% of that portion of
                                        wiring costs exceeding $10,000.00
 
   G.   Water Pumps, Each Motor:
   0to    5 hp$25.00
   6to    10 h30.00
   1to    50 h35.00
   5to    100 40.00
   1to    150 45.00
   1to    200 50.00
   2to    400 60.00
Over         400 60.00, plus $10.00 per 100 hp over 400
 
   H.   Electrically Driven Irrigation Machine: Center pivot, $25.00 plus $7.50
per tower or drive motor. Other types, $25.00, plus $7.50 per motor. Note: The
electric supply to the irrigation machine shall be in addition to above and
according to subsection F of this section.
   I.   Electric Signs And Outline Lighting: Electric signs, $25.00, plus $0.20
per square foot measured on one side. Outline lighting, $25.00 plus $0.05 per
foot of tubing.
   J.   Requested Inspections Of Existing Wiring: $25.00 minimum for one hour
or less. Over one hour, $25.00, plus $12.50 for each 1/2 hour or portion
thereof in excess of one hour, including travel time.
   K.   Reinspection: When corrections have not been made in prescribed time
and an extension has not been requested and granted, $25.00.
   L.   Reinspection: Fee for permits not clearly giving location of
installation either by directions or maps, $25.00.
   M.   No Permit: Failure to send permit and fee in prescribed time, double
fee.
   N.   Plan Checking Fee: $25.00 minimum for one hour or less. Over one hour
$25.00, plus $12.50 for each 1/2 hour or portion thereof in excess of one hour.
   O.   Expiration Of Permits: Every permit issued by the electrical bureau
shall expire by limitation and become null and void if the work authorized by
such permit is not commenced within 90 days from the date of issuance of such
permit, or if the work authorized by such permit is suspended or abandoned at
any time after work is commenced for a period of 180 days, or unless a request
for extension has been made to the department and granted. Before such work can
be recommenced, a new permit shall first be obtained, and the fee shall be 1/
2 the amount required for a new permit for such work, provided no changes have
been made or will be made in the original plans and specifications for such
work, and provided further, that such suspension or abandonment has not
exceeded one year. (Ord. 641, 6-2-1981)
4-2-9: SERVICE ENTRANCE, METER INSTALLATION REGULATIONS:
Service entrance and meter installation regulations for the city are hereby
adopted as follows:
   A.   Application And Scope: These regulations, in addition to national and
state codes, shall apply to the service entrance facilities installed on any
new building or structure to be served from the city distribution system. Also
any existing service entrance facilities shall be made to conform to these
regulations if: 1) a circuit is added or extended; 2) the building is
structurally altered by the adding or moving of walls or partitions; or 3) the
service entrance is changed in any way.
      1.   Meters shall be located on the outside of the building, five and
one-half feet (51/2') above the ground or walkway level. All meter sockets
shall be surface mounted.
      2.   Service entrances of two hundred (200) amperes or less shall be
provided with a main disconnecting device, adjacent to the meter and on the
outside of the building. This device shall provide suitable short circuit and
overcurrent protection, either fusible or thermal. No circuit shall be taken
off between this main switch and the meter except in the case of a pump circuit
on rural pole services.
      3.   The service entrance shall be placed on that side of the building or
structure to which service is most readily available from existing lines, or
lines as planned to be constructed by the city. (Ord. 563, 7-16-1974)
      4.   Meter sockets are customer property and will be supplied by the
customer. (Ord. 745, 6-25-1996)
      5.   City poles must be free to be replaced or relocated at any time, so
customer attachment of any kind to city poles is prohibited. Service entrance
poles shall be owned and maintained by the customer.
      6.   Installation and maintenance responsibility of the city ends at the
weatherhead connections above the meter.
      7.   Individual meter installations exceeding two hundred (200) ampere
capacity require instrument transformers. Wiremen should contact the city
electrical department concerning these service entrance arrangements. In
general, the city will furnish the metering equipment, but the user shall bear
the entire cost of installing and incorporating it into the wiring system as
directed by the city electrical department. (Ord. 563, 7-16-1974)
      8.   Any and all new 3-phase service installations shall come under the
direction of the electrical supervisor. (Ord. 745, 6-25-1996)
   B.   Additional Requirements For Multiple Meter Installations:
      1.   Service will be supplied at only one point on each individual
building. An "individual building" shall be defined as meaning one which:
         a.   Has no electrical circuits either coming from or going to an
adjoining building.
         b.   Has no wall openings, either usable or unusable, into adjoining
buildings.
         c.   Does not share a common support or common roof without firewalls.
         d.   Has complete and independent exterior walls.
      2.   Meters shall be arranged horizontally five and one-half feet (51/2')
above finished grade or walkway and grouped as much as practicable. Meter
sockets shall be separate and independent enclosures.
      3.   Each meter will be considered a separate service entrance in other
requirements concerning the main switch. (Ord. 563, 7-16-1974)
4-2-10: NONCOMPLIANCE:
Any installation not in compliance with this chapter shall be subject to
termination of electrical service. (Ord. 745, 6-25-1996)
CHAPTER 3
PLUMBING CODE 1
SECTION:
4-3-1: Plumbing Code Adopted
4-3-2: Permit Required, Exceptions
4-3-3: Application For Permit; Requirements
4-3-4: Permit And Inspection Fees
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 3, chapter 4 of this Code.
4-3-1: PLUMBING CODE ADOPTED:
All "plumbing" and plumbing systems, as defined in section
3-4-1 of this Code, shall, after the effective date hereof, be designed,
constructed, installed, improved, extended and altered in substantial accord
with the 2015 Idaho (Uniform) Plumbing Code (IPC), and said code is hereby
adopted by the City. Not less than three (3) copies of said code have been and
are now filed in the Office of the City Clerk, and said code is hereby adopted
and incorporated herein as fully as if set out at length herein. (1960 Code,
Sec. 3-401; amd. Ord. 18-502, 3-27-2018, eff. 3-27-2018)
4-3-2: PERMIT REQUIRED, EXCEPTIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to do, or cause or permit to be done,
whether acting as principal, agent or employee, any construction, installation,
improvement, extension or alteration of any plumbing system, as the same is
defined in section
3-4-1 of this Code, in any building, residence or structure, or service lines
thereto in the City without first procuring a permit from the City authorizing
such work to be done. Permits shall be issued only to a person, or to a firm,
copartnership, association or corporation represented by a person holding a
City plumbing license, except that permits shall not be required for plumbing
work mentioned in section
3-4-3 of this Code; provided, however, a licensed plumber is hereby authorized,
after making application for permit and pending receipt of permit, to proceed
and complete improvements or alterations to plumbing systems when the cost of
such improvement or alteration does not exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00).
A permit shall not be required for the clearing of stoppages or repairing of
leaks in pipes, valves, fixtures, appliances or appurtenances of any plumbing
system when such work does not involve or require any functional rearrangement
of pipes, valves or fixtures comprising the plumbing system. (1960 Code, Sec.
3-402)
4-3-3: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT; REQUIREMENTS:
Any person entitled to receive a permit shall make application to the City,
giving a description of the work proposed to be done, location, ownership,
occupancy and use of the premises. The City may require plans and
specifications and such other information as may be deemed necessary and
pertinent before granting a permit. Permit will issue when it is determined
that the information given is in compliance with the Plumbing Code and the fees
for the permit are paid. (1960 Code, Sec. 3-403)
4-3-4: PERMIT AND INSPECTION FEES:
At the time of the application for permit, there shall be paid the following
permit and inspection fees:
 
For the permit                           $2.00
 plus, for each fixture                 0.25
 plus, for each building sewer          1.50
 plus, for each septic tank or cesspool 2.00
 
At the time of renotification for inspection, in the event the previous
inspection does not pass the plumbing or plumbing system, there shall be paid a
two dollar ($2.00) reinspection fee. (1960 Code, Sec. 3-404)
CHAPTER 4
HOUSING CODE
(Rep. by Ord. 847, 12-2-2003)
CHAPTER 5
SIGN CODE
(Rep. by Ord. 847, 12-2-2003)
CHAPTER 6
MECHANICAL CODE
(Rep. by Ord. 847, 12-2-2003)
CHAPTER 7
GAS REGULATIONS
(Rep. by Ord. 847, 12-2-2003)
CHAPTER 8
NUMBERING BUILDINGS
SECTION:
4-8-1: Numbering Required
4-8-2: Authority Of Mayor
4-8-3: System Of Numbering
4-8-4: Penalty
4-8-1: NUMBERING REQUIRED:
All dwellings and business houses within the corporate limits of the city shall
be numbered as hereinafter directed. (1960 Code, Sec. 3-901)
4-8-2: AUTHORITY OF MAYOR:
The numbering hereinbefore indicated shall be done under the direction of the
mayor of the city. (1960 Code, Sec. 3-902)
4-8-3: SYSTEM OF NUMBERING:
   A.   Area Per Number: In numbering houses in the city, one whole number
shall be allowed on every fifty feet (50') of ground whenever practicable,
whether improved or vacant, and any house or tenement, with a less frontage
than fifty feet (50') shall receive a whole number. (1960 Code, Sec. 3-903)
   B.   Beginning Point: All numbering on streets running east and west shall
commence at "A" Street, and numbering on streets running north and south shall
commence at "First" Street of the city. (1960 Code, Sec. 3-904)
   C.   Streets Running East And West: On streets running east and west even
numbers shall be on the north side of the streets and odd numbers shall be on
the south side of the streets, and on streets running north and south odd
numbers shall be on the west side of the streets and even numbers shall be on
the east side of the streets. (1960 Code, Sec. 3-905)
   D.   Blocks Numbered By Hundreds: Each block shall be numbered by hundreds,
beginning with 101 at First Street on streets running north and south, the
second block being numbered 200 and so on; and the same system running from "A"
Street east and west. (1960 Code, Sec. 3-906)
4-8-4: PENALTY:
Any owner, agent, person or persons having control of any dwelling or business
house of any and every kind and description, who shall violate, refuse or
neglect to comply with the provisions of this chapter, shall, upon conviction
thereof, be fined not less than five dollars ($5.00) nor more than fifty
dollars ($50.00), together with costs. (1960 Code, Sec. 3-907; amd. 1977 Code)
CHAPTER 9
MOVING BUILDINGS
SECTION:
4-9-1: Height Restriction, Permit Required
4-9-2: Application For Permit; Fee
4-9-1: HEIGHT RESTRICTION, PERMIT REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to move any building or structure over the
public thoroughfares of the city when such building or structure exceeds eight
feet (8') in height, unless a permit for the same is issued as hereinafter
provided. (1960 Code, Sec. 9-1001)
4-9-2: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT; FEE:
Any person desiring to move any building or structure over the public
thoroughfares of the city shall make application for a permit to move the same,
provided the building or structure exceeds in height the limit set forth in
section
4-9-1 hereof. Such application shall contain the name of the person moving said
building or structure, the name of the owner of such building or structure, the
designation of the streets over which such building or structure is to be
moved, and the height of such building or structure. Such application shall be
presented to the city council at its next regular meeting for action. Issuance
of such permit shall be made upon payment of the required fees. (1960 Code,
Sec. 9-1002)
The applicant shall pay to the city for each permit issued, at the time of
issuance, a permit fee of one dollar ($1.00) plus the cost of moving such
electric lines necessary to allow the movement of such building or structure.
Such cost shall be fixed by the city council at the time the application is
presented. (1960 Code, Sec. 9-1003)
CHAPTER 10
NORTHWEST ENERGY CODE
(Rep. by Ord. 854, 12-7-2004, eff. 1-1-2005)
CHAPTER 11
SCHOOL DISTRICT PLAN REVIEW
(Rep. by Ord. 847, 12-2-2003)
CHAPTER 12
HISTORICAL PRESERVATION
SECTION:
4-12-1: Historical Preservation Development Permit
4-12-2: Purpose
4-12-3: Permit Required
4-12-4: Definition
4-12-5: Demolition
4-12-6: Application
4-12-7: Application Information
4-12-8: Application; Delivery To Historic Preservation Commission
4-12-9: Historic Preservation Commission Resolution
4-12-10: Historic Preservation Commission Reviews; Subject Matter
4-12-11: Notification Of Grant Or Refusal
4-12-12: Issuance Of Permit
4-12-13: Standards For Granting Permit
4-12-14: Development Work Permit
4-12-15: Improvements
4-12-16: Permit Limitation
4-12-17: Permit Term
4-12-18: Repeat Application
4-12-1: HISTORICAL PRESERVATION DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
The historic preservation commission (hereafter "commission") is hereby
authorized to grant permits for construction, demolition, or development of
facilities of any type within the historical preservation district in
accordance with the procedures and standards that follow. (Ord. 815, 11-20-
2001)
4-12-2: PURPOSE:
The development permit process is intended to be the mechanism by which the
purposes of establishing the historical preservation district are fulfilled. It
is the process by which the commission is authorized to review plans for work
on structures within the historical preservation district to assure that the
work complies with protective standards created to preserve the special
qualities of the historical preservation district. The preservation work permit
is intended to authorize review of exterior work only. (Ord. 815, 11-20-2001)
4-12-3: PERMIT REQUIRED:
A person shall not perform or cause to be performed any construction,
alteration or demolition of any improvement of real property located within a
historical preservation district without having first obtained a development
permit for such work. (Ord. 815, 11-20-2001)
4-12-4: DEFINITION:
"An improvement of real property" means any addition to a piece of real
property as illustrated by, but not limited to, any construction, building,
structure, wall, house, gate, fence, or facade. (Ord. 815, 11-20-2001)
4-12-5: DEMOLITION:
"Demolition" of any improvement means a partial or total removal, destruction,
wreckage or tearing down of any improvement as illustrated by, but not limited
to:
   A.   The tearing down of a building.
   B.   The tearing down of an exterior wall.
   C.   The total removal of an improvement by tearing it down to its
foundation. (Ord. 815, 11-20-2001)
4-12-6: APPLICATION:
A person may initiate proceedings for obtaining a development permit by sending
a permit application to the chairman of the commission. (Ord. 815, 11-20-2001)
4-12-7: APPLICATION INFORMATION:
The chairman of the commission may specify the information required in a permit
application and may from time to time change the content of that information,
but at all times the commission chairman shall require the following
information:
   A.   The applicant's name and address.
   B.   The owner's name and address if the owner is not the applicant.
   C.   The owner's signed consent to the making of the application, if the
owner is not the applicant.
   D.   The location and legal description of the property.
   E.   Photographs of the current condition of the property.
   F.   The plans for the work to be done including any surveys, drawings, and
blueprints for the work.
   G.   A statement of the reasons for the work to be done.
   H.   A copy of any permit or variance required in connection with the work
to be done. (Ord. 815, 11-20-2001)
4-12-8: APPLICATION; DELIVERY TO HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION:
The commission chairman shall deliver a completed application for the
development work permit to the entire commission. (Ord. 815, 11-20-2001)
4-12-9: HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION RESOLUTION:
The commission shall review an application for a development work permit and
adopt a resolution either granting or refusing the permit. The commission shall
take this action within twenty (20) days after the day on which the application
was received from the commission chairman. (Ord. 815, 11-20-2001)
4-12-10: HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION REVIEWS; SUBJECT MATTER:
The commission shall base a review of an application for a development work
permit upon the following:
   A.   The purpose of development work permits.
   B.   The purposes of the historical preservation district designation.
   C.   The standards for granting a permit as provided below. (Ord. 815, 11-
20-2001)
4-12-11: NOTIFICATION OF GRANT OR REFUSAL:
Within five (5) days after the date on which the commission adopts a
resolution, the commission chairman shall mail a copy of the resolution to the
applicant. All appeals taken from the determination of the commission shall be
filed with the city administrator not later than fourteen (14) calendar days
from the mailing of the resolution of determination by the commission. (Ord.
815, 11-20-2001)
4-12-12: ISSUANCE OF PERMIT:
If the resolution of the commission grants the permit, the commission chairman
shall immediately send the development work permit to the applicant including
it with the notification required above. (Ord. 815, 11-20-2001)
4-12-13: STANDARDS FOR GRANTING PERMIT:
Standards and requirements for the issuance and granting of permits under this
chapter shall be determined by design guidelines for city of Rupert's historic
district. Such design guidelines shall be adopted by resolution of the city
council. (Ord. 815, 11-20-2001)
4-12-14: DEVELOPMENT WORK PERMIT:
The commission shall not grant a development work permit unless it finds that
standards of visual compatibility consistent with the purpose of the historical
preservation district will be present upon completion of the work. Reference
shall be had to the city of Rupert historical district existing areas for
examples of acceptable designs and architecture and to the historical district
management and development concept plan for the city of Rupert. (Ord. 815, 11-
20-2001)
4-12-15: IMPROVEMENTS:
All improvements should conform to the intent and purpose for which the
district was established. (Ord. 815, 11-20-2001)
4-12-16: PERMIT LIMITATION:
A development work permit is limited to an authorization of the work shown on
plans required by this chapter. (Ord. 815, 11-20-2001)
4-12-17: PERMIT TERM:
A development work permit expires two (2) years after the date on which the
resolution granting it was adopted. (Ord. 815, 11-20-2001)
4-12-18: REPEAT APPLICATION:
A person may make a repeat application for a development work permit as often
as desired. The procedure for a repeat application is the same as the procedure
for an initial application. (Ord. 815, 11-20-2001)
TITLE 5
ZONING AND SUBDIVISIONS
CHAPTER 1
TITLE, INTERPRETATION AND ENACTMENT
SECTION:
5-1-1: Title
5-1-2: Authority
5-1-3: Provisions Of This Title Declared To Be Minimum Requirements
5-1-4: Combining Of Permits
5-1-5: Separability Clause
5-1-6: Repeal Of Conflicting Ordinances
5-1-1: TITLE:
This title shall be known and may be cited and referred to either as the
MINIDOKA COUNTY/CITIES ZONING ORDINANCE or as the RUPERT ZONING CODE. (Ord.
830, 8-6-2002)
5-1-2: AUTHORITY:
This zoning ordinance is adopted pursuant to authority granted by title 67,
chapter 65 of the Idaho Code and article 12, section 2 of the Idaho
constitution, as amended or subsequently codified. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-1-3: PROVISIONS OF THIS TITLE DECLARED TO BE MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS:
In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this title shall be
held to minimum requirements, adopted for the promotion of the public health,
safety and the general welfare. Whenever the requirements of this title
conflict with the requirements of any other lawfully adopted rules,
regulations, ordinances or resolutions, the most restrictive or that imposing
the highest standards shall govern. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-1-4: COMBINING OF PERMITS:
The commission is hereby required to coordinate with other departments and
agencies concerning all permits, which may be required in this title and
previously or subsequently adopted city ordinances. A one stop permit
application and processing procedure may be developed with the respective
departments and agencies for the purpose of reducing errors, misunderstanding,
confusion and unnecessary delay for everyone involved. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-1-5: SEPARABILITY CLAUSE:
Should any section or provision of this title be declared by the courts to be
unconstitutional or invalid, such decision shall not affect the validity of the
title as a whole or any part thereof other than the part so declared to be
unconstitutional or invalid. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-1-6: REPEAL OF CONFLICTING ORDINANCES:
All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict with this zoning ordinance or
inconsistent with the provisions of this title are hereby repealed to the
extent necessary to give this title full force and effect. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS OF TERMS
SECTION:
5-2-1: General Terms
5-2-2: Definitions
5-2-1: GENERAL TERMS:
For the purpose of this title, certain terms, phrases, or words used herein
shall be defined and interpreted as set out in this chapter. Where terms,
phrases, or words are not defined, they shall have their ordinary accepted
meanings within the context with which they are used. "Webster's Third New
International Dictionary Of The English Language" shall be considered as
providing ordinary accepted meanings.
For the purpose of this title, certain terms, phrases, or words used herein
shall be defined as follows:
   A.   The word "person" includes a firm, association, organization,
partnership, trust, company or corporation, as well as an individual.
   B.   The present tense includes the future tense, the singular numbers
include the plural and the plural numbers include the singular.
   C.   The words "shall" and "must" are always mandatory requirements, the
word "may" is a permissive requirement and the word "should" is a preferred
requirement.
   D.   The words "used" or "occupied" include the words "intended, designed or
arranged to be used or occupied".
   E.   The word "lot" includes the words "plot", "parcel" and "tract".
   F.   The term "erected" means "constructed", "altered", "moved", or
"repaired".
   G.   The terms "administrator" or "administration" are synonymous with the
term "planning and zoning administrator".
   H.   The term "planning and zoning commission" is synonymous with the term
"zoning commission". (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
   I.   The masculine shall include the feminine. (Ord. 837, 3-4-2003)
5-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall apply to words and terms used in this title:
ACCESS EASEMENT: A limited use easement across one or more adjacent properties
to allow occasional vehicular access to otherwise inaccessible areas by either
property owner at any time.
ACCESSORY USE: The use of land, secondary building or part thereof, or a
portion of the main building such as being accessory to or incidental to the
principal use of the premises wherein accessory uses are authorized uses, which
do not require a permit.
ACCESSORY USE OR STRUCTURE: A use, building or structure that is customarily
incidental and subordinate to the principal or approved conditional use or
building, and is conducted or located upon the same lot.
ADMINISTRATOR: An official having knowledge in the principles and practices of
zoning who is appointed by the city to administer this title. The building
official may be the administrator if duly appointed.
AFFECTED PERSON 1 : One having an interest in real property, which may be
adversely affected by the issuance or denial of a permit.
AGRICULTURAL LAND, PRIME: Land which is particularly well suited to
agricultural proposes due to characteristics which shall include soil type and
depth, the absence of surface ground water or marshy areas, access to an
existing irrigation system and with slope less than five percent (5%).
AGRICULTURAL SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT: An establishment primarily engaged in
performing animal husbandry or horticultural services, including agricultural
milling and processing, harvesting, agricultural land preparation, irrigation
and farm equipment sales and service, veterinary services, boarding and
training of horses, and agricultural produce stands.
AGRICULTURE: The use of land for farming, horticulture, floriculture, forestry,
fisheries, viticulture, raising crops, livestock, dairying and animal and
poultry husbandry including all uses customarily accessory and incidental
thereto; but excluding slaughterhouses, fertilizer works, boneyards and
commercial feedlots. Incidental retailing of goods and products raised on the
premises shall also be considered as being within the definition of
"agriculture".
AIRPORT: Any runway, land area or other facility designed or used, whether
publicly or privately, by any person for the landing and taking off of
aircraft, including all necessary taxiways, aircraft storage and tie down
areas, hangars and other necessary buildings.
ALLEY: Any public space or thoroughfare, which has been dedicated or deeded to
the public use and which, provides a secondary public means of access to
abutting properties.
ALTERNATIVE SUPPORT STRUCTURE: Clock towers, steeples, silos, light poles,
water towers, buildings or similar structures that may support
telecommunication facilities.
ANIMAL CLINIC, ANIMAL HOSPITAL OR VETERINARY OFFICE: Any building or portion
thereof designed or used for the care or treatment of cats, dogs, sheep,
cattle, and horses or other animals in which veterinary services are performed
including clipping, bathing, boarding, and other services rendered to such
animals and pets.
ANIMAL UNIT EQUIVALENTS: All livestock shall have the following animal unit
equivalents:
Dairy cattle:     
 Holsteins      Milking and dry cows          1.4 AU
 Jerseys        Milking and dry cows          1.0 AU
 Others         1,000 lb. of live body weight 1.0 AU
                 100 lb. to 300 lb.            0.2 AU
                 300 lb. to 500 lb.            0.4 AU
  Heifers        500 lb. to 700 lb.            0.6 AU
                 700 lb. to 900 lb.            0.8 AU
                 900 lb. to 1,000 lb.          1.0 AU
                 100 lb. to 300 lb.            0.2 AU
Beef cattle -    300 lb. to 500 lb.            0.4 AU
slaughter/feeder 500 lb. to 700 lb.            0.6 AU
                 700 lb. to 900 lb.            0.8 AU
                 900 lb. to 1,000 lb.          1.0 AU
Swine:                                         
 Boars          1,000 lb. of live body weight 1.0 AU
 Sows           1,000 lb. of live body weight 1.0 AU
 Pigs           55 lb. to market              0.5 AU
 Pigs           up to 55 lb.                  0.25 AU
Sheep/lambs      Each                          0.1 AU
Horse                                         1.25 AU
Chickens:                                      
 Layers         Each                          0.033 AU
 Boilers        Each                          0.033 AU
 Turkeys        Each                          0.18 AU
 Ducks          Each                          0.02 AU
 
For species not specifically identified: 1,000 lb. of live body weight = 1.0
AU.
ANTENNA: Any system of wires, poles, rods, reflecting discs, or similar devices
used for the transmission or reception of electromagnetic waves when such
system is either external to or attached to the exterior of a structure.
Antennas shall include devices having active elements extending in any
direction, and directional beam type arrays having elements carried by and
disposed from a generally horizontal boom that may be mounted upon and rotated
through a vertical mast or tower interconnecting the boom and antenna support,
all of which elements are deemed to be a part of the antenna.
ANTENNA, BUILDING MOUNTED: Any antenna, other than an antenna with its supports
resting on the ground, directly attached or affixed to a building.
ANTENNA, GROUND MOUNTED: Any antenna with its base placed directly on the
ground.
ANTENNA, UTILITY POLE MOUNTED: An antenna attached, without regard to mounting,
to or upon an existing or replacement electric transmission or distribution
pole, streetlight, traffic signal, athletic field light, utility support
structure or other similar structure approved by the city.
APARTMENT: A room or suite of rooms in a multiple-family structure or multiple-
purpose structure which is arranged, designed or used as a single housekeeping
unit and has complete kitchen facilities permanently installed.
APARTMENT HOUSE OR MULTI-FAMILY USE: Any building or portion thereof which is
designed, built, rented, leased, let or hired out to be occupied, or which is
occupied, as a home or residence of three (3) or more families living
independently of each other and doing their own cooking in the said building,
and shall include flats and apartments.
APPLICANT: A person or legal entity seeking approvals or permits pursuant to
this title which has an ownership or other vested interest in real property of
a nature sufficient to control the use to which is proposed in the applications
for said real property.
AREA OF CITY IMPACT: The unincorporated land surrounding the city limits of the
city of Rupert as established by ordinance and any amendments thereto, as
mutually agreed upon with Minidoka County in conformance with the laws of the
state of Idaho.
AREA, PRIVATE PARKING: An open, graded or paved area, other than a street or
public way, designed, arranged and made available for the storage of private
passenger automobiles or motor vehicles of occupants of the buildings for which
the parking area is developed.
AREA, PUBLIC PARKING: An open area, other than a street or alley, used for the
temporary parking of automobiles or other transportation and available for
public use, whether free, for compensation, or as an accommodation for clients
or customers.
ASSISTED OR RESIDENTIAL LIVING FACILITY: A facility however named, operated on
either a profit or nonprofit basis for the purpose of providing necessary
supervision, personal assistance, meals and lodging to three (3) or more
elderly, developmentally disabled, physically disabled and/or mentally ill
adults not related to the owner.
AUTOMOBILE AND TRAILER SALES AREA: An open area used for the display, sale or
rental of new or used motor vehicles or new or used trailers and where no
repair work is done and on which all motor vehicles are capable of operation
with their own power at all times.
AUTOMOBILE, MOTOR VEHICLE OR EQUIPMENT REPAIR: The repair, rebuilding or
reconditioning of motor vehicles or equipment or parts thereof, including
collision, service, painting and steam cleaning of vehicles.
AUTOMOBILE SALVAGE YARD: Any area, lot, land, or parcel, excluding farm
equipment in agricultural zones or when located within a completely enclosed
building, whereon more than two (2) motor vehicles without current
registration, or where more than two (2) motor vehicles inoperable or
dismantled motor vehicles, or any combination of more than two (2)
unregistered, inoperable or dismantled motor vehicles, not in operating
condition, are standing more than thirty (30) days, or on which such used motor
vehicles or parts thereof, are dismantled or stored. For purposes of this
definition, the term "inoperable" means the motor vehicle cannot move under its
own power or does not meet minimum legal requirements necessary for the motor
vehicle to be operated in a safe and lawful manner upon the roads and highways
in the state of Idaho as set forth in the Idaho motor vehicle laws of the state
of Idaho.
BASEMENT: The portion of a structure all or partly underground but having at
least one-half (1/2) of its height below the average level of the adjoining
ground.
BED AND BREAKFAST: See definition of Boarding House.
BICYCLE PATH: A public way or land designed for use of nonmotorized vehicles or
pedestrians and so designated.
BILLBOARD: Any sign exceeding thirty two (32) square feet in size upon which
advertising matter is posted and/or pasted thereon.
BLOCK: A group of lots, tracts, or parcels within well defined boundaries,
usually streets.
BOARD: The board of county commissioners of Minidoka County, Idaho.
BOARDING HOUSE (Including Bed And Breakfast And Lodging Or Rooming Houses): Any
building or portion thereof, other than a hotel or motel, where lodging and
meals are provided for compensation for two (2) or more persons, but not more
than twelve (12) persons, who are not members of the householder's family and
do not require care or supervision. Congregate residences and assisted or
residential living facilities are not included in this definition.
BUILDABLE AREA: The space remaining on a zoning plat after the minimum open
space and setback requirements of this title have been complied with.
BUILDING: Any structure designed or intended for the support, enclosure,
shelter or protection of persons, animals, chattels, or property of any kind,
but not including fences or advertising signs.
BUILDING, AGRICULTURAL: A structure located on agricultural property and
designed and constructed to house farm implements, hay, grain, poultry,
livestock or other horticultural products and includes sheds, barns, corrals or
fences. This definition does not include a place for human habitation or a
place of regular employment where agricultural products are extracted,
processed, treated or packaged, or a place used by the public.
BUILDING, ASSEMBLY: A building or portion thereof used for the gathering
together of fifty (50) or more persons for such purposes as deliberation,
worship, entertainment, amusement, or for awaiting transportation.
BUILDING, EXISTING: A building erected prior to the effective date of this
title or one for which a legal building permit has been issued prior to the
effective date.
BUILDING HEIGHT: The vertical distance from grade to the highest point of the
coping of a flat roof, or to the deck of a mansard roof or to the average
height of the highest gable of a pitched or hip roof.
BUILDING LINE: A line established by law or agreement and usually parallel to
property line beyond which a building or structure may not extend.
BUILDING, MAIN OR PRINCIPAL: A building other than an accessory building, in
which is conducted the main or principal use of the lot on which said building
is situated.
BUILDING OFFICIAL: The officer or other designated authority charged with the
administration and enforcement of the building code as adopted by the city of
Rupert.
BUILDING PERMIT: An official document or certificate issued by the building
official authorizing performance of a specified activity. The issuance of a
building permit shall not be construed as granting permission or approval to
any activity that would violate the requirements of this title or other laws
adopted by the jurisdiction or the state of Idaho.
BUILDING SITE: An area proposed or provided and improved by grading, filling,
excavation or other means for erecting pads for buildings.
BUSINESS: The purchase, sale, exchange or other transaction involving the
handling or disposition of any article, service, substance or commodity for
profit or livelihood, or the ownership or management of office buildings,
offices, recreation or amusement enterprises or the maintenance and use of
offices or professions and trades rendering services.
CAFO: See definition of Confined Animal Feeding Operations.
CANNERY: A place where the business of preserving food such as meat, fruit and
vegetables in sealed containers is carried on for profit or as a community
cooperative service.
CARPORT: A roofed structure surrounded by open space on two (2) or more sides.
CEMETERY: Land used or intended to be used for the burial of humans or dead
animals and dedicated for cemetery purposes, including crematories, mausoleums
and mortuaries operated in connection with and within the boundaries of such
cemetery for which perpetual care and maintenance is provided.
CENTER, DAYCARE: See definition of Daycare Center.
CENTER, MEDICAL HEALTH: See definition of Clinic.
CLINIC: A building used for the care, diagnosis, and treatment of sick, ailing,
infirm or injured persons and those who are in need of medical and surgical
attention; but which building does not provide board, room or regular hospital
care and services.
CLUB OR LODGE: The facilities of an association of persons for the promotion of
some nonprofit common interest, such as politics, service, literature, science,
fellowship, etc., and which holds meetings periodically which are limited to
members and guests.
COMMERCIAL CONFINED ANIMAL FEEDING OPERATION: A contiguous parcel of land upon
which there is one or more livestock confinement areas, and upon which there
are confined more than two hundred (200) but less than one thousand (1,000)
livestock animal equivalent units of large livestock or more than one thousand
five hundred (1,500) but less than fifteen thousand (15,000) head of fowl and
furbearers.
COMMERCIAL ENTERTAINMENT FACILITIES: Facilities for any profit making activity
which is generally related to the entertainment field, such as motion picture
theaters, carnivals, nightclubs, cocktail lounges and similar entertainment
activities.
COMMERCIAL FEEDLOT - STOCKYARD: See definition of Commercial Confined Animal
Feeding Operation or Industrial Confined Animal Feeding Operation.
COMMERCIAL SLAUGHTERHOUSE AND MEATPACKING FACILITIES: Includes the
slaughtering, meat canning, curing, smoking, salting, packing, rendering,
freezing or other similar establishments in which meat products are so
processed commercially for sale to the public or as a service for hire.
COMMISSION: The planning and zoning commission of the city of Rupert.
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: A plan, or any portion thereof, adopted by the city of
Rupert including such things as the general location and extent of present and
proposed physical facilities including housing, industrial and commercial uses,
major transportation, parks, schools, and other community facilities.
CONCESSION STANDS: A building, structure, vehicle or tent, having less than
three hundred (300) square feet of area that is used for the sale of food,
beverages, and/or souvenirs on a temporary basis. A permanent concession stand
which will occupy the same site for more than fourteen (14) consecutive days
shall require a zoning permit.
CONDITIONAL USE: The use permitted only upon issuance of a special use permit.
CONDOMINIUM: An estate consisting of: a) an undivided interest in common in
real property, in an interest or interests in real property, or in any
combination thereof, together with b) a separate interest in real property, in
an interest or interests in real property, or in any combination thereof.
CONDOMINIUM PLAT: The drawing of a division of real property into individual
interests in common together with a separate interest in the real property for
the purpose of establishing condominium ownership together with the declaration
that is filed according to law with the county recorder.
CONFINED ANIMAL FEEDING OPERATION, EXISTING: The use of any premises as a
confined animal feeding operation which does not conform to the regulations of
this title, but which was in existence at the effective date hereof.
CONFINED ANIMAL FEEDING OPERATION, LARGE: For the purpose of this title all
commercial and industrial CAFOs shall be deemed as large confined animal
feeding operations.
CONFINED ANIMAL FEEDING OPERATIONS: The use of real property for the keeping,
stabling, feeding, confinement and maintenance of livestock, except where such
livestock are fed exclusively on growing range or pasturage when one or more of
the following conditions will exist:
   A.   Livestock operations or facilities that confine, stable, feed or
maintain one hundred (100) or more total animal units or operations located on
twenty (20) acres or less with more than five (5) animal units per acre.
   B.   Livestock operations that consist of one hundred (100) to one thousand
(1,000) animal units that stable or confine and feed or maintain for a total of
one hundred twenty (120) days or more in any twelve (12) month period, and
crops, vegetation forage growth, or postharvest residues are not sustained in
the normal growing season over any portion of the lot or facility.
   C.   Livestock operations that consist of one thousand (1,000) animal units
or more that stable or confine and feed or maintain for a total of forty five
(45) days or more in any twelve (12) month period, and crops, vegetation forage
growth, or postharvest residues are not sustained in the normal growing season
over any portion of the lot or facility.
Confined animal feeding operation shall include barns, sheds, feed storage
facilities as well as corrals, lagoons, and parking, feed and waste storage
areas. Operations located on properties that are not contiguous shall be
treated as separate operations. Also known as livestock confinement operation
or LCO, but for the purpose of this title shall be referred to as confined
animal feeding operation or CAFO. The three (3) classifications of confined
animal feeding operations are domestic, commercial and industrial and are
separately defined in this section.
CONGREGATE RESIDENCE: A building or portion thereof that contains facilities
for living, sleeping, and sanitation, and may include facilities for eating and
cooking, for occupancy other than a family. A congregate residence may be a
convent, monastery, dormitory, fraternity or sorority house, but does not
include jails, hospitals, assisted living facilities, hotels, boarding, or
lodging houses.
CONTRACTOR'S YARD: Any parcel of land used for storage, maintenance or
processing incidental to a construction or building business, hauling,
excavation, demolition or similar activity and including any parcel of land
used for the incidental repair of machinery used for any of the above listed
activities.
CONVENIENCE STORE: A retail establishment selling or distributing fast moving
items such as food and dairy products, sundries and petroleum products.
COUNCIL: The city council of the city of Rupert.
COUNTY: Minidoka County, Idaho, and its governing board.
COVENANT: A written promise or pledge.
DAIRY: See definition of Industrial Confined Animal Feeding Operation,
Commercial Confined Animal Feeding Operation or Domestic Confined Animal
Feeding Operation.
DANCE HALL: A facility or place of assembly or portion thereof, wherein is
provided an area that may be used for dancing with occupant load of more than
fifty (50) as established by the current building code. This definition does
not apply to facilities or areas within schools or churches that are accessory
to the primary uses.
DAYCARE CENTER: An establishment where five (5) or more individuals, children
or adults, regularly receive care and supervision for periods of time less than
fifteen (15) hours unaccompanied by the individual's guardian.
DEDICATION: The setting apart of land or interests in land for use by the
public. Land becomes dedicated when accepted by the county as a public
dedication, either by ordinance, resolution, or entry in the official minutes,
or by the recording of a plat showing such dedication.
DENSITY: A unit of measure; the number of dwelling units per acre of land.
   Gross Density: The number of dwelling units per acre of total land to be
developed, including public right of way.
   Net Density: The number of dwelling units per acre of land when the acreage
involved includes only the land devoted to residential uses, excluding public
right of way.
DEVELOPER: Authorized agent(s) of a subdivider or the subdivider himself.
DOMESTIC CONFINED ANIMAL FEEDING OPERATION: A contiguous parcel of land upon
which there is one or more livestock confinement areas, and upon which there
are confined at least twenty five (25) but no more than two hundred (200)
livestock animal equivalent units of large livestock and/or at least five
hundred (500) but no more than one thousand five hundred (1,500) units of fowl
and/or furbearers.
DRIVE-IN ESTABLISHMENT: An establishment, other than a service station or truck
stop, which is designed to accommodate the motor vehicles or patrons in such
manner as to permit the occupants of such vehicles, while remaining therein, to
make a purchase or receive services.
DUPLEX: See definition of Dwelling, Two-Family.
DWELLING: A building or portion thereof, containing one or more dwelling units,
and which complies with the structural requirements of the adopted building
code. The term "dwelling" does not include any temporary mobile home, "motel",
"hotel", "guesthouse" or "boarding house" as defined herein.
DWELLING, HIGH RISE MULTIPLE-FAMILY: A multiple-family building, or portion
thereof, containing five (5) or more stories.
DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY: A building, or portion thereof, containing three (3)
or more dwelling units.
DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY: A building consisting of a single dwelling unit
designed for use and occupancy by no more than one family, and separated from
other units by open spaces.
DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY: A building designated for use and occupied exclusively by
two (2) families living independently of each other, known also as a duplex.
DWELLING UNIT: A suite of two (2) or more habitable rooms providing complete
living facilities for one family including permanent provisions for living,
sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation.
DWELLING UNIT (PREFAB): A building or other structure proposed or built for
occupancy by people that is designed for initial transportation on streets and
highways which arrives at a site where it is installed on a permanent
foundation.
EASEMENT: Authorization by a property owner for the use by another, and for a
specified purpose, of any designated part of another person's property.
ELECTRICAL DISTRIBUTION LINES: Electrical power lines used by the electrical
utility to distribute electrical power from the generation source or substation
to the utility's customers or end users.
ELECTRICAL TRANSMISSION LINES: Electrical power lines used for transmission of
electrical power from the generation source to a substation for further
distribution by an electrical utility.
EQUESTRIANWAY: A public way designed to be used for horseback riding and so
designated.
FAMILY: An individual, or two (2) or more persons related by blood or marriage
or a group of not more than five (5) persons (excluding servants) who need not
be related by blood or marriage living together in a dwelling unit.
FAMILY FOOD PRODUCTION: The keeping of domestic animals and fowl for the
production of food for the use of the family occupying the premises.
FARM, RANCH AND GARDEN BUILDING: See definition of Building, Agricultural.
FEEDLOT: See definition of Industrial Confined Animal Feeding Operation,
Commercial Confined Animal Feeding Operation or Domestic Confined Animal
Feeding Operation.
FOWL: Chickens, ducks, geese, pheasants, partridge, guinea hens, peacocks, or
other similar domesticated birds excluding ostriches and emus.
FURBEARERS: Mink, fox, beaver, otter, or other similar domesticated animals.
GARAGE, PRIVATE: A building or a portion thereof in which motor vehicles used
by the tenants of the main building on the premises are stored or kept.
GOVERNING AUTHORITY: The city council of Rupert, Idaho.
GRADE, OR OFFICIAL GRADE: Grade (ground level) is the average of the finished
ground level at the centers of all walls of a building. If the building is
within twenty five feet (25') of a sidewalk or curb, said ground level shall be
measured at the sidewalk or curb.
GUEST: Any person, other than a member of a family hiring or occupying a room
for living or sleeping purposes.
GUESTHOUSE: A detached or attached structure, being an accessory to a one-
family dwelling with not more than two (2) bedrooms used or designed for use
primarily by guests or servants for sleeping quarters.
HEALTH AUTHORITY: The officer or other designated authority charged with the
administration and enforcement of the rules and regulations of the health
department or its successor.
HEALTH DEPARTMENT: The South Central health district, the Idaho department of
health and welfare, the United States environmental protection agency and/or
any agency as may succeed to any of their powers.
HEIGHT, TELECOMMUNICATIONS TOWER: The distance measured from the original grade
at the base of the tower to the highest point of the tower. This measurement
excludes any attached antennas, protection devices (e.g., lightning rods) and
lighting.
HIGH WATER MARK: The water level corresponding to the "natural or ordinary high
water mark" or the line which the water impresses on the soil by covering it
for sufficient periods of time to deprive the soil of terrestrial vegetation
and destroy its value for commonly accepted agricultural purposes.
HOME, MOBILE: See various definitions of Manufactured Home (Mobile Home).
HOME, MOBILE; TEMPORARY: A trailer, tent trailer, camper or mobile home which
is eight feet (8') or less in width and thirty two feet (32') or less in length
and may or may not contain cooking or bathroom facilities, but is not designed
or used for long term occupancy. An unoccupied temporary mobile home is one
which is being stored or is to be occupied for fewer than thirty (30) days in a
calendar year.
HOME OCCUPATION: Any gainful operation, profession or craft, which is
customarily incidental to or carried on in a dwelling or accessory buildings,
and wherein the use is clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the
dwelling for dwelling purposes. (See the required performance standards.)
HORSES FOR PRIVATE USE: Horses kept and maintained as an accessory use to a
dwelling for the pleasure and use of the occupants thereof, and not used for
commercial purposes.
HORTICULTURAL SERVICES: Commercial greenhouses, landscaping services and
agricultural consulting services which grow plants on the premises in
conjunction with the consulting services they render.
HOSPITAL: Any building used for the accommodation and medical care of sick,
injured, or infirm persons and including sanitariums, but does not include
nursing homes.
HOTEL: A building containing six (6) or more guestrooms intended or designed to
be used, or that are used, rented or hired out to be occupied, or that are
occupied for sleeping purposes by guests.
HOUSE, BOARDING: See definition of Boarding House.
HOUSE, ROOMING: See definition of Rooming House.
HOUSEHOLD PET: Animals or fowl customarily permitted in the house and kept for
company or pleasure, including dogs, cats, canaries, and similar pets.
IMPROVEMENT: Any alteration to the land or other physical constructions
associated with subdivision and building site developments.
INDUSTRIAL: Refers to the manufacture, processing and testing of goods and
materials, including the production of power. It does not refer to the growing
of agricultural crops, or the raising of livestock, or the extraction or
severance of raw materials from the land being classified.
INDUSTRIAL CONFINED ANIMAL FEEDING OPERATION: A contiguous parcel of land upon
which there is one or more confinement areas, and upon which there are confined
one thousand (1,000) or more livestock animal equivalent units of large
livestock or fifteen thousand (15,000) or more units of fowl and furbearers.
JUNKYARD: See definition of Salvage Yard and Automobile Salvage Yard.
KENNEL, COMMERCIAL: Any lot or premises or portion thereof on which five (5) or
more dogs are maintained, harbored, possessed, trained, bred, boarded, or caged
in return for compensation, but not including an animal clinic, animal
hospital, or veterinary office where boarding is limited to short term care
incidental to treatment.
KENNEL, NONCOMMERCIAL: Any lot or premises of one household, on which more than
two (2) dogs, but less than five (5) are kept, housed, or maintained, which are
owned by individuals of the household.
KINDERGARTEN: A place, home, building or location providing care, with
organized play and instruction, for more than five (5) children of preschool
age not residing on the same premises.
LCO: See definition of Livestock Confinement Operation.
LAGOON, SETTLING: Pond or other similar facilities designed and used for
industrial or commercial processes for separating solid waste or materials from
liquid waste or materials.
LAGOON, STORAGE: Pond or other similar facilities designed and used for the
storage of water or treated process water, whether for irrigation or
firefighting purposes.
LAGOONS, SEWAGE: Ponds or other similar facilities designed and used for the
storage, treatment or evaporation of liquid or semiliquid human, commercial or
industrial waste.
LAGOONS, WASTE: Ponds or other facilities designed and used for the storage of,
or as a waste treatment system for liquid or semiliquid waste, waste products
or wastewater for confined animal feeding operations. For the purpose of this
title waste lagoons do not include facilities such as berms, banks, trenches,
ponds or other storm runoff containment systems designed strictly for the
occasional or seasonal rain or snowmelt runoff of livestock confinement areas.
LIQUID WASTE: A liquid substance containing any wastewater, waste or waste
products, separately or in combination.
LIVESTOCK: Fowl, furbearers, cattle, dairy animals, swine, sheep, goats,
horses, mules, llamas, ostriches, emus, and other similar domesticated animals
including their offspring.
LIVESTOCK CONFINEMENT AREA: A structure or area of land within which livestock
are confined for a period of more than forty eight (48) hours during any seven
(7) consecutive days.
LIVESTOCK CONFINEMENT OPERATION: See definition of Confined Animal Feeding
Operation. Also known as LCO, but for the purpose of this title shall be
referred to as confined animal feeding operations or CAFO.
LIVESTOCK, LARGE: Cattle, dairy animals, swine, sheep, goats, horses, llamas,
mules, donkeys, ostriches, emus and other similar domesticated animals,
including their offspring.
LOT: A parcel of land of sufficient size to meet minimum zoning requirements
for use, coverage and area, and to provide such yards and other open spaces as
herein required. Such lot shall have frontage on an improved public street or
approved private street or access to said lot will be provided by means of an
approved irrevocable dedicated easement.
LOT AREA: The computed horizontal area contained within the lot lines.
LOT, CONTIGUOUS: Lots may be considered contiguous if they adjoin each other at
a common boundary that permits use of the lots as one unit and if they are not
separated by a public right of way, a railroad right of way, or by property
held in fee simple ownership by another.
LOT, CORNER: A lot abutting upon two (2) or more streets at their intersection
or upon two (2) parts of the same street, such streets or parts of the same
street forming an interior angle of less than one hundred thirty five degrees
(135°). The point of intersection of the street lines is the "corner".
LOT COVERAGE: The area of a zoning lot occupied by the principal building or
buildings and accessory buildings.
LOT DEPTH: The mean horizontal distance between the front and the rear lot
lines. Where the lot is irregular and the lot lines converge, the rear lot line
shall be deemed to be a line at a point where the side lot lines are not less
than ten feet (10') apart.
LOT, INTERIOR: A lot bounded by a street on one side only.
LOT LINE: A line bounding the lot described in the title to the property.
LOT LINE, FRONT: The line separating the lot from the principal street on which
it fronts.
LOT LINE, REAR: The line opposite and most distant from the front lot line.
LOT LINE, SIDE: Any lot line other than a front or rear lot line. A side lot
line separating a lot from a street is also called a side street or flanking
street lot line. A side lot line separating a lot from another lot or lots is
also called an interior side lot line.
LOT LINE, STREET OR ALLEY: A lot line separating the lot from a street or
alley.
LOT, MINIMUM AREA: The area of a lot is computed exclusive of any portion of
the right of way of any public or private street.
LOT, NONCONFORMING: A parcel of land, which was created prior to or in
compliance with the provisions of the applicable zoning and subdivision
ordinances that were in effect at the time such parcel was created.
LOT, THROUGH: A lot having frontage on two (2) streets, which are parallel or
nearly so.
LOT WIDTH: The mean width of the lot measured at right angles to its depth,
provided however, that the minimum lot width required in each district shall be
measured at a distance from the front line equal to the required least depth of
the front yard.
MANUFACTURED BUILDING OR HOUSE: A building or house built to the uniform
building code standards in a factory or other facility and then delivered to
the construction site. This definition includes buildings used for other than
residential use.
MANUFACTURED HOME (MOBILE HOME) CLASS A: A dwelling unit manufactured and
installed with all the following characteristics:
   A.   Mass produced in a factory;
   B.   Built on a frame, designed and constructed for transportation to a site
for installation and use when connected to required utilities;
   C.   Properly connected to sewer, water and electrical services;
   D.   Designed for long term residential use by a family, containing kitchen,
bath and sleeping facilities;
   E.   Multisectional and at least twenty feet (20') wide at the narrowest
point, with a minimum of four hundred (400) square feet per section (minimum
total square footage equal to 800 square feet);
   F.   Constructed after June 15, 1976, and certified as meeting the mobile
home construction and safety standards of the U.S. department of housing and
urban development;
   G.   Has a painted metallic, wood, shake, asphalt shingle or similar type
roof with a minimum pitch of two to twelve (2:12) (pitch to run);
   H.   Has an eave of a minimum of six inches (6"), or an eave and gutter
combination with a minimum of six inches (6"), attached to the entire perimeter
of the roof;
   I.   Has horizontal metal lap siding, simulated wood siding, or wood siding
similar to permanent residential structures;
   J.   Has a foundation that is similar in appearance and durability to
concrete or masonry foundations of site built dwellings and which surrounds the
entire perimeter of the structure, completely enclosing the space between the
siding and the finished grade; and
   K.   Is permanently affixed, with the running gear and towing hitch removed,
and set upon a foundation base having an anchoring system that is totally
concealed under the structure.
MANUFACTURED HOME (MOBILE HOME) CLASS B: A dwelling unit manufactured and
installed with all the following characteristics:
   A.   Mass produced in a factory;
   B.   Built on a frame, designed and constructed for transportation to a site
for installation and use when connected to required utilities;
   C.   Properly connected to sewer, water and electrical services;
   D.   Designed for long term residential use by a family, containing kitchen,
bath and sleeping facilities;
   E.   Constructed after June 15, 1976, and certified as meeting the mobile
home construction and safety standards of the U.S. department of housing and
urban development. If constructed before the above mentioned date, the home
shall conform with the mobile home rehabilitation act, Idaho state code title
44, chapter 25;
   F.   New, new condition or rehabilitated so that all roofing, siding, and
exterior trim is intact, good condition and paint that is not blistered,
peeling, or dull in color;
   G.   Units at least fourteen feet (14') wide at the narrowest point, with a
minimum of six hundred (600) square feet;
   H.   Has a factory constructed painted metallic, wood, shake or shingle,
asphalt or fiberglass shingle or similar residential type roof with a minimum
pitch of two to twelve (2:12) (pitch to run);
   I.   Has an eave of a minimum of six inches (6"), or an eave and gutter
combination with a minimum of six inches (6"), attached to the entire perimeter
of the roof;
   J.   Has horizontal metal lap siding, simulated wood siding, or wood siding
similar to permanent residential structures;
   K.   Has a foundation that is similar in appearance and durability to
concrete or masonry foundations or approved skirting material, which matches
the exterior siding. The foundation or skirting surrounds the entire perimeter
of the structure, completely enclosing the space between the siding and the
finished grade; and
   L.   Is permanently affixed, with the running gear and towing hitch removed,
and set upon a foundation base having an anchoring system that is totally
concealed under the structure.
MANUFACTURED HOME (MOBILE HOME) CLASS C: A dwelling unit manufactured and
installed with all the following characteristics:
   A.   Mass produced in a factory;
   B.   Built on a frame, designed and constructed for transportation to a site
for installation and use when connected to required utilities;
   C.   Properly connected to sewer, water and electrical services;
   D.   Designed for long term residential use by a family, containing kitchen,
bath and sleeping facilities;
   E.   Constructed after June 15, 1976, and certified as meeting the mobile
home construction and safety standards of the U.S. department of housing and
urban development. If constructed before the above mentioned date shall conform
with the mobile home rehabilitation act, Idaho state code title 44 chapter 25;
and
   F.   Does not meet all definitional characteristics in items E through K of
"manufactured home class A" and in items E through L of "manufactured home
class B" as defined in this section.
MANUFACTURED HOME (MOBILE HOME), NONCONFORMING: A dwelling unit manufactured
and installed with all the following characteristics:
   A.   Mass produced in a factory.
   B.   Built on a frame, designed and constructed for transportation to a site
for installation and use when connected to required utilities.
   C.   Properly connected to sewer, water and electrical services.
   D.   Designed for long term residential use by a family, containing kitchen,
bath and sleeping facilities.
   E.   Does not meet all definitional characteristics in items E through K of
"manufactured home class A", in items E through L of "manufactured home class
B" and item E of "manufactured home class C" as defined in this section.
MANUFACTURING, EXTRACTIVE: Any mining, quarrying, excavating, processing,
storing, separating, cleaning or marketing of any mineral natural resource.
MANUFACTURING, HEAVY: Manufacturing, processing, assembling, storing, testing
and similar industrial uses which are generally major operations and extensive
in character requiring large sites, open storage and service area, extensive
services and facilities, ready access to regional transportation and normally
generate some nuisances such as smoke, noise, vibration, dust, glare, and air
and water pollution beyond the district boundary.
MANUFACTURING, LIGHT: Manufacturing or other industrial uses which are usually
controlled operations; relatively clean, quiet and free from objectionable or
hazardous elements such as smoke, noise, odor, dust or other pollution;
operating and storing within enclosed structures and generating little
industrial traffic or nuisances.
MAP, ZONING: See definition of Zoning Map.
MONOPOLE: A telecommunication tower of a single pole design.
MOTEL: See definition of Hotel.
MOTOR VEHICLE: Any vehicle propelled or drawn by power other than muscular
power designed to travel on the ground by wheels, treads, runners or slides, to
transport persons or property or pull machinery and including, but not limited
to, automobiles, trucks, trailers, motorcycles and tractors.
NAVIGABLE STREAM OR LAKE: As designated on the United States geological survey
(USGS) map and/or the maps formally adopted by the city of Rupert or Minidoka
County.
NONCONFORMING BUILDING OR STRUCTURE: A building, structure, or portion thereof,
which does not conform to the regulations of this title applicable to the zone
or district in which such building is situated, but which existed prior to the
effective date hereof, or one for which a building permit was issued prior to
the effective date.
NONCONFORMING USE: A use of premises which does not conform to the regulations
of this title, but which was in existence at the effective date hereof.
NURSERY, PLANT MATERIALS: Land, building, structure or combination thereof for
the storage, cultivation, transplanting of live trees, shrubs or plants for
sale on or off the premises including products used for gardening or
landscaping.
NURSING HOME: See definition of Assisted Or Residential Living Facility.
OCCUPANCY, CHANGE OF: Any change in the character or use of a building or
premises, not including change of tenants, proprietors or occupants.
OCCUPIED RESIDENTIAL USE: A "residential use" as defined in this section, which
has actual residential habitation by one or more persons during the preceding
three (3) years.
ODOR: The presence in the outdoor atmosphere of any contaminant or combination
thereof in such quantity, nature and duration and under such conditions as
would be injurious to human health or welfare, to animal or plant life, or to
property, or to interfere unreasonably with the enjoyment of life or property.
ODOR ABATEMENT: The reduction or elimination of odors present in the ambient
air.
ODOR ABATEMENT PLAN: A written plan prepared by the owner/applicant stating
methods and practices to be used to minimize or eliminate odors.
OFF STREET PARKING SPACE: An area adjoining a building providing for the
parking of automobiles which does not include a public street but has
convenient access to it and shall consist of area adequate for parking an
automobile with room for opening doors, together with properly related access
to a public street or alley and maneuvering room.
OPEN SPACE: An area substantially open to the sky, which may be on the same lot
with a building. The area may include, along with the natural environmental
features, water areas, swimming pools, tennis courts and other recreational
facilities that the commission deems permissive. Streets, parking areas,
structures for habitation and the like shall not be included.
OPERATION (TELECOMMUNICATIONS): Means other than nominal use; when a facility
is used regularly as an integral part of an active system of telecommunications
it shall be deemed in operation.
ORIGINAL PARCEL OF LAND: A lot, tract or individual parcel as recorded on any
plat or recorded on file in the office of the Minidoka County recorder, any
unplatted contiguous parcel of land held in one ownership, or any platted
contiguous parcel of land comprised of or including government lots, and being
any such parcel of record as of the effective date of the original subdivision
ordinance.
OTHER USES: Implies such usage that may be permitted in the zone or district.
In no way does the term, when used, imply a permit or approval for a usage.
"Other uses" requires a review by the commission, which will deny or approve
(generally under conditions) the requested usage.
OWNER: Any individual, person, firm, association, syndicate, partnership,
corporation, or other entity having proprietary interest in real property
subject to this title. A leasehold interest is excluded from such proprietary
interest.
PARK, MANUFACTURED (MOBILE) HOME: Any area, tract, plot or site of land
developed as a planned unit development located and maintained for dwelling
purposes on a permanent or semipermanent basis for two (2) or more manufactured
(mobile) homes or travel trailers.
PARK, TRAVEL TRAILER (RV PARK): Any area, tract, plot or site of land with
domestic water and sanitary facilities whereupon two (2) or more travel
trailers are placed, located and maintained for dwelling purposes on a
temporary basis.
PARKING AREA OR LOT, PUBLIC: An open area, other than a street or public way,
to be used for the storage, for limited periods of time, of operable
automobiles and commercial vehicles, and available to the public, whether for
compensation, free, or as an accommodation to clients or customers.
PARKING AREA, PRIVATE: An open area, other than a street or public way,
designed, arranged and made available for the storage of private passenger
automobiles, of occupants of the building or buildings for which the parking
area is developed and is necessary and accessory.
PARKING SPACE: A usable space of not less than one hundred eighty (180) square
feet, either within a structure or in the open, exclusive of driveways or
access drives, for the parking of motor vehicles.
PERFORMANCE BOND: An amount of money or other negotiable security paid by the
subdivider or his surety to the county/city clerk which guarantees that the
subdivider will perform all actions required by an approved plat, and provides
that if the subdivider defaults and fails to comply with provisions of an
approved plat, the subdivider or his surety will pay damages up to the limit of
the bond, or the surety will itself complete the requirements of the approved
plat. The board shall set the amount of the bond at its sole discretion with
regard to the recommendation of the commission.
PERSONAL SERVICES: Any enterprise conducted for gain, which primarily offers
services to the general public such as shoe repair, watch repair, barbershops,
beauty parlors, and similar activities.
PEST ABATEMENT: The reduction or elimination of pests such as, but not limited
to, flies, insects, rodents, etc.
PEST ABATEMENT PLAN: A written plan prepared by the owner/applicant stating
methods and practices to be used to minimize or eliminate pests.
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT: An area of land in which a variety of residential,
commercial and industrial uses developed under single ownership or control are
accommodated in a preplanned environment with more flexible standards, such as
lot sizes and setbacks, than those restrictions that would normally apply under
these regulations.
PLATFORM (ANTENNAS): A support system that may be used to connect antennas and
antenna arrays to telecommunication towers or alternative support structures.
PLOT: A parcel of land consisting of one or more lots or portions thereof,
which is described by reference to a recorded plat or by metes and bounds.
PRINCIPAL DESIGNATED USE: The main use of land or building as distinguished
from subordinate, accessory uses or other uses.
PROFESSIONAL ACTIVITIES: The use of offices and related spaces for such
professional services as are provided by medical practitioners, lawyers,
architects, engineers and similar professions.
PROPERTY: A lot or plot including all buildings and improvements thereon.
PROPERTY LINE: A recorded boundary of a plot.
PUBLIC USES: Public parks, schools, administrative and cultural buildings, and
structures, not including public land or buildings devoted solely to storage
and maintenance of equipment and materials and public service facilities.
PUBLIC UTILITIES: Structures or facilities essential to furnishing the public
with electricity, power, gas, water supply, water treatment and public
services, including power plants and service stations, water treatment plants
or public stations, fire stations or police stations.
PUBLIC WAY, PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY: A public way, right of way, easement, or strip
of land dedicated, acquired or platted across real property and intended for
the special or general use of the public which normally includes streets,
sidewalks or other public utilities or service areas.
QUASI-PUBLIC USE: Churches, Sunday schools, parochial schools, colleges,
hospitals and other facilities of an educational, religious, charitable,
philanthropic or nonprofit nature.
REAL PROPERTY: Real estate consisting of:
   A.   Lands, possessive rights to land, ditch and water rights and mining
claims; both lode and placer;
   B.   That which is affixed to land; or
   C.   That which is appurtenant to land.
REPAIR: The reconstruction or renewal of any part of an existing building for
the purpose of its maintenance. The word "repair" or "repairs" shall not apply
to any change in a structure such as would be required by additions to, or
remodeling of such structure.
RESEARCH ACTIVITIES: Research, development, and testing related to such fields
as chemical, pharmaceutical, medical, electrical, transportation, electronics,
and engineering.
RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITY: See definition of Assisted Or Residential Living
Facility.
RESIDENTIAL USE: A building or portion thereof designed exclusively for
residential occupancy, including one-family, two- family and multiple-family
dwellings, but not including hotels, motels, boarding and lodging houses,
trailers, recreational vehicles, or trailer houses.
RESTAURANT: Any land, building or part thereof, other than a boarding house
where meals are provided for compensation, including, among others, such uses
as cafe, cafeteria, coffee shop, lunchroom, tearoom and dining room.
RIGHT OF WAY: A strip of land taken or dedicated for use as a public way. In
addition to the roadway, it normally incorporates the curbs, lawn strips,
sidewalks, lighting and drainage facilities, and may include special features
(required by the topography or treatment) such as grade separation, landscaped
area, viaducts, and bridges.
ROADSIDE STAND: A temporary structure designed or used for the display or sale
of agricultural and related products, the majority of which have been grown on
adjacent land.
RODEO: An area used as an entertainment site for an exhibition and/or
competition of the skills of cowboys/cowgirls and horsemanship.
ROOMING HOUSE: A building other than a hotel where lodging is provided for
compensation to three (3) or more persons who are not members of the
householder's family and wherein no meals are served or provided.
SALVAGE YARD: A place where scrap, waste, discarded or salvage materials are
bought, sold, exchanged, baled, packed, dismantled, handled or stored,
including auto wrecking yards, house wrecking yards, used lumberyards, and
places or yards for storage of salvaged house wrecking and structural materials
and equipment; but not including such places where such uses are conducted
entirely within a completely enclosed building, and not including pawnshops and
establishments for the sale, purchase or storage of used furniture and
household equipment within a building, used cars in operable condition, or
salvaged materials incidental to manufacturing operations conducted on the
premises.
SANITARIUM, SANITORIUM: A hospital, whether or not such facility is operated
for profit.
SATELLITE DISH: A device incorporating a reflective surface that is solid, open
mesh, or bar configured that is shell dish, cone, horn, or cornucopia shaped
and is used to transmit and/or receive electromagnetic signals. This definition
is meant to include, but is not limited to, what are commonly referred to as
satellite earth stations, TVROs (satellite television receive only) and
satellite microwave antennas.
SCHOOL: An institution conducting regular academic instruction at elementary,
secondary and college levels.
SCHOOL, TRADE OR INDUSTRIAL: An institution or facility conducting instruction
in the technical, commercial or trade skills such as business, beauticians,
barbers, electricians, automotive and so forth.
SERVICE STATION: Buildings on premises where gasoline, oil, grease, batteries,
tires and motor vehicle accessories may be supplied and dispensed at retail and
wherein in addition, the following services may be rendered and sales made:
   A.   Sales and service of spark plugs, batteries and distributor parts;
   B.   Tire servicing and repair, but not recapping or regrooving;
   C.   Replacement of mufflers and tailpipes, water hoses, fan belts, brake
fluid, light bulbs, fuses, floor mats, seat covers, windshield wipers and
blades, grease retainers, wheel bearings, mirrors and the like;
   D.   Radiator cleaning and flushing;
   E.   Washing, polishing and sale of washing and polishing materials;
   F.   Greasing and lubrication;
   G.   Providing and repairing fuel pumps, oil pumps and lines;
   H.   Minor servicing and repair of carburetors;
   I.   Adjusting and repairing brakes;
   J.   Minor motor adjustment not involving removal of the head or crankcase
or raising the motor;
   K.   Sales of cold drinks, packaged food, tobacco and similar convenience
goods for service station customers, as accessory and incidental to principal
operations;
   L.   Provisions of road maps and other informational material to customers,
provision of restroom facilities; and
   M.   Warranty maintenance and safety inspections.
Uses permissible at a service station do not include major mechanical and
bodywork, straightening of body parts, painting, welding, storage of
automobiles not in operating condition or other characteristics to an extent
greater than normally found in service stations. A service station is neither a
repair garage nor a body shop.
SETBACK: The shortest distance between the property or lot line and the
structure or portion thereof, excluding street or road right of way.
SETBACK AREA: The space on a lot required to be left open and unoccupied by
buildings or structures, either by the front, side or rear setback requirements
of this title, or by delineation on a recorded subdivision or planned unit
development map.
SETBACK LINE: A line established by these zoning regulations, generally
parallel with and measured from the lot line, defining the limits of a yard in
which no building or structure may be located aboveground except as may be
provided in this title.
SEWAGE LAGOONS: Ponds or other similar facilities designed and used for the
storage, treatment or evaporation of liquid or semiliquid human, commercial or
industrial waste.
SHELTER HOME: A residential facility for temporary occupancy by individuals
that for financial or physical or mental health reasons, who do not have a
place of residence or cannot live at their normal residences. This would
include, but not be limited to, facilities for the homeless, battered and
abused, halfway houses, and children's homes.
SHOOTING RANGE: A facility which allows for the safe practice of shooting
firearms, including shotguns, pistols, and rifles, which may include any
accessory uses and structures normally associated with this activity.
SIGN: Any display or device consisting of painted letters, symbols or designs,
and including any moving parts, lighting, sound equipment, framework,
background material or structural support, which display or device is intended
to communicate business identification, an advertisement, announcement,
directions or other message or attract, distract, hold, direct or focus public
attention.
SIGN, COMMERCIAL: Any sign erected which directs attention to a use, name,
business, commodity, service or entertainment conducted, sold or offered at a
commercial establishment, whether located on the same premises of the sign or
not.
SIGN, DIRECTIONAL/INFORMATIONAL: Any sign erected with the purpose of giving
directions which contains words such as "entrance", "enter", "exit", "in",
"out", or other similar words or a sign containing arrows or characters
indicating traffic directions or provides information and/or messages of
interest to the public.
SIGN, HOME: An accessory sign or nameplate announcing the names of the
occupants or owners of the premises or the name of the home occupation
conducted thereon.
SIGN, PROPERTY: An on premises sign erected for the purpose of advertising the
availability of the property for sale, lease or rent; or may include project
identification, a private or public announcement or the announcement of danger
or warning in connection with said premises.
SIGN, PUBLIC: An accessory sign erected for the purpose of identification of
the buildings, or involved facilities, and may include the dissemination of
information in connection with the program, policy or operation of public or
semipublic institutions owning or occupying subject premises, such as schools,
churches, hospitals, quasi-public bodies, clubs, lodges, clinics, professional
and executive office, or information in connection with the property of general
interest to the public.
SIGN, TEMPORARY: Any sign that is used only temporarily, not exceeding sixty
(60) days and is not permanently mounted or installed.
SITING ADVISORY TEAM (TEAM): A team comprised of representatives from the Idaho
state department of agriculture (ISDA), Idaho division of environmental quality
(IDEQ), Idaho department of water resources (IDWR), and an official designee of
the city of Rupert. The siting advisory team may invite representatives of the
state universities of Idaho and following federal agencies, U.S. environmental
protection agency (EPA), U.S. natural resources conservation service (NRCS),
U.S. geological survey (USGS), and the United States department agricultural
research services (USDA), to participate as advisors and/or consultants to the
team.
SLAUGHTERHOUSE: See definition of Commercial Slaughterhouse And Meatpacking
Facilities.
SPECIAL USE: A special use permitted within a district, other than a
principally permitted use, requiring a permit and approval of the commission.
Special uses permitted in each zone are listed in the schedule of zoning
regulations.
STABLE, PRIVATE: A detached accessory building or structure for the keeping of
one or more horses or cows owned and used by the occupant of the premises and
not for remuneration, hire or sale.
STABLE, RIDING: A building or structure used or designed for the boarding or
care of riding horses for remuneration, hire or sale.
STORM RUNOFF CONTAINMENT: The storage facility that intercepts precipitation
runoff of a corral(s) based on the requirement for a 25-year, 24-hour storm
event only. This does not include wastewater.
STORY: That portion of a building included between the surface of a floor and
the ceiling next above it.
STREET: A public right of way officially accepted by the agency or entity
having jurisdiction, fifty feet (50') or more in width, which provides a public
means of access to abutting property, or any such right of way more than twenty
feet (20') and less than fifty feet (50') in width, provided it existed prior
to the enactment of this title and has received official approvals. The term
"street" shall include "avenue", "drive", "circle", "road", "parkway",
"thoroughfare", or any other similar term.
STRUCTURAL ALTERATION: Any change in the supporting members of the building
such as the bearing walls, columns, beams, girders or roof.
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires location
on the ground or attachment to something having a fixed location on the ground.
Among other things, structures include buildings, mobile homes, walls, fences
and billboards.
SUBDIVIDER: A subdivider shall be deemed to be the individual, firm,
corporation, partnership, association, syndicate, trust or other legal entity
that executes the application and initiates proceedings for the subdivision
ordinance of the city of Rupert. The subdivider need not be the owner but must
have written authorization from the owner to propose the subdivision of the
owner's lands.
SUBDIVISION: See section
5-21-9 of this title for definition.
SUBDIVISION, MOBILE HOME: A subdivision designed for manufactured or mobile
home residential use.
SURVEYOR: A land surveyor or professional engineer registered in the state of
Idaho.
TAVERN OR LOUNGE: A building where alcoholic beverages are sold for consumption
on the premises, not including restaurants when the principal business is
serving food.
TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITY: A facility, site, or location that contains one or
more antennas, telecommunication towers, alternative support structures,
satellite dish antennas, other similar communication devices, and support
equipment which is used for transmitting, receiving, or relaying
telecommunications signals.
TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITY (COLLOCATED): A telecommunication facility comprised
of a single telecommunication tower or building supporting multiple antennas,
dishes, or similar devices owned or used by more than one public or private
entity.
TELECOMMUNICATION SUPPORT FACILITY: The telecommunication equipment buildings
and equipment cabinets.
TOWER, CAMOUFLAGED: Any telecommunication tower that, due to design or
appearance, entirely hides, obscures, or conceals the presence of the tower and
antennas.
TOWER FARM: A parcel of ground on which multiple telecommunication towers or
antennas are located and clustered together on a single parcel for economic,
aesthetic, or other reasons.
TOWER, GUYED: A telecommunications tower that is supported in whole or in part
by guy wires and ground anchors or other means of support besides the
superstructure of the tower itself.
TOWER, LATTICE: A telecommunication tower that consists of vertical and
horizontal supports and crossed metal braces.
TOWER, TELECOMMUNICATION: Any structure that is designed and constructed
primarily for the purpose of supporting one or more antennas, including
camouflaged towers, lattice towers, guy towers, or monopole towers. This
includes radio and television transmission towers, microwave towers, and common
carrier towers.
TRACT, ORIGINAL TRACT OF LAND OR ORIGINAL PARCEL OF LAND: A lot or tract as
recorded on any plat or record on file in the office of the county recorder, or
any unplatted contiguous parcel of land held in one ownership of record at the
effective date of this title.
UNDUE HARDSHIP: Special conditions depriving the applicant of rights commonly
enjoyed by other property owners in the same district under the terms of this
title, but not merely a matter of convenience and profit. A hardship caused by
the applicant for the purpose of evading the restrictions of this title shall
not be considered an undue hardship.
USE: The specific purposes for which land or a building is designated,
arranged, intended or for which it is or may be occupied or maintained.
USE, EXISTING: Any use legally existing at the time of adoption of this title.
UTILITIES: Installation for conducting water, sewage, gas, electricity,
television, communications, storm water, ancillary facilities providing service
to and used by the public.
VARIANCE: A modification of the requirements of this title as to lot size, lot
coverage, width, depth, use of property, setbacks, required parking spaces,
height of buildings or other ordinance provisions affecting the size, location
or shape of a structure or the size of lots. A variance shall not be considered
a right or special privilege, but may be granted to an applicant only upon a
showing of undue hardship because of characteristics of the site and that the
variance is not in conflict with the public interest.
WASTE: Waste normally associated with animal feeding operations, which may
include waste products, wastewater and feed residues.
WASTE PRODUCTS: Organic waste matter such as urine and/or feces.
WASTE TREATMENT SYSTEM: The process, area, or mechanism employed for the
retention, storage and treatment of liquid or solid wastes.
WASTEWATER: Water that has been used, for washing, flushing, or in a
manufacturing process, which also contains waste products.
YARD: An open space on the same zoning lot with a principal building or group
of buildings, which is unoccupied and unobstructed from its lowest level
upward, except as otherwise permitted in this title, and which extends to a
depth or width specified in the yard or setback regulations for the district in
which the lot is located.
YARD, FRONT: The yard across the full width of the lot or plot facing the
street and extending from the front building line of the building to the front
property or street line.
YARD, REAR: The yard across the full width of the lot or plot opposite the
front yard, extending from the rear building line of the building to the rear
property line.
YARD, SIDE: The yard between the side building line of the building and the
adjacent side property line and extending from the front yard to the rear yard.
ZONE OR ZONING DISTRICT: The incorporated territory of the city of Rupert as
defined by this title and designated on the zoning map, to which the provisions
of this zoning ordinance apply.
ZONING MAP: The zoning map of the city of Rupert, incorporated into this title
designating zoning districts together with all amendments subsequently adopted.
ZONING OFFICIAL: The zoning administrator or his authorized representative.
ZONING REVIEW AND CERTIFICATES:
   Certificate Of Occupancy: A document issued by the building official
authorizing the occupancy and use of completed buildings, structures or
premises and the proposed use thereof for the purpose of ensuring compliance
with the provisions of this title and other adopted codes and regulations.
   Certificate Of Zoning Compliance: A building permit once issued as herein
provided may serve as a zoning permit, if needed.
   Notice Of Noncompliance: A document issued by the zoning administrator
indicating that a use or structure is nonconforming to the district regulations
or is not in conformity with other conditions or requirements of this title.
   Zoning Review: The review process described in sections
5-13-1 and
5-13-3 of this title. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002; amd. Ord. 837, 3-4-2003; Ord. 857,
11-15-2005; Ord. 07-504, 6-5-2007; Ord. 09-507, 9-1-2009; Ord. 13-501, 2-26-
2013)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 67-6521.
CHAPTER 3
ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONES
SECTION:
5-3-1: Designation Of Zones
5-3-2: Zoning Map
5-3-3: Regulations
5-3-4: Boundaries Of Zones
5-3-5: Conformity And General Intent
5-3-1: DESIGNATION OF ZONES:
In order to accomplish more fully the objectives and purposes of this title,
the city of Rupert is hereby divided into zones which shall be known by symbols
and/or names as follows:
Short Title Zones            
Short Title Zones            
AL          Agricultural low
AM          Agricultural medium
AH          Agricultural heavy
RL          Residential low density
RM          Residential medium density
RH          Residential high density
CL          Commercial local
CG          Commercial general
IL          Industrial light
IH          Industrial heavy
O           Outlying
 
(Ord. 830, 8-6-2002; amd. Ord. 837, 3-4-2003)
5-3-2: ZONING MAP:
The location and boundaries of each of the zoning districts and special overlay
districts are hereby established as are shown on the zoning map of the city of
Rupert. All boundaries, notations and other data shown thereon are as much a
part of this title as if fully described herein. Said zoning map, properly
attested, shall be placed and remain on file in the office of the city clerk.
The zoning map shall be identified by the signature of the mayor, attested by
the city clerk, and shall bear the following words:
   I hereby certify that this is the official City of Rupert, Idaho Zoning Map
which was adopted by the City Council on the            day of            .
(Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-3-3: REGULATIONS:
Within each of the zones, the height, number of stories, and the size of
buildings and structures, and percentage of lot that may be occupied, the size
of yards, courts and other open spaces, the density or population and the
location and use of buildings, structures and land for trade, industry,
residence or other purposes are hereby regulated and restricted as set forth in
this title or as may be amended. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-3-4: BOUNDARIES OF ZONES:
Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of zones, the following
rules shall apply:
   A.   When indicated boundaries of the zone map are adjacent to street or
land survey lines, said street or land survey lines shall be construed to be
the zone boundaries.
   B.   Where the indicated boundaries are adjacent to canals, natural streams
or watercourses, or other clearly defined, natural features, the centerline of
said canal, natural stream, watercourse or natural feature shall be construed
to be the zone boundary.
   C.   In the absence of any street, land survey, canal, natural stream,
watercourse or other natural feature or measurement as forming the boundaries
of any zone, the scale or measurement shown on the map shall be used to
determine the zone boundary lines.
   D.   Whenever a street is vacated and that street has not been given a zone
classification, the land of the vacated street shall have the same zone
classification as the land adjacent or abutting land owned or on the same side
of the centerline of the former street to whom such land reverts or in whom
said land becomes vested by operations of law or otherwise.
   E.   In every case where small parcels of territory have not been
specifically included within a district through errors in legal description, or
where territory becomes a part of the city by incorporation or by inclusion in
area of impact of the city, such territory shall automatically retain its
existing use classification, until otherwise classified.
   F.   In case of conflict between the text and the maps of this title, the
maps shall prevail. In case of a conflict between the provisions of the various
sections of the text of this title, the most stringent provisions shall
prevail.
   G.   Where other uncertainty exists, the zoning administrator shall
interpret the map. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-3-5: CONFORMITY AND GENERAL INTENT:
Except as otherwise provided herein, land, buildings and premises in any
district shall hereafter be used only in accordance with the regulations herein
established for the district and the following general provisions:
   A.   No building shall hereafter be erected, constructed, relocated or
structurally altered to have a greater height, proportion of coverage or
smaller yards or open spaces about it than permissible under the limitations
set forth herein for the district in which such buildings are located.
   B.   No yards, open spaces or off street parking space or loading space
existing or provided hereafter about any building shall be reduced below the
minimum requirements hereinafter set forth for such open space, parking space
or loading space, or further reduced if already less than said minimum
requirements.
   C.   No open space, yard or off street parking space or loading space
existing or hereafter provided for a building or use and necessary to meet or
partially meet the requirements of this title shall be considered as all or
part of the yard, open space, off street parking space or loading space
required for any other building or upon any other lot.
   D.   No lot held under one ownership at the effective date hereof shall be
reduced in dimension or area in relation to any building thereon so as to be
smaller than that required by this title, and if already less, the dimension or
area of such lot shall not be further reduced except by subdivision properly
approved by the city.
   E.   If any development, building or structure shall be over any recorded or
known easement, a letter of approval from the grantee of said easement must be
submitted with the plan specifying that said development, building or structure
does not infringe upon said easement.
   F.   No facilities or use can be permitted in residential areas unless it is
clearly demonstrated that the proposed use will not result in smoke, dirt,
litter, smog, air or water pollution, excessive noise or offensive odors beyond
the boundaries of the property on which the facility is located. (Ord. 830, 8-
6-2002)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PURPOSES OF ZONES
SECTION:
5-4-1: Agricultural Low Zone (AL)
5-4-2: Agricultural Medium Zone (AM)
5-4-3: Agricultural Heavy Zone (AH)
5-4-4: Residential Low Density Zone (RL)
5-4-5: Residential Medium Density Zone (RM)
5-4-6: Residential High Density Zone (RH)
5-4-7: Commercial Local Zone (CL)
5-4-8: Commercial General Zone (CG)
5-4-9: Industrial Light Zone (IL)
5-4-10: Industrial Heavy Zone (IH)
5-4-11: Outlying Zone (O)
5-4-1: AGRICULTURAL LOW ZONE (AL):
The purpose of this agricultural zone is intended to provide areas for low
density or residential development that maintains a rural environment with
continuation of limited or light agricultural uses where compatible with each
other. It is appropriate to be applied to areas which have, by nature of uses
and land division activity, already begun a conversion from rural to urban use,
primarily in the outer portions of the rural-urban fringe areas where public
facilities and services will be necessary before intensive urbanization should
occur, and in rural land with marginal suitability for agricultural production.
(Ord. 837, 3-4-2003)
5-4-2: AGRICULTURAL MEDIUM ZONE (AM):
The purpose of this zone or district is to retain the economic base of Minidoka
County by preserving the good productive lands for agricultural purposes and
activities, which are of a less objectionable nature, by identifying the
farmlands lying in those portions of the county that are in areas of higher
residential density, located closer to urban areas, and are more likely to
undergo urban development. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-4-3: AGRICULTURAL HEAVY ZONE (AH):
The purpose of this zone or district is to retain and support the economic base
of Minidoka County by preserving the good productive lands for all agricultural
purposes and by identifying and protecting the farmlands lying in those
portions of the county not likely to undergo urban development. This zone or
district is characterized by farms and ranches devoted to the production of
food, fiber, and animal products, and by large tracts of open rangeland devoted
to raising of livestock. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-4-4: RESIDENTIAL LOW DENSITY ZONE (RL):
The purpose of this zone or district is to permit the establishment of low
density single-family housing areas designated to contain a range from one to
eight (8) units per acre. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-4-5: RESIDENTIAL MEDIUM DENSITY ZONE (RM):
The purpose of this zone or district is to permit the establishment of medium
density multiple-family dwellings not exceeding fourplex type apartments. This
zone or district is also designed to permit the conversion of large older
houses into apartments and will allow the establishment of neighborhoods. (Ord.
830, 8-6-2002)
5-4-6: RESIDENTIAL HIGH DENSITY ZONE (RH):
The purpose of this zone or district is to permit the establishment of high
density housing areas. This zone or district may act as a buffer between
various nonresidential uses and less dense residential uses, thus serving as a
transitional use. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-4-7: COMMERCIAL LOCAL ZONE (CL):
The purpose of this zone or district is to provide for areas suitable to
fulfill the need for travel related services, retail sales and professional
offices as well as neighborhood or local commercial services throughout the
city and its area of impact. This zone or district is established to encourage
the development of convenience business uses, which tend to meet the daily
needs of the residents of the immediate neighborhood and for pedestrian
patrons. The zone is also designed to act as a buffer between other more
intense nonresidential uses and residential uses. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-4-8: COMMERCIAL GENERAL ZONE (CG):
The purpose of this zone or district is to provide for and encourage the
grouping together of business, retail, public, quasi-public, and other related
uses with minimal light industrial uses capable of being operated under such
standards as to location and appearance of buildings and treatment of land
around them that they will be unobtrusive and not detrimental to surrounding
commercial or residential uses. The light industrial uses permitted in this
zone are manufacturing and wholesale business establishments which are clean,
quiet and free of hazardous or objectionable elements such as noise, odor,
dust, smoke or glare operated entirely within enclosed structures which
generate little industrial traffic. This zone or district is further designed
to accent a transitional use between industrial uses and other less intense
business and residential uses. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-4-9: INDUSTRIAL LIGHT ZONE (IL):
The purpose of this zone is to provide for the location of manufacturing or
other industrial uses which are duly controlled operations that do not generate
smoke, noise, vibration, dust, odor, glare, gas, light, air pollution or water
pollution beyond the district boundary. This zone is characterized by
warehouses, wholesale storage areas, packaging and assembling plants. The
district is further designed to accent a transitional use between heavy
industrial uses and less intense general commercial uses. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-4-10: INDUSTRIAL HEAVY ZONE (IH):
The purpose of this zone is to provide for the location of manufacturing and
other industrial uses which usually contain heavy manufacturing, processing,
assembling, storing, testing and similar industrial uses which are generally
major operations and extensive in character requiring large sites where the
byproducts of such use include emittance of nuisances such as smoke, noise,
vibration, dust, odor, glare, gas, light, air pollution or water pollution
beyond the district boundaries which may have a detrimental effect on
neighboring property. These uses require extensive community facilities and
isolation from residential and commercial uses and also require reasonable
access to arterial thoroughfares. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-4-11: OUTLYING ZONE (O):
The purpose of the outlying zone is to classify land which is considered to be
of such remote location, constitutes unproductive land, or is otherwise
situated or categorized so as to require no regulations at this time except
that industrial uses will not be permitted in said zone without first obtaining
a special use or conditional use permit. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
CHAPTER 5
REGULATIONS WITHIN ZONES
SECTION:
5-5-1: Compliance With Regulations
5-5-2: Schedule Of Zoning Regulations Adopted
5-5-3: Schedule Of Height And Area Regulations Adopted
5-5-1: COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS:
The regulations of each zone set forth by this title shall be minimum
regulations and shall apply uniformly to each class or kind of structure or
land, except as hereinafter provided.
   A.   No building, structure or land shall be used or occupied and no
building or structure or a part thereof shall be erected, constructed,
reconstructed, moved or structurally altered except in conformity with all the
regulations herein specified for the zone in which it is located.
   B.   No building or other structure shall be erected or altered:
      1.   To provide for greater height or bulk;
      2.   To accommodate or house a greater number of families;
      3.   To occupy a greater percentage of lot area; or
      4.   To have narrower or smaller rear yards, front yards, or other open
spaces than herein allowed or required, as the case may be, or any other manner
contrary to the provisions of this title; and
   C.   No yard or lot existing at the time of passage of this title shall be
reduced in dimension or area below the minimum requirements set forth herein.
Yards or lots created after the effective date hereof shall be at least the
minimum requirements set forth herein. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-5-2: SCHEDULE OF ZONING REGULATIONS ADOPTED:
Zoning regulations shall be as set forth in the official schedule of zoning
regulations and in the performance standards, chapter 6 of this title. To
determine in which zone a specific use is allowed, it is necessary to find the
use and read across the schedule until either the letter "P", "N" or the letter
"S" appears in one of the columns. If the letter "P" appears, the use is an
allowed use, if the letter "S" appears, the use is only allowed upon the
issuance of a special or conditional use permit, and if the letter "N" appears,
the use is not permitted in that zone or district. The administrator shall
interpret the appropriate zone for land uses not specifically mentioned by
determining a zone in which similar uses are permitted. When several combined
land uses exist, or are proposed, the most intensive land use shall be
considered as the primary activity. All uses listed in the schedule will be
considered public and/or commercial unless specifically designated as private,
public or commercial. (Ord. 09-507, 9-1-2009)
OFFICIAL SCHEDULE OF ZONING REGULATIONS
Key To Symbols
Zones: Zoning Regulations:
Zones:                   Zoning Regulations:
                         
 AL Agricultural low     P Permitted use
 AM Agricultural medium  S Special use
 AH Agricultural heavy   N Not permitted
 RL Residential low        
 RM Residential medium     
 RH Residential high       
 CL Commercial local       
 CG Commercial general     
 IL Industrial light       
 IH Industrial heavy       
 O  Outlying zone          
 
Zoning Districts
   Land UsAL AM AH RL RM RH CL CG IL IH O
   Land Uses                       AL  AM  AH  RL  RM  RH CL  CG  IL  IH  O
Agricultural activities:                                            
 Agronomy and crop consulting        N   S   S   N   N   N  P 5 P   P   P   S
  services
 Alcohol production plants           N   S   S   N   N   N  N   S   S   P   S
 Animal hospital                     N   S   S   N   N   N  S1  P1  P   P   N
 Dairy product processing            N   N   S   N   N   N  N   N   P1  P   N
 Grain and seed processing,          N   S   S   N   N   N  N   N   P1  P   P
  commercial
 Grain and seed processing, domestic N   P   P   N   N   N  N   N   P1  P   P
 Greenhouses                         S   P   P   N   N   N  S   P   P   P   N
 Kennels, commercial                 N   S6  S6  N   N   N  N   P6  P   P   N
 Kennels, noncommercial              P6  P   P   P6  N   N  P6  P6  P   P   N
 Livestock feed processing,          N   S   S   N   N   N  N   N   P   P   S
  commercial
 Livestock feed processing, domestic N   P   P   N   N   N  N   N   P   P   S
 Livestock sales                     N   S   S   N   N   N  N   N   S   S   N
 Meat product processing             N   N   S   N   N   N  N   N   S1  P   N
 Plant and flower nurseries          S   P   P   N   N   N  S   P   P   P   N
 Vegetable and produce processing    N   N   S   N   N   N  N   N   P   P   N
 Veterinarian                        N   S   S   N   N   N  S1  P1  P   P   N
Agriculture:                                                        
 Confined animal feeding operations:                               
  Commercial                        N   N   S   N   N   N  N   N   N   S   S
  Domestic                          S   P11 P11 N   N   N  N   N   N   S   P
  Industrial                        N   N   S   N   N   N  N   N   N   N   P
 Family food production (family      P   P   P   P   P   P  P   P   P   P   P
  garden)
 Farm, animals confined6             P   P   P   N   N   N  N   N   N   N   P
 Farms, animals on pasture           P6  P   P   P6  M   M  M   M   P6  P6  P
 Farms, plants and trees             P   P   P   N   N   N  N   N   P   P   P
 Farms, produce and other farm       P   P   P   N   N   N  N   N   P   P   P
  products
Communications and utilities:                                       
 Electrical distribution lines       P   P   P   P   P   P  P   P   P   P   P
 Electrical generation               N   S   S   N   N   N  N   N   S   S   S
 Electrical transmission lines       S   S   S   N   N   N  N   S   S   S   P
 Media transfer/booster stations12   S1  S1  S1  S1  S1  S1 P1  P   P   P   S
 Radio and television stations       N   N   N   N   N   P1 P1  P   P   P   N
 Telecommunication towers:                                         
  Camouflaged towers                P6  P6  P6  N   N   S6 S6  S6  P6  P6  S6
  Tower/antenna farms               N   S6  S6  N   N   N  N   S6  S6  P6  S6
  Towers less than 90 feet in       S6  P6  P6  N   N   N  N   S6  P6  P6  S6
    height
  Towers over 90 feet in height     S6  S6  S6  N   N   N  N   N   S6  S6  S6
 Telegraph centers and stations      N   N   N   N   N   P1 P1  P   P   P   N
 Telephone exchange stations         S1  S1  S1  S1  S1  S1 P1  P   P   P   S
 Transmission lines, aboveground     P   P   P   P   P   P  P   P   P   P   P
 Transmission lines, underground     P   P   P   P   P   P  P   P   P   P   P
 Utility buildings and structures    S2  S2  S2  S2  S2  S2 S2  P   P   P   S2
Cultural facilities:                                                
 Aquariums                           N   N   N   N   N   S  P1  P   P   P   S
 Botanical gardens, arboretums       S   S   S   S   S   S  P   P   P   P   S
 Historical sites, monuments         S   P   P   S   S   S  S   P   P   P   P
 Libraries, museums, galleries       N   N   N   N   N   P1 P   P   P   P   N
 Planetariums                        N   N   N   N   N   S  P1  P   P   P   S
 Zoos                                N   S   S   N   N   N  S   S   P   P   S
Manufacturing:                                                      
 Apparel and related products        N   N   N   N   N   N  S1  P1  P   P   N
 Asphalt plant                       N   N   N   N   N   N  N   N   S   P   N
 Asphalt plant, temporary            N   S   S   N   N   N  N   N   P   P   N
 Beverage bottling plant             N   N   N   N   N   N  N   P1  P   P   N
 Building materials                  N   N   N   N   N   N  N   P1  P   P   N
 Chemicals and chemical products     N   N   N   N   N   N  N   N   S1  P   N
 Computer products and               N   N   N   N   N   N  N   N   P   P   N
  semiconductors
 Concrete products                   N   N   N   N   N   N  N   N   P1  P   N
 Farm equipment                      N   N   N   N   N   N  N   S1  P   P   N
 Food products                       N   S   S   N   N   N  N   S1  P1  P   N
 Furniture and fixtures              N   N   N   N   N   N  N   P1  P   P   N
 Gravel pits                         N   S   S   N   N   N  N   N   S   S   S
 Ice manufacturing                   N   N   N   N   N   N  P1  P   P   P   N
 Metal products                      N   N   N   N   N   N  N   N   S1  P   N
 Mineral products                    N   N   S   N   N   N  N   N   S1  P   N
 Miscellaneous products              N   N   N   N   N   N  N   N   S1  P   N
 Paper products                      N   N   N   N   N   N  S1  P1  P   P   N
 Petroleum products                  N   N   N   N   N   N  N   N   S1  P   N
 Pharmaceutical products             N   N   N   N   N   N  N   S1  P   P   N
 Printing and publishing             N   N   N   N   N   N  P1  P1  P   P   N
 Professional and scientific         N   N   N   N   N   N  P1  P1  P   P   N
  products
 Textile products                    N   N   N   N   N   N  S1  P1  P   P   N
 Trailers and truck beds             N   N   N   N   N   N  N   S1  P   P   N
Parks:                                                              
 Open spaces                         P   P   P   P   P   P  P   P   P   P   P
 Public parks and playgrounds        P   S   S   P   P   P  P   P   P   P   S
Public assembly:                                                    
 Amusement parks                     N   N   N   N   N   N  S   S   S   S   N
 Auditoriums                         N   N   N   N   N   N  P   P   P   P   N
 Churches                            S   S   S   S   S   P  P   P   P   S   S
 Concessions                         N   N   N   N   N   N  S   P   P   P   N
 Convention centers                  N   N   N   N   N   N  P1  P   P   P   N
 Dance halls (occupancy of 51 to     N   N   N   N   N   N  N   P6  P6  P6  N
  300)
 Dance halls (occupancy over 300)    N   N   N   N   N   N  N   S6  P6  P6  N
 Drive-in theaters                   N   S   S   N   N   N  S   S   S   S   N
 Exhibition halls                    N   N   N   N   N   N  P1  P   P   P   N
 Fairgrounds                         N   S   S   N   N   N  N   N   P   P   S
 Riding arenas, private              P16 P16 P16 N   N   N  N   S1  S   S   S
 Riding arenas, public               S1  S   S   N   N   N  N   S1  P   P   N
 Sports arenas                       N   S   S   N   N   N  S1  P   P   P   N
 Theaters                            N   N   N   N   N   P  P   P   P   P   N
Residential:                                                        
 Home occupation                     P6  P6  P6  P6  P6  P6 P6  P6  P6  P6  S
 Manufactured home, class A          P   P   P   P7  P7  P7 P7  P7  P7  S   P
 Manufactured home, class B          P7  P   P   N   N   N  N   N   N   S7  P
 Manufactured home, class C8         N   N   N   N   N   N  N   N   N   N   N
 Manufactured home, nonconforming9   N   N   N   N   N   N  N   N   N   N   N
 Manufactured (mobile) home parks    N   S10 S10 N   S   S  S   S   S   S   N
 Multi-family dwellings              S3  S4  S4  S3  P4  P  P   P   P   S   N
 One-family dwelling                 P   P   P   P   P   P  P   P   P   S   P
 Rooming house                       N   N   N   N   S   P  P   P   P   S   N
 Subdivision, industrial             N   N   N   N   N   N  N   N   P   P   N
 Subdivision, manufactured home      S   N   N   S   S   S  S   S   S   S   N
 Subdivision, residential            P   S15 S15 P   P   P  S   N   N   N   N
 Temporary mobile home               N   N   N   N   N   N  N   N   N   N   N
 Two-family dwelling                 S   S   S   S   P   P  P   P   P   S   N
Residential - additional units:                                     
 Assisted living facilities          N   N   N   N   S   P  P   P   P   P   N
 Bed and breakfast                   N   N   N   S   S   P  P   P   P   P   N
 Boarding houses                     N   S   S   N   S   P  P   P   P   P   N
 Condominiums                        N   N   N   N   P4  P  P   P   P   S   N
 Congregate residences               N   N   N   N   S   P  P   P   P   P   N
 Hotels                              N   N   N   N   N   P  P   P   P   P   N
 Motels                              N   N   N   N   N   P  P   P   P   P   N
 RV (recreational vehicle) park      N   N   N   N   N   S  S   S   P   P   N
 Retirement homes or senior housing  N   N   N   N   P4  P  P   P   S   S   N
 Shelter homes                       N   N   N   N   S6  S6 S6  S6  P6  P6  N
Services:                                                           
 Advertising                         N   N   N   N   N   S5 P5  P   P   P   N
 Apparel repair and alteration       N   N   N   N   N   S  P1  P   P   P   N
 Automobile rental                   N   N   N   N   N   S  P   P   P   P   N
 Automobile repair                   N   S1  S1  N   N   N  S1  P1  P   P   N
 Automobile wrecking yard            N   N   N   N   N   N  N   N   S   P   S
 Beauty and barber                   N   N   N   N   N   P  P   P   P   P   N
 Billboards6                         N   N   N   N   N   N  S   P   P   P   N
 Building care contracting           N   N   N   N   N   P1 P1  P   P   P   N
 Business associations               N   N   N   N   N   S5 P1  P   P   P   N
 Car wash                            N   N   N   N   N   S  P   P   P   P   N
 Cemetery                            S   S   S   N   N   N  S   S   S   S   N
 Civic, social and fraternal         N   N   N   N   S5  P1 P   P   P   P   N
  organizations
 Construction trades                 N   N   N   N   N   N  P5  P1  P   P   N
 Consumer credit, collection         N   N   N   N   N   S5 P5  P   P   P   N
 Copy center, duplication,           N   N   N   N   N   S5 P   P   P   P   N
  stenographic
 Dance, music, voice studio          S1  S   N   N   S1  P1 P1  P   P   P   N
 Daycare facilities                  S   S   S   S   S   P  P   P   S   S   S
 Employment                          N   N   N   N   N   S5 P5  P   P   P   N
 Equipment rental                    N   N   N   N   N   N  P1  P   P   P   N
 Finance and investment              N   N   N   N   N   S  P   P   P   P   N
 Frozen food lockers                 N   N   N   N   N   P  P   P   P   P   N
 Funeral parlor/crematorium          N   N   N   N   N   S  P   P   P   P   N
 Governmental facilities             N   S   S   N   N   S5 P5  P   P   P   S
 Health club                         N   N   N   N   N   S  P   P   P   P   N
 Hospitals, clinics and related      N   N   N   N   S   S  P   P   P   P   N
  services
 Hotel                               N   N   N   N   N   P  P   P   P   P   N
 Industrial waste or produce water   N   S   S   N   N   N  N   N   S   P   S
  ponds
 Insurance and related               N   N   N   N   N   S  P   P   P   P   N
 Labor union and organizations       N   N   N   N   N   S5 P1  P   P   P   N
 Landscaping                         S   P   P   N   N   N  S   P   P   P   N
 Laundering and dry cleaning         N   N   N   N   N   S  P   P   P   P   N
 Laundromats                         N   N   N   N   N   P  P   P   P   P   N
 Motel                               N   N   N   N   N   P  P   P   P   P   N
 News syndicate                      N   N   N   N   N   N  P5  P   P   P   N
 Nursing and rest homes              S   N   N   N   S   S  P   P   P   P   N
 Photo labs                          N   N   N   N   N   S  P   P   P   P   N
 Photography studios                 N   N   N   N   S   S  P   P   P   P   N
 Professional                        N   N   N   N   N   S5 P5  P   P   P   N
 Professional organizations          N   N   N   N   N   S5 P1  P   P   P   N
 Real estate and related             N   N   N   N   N   P5 P5  P   P   P   N
 Religious facilities                S   S   S   S   S   P  P   P   P   S   S
 Rendering plant                     N   N   N   N   N   N  N   N   S   P   N
 Salvage or automobile wrecking yard N   N   N   N   N   N  N   N   S   S   S
 Sanitary landfills                  N   S   S   N   N   N  N   N   N   S   S
 Schools, academic and vocational,   S   N   N   S   S   P  P   P   P   S   S
  public
 Schools, commercial/private         S   N   N   S   S   P  P   P   P   P   S
 Schools, public                     S   N   N   S   S   P  P   P   P   S   S
 Sewage lagoons                      N   S   S   N   N   N  N   N   N   S   S
 Signs6:                                                           
  Commercial                        N   N   N   N   N   N  P   P   P   P   N
  Directional/informational         P   P   P   P   P   P  P   P   P   P   P
  Home                              P   P   P   P   P   P  P   P   P   P   P
  Property                          P   P   P   P   P   P  P   P   P   P   P
  Public                            P   P   P   P   P   P  P   P   P   P   P
  Temporary                         P   P   P   P   P   P  P   P   P   P   P
 Small appliance repair              N   S1  S1  N   N   N  P1  P   P   P   N
 Small engine repair                 N   S1  S1  N   N   N  P1  P1  P   P   N
 Storage rentals                     S1  S   N   S14 S14 S1 P1  P   P   P   N
 Telemarketing                       N   N   N   N   N   N  P   P   P   P   S
 Tire shop                           N   N   N   N   N   N  S1  P1  P   P   N
 Truck and tractor repair            N   S1  S1  N   N   N  S1  P1  P   P   N
  (agricultural)
 Truck and tractor repair            N   N   N   N   N   N  N   P1  P   P   N
  (commercial)
 Upholstery repair                   N   N   N   N   N   S1 P1  P   P   P   N
 Welfare and charitable              N   N   N   N   N   S5 P1  P   P   P   N
Sports facilities:                                                  
 Athletic areas                      S   S   N   S   S   S  P   P   P   P   S
 Bicycleway                          S   S   S   S   S   S  S   S   S   S   S
 Car racing track                    N   S   S   N   N   N  N   N   S   S   S
 Equestrianway                       S   S   S   N   N   N  N   N   S   S   S
 Go-cart tracks                      N   N   N   N   N   N  S   P   P   P   N
 Golf courses and country clubs      S   S   N   S   S   S  P   P   P   P   S
 Golf driving ranges                 S   S   N   S   S   S  P   P   P   P   S
 Horseracing track                   N   S   S   N   N   N  N   N   S   S   N
 Ice or roller skating               N   N   N   N   N   S  P   P   P   P   N
 Indoor recreational facility        S   S   N   S   S   S  P   P   P   P   S
 Miniature golf                      S   N   N   N   N   S  S   P   P   P   S
 Motorcycle racing track             N   S   S   N   N   N  N   N   S   S   S
 Paintball park or facility          N   N   N   N   N   S1 P1  P   P   P   N
 Private hunting club or reserve     N   S   S   N   N   N  N   N   N   S   S
 Riding stable and schools           S   S   S   N   N   S  S   P   P   P   N
 Rifle and pistol range              N   S   S   N   N   N  N   N   S   S   S
 Skateboarding                       N   N   N   N   N   S  P   P   P   P   N
 Swimming pools, commercial and      S   N   N   N   N   S  P   P   P   P   N
  public
 Tennis courts, commercial           S   N   N   S   S   S  P   P   P   P   N
 Tennis courts, private              P   P   P   P   P   P  P   P   P   P   P
 Tennis courts, public               S   S   S   S   P   P  P   P   P   P   P
Trade - retail:                                                     
 Alcoholic beverages, served         N   N   N   N   N   S  P   P   P   P   N
 Alcoholic beverages, sold only      N   N   N   N   N   N  P   P   P   P   N
 Apparel and accessories             N   N   N   N   N   S  P   P   P   P   N
 Automobiles and trucks              N   N   N   N   N   N  S   P   P   P   N
 Building material, hardware         N   N   N   N   N   N  P1  P   P   P   N
 Bulk fertilizer and farm chemicals  N   N   S   N   N   N  N   S   P   P   N
 Convenience store                   N   N   N   N   N   S  P   P   P   P   N
 Drive-in establishments             N   N   N   N   N   S  S   P   P   P   N
 Eating places                       N   N   N   N   N   S  P   P   P   P   N
 Farm and garden supplies            N   N   N   N   N   S1 P1  P   P   P   N
 Food, drugs, liquor, etc.           N   N   N   N   N   N  P1  P   P   P   N
 Gasoline service stations           N   N   N   N   N   S1 S1  P   P   P   N
 General merchandise                 N   N   N   N   N   N  P1  P   P   P   N
 Home furnishings, appliances        N   N   N   N   N   N  P   P   P   P   N
 Irrigation sales                    N   N   N   N   N   N  S1  P1  P   P   N
 Large implements and heavy          N   N   N   N   N   N  S1  P   P   P   N
  equipment
 Manufactured home sales             N   N   N   N   N   N  P5  P   P   P   N
 Petroleum                           N   N   N   N   N   N  N   P1  P   P   N
 Sporting goods                      N   N   N   N   N   N  P   P   P   P   N
Trade - wholesale:                                                  
 Bulk fertilizer and farm chemicals  N   N   S   N   N   N  N   S   P   P   N
 Bulk storage, flammable liquids and N   N   N   N   N   N  N   S1  S   P   N
  gases
 Wholesale distribution and          N   N   N   N   N   N  N   P1  P   P   N
  warehousing
Transportation:                                                     
 Airfields (private)                 N   S   S   N   N   N  N   N   S   S   S
 Airfields (public)                  N   S   S   N   N   N  N   N   S   S   S
 Automobile open parking lot         N   N   N   N   N   S  P   P   P   P   N
 Bus facilities, excluding pick up   N   N   N   N   N   N  S1  P1  P   P   N
  shelters
 Bus pick up shelters                S   S   S   S   S   S  P   P   P   P   S
 Freight transfer                    N   N   N   N   N   N  N   P1  P   P   N
 Helicopter landing pad              S   S   S   N   N   N  S13 S13 S13 S13 S
 Railroad buildings and equipment    N   N   N   N   N   N  S5  S   P   P   N
 Tickets and arrangements            N   N   N   N   N   S5 P5  P   P   P   N
 Truck and bus open parking lot      N   N   N   N   N   N  N   P   P   P   N
 Trucking facilities                 N   N   N   N   N   N  P5  P5  P   P   N
 
Notes:
      1.      Providing all materials and equipment are kept inside of an
enclosed building and providing all work is performed inside an enclosed
building.
      2.      Utility buildings and structures less than 50 square feet in area
and less than 3 feet above the natural grade or utility buildings adjacent to
and connected to an existing approved transmission tower are permitted uses.
      3.      Maximum of 2 dwelling units per building.
      4.      Maximum of 4 dwelling units per building.
      5.      Offices only.
      6.      Must comply with separate and/or additional requirements of this
title and other applicable ordinances.
      7.      The applicable classes of manufactured homes are permitted, but
may be subject to other ordinances adopted by governing body dealing with
buildings or structures built outside of the jurisdiction.
      8.      Class C manufactured homes as defined in this title are permitted
only in mobile home parks.
      9.      Nonconforming manufactured homes as defined in this title are
permitted only in mobile home parks.
      10.      Manufactured (mobile) home parks are permitted with approval of
special use permit when such park is used exclusively for the housing of
agricultural laborers and their immediate family members, and is owned by an
individual farmer, farming entity, group of farmers or farming entities.
      11.      Application approval may be granted by administrative approval
without a public hearing.
      12.      To facilitate for location of telecommunication equipment on
existing towers or structures, media transfer or booster stations will be
permitted uses when located immediately adjacent to such existing towers or
structures.
      13.      Helicopter landing pads will be permitted in the zoning
districts where special use permits are required when associated with hospitals
or other emergency related service provider.
      14.      Storage rental facilities developed in conjunction with the
platting and approval of new subdivisions or planned unit developments may be
permitted for the number of units not exceeding the number of developable lots,
with the approval of a special use permit.
      15.      Small subdivisions of 10 lots or less.
      16.      Private riding arenas are for the personal use of the owners,
owner's family and friends where no commercial gain is realized.
(Ord. 830, 8-6-2002; amd. Ord. 837, 3-4-2003; Ord. 857, 11-15-2005; Ord. 07-
504, 6-5-2007; Ord. 09-507, 9-1-2009)
5-5-3: SCHEDULE OF HEIGHT AND AREA REGULATIONS ADOPTED:
Zoning height, area, and setback regulations shall be set forth in the official
schedule of height and area regulations. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
OFFICIAL SCHEDULE OF HEIGHT AND AREA REGULATIONS
The following setbacks and minimum yard requirements shall apply in the
respective zones:
   Setbacks shall be measured from property lines unless a property line is in
the center of the road or street. In such case setback shall be measured from
the road or street right of way.
   Setbacks shall be measured to the wall of a structure with projections of
twenty four inches (24") or less. For walls with projections of greater than
twenty four inches (24") setbacks shall be measured to the projections.
Projections over any public way will be governed by provisions of this title
and the international building code.
Zoning   Maximum Front    Rear     Interior Side     Maximum Lot  Minimum Lot
District Height1 Setback5 Setback2 Side     Street   Coverage     Area (In
                                   Setback7 Setback6 (In Percent) Square Feet)3
Zoning   Maximum Front    Rear     Interior Side     Maximum Lot  Minimum Lot
District Height1 Setback5 Setback2 Side     Street   Coverage     Area (In
                                   Setback7 Setback6 (In Percent) Square Feet)3
AL       35'     30'      5'       5'       30'      30           1 acre4
AM       45'     30'      5'       5'       30'      10           1 acre
AH       45'     30'      5'       5'       30'      10           1 acre
RL       35'     20'      5'       5'       20'      30           6,100
RM       35'     20'      5'       5'       20'      40           3,000
RH       45'     20'      5'       5'       20'      50           1,500
CL       35'     20'      5'       5'       20'      NR           2,500
CG       45'     0'       0'       0'       0'       NR           2,500
IL       60'     0'       0'       0'       0'       NR           2,500
IH       60'     0'       0'       0'       0'       NR           2,500
 
Notes:
      1.      Except for silos, granaries, windmills and elevator legs.
      2.      Any building on residential lots that has garage doors opening
toward the alley to the rear of the property shall be set back 20 feet from the
rear property line unless "NO PARKING" signs are permanently posted on the
garage doors opening to the alley. The "NO PARKING" signs shall be of letters
no less than 4 inches in height and of a permanent material and nature.
      3.      When more than 1 dwelling unit is placed on the same lot, parcel
or tract, the minimum lot area will be required per unit.
      4.      If central water or sewer is provided, then the minimum lot size
may be reduced to 1/2 acre.
      5.      Front and side street setbacks from streets located within an
approved rural subdivision may be reduced to 20 feet from applicable street
right of way.
      6.      Side street setback may be reduced to 10 feet from the applicable
street right of way within city limits or platted subdivisions when said side
street is not a front street for more than 50 percent of the lots in the block
in which the lot is located.
      7.      Interior side setbacks may be reduced to 1 foot for
noncombustible detached carports which contain the roof storm runoff to the
property on which it is located.
(Ord. 830, 8-6-2002; amd. Ord. 837, 3-4-2003; Ord. 857, 11-15-2005; Ord. 07-
504, 6-5-2007; Ord. 09-507, 9-1-2009)
CHAPTER 6
PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
SECTION:
5-6-1: General
5-6-2: Supplemental Yard And Height Regulations
5-6-3: Supplemental General Provisions
5-6-4: Provisions For Commercial And Industrial Uses
5-6-5: Provisions For Gravel Pits, Rock Quarries, Sand And Clay Pits, Or Other
Similar Mining Activities For Natural Resources Of Commercial Value
5-6-6: Provisions For Unique Land Uses
5-6-7: Provisions For Governing Billboards And Signs
5-6-1: GENERAL:
The purpose of performance standards is to set specific conditions for various
uses and classifications of uses of areas where problems are frequently
encountered. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-6-2: SUPPLEMENTAL YARD AND HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
In addition to all yard regulations specified in the schedule of zoning
regulations and in other sections of this title, the following provisions shall
be adhered to:
   A.   Visibility At Intersections: On a corner lot in all districts where
front and side setbacks are required, nothing shall be erected, placed, planted
or allowed to grow in such a manner as to materially impede vision between a
height of two and one-half (21/2) and ten feet (10') above the centerline
grades of the intersecting streets in the area bounded by the right of way
lines of such corner lots and a line adjoining points along said street right
of way twenty five feet (25') from the point of intersection.
   B.   Fence And Wall Restrictions For Front Yards: In any required front
yard, no fence or wall shall be permitted which materially impedes vision
across such yard between the height of two and one-half feet (21/2') and ten
feet (10').
   C.   Yard Requirements For Multi-Family Dwellings: Multi-family dwellings
shall be considered as one building for the purpose of determining front, side
and rear yard requirements. The entire group as a unit shall require one front,
one rear, and two (2) side yards as specified for dwellings in the appropriate
district.
   D.   Side And Rear Yard Requirements For Nonresidential Uses Abutting
Residential Districts: Nonresidential buildings or uses shall not be located
nor conducted closer than forty feet (40') to any lot line of a residential
district, except that the minimum yard requirements may be reduced if
acceptable landscaping, screening or other mitigating feature approved by the
commission is provided.
   E.   Architectural Projections: Open structures such as porches, canopies,
balconies, platforms, carports, covered patios and similar architectural
projections shall be considered parts of the building to which attached and
shall not project into the required minimum front, side or rear yard. Eaves of
two feet (2') or less shall be disregarded for setback purposes.
   F.   Exceptions To Height Regulations: The height limitations contained in
the official schedule of district regulations do not apply to spires, belfries,
cupolas, antennas, water tanks, ventilators, chimneys or other appurtenances
usually required to be placed above the roof level and not intended for human
occupancy, except where the height of such structure will constitute a hazard
to the safe landing and take off of aircraft at an established airport.
   G.   Residential Uses In Nonresidential Zones: Lots used for residential
purposes in nonresidential zones shall be governed by setback and use
restrictions of lots in residential zones.
   H.   Buildings Adjacent To The Snake River:
      1.   Will have a minimum setback measured horizontally from the high
water mark of any impounded water of the Snake River of sixty feet (60') in
unincorporated areas and a twenty foot (20') setback in incorporated areas.
      2.   Will have a minimum elevation for any finished floor level or top of
foundation of six feet (6') measured vertically from the high water mark of any
impounded water of the Snake River.
      3.   Will have a minimum elevation for the finished surface grade of the
general area of which the septic system drain field will be installed of six
feet (6') measured vertically from the high water mark of any impounded water
of the Snake River. The septic system drainfield shall also be located on the
opposite side of the building from the river unless located no less than three
hundred feet (300') horizontally from the high water mark of the river. (Ord.
830, 8-6-2002)
5-6-3: SUPPLEMENTAL GENERAL PROVISIONS:
In addition to all other regulations as specified in this title, the following
provisions shall be adhered to:
   A.   Conversion Of Dwellings To More Units: A residence may not be converted
to accommodate an increased number of dwelling units unless:
      1.   The building to be converted is located in a zoning district that
permits the applicable multi-family use;
      2.   The yard dimensions still meet the yard dimensions required by the
zoning regulations for new structures in that district;
      3.   The lot area per unit equals the lot area requirements for new
structures in that district;
      4.   The floor area per dwelling unit is not reduced to less than that
which is required for new construction in that district; and
      5.   The conversion is in compliance with all other relevant codes and
ordinances. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
   B.   Temporary Buildings And Concession Stands: Temporary buildings,
construction trailers, equipment and materials may be used in conjunction with
construction work in progress, but such temporary facilities shall be removed
upon completion of the construction work. Temporary living accommodations shall
not be permitted at a construction site unless approved by the administrator,
proper permits are obtained and approved, and the temporary unit is removed
immediately upon completion of the construction project. Storage of such
facilities or equipment beyond the completion date of the project shall require
a zoning approval authorized by the administrator as set forth in section
5-13-1 of this title. Concession stands may not be located on private property
in any residential zone. (Ord. 13-501, 2-26-2013)
   C.   Parking And Storage Of Certain Vehicles: Automotive vehicles or
trailers of any kind or type without current license plates shall not be parked
or stored on any residentially zoned property other than in a completely
enclosed building or carport; however, one boat and one travel trailer may be
stored in the side or rear yard.
   D.   Required Trash Areas: All trash and/or garbage collection areas for
commercial, industrial and multi-family residential uses shall be enclosed on
at least three (3) sides by a solid or sight obscuring fence or wall of at
least four feet (4') in height or within an enclosed building or structure.
Adequate vehicular access to and from such area or areas for collection of
trash and/or garbage as determined by the administrator shall be provided.
   E.   Permits For Private Septic Systems Required: All persons putting in
private septic tanks and drainfields shall first obtain a sewer system permit
from the health authority before building and zoning permits may be issued. All
septic systems shall be installed to the requirements as established by the
state, federal, and local governments and as administered by the health
authority. Septic tanks and drainfields are not permitted where city sewer
service is reasonably available.
   F.   Development Close To An Airport: The location, building height and
lighting of residential and commercial development shall be restricted within
airport approach areas as required by the state department of transportation,
division of aeronautics and public transportation, and the federal aviation
administration. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-6-4: PROVISIONS FOR COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL USES:
No land or building in any district shall be used or occupied in any manner
creating dangerous, injurious, noxious or otherwise objectionable conditions
which could adversely affect the surrounding areas or adjoining premises,
except that any use permitted by this title may be undertaken and maintained if
acceptable measures and safeguards are implemented to reduce dangerous and
objectionable conditions to acceptable limits as established by the following
performance requirements:
   A.   Fire Hazards: Any activity involving the use or storage of flammable or
explosive materials shall be protected by adequate firefighting and fire
prevention equipment and by such safety devices as are normally used in the
handling of any such material. Such hazards shall be kept removed from adjacent
activities to a distance which is compatible with the potential danger involved
as specified in the adopted fire code and the national fire protection agency
standards;
   B.   Radioactivity Or Electrical Disturbance: No activity shall emit harmful
radioactivity at any point. No electrical disturbance shall adversely affect
the operation of any equipment at any point beyond the property of the emitter
of such disturbance;
   C.   Noise: Objectionable noise as determined by the administrator, which is
objectionable due to volume, frequency or beat, shall be muffled or otherwise
controlled. Sirens and similar apparatus used solely for public purposes are
exempt from this requirement;
   D.   Vibration: No vibration shall be permitted which is discernible without
instruments on any adjoining lot or property;
   E.   Air Pollution: Air pollution shall be subject to the requirements and
regulations established by the health authority;
   F.   Glare: No direct or reflected glare shall be permitted which is
directed toward and visible from any property outside a manufacturing district
or from any street;
   G.   Erosion: No erosion, by man, wind, or water, shall be permitted which
will carry objectionable substances onto neighboring properties;
   H.   Water Pollution: Water pollution shall be subject to the requirements
and regulations established by state and federal law; (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
   I.   Enforcement Provisions: The administrator, prior to granting zoning
approval as set forth in section
5-13-1 of this title, may require the submission of statements and plans
indicating the manner in which dangerous and objectionable elements involved in
processing and in equipment operations are to be eliminated or reduced to
acceptable limits and tolerances; and (Ord. 13-501, 2-26-2013)
   J.   Measurement Procedures: Methods and procedures for the determination of
the existence of any dangerous and objectionable elements shall conform to
applicable standard measurement procedures published by the American Standards
Institute, New York, the United States bureau of mines, the health authority
and the Manufacturing Chemists Association, Inc., Washington, D.C. (Ord. 830,
8-6-2002)
5-6-5: PROVISIONS FOR GRAVEL PITS, ROCK QUARRIES, SAND AND CLAY PITS, OR OTHER
SIMILAR MINING ACTIVITIES FOR NATURAL RESOURCES OF COMMERCIAL VALUE:
   A.   A minimum setback of thirty feet (30') is required from any road right
of way to top edge of any mining pit.
   B.   A minimum setback of ten feet (10') is required from any interior or
rear property line to top edge of any mining pit, unless otherwise agreed by
the adjacent property owner. Such agreement be shall signed, notarized and
recorded.
   C.   A maximum of one to one (1:1) slope will be maintained with backfill on
perimeter edges of the mining pits immediately following the extraction
process.
   D.   A buffer shall be established between the mining operation pits and
adjacent residential uses, county roads, state roads, or highways. Allowable
buffer materials would consist of earthen berms, hedges, rows of trees, or
other fast growing foliage that will obscure the sight of the mining operation
from adjoining road or residences. Residential development by the operator/
owner may be used as the buffer from roads and other residences, this buffer
must be in place and established as a visual buffer before the mining operation
comes within two hundred feet (200') of the boundary.
   E.   A plan which details the type of buffer materials and estimated time
schedule and plan for implementation shall be submitted and approved during the
special use permit approval. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
   F.   Safety fencing or other physical barriers as approved by the zoning
administrator shall be erected around all pits. Temporary warning style fencing
material or other approved physical barrier with warning signs or materials
will be allowed on the sides that are continually moving because of the mining
operation. (Ord. 07-504, 6-5-2007)
   G.   Prior to mining activity, security access gates shall be installed and
maintained to discourage trespass and dumping in the pit areas.
   H.   Operating hours shall be limited to six o'clock (6:00) A.M. to eight
o'clock (8:00) P.M. Mondays through Saturdays. No operations will be permitted
on Sundays or major holidays. Variations of these operating hours may be
approved with conditions upon the granting of the special use permit.
   I.   Gravel crushing operations shall be confined and localized to the
bottom of the pit unless otherwise approved by the commission at the granting
of the special use permit.
   J.   No concrete batch plants or other heavy equipment associated with the
ready mix concrete industry or salvaged equipment shall be located or stored at
site or in the pit.
   K.   Any fueling shall be done from operable fuel vehicles or tanks with
approved leakage containment systems and approved by the local fire chief.
   L.   No standing water shall be permitted in the pits except what is created
by natural precipitation and runoff or that is created or being used in the
gravel mining, washing, and screening processes.
   M.   A plan addressing the extent and method of rehabilitation and
reclamation shall be determined in advance of issuing the special use permit
and approved by the Idaho state department of lands, with due consideration
given to what is suitable and compatible with the surrounding area.
   N.   The following shall be minimum reclamation standards:
      1.   Reclamation of mined areas shall commence immediately after the
extraction process has ended or mined area exceeds thirty (30) acres;
      2.   The date the extraction process shall be deemed terminated will be
computed in the following manner: When ninety percent (90%) of the approved
mineable area has been mined, the allowable additional time for pit termination
will be calculated by dividing remaining area by one-half (1/2) the average
annual extraction rate measured by surface area. The average annual extraction
rate shall be determined by dividing the area mined by age of the pit or the
time it took to mine the given area;
      3.   The mined areas shall be completely reclaimed within one year after
the extraction process has been terminated unless the area is used for
stockpiles;
      4.   In cases where stockpiles exist in depleted areas, the pits shall be
completely reclaimed to the full extent possible until the last stockpile is
removed;
      5.   Stockpiles shall be removed from a mined area of the pit within four
(4) years from when the time normal extraction process is terminated;
      6.   Final reclamation shall commence after the removal of the final
stockpile and shall be finished within one year from the time of the stockpile
removal or the time required for removal of stockpile as set forth in
subsection N5 of this section;
      7.   Finished grade of reclaimed area shall be at least twelve inches
(12") above seasonal high ground water level, unless provisions for ponds,
lakes or bodies of standing water are approved in both the special use permit
and reclamation plan;
      8.   Reclamation shall include a minimum of twelve inches (12") of
restored topsoil or other suitable material consisting of sixty percent (60%)
of the normal soil profile of the adjacent and surrounding properties;
      9.   Reclaimed pit sides shall have maximum slope of one to one (1:1);
      10.   Area shall be reclaimed to be used for pasturing, agricultural,
recreation, or residential uses. When reclamation is for residential use the
finished grade adjacent to the residences shall be six feet (6') above the
natural high water mark;
      11.   At the time of final reclamation an irrigation system shall be
installed to support pasturing and farming uses; and
      12.   Upon depletion of the area and the removal of stockpiles, all
temporary buildings and structures except property line fences, shall be
entirely removed from the property. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-6-6: PROVISIONS FOR UNIQUE LAND USES:
Certain unique land uses pose special problems that may have detrimental
influences on surrounding land uses. The following performance standards for
such unique land uses shall be adhered to in addition to all other provisions
of this title:
   A.   Accessory Building In Residential Zones:
      1.   Will not be located in any required front yard area; and
      2.   Will not be located closer than five feet (5') from any side or rear
property line.
   B.   Animal Clinic, Animal Hospital, Veterinary Office And Kennel: Will be
located at least three hundred feet (300') from any residence including motels
and hotels, except for an owner's residence. The administrator may modify these
requirements if the animals are completely housed in soundproof structures that
completely screen them from view of the abutting residential property and will
comply with all state and local regulations relative to such an operation, and
maintain adequate housekeeping practices designed to prevent the creation of a
nuisance and to reduce to a minimum the factors of noise and odor. (Ord. 830,
8-6-2002)
   C.   Meatpacking, Processing Plants And Slaughterhouse Facilities:
      1.   Will be located not less than one thousand feet (1,000') from any
residence, except for an owner's residence. This restriction may be waived if
affected property owner gives written permission to the commission;
      2.   Will be designed and located with full consideration to their
proximity to adjacent use, their effect upon adjacent and surrounding
properties, and to the reduction of nuisance factors;
      3.   Will be adequately maintained with housekeeping practices to prevent
the creation of a nuisance, and shall also be subject to the health authority
requirements as to the elimination of waste materials and the maintenance of
water quality control; and
      4.   Will be required to comply with the confined animal feeding
operation requirements when the operation confines and feeds more than two
hundred (200) animal units on a continuous basis. (Ord. 07-504, 6-5-2007)
   D.   Bulk Storage Of Flammable Liquids And Gases, Aboveground And For
Resale:
      1.   Will be located at least three hundred feet (300') from a
residential zone, a residence, motel, and hotel, except for an owner's
residence;
      2.   Will be erected subject to the approval of the fire chief or fire
marshal; and
      3.   Will have suitable loading and unloading spaces and off street
parking facilities, subject to the approval of the fire chief or fire marshal.
   E.   Chemical, Pesticide And Fertilizer Storage And Manufacturing: Will have
adequate fire protection, storage area, handling and disposal as approved by
the fire chief or fire marshal.
   F.   Contractor's Yard:
      1.   Will be located a minimum distance of three hundred feet (300') from
any residence except for an owner's residence; or will have a sight obscuring
fence around areas utilized for storage of materials and equipment; and
      2.   Will be limited to storage, maintenance and processing incidental to
contracting work. There shall be no general industrial or commercial uses.
   G.   Drive-In Restaurant:
      1.   Will be maintained in a neat and orderly condition to prevent trash
from moving onto other properties;
      2.   Will have a six foot (6') high sight obscuring fence along the
property lines that adjoin an existing residence or residentially zoned area;
      3.   Will provide for adequate trash receptacles; and
      4.   Will not direct night lighting toward any residence.
   H.   Filling, Grading, Lagooning, Dredging, Or Other Earthmoving Activity:
      1.   Will result in the smallest amount of bare ground exposed for the
shortest time feasible;
      2.   Will provide temporary ground cover, such as mulch;
      3.   Will use diversions, silting, basins, terraces and other methods to
trap sediment;
      4.   Will provide lagooning in such a manner as to avoid creation of fish
trap conditions;
      5.   Will not restrict a floodway, channel or natural drainageway;
      6.   Will construct and stabilize sides and bottom of cuts, fills,
channels and artificial watercourses to prevent erosion or soil failure;
      7.   Will not have below grade excavation except for drainageways within
fifty feet (50') of any lot line or public right of way; and
      8.   Will restore topsoil or loam to a depth of not less than four inches
(4").
   I.   Boathouse:
      1.   Will only be located within a shore lot;
      2.   Will be limited to one on premises boathouse for each shore lot;
      3.   Will not exceed a height of fifteen feet (15');
      4.   Will not exceed a horizontal area of three hundred (300) square
feet; and
      5.   Will not be located closer than ten feet (10') to any property line.
   J.   Home Occupation:
      1.   No more than one person other than members of the family residing on
the premises shall be engaged in such occupation.
      2.   The use of the dwelling unit for the home occupation shall be
clearly incidental and subordinate to its use for residential purposes by its
occupants, and not more than twenty five percent (25%) of the floor area of the
dwelling unit shall be used in the conduct of the home occupation. (Ord. 830,
8-6-2002)
      3.   There shall be no change in the outside appearance of any of the
building or premises, or other visible evidence of the conduct of such home
occupation other than one sign as allowed in section
5-6-7 of this chapter. (Ord. 857, 11-15-2005)
      4.   If the dwelling or an accessory building is used as a home office
for a business that provides services at other locations, no storage of
material or equipment will be allowed outside of an enclosed building.
Temporary or overnight parking of licensed vehicles, used for related services
at other locations, is permitted. Yards for storage of materials or equipment
will not be considered as part of a home occupation and shall comply with the
specific requirements of that use.
      5.   No significant traffic shall be generated by such home occupation
and any need for parking generated by the conduct of such home occupation shall
meet the off street parking requirements as specified in this title, and shall
not be located in a required front yard.
      6.   No equipment or process shall be used in such home occupation which
creates noise, vibration, glare, fumes, odors or electrical interference
detectable to the normal senses off the lot, if the occupation is conducted in
a single-family residence, or outside the dwelling unit if conducted in other
than a single-family residence. In the case of electrical interference, no
equipment or process shall be used which creates visual or audible interference
in any radio or television receivers off the premises, or causes fluctuations
in line voltage off the premises.
      7.   Home occupations shall be conducted completely inside the dwelling,
enclosed garage or other building accessory to the dwelling. (Ord. 830, 8-6-
2002)
   K.   Manufactured Or Mobile Homes:
      1.   A manufactured or mobile home shall not be moved onto a site or
occupied before a building permit has been issued;
      2.   At least one inspection after the permit is issued shall be to
verify compliance with applicable zoning, health, installation, and building
requirements;
      3.   A permit shall be required for all classes of manufactured homes and
shall be in addition to any other required zoning, permit, or hook up fees;
      4.   Manufactured or mobile homes as defined in this title shall only be
used for residential purposes; and
      5.   Manufactured or mobile homes that are no longer occupied and have
become run down, dilapidated or deemed unsafe or a public nuisance shall be
removed and/or disposed of at the owner's expense. (Ord. 09-507, 9-1-2009)
   L.   Manufactured (Mobile) Home Parks Or Courts:
      1.   Will be designed, constructed, operated and maintained so as to be
harmonious and appropriate in appearance with the existing or intended
character of the general vicinity so that such use will not change the
essential character of the same area;
      2.   Will not be hazardous or detrimental to existing or future
neighboring uses;
      3.   Will be served adequately by essential public facilities and
services such as highways, streets, police and fire protection, drainage,
refuse disposal and schools, or the persons or agencies responsible for the
establishment of the proposed park shall be able to provide adequately any such
services;
      4.   Will be consistent with the intent and purpose of this title and the
comprehensive plan;
      5.   Will have vehicular approaches to the property which shall be
designed as not to create an interference with traffic in surrounding streets
or roads;
      6.   Will not result in the destruction or damage of natural, scenic or
historic features of major importance;
      7.   Will meet the minimum health standards as set forth and administered
by the appropriate health authority;
      8.   Will have a minimum of eight feet (8') separation between
manufactured home units. Garages, carports or any other accessory buildings
shall be located at least eight feet (8') from all manufactured homes other
than the one they are intended to serve;
      9.   Will provide two (2) off street parking spaces for each mobile home
parking space; and
      10.   Will be a minimum total area of two (2) acres for the manufactured
home park or court including common areas, buildings, and facilities.
   M.   Outdoor Storage Of Commercial And Industrial Materials:
      1.   Will be screened from view from any existing adjoining residence or
residentially zoned area, whether or not such property is separated by an
alleyway or street; and
      2.   Will not be located in any front yard setback area.
   N.   Riding Stables And Schools:
      1.   Will locate all stables or loafing sheds not nearer than one hundred
feet (100') from any residence, except for an owner's residence. All facilities
shall be set back a distance of thirty feet (30') from any property lines;
      2.   Will be designed and located with full consideration being given to
their proximity to adjacent uses and their effect upon adjacent and surrounding
properties as to the storage of horse trailers, and the factors of noise and
odor; and
      3.   Will require that the owner or operator of such use shall have a
continuous obligation to maintain adequate housekeeping practices to prevent
the creation of a nuisance.
   O.   Rifle And Pistol Range:
      1.   Will be designed with a backstop;
      2.   Will be designed to avoid a line of fire that is directed towards
any residence or business within one mile;
      3.   Will incorporate landscaping that is compatible with the surrounding
landscaping; and
      4.   Will provide supervision and security measures during periods of
use.
   P.   Salvage Yard:
      1.   Will be completely enclosed by a solid six foot (6') high sight
obscuring fence;
      2.   Will not result in the storage of automobiles, junk or salvage
material that is visible from any public right of way;
      3.   Will not result in the storage of materials that exceed the height
of fence;
      4.   Will have landscaping that is compatible with the surrounding area;
and
      5.   Will comply with other regulations or ordinances adopted by the
appropriate jurisdiction.
   Q.   Abandoned, Junked Property: No person shall place, allow, discard,
maintain, park or store for a period of time exceeding forty eight (48) hours
any dismantled, abandoned, junked, damaged, unlicensed or destroyed motor
vehicles, equipment, machinery or miscellaneous property. The provisions of
this subsection shall not apply to any lawfully operated business when
otherwise permitted and in compliance with this and all other applicable
ordinances, or when said motor vehicles, equipment, machinery or miscellaneous
property is housed entirely within an enclosed building. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
   R.   Livestock: Unless otherwise regulated in this or any other applicable
ordinance the keeping of livestock shall comply with the following provisions:
      1.   On any lot, tract or parcel not zoned agricultural within the
cities, city areas of impact, or any rural residential subdivision having an
enclosed pasture of at least one-half (1/2) acre, fenced to hold or contain
livestock, the owner, renter or occupant thereof may have not more than one
head of horses, mules, cattle or any combination of said animals for each full
one-half (1/2) acre of enclosed pasture; or, not more than two (2) swine or
three (3) sheep or goats, or combination thereof for each full one-half (1/2)
acre of enclosed pasture; or, such owner, occupant or renter may have and keep
one horse, mule or head of cattle, or any of the same, in combination with two
(2) swine or three (3) sheep or goats or combination thereof on each full one
acre of enclosed pasture.
      2.   Livestock confined on any parcel or tract shall not exceed the
number allowed by an approved confined animal feeding operation permit. In the
absence of a confined animal feeding operation permit on parcels or tracts
within an agricultural zoning district with a minimum of one acre of fenced
pasture area, the maximum density of animal units shall not exceed five (5) per
acre in livestock density unless an approved waste management plan is in place
allowing a greater density.
      3.   Waste and runoff shall be contained completely on the premises and
not allowed to enter any river, stream, drain ditch, canal, or lateral. The
keeping and maintaining of livestock and pets shall also comply with other
livestock and animal control provisions of this title or other ordinances or
regulations as adopted by the appropriate jurisdiction. (Ord. 837, 3-4-2003)
   S.   Sanitary Landfill:
      1.   Will conform to time limits for daily operation as defined by the
governing board;
      2.   Will provide a bond, for privately owned sites, to ensure compliance
with the provisions of the zoning approval;
      3.   Will provide for a paved street to the facility;
      4.   Will be supervised during the hours of operation; and
      5.   Will comply with any other local, state or federal regulations or
ordinances.
   T.   Refuse, Solid Waste, Stagnant Water: No person shall permit or suffer
to be or accumulate in or upon any yard, lot, place or premises or upon any
street or sidewalk adjacent to or abutting upon any lot, block, place or
premises or in any building or shed owned or occupied by him within the city
limits or area of impact, any stagnant or impure water, refuse, vegetable decay
or decaying substance, human or animal discharge, garbage or filth of any kind,
nor suffer such yard, lot, place, building or premises to be or to remain in
such condition as to cause or create a nuisance or offensive smell or to
pollute or render unhealthful the atmosphere or the premises or thereby to be,
become, cause or create a public nuisance. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
   U.   Recreational Vehicles: It is prohibited to place and occupy a
recreational vehicle on any lot or parcel except in an approved recreational
vehicle or manufactured home park, subject to the following exceptions:
      1.   Temporary occupancy of up to fourteen (14) days of a recreational
vehicle for use by friend or family of owner or occupant.
      2.   Upon the issuance of the appropriate permits, a recreational vehicle
may be placed and occupied on a construction site until construction is
completed but not to exceed eighteen (18) months.
      3.   Upon the issuance of the appropriate permits, a recreational vehicle
may be placed and occupied on any parcel or lot that would allow the placement
of a class C manufactured home. (Ord. 07-504, 6-5-2007)
5-6-7: PROVISIONS FOR GOVERNING BILLBOARDS AND SIGNS:
The purpose of this section is to control and regulate the erection and
maintenance of signs, in the interest of public safety, to promote and enhance
property values, and to encourage the design of signs to be in harmony and
compatible with the overall street or road setting and the neighborhood
character.
   A.   Definitions: For purpose of this section, certain terms, phrases, or
words used herein shall be defined in chapter 2 of this title.
   B.   Exempt Signs: The following types of signs, when not illuminated, do
not require permits and are not subject to the general requirements of this
section:
      1.   Directional or informational signs bearing no advertising message
located within a parcel and signs not exceeding sixteen (16) square feet in
area erected for the convenience of the public, such as signs identifying
restrooms, public telephones, walkways and similar features or facilities;
      2.   Memorial signs or tablets and names of buildings and dates of
erection when mounted on or cut into the surface or facade of the building;
      3.   Traffic or other county/city signs, signs required to be mentioned
by law, railroad crossing signs, legal notices and such temporary emergency or
nonadvertising signs as may be authorized by the board of county commissioners
or the applicable city council;
      4.   Signs placed by public utilities showing the location of underground
facilities;
      5.   Project or construction signs when referring solely to the principal
use of the property;
      6.   Home signs located on the parcel of the applicable residence or home
occupancy; and
      7.   Property and temporary signs.
   C.   Prohibited Signs:
      1.   No sign or sign structure, other than those approved by the
jurisdiction having authority shall be placed upon any road or highway right of
way; and
      2.   No rotating beam, beacon, or flashing illumination resembling an
emergency light shall be used in connection with any sign display.
   D.   General Regulations:
      1.   In addition to the requirements herein provided the installation of
signs and billboards shall be governed by applicable provisions of the
currently adopted international building code.
      2.   Sign projections over a public right of way, if permitted, will be
governed by the applicable standards as established by the authority having
jurisdiction as well as provisions provided in this title.
      3.   No sign or sign structure shall be placed on private or public
property without the written consent of the owners or agents thereof.
      4.   No sign facing the side or rear property line of an abutting
residential property shall be located within fifty feet (50') of such side or
rear property line.
      5.   Flashing and/or animated signs shall be prohibited within three
hundred feet (300') of any residential zoning district.
      6.   For the purpose of preventing the blanketing of one sign by another,
the following provisions regulating the size of a sign and its location shall
govern:
         a.   No projecting sign shall be erected in the same horizontal plane
with other projecting signs unless the sizes are spaced as set forth herein,
measured center to center.
         b.   Projecting signs three feet (3') or less in depth shall be spaced
no less than ten feet (10') apart.
         c.   Projecting signs more than three (3) to six feet (6') in depth
shall be spaced no less than twenty feet (20') apart.
         d.   Projecting signs more than six feet (6') in depth shall be spaced
no less than thirty feet (30') apart.
         e.   Any projecting sign erected at a shorter distance than required
above shall be erected above the top edge or below the bottom edge of the
blanketed sign.
   E.   Home Signs:
      1.   One accessory nameplate and home occupation sign or combination is
permitted for each dwelling.
      2.   In RL, RM and RH zoning districts, the erection of such signs are
subject to the following design standards:
         a.   Each sign shall not exceed four (4) square feet in area and may
be illuminated by external illumination only.
         b.   Home occupation signs must be attached flatly to the building and
not to exceed the height of the eaves line.
      3.   In other than RL, RM and RH zoning districts, the erection of such
signs are subject to the following design standards:
         a.   Each sign shall not exceed sixteen (16) square feet in area and
may be illuminated by external illumination only.
         b.   Home occupation signs located in the front yard shall be
positioned as to not obstruct vision at intersections or for access driveways.
      4.   Any home occupation sign not complying with these provisions may be
permitted only with the granting of a special use permit. (Ord. 857, 11-15-
2005)
   F.   Billboards:
      1.   Billboards shall be permitted as established in the official
schedule of zoning regulations only adjacent to state highways and Interstate
84;
      2.   Billboards may be permitted as established in the official schedule
of zoning regulations adjacent to other arterial streets or roads with the
approval of a special use permit;
      3.   Billboards shall be located within one hundred feet (100') of the
street, road, highway or interstate right of way;
      4.   Billboards shall not exceed a height of fifty feet (50') from the
base of the sign or twenty five feet (25') from above grade level of the right
of way, whichever is less;
      5.   Billboards shall not exceed three hundred twenty (320) square feet
in area except along Interstate 84 where billboards shall not exceed six
hundred seventy five (675) square feet;
      6.   Billboards may be allowed two (2) faces or back to back sign faces,
provided there is no more than five feet (5') separating the sign faces;
      7.   Billboards shall not be located any closer than one thousand feet
(1,000') from any other billboard measured from center of sign to center of
sign in the direction of the traffic being served on any given side of the
street, road, highway or Interstate 84;
      8.   Billboards located on intersecting streets, roads or highways shall
not be located any closer than one thousand feet (1,000') from any billboard
located on an intersecting street, road, or highway;
      9.   Billboards shall not be located within four hundred feet (400') of
any residential zoning district;
      10.   Billboard's primary structure shall be of painted noncombustible
material and monopole design; and
      11.   Illumination of billboards shall be limited to the hours between
dusk and dawn. (Ord. 07-504, 6-5-2007)
   G.   Temporary And Nonconforming Signs:
      1.   Those signs herein designated as being temporary signs shall be
completely removed by the owner of the sign or by the owner of the property
upon which the sign is located at the expiration of the time which the sign was
permitted.
      2.   Temporary signs may be permitted past the established expiration
date with the approval of a special use permit.
      3.   Nonconforming signs shall be deemed to be a conforming use and/or
structure may continue use and normal maintenance.
      4.   Nonconforming signs may only be expanded or enlarged with the
approval of a special use permit. (Ord. 857, 11-15-2005)
CHAPTER 7
FLOODPLAIN OVERLAY DISTRICT (FP)
SECTION:
5-7-1: Purpose And Location Of District
5-7-2: Definitions
5-7-3: General Provisions
5-7-4: Establishment Of Permit And Administration
5-7-5: Provisions For Flood Hazard Reduction
5-7-6: Nonliability Clause
5-7-7: Restrictions
5-7-8: Prohibited Uses
5-7-1: PURPOSE AND LOCATION OF DISTRICT:
It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare, and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed:
   A.   To protect human life and health;
   B.   To minimize expenditure of public money and costly flood control
projects;
   C.   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   D.   To minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   E.   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets, and bridges located in
areas of special flood hazard;
   F.   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of areas of special flood hazard so as to minimize future flood
blight areas; and
   G.   To ensure that those who occupy the areas of special flood hazard
assume responsibility for their actions.
The floodplain overlay (FP) district is created to designate areas of the
county or cities needing such consideration and is superimposed over other
districts. The FP district is the same area as the area of the county or cities
identified by the federal insurance administration/emergency management agency
flood insurance rate map (FIRM) promulgated for the county or the city, which
map is adopted by reference and declared to be part of this chapter and which
map shall be maintained on file in the records of the county or city clerk of
the county or city at all times hereafter. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-7-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter shall
be interpreted so as to give them the meanings they have in common usage and to
give this chapter its most reasonable application.
AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD: The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a one percent (1%) or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
Designation on maps always includes the letters A or V.
BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year. Also referred to as the 100-year flood. Designation
on maps always includes the letters A or V.
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations located within the
area of special flood hazard.
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM): The official map on which the federal
insurance administration has delineated both the areas of special flood hazard
and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY: The official map on which the federal insurance
administration has delineated both the areas of special flood hazard and the
risk premium zones applicable to the community.
FLOOD OR FLOODING: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
   A.   The overflow of inland or tidal waters, and/or
   B.   The unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters from any
source.
FLOODWAY: The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot (1').
LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage, in an area other than a
basement area, is not considered a building's lowest floor, provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable nonelevation design requirements found at subsection 5-7-5B1b of
this chapter.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which is
built on a permanent chassis and is connected to the required utilities. For
floodplain management purposes the term "manufactured home" also includes park
trailers, travel trailers, and other similar vehicles placed on a site for
greater than one hundred eighty (180) consecutive days. For insurance purposes
the term "manufactured home" does not include park trailers, travel trailers,
and other similar vehicles.
NEW CONSTRUCTION: Structures for which the "start of construction" commenced on
or after the effective date hereof.
START OF CONSTRUCTION: Includes substantial improvement, and means the date the
building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair,
reconstruction, placement or other improvement was within one hundred eighty
(180) days of the permit date. The actual start means either the first
placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the
pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of
columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a
manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not include land
preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the
installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a
basement, footings, piers, or foundation or the erection of temporary forms;
nor does it include the installation on the property of accessory buildings,
such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main
structure.
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires location
on the ground or attachment to something having a fixed location on the ground.
Among other things, structures include buildings, mobile homes, walls, gas or
liquid storage tanks and billboards.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any repair, reconstruction, or improvement of a
structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the
market value of the structure either:
   A.   Before the improvement or repair is started, or
   B.   If the structure has been damaged and is being restored, before the
damage occurred.
For the purposes of this definition "substantial improvement" is considered to
occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other
structural part of the building commences, whether or not that alteration
affects the external dimensions of the structure. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-7-3: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Lands To Which This Chapter Applies: This chapter shall apply to all
areas designated on the map referred to in section
5-7-1 of this chapter designated as the floodplain overlay (FP) district.
   B.   Basis For Establishing The Areas Of Special Flood Hazard: The areas of
special flood hazard identified by the federal insurance administration in a
scientific and engineering report entitled the "Flood Insurance Study" for the
applicable jurisdiction, which is most current at the time of the adoption of
this title, with accompanying flood insurance maps, is hereby adopted by
reference and declared to be a part of this chapter. The "Flood Insurance
Study" is on file at the office of the county or city clerk. (Ord. 830, 8-6-
2002)
5-7-4: ESTABLISHMENT OF PERMIT AND ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Development Permit Required: A development permit shall be obtained
before construction or development begins within any area of special flood
hazard established in subsection
5-7-3B of this chapter. The permit shall be for all structures, including
manufactured homes, as set forth in the definitions, and for all development
including fill and other activities, also as set forth in the definitions.
   B.   Designation Of The Building Official: The building official is hereby
appointed to administer and implement this title by granting or denying
development permit applications in accordance with its provisions. This process
may be combined with any building permit process otherwise required by the
city.
   C.   Duties And Responsibilities Of The Administrator: Duties of the
administrator shall include, but not be limited to:
      1.   Permit Review:
         a.   Review all development permits to determine that the permit
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied.
         b.   Review all development permits to determine that all necessary
permits have been obtained from those federal, state or local governmental
agencies from which prior approval is required.
         c.   Review all development permits to determine if the proposed
development is located in the floodway. If located in the floodway, assure that
the encroachment provisions of subsection
5-7-5C1 of this chapter are met.
      2.   Use Of Other Base Flood Data: When base flood elevation data has not
been provided in accordance with subsection
5-7-3B, "Basis For Establishing The Areas Of Special Flood Hazard", of this
chapter, the administrator shall obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any
base flood elevation and floodway data available from a federal, state or other
source, in order to administer subsection
5-7-5B, "Specific Standards", and subsection
5-7-5C, "Floodways", of this chapter.
      3.   Information To Be Obtained And Maintained:
         a.   Where base flood elevation data is provided through the flood
insurance study or required as in subsection C2 of this section, obtain and
record the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new or substantially improved structures, and
whether or not the structure contains a basement.
         b.   For all new or substantially improved floodproofed structures:
            (1)   Verify and record the actual elevation (in relation to mean
sea level),
            (2)   Maintain the floodproofing certifications required in
subsection
5-7-5B of this chapter, and
            (3)   Maintain for public inspection all records pertaining to the
provisions of this chapter.
      4.   Alteration Of Watercourses:
         a.   Notify adjacent communities and the Idaho department of water
resources prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit
evidence of such notification to the federal insurance administration.
         b.   Require that maintenance is provided within the altered or
relocated portion of watercourse so that the flood carrying capacity is not
diminished.
      5.   Interpretation Of FIRM Boundaries: Make interpretations where
needed, as to exact location of the boundaries of the areas of special flood
hazard (for example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped
boundary and actual field conditions). The person contesting the location of
the boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the
interpretation. Such appeals shall be granted consistent with the standards of
section 60.6 of the rules and regulations of the national flood insurance
program (44 CFR 59-76). (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-7-5: PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION:
   A.   General Standards: In all areas of special flood hazard, the following
standards are required:
      1.   Anchoring:
         a.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure.
         b.   All manufactured homes must likewise be anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse or lateral movement, and shall be installed using methods
and practices that minimize flood damage. Anchoring methods may include, but
are not limited to, use of over the top or frame ties to ground anchors
(reference FEMA's "Manufactured Home Installation In Flood Hazard Areas"
guidebook for additional techniques).
      2.   Construction Materials And Methods:
         a.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
         b.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed using methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
         c.   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air conditioning
equipment and other service facilities shall be designed and/or otherwise
elevated or located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within
the components during conditions of flooding.
      3.   Utilities:
         a.   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system;
         b.   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems and
discharge from the systems into floodwaters; and
         c.   On site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid
impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
      4.   Subdivision Proposals:
         a.   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage;
         b.   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and
constructed to minimize flood damage;
         c.   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided
to reduce exposure to flood damage; and
         d.   Where base flood elevation data has not been provided or is not
available from another authoritative source, it shall be generated for
subdivision proposals and other proposed developments which contain at least
fifty (50) lots or five (5) acres (whichever is less).
      5.   Review Of Building Permits: Where elevation data is not available
either through the flood insurance study or from another authoritative source
(subsection
5-7-4C2 of this chapter), applications for building permits shall be reviewed
to assure that proposed construction will be reasonably safe from flooding. The
test of reasonableness is a local judgment and includes use of historical data,
high water marks, photographs of past flooding, etc., where available. Failure
to elevate at least two feet (2') above grade in these zones may result in
higher insurance rates.
   B.   Specific Standards: In all areas of special flood hazard where base
flood elevation data has been provided as set forth in subsection
5-7-3B, "Basis For Establishing The Areas Of Special Flood Hazard" or
subsection
5-7-4C2, "Use Of Other Base Flood Data", of this chapter, the following
provisions are required:
      1.   Residential Construction:
         a.   New construction and substantial improvements of any residential
structure shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or above
base flood elevation.
         b.   Fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are subject to
flooding are prohibited, or shall be designed to automatically equalize
hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit
of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified
by a registered professional engineer or architect or must meet or exceed the
following minimum criteria:
            (1)   A minimum of two (2) openings having a total net area of not
less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding shall be provided.
            (2)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
(1') above grade.
            (3)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, or other
coverings or devices, provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters. Any residential structure shall have the lowest floor, including
basement, elevated to or above base flood elevation.
      2.   Nonresidential Construction: New construction and substantial
improvements of any commercial, industrial or other nonresidential structure
shall either have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to the level
of the base flood elevation; or, together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, shall:
         a.   Be floodproofed so that below the base flood level the structure
is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water.
         b.   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effect of buoyancy.
         c.   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect
that the design and methods of construction are in accordance with accepted
standards of practice for meeting provisions of this subsection based on their
development and/or review of the structural design. Such certifications shall
be provided to the administrator as set forth in subsection
5-7-4C3b of this chapter.
         d.   Nonresidential structures that are elevated, not floodproofed,
must meet the same standards for space below the lowest floor as described in
subsection B1b of this section.
         e.   Applicants floodproofing nonresidential buildings shall be
notified that flood insurance premiums will be based on rates that are one foot
(1') below the floodproofed level (e.g., a building constructed to the base
flood level will be rated as 1 foot below that level).
      3.   Manufactured Homes: All manufactured homes to be placed or
substantially improved within zones A1-30, AH and AE shall be elevated on a
permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of the manufactured home is at
or above the base flood elevation and be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system in accordance with the provisions of subsection A1b
of this section.
   C.   Floodways: Located within areas of special flood hazard established in
subsection
5-7-3B of this chapter are areas designated as floodways. Since the floodway is
an extremely hazardous area due to the velocity of floodwater which carries
debris, potential projectiles, and erosion potential, the following provisions
apply:
      1.   Prohibit encroachments, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements, and other development unless certification by a
registered professional engineer or architect is provided demonstrating that
encroachments shall not result in any increase in flood levels during the
occurrence of the base flood discharge.
      2.   If subsection C1 of this section is satisfied, all new construction
and substantial improvements shall comply with all applicable flood hazard
reduction provisions of this section. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-7-6: NONLIABILITY CLAUSE:
The granting of approval of any structure or use shall not constitute a
representation, guarantee or warranty of any kind or nature of the city or its
governing body or by any officer or employee thereof, of the practicality or
safety of any structure or use proposed and shall create no liability upon or
cause action against such public body, officer or employee for any damage that
may result pursuant thereto. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-7-7: RESTRICTIONS:
Restrictions regarding height, rear yards, side yards, front yard setback,
minimum lot area, signs, vision clearance and parking space shall be the same
as set forth in each specific district located within the floodplain overlay
zone area. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-7-8: PROHIBITED USES:
It shall be unlawful to erect, alter, maintain or establish in a floodplain
overlay zone any building, use or occupancy not permitted or allowed in the
foregoing provisions, except existing nonconforming uses may continue as herein
provided. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
CHAPTER 8
DESIGN REVIEW OVERLAY DISTRICT (DR)
(Rep. by Ord. 857, 11-15-2005)
CHAPTER 9
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS (PUD)
SECTION:
5-9-1: Purposes
5-9-2: Provisions Governing Planned Unit Development
5-9-3: Minimum Area
5-9-4: Uses Permitted
5-9-5: Ownership Requirements
5-9-6: Common Open Space
5-9-7: Utility Requirements
5-9-8: Increased Residential Density
5-9-9: Arrangement Of Commercial Uses
5-9-10: Arrangement Of Industrial Uses
5-9-11: Procedure For Approval Of Planned Unit Development
5-9-12: Preapplication Meeting
5-9-13: Contents Of Application For Approval Of Preliminary Development Plan
5-9-14: Procedure For Public Notice
5-9-15: Approval In Principle By Commission
5-9-16: Contents Of Application For Approval Of Final Development Plan
5-9-17: Recommendation By Commission
5-9-18: Action By Board Or Respective Council
5-9-19: Expiration Or Extension Of Approval Period
5-9-1: PURPOSES:
It shall be the policy to guide a major development of land construction by
encouraging planned unit development (PUD) to achieve the following:
   A.   A maximum choice of living environments by allowing a variety of
housing and building types and permitting an increased density per acre and a
reduction in lot dimensions, yards, building setbacks and acre requirements;
   B.   A more useful pattern of open space and recreation areas and, if
permitted as part of the project, more convenience in location of accessory
commercial uses, industrial uses and services;
   C.   A development pattern, which preserves and utilizes natural topography
and geological features, scenic vistas, trees and other vegetation and prevents
the disruption of natural drainage patterns;
   D.   A more efficient use of land than is generally achieved through
conventional development resulting in substantial savings through shorter
utilities and streets; and
   E.   A development pattern in harmony with land use density, transportation
and community facilities' objectives of the comprehensive plan. (Ord. 830, 8-6-
2002)
5-9-2: PROVISIONS GOVERNING PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT:
Whenever there is a conflict or difference between the provisions of this
chapter and those of the other chapters of this title, the provisions of this
chapter shall prevail. Subjects not covered by this chapter shall be governed
by the respective provisions found elsewhere in this title. (Ord. 830, 8-6-
2002)
5-9-3: MINIMUM AREA:
A PUD for the following principal uses shall contain an area of not less than:
   A.   Two (2) acres for residential development;
   B.   Two (2) acres for residential use with subordinate commercial or
industrial uses;
   C.   Two (2) acres for commercial use; and
   D.   Ten (10) acres for industrial use. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-9-4: USES PERMITTED:
All uses that may be allowed within the land use district are permitted within
a PUD. Also, up to ten percent (10%) of the gross land area may be directed to
other commercial, industrial, public and quasi-public uses that are not allowed
within the land use district; provided, there is a favorable finding by the
commission:
   A.   That the uses are appropriate with the residential uses;
   B.   That the uses are intended to serve principally the residents of the
PUD;
   C.   That the uses be located and so designed as to provide direct access to
a collector or an arterial street without creating congestion or traffic
hazards; and
   D.   That a minimum of fifty percent (50%) of the proposed residential
development occurs prior to the development of the related commercial or
industrial land uses. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-9-5: OWNERSHIP REQUIREMENTS:
An application for approval of a PUD may be filed by a property owner or a
person having an existing interest in the property to be included in the PUD.
The PUD application shall be filed by the holder(s) of an equitable interest in
such property.
Before approval is granted to the final development plan, the entire project
shall be under single ownership or control and legal title must be presented
with the final development plan. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-9-6: COMMON OPEN SPACE:
A minimum of ten percent (10%) of the gross land area developed in any
residential PUD project shall be reserved for common open space and
recreational facilities for the residents or users of the area being developed.
The required amount of common open space land reserved under a PUD shall either
be held in corporate ownership by owners of the project area for the use of
each owner who buys property within the development or be dedicated to the
public and retained as common open space for parks, recreation and related
uses. Public utility and similar easements and rights of way for watercourses
and other similar channels are not acceptable for common open space dedication
unless such land or right of way is usable as a trail or other similar purpose
and approved by the commission.
The responsibility for the maintenance of all open space shall be specified by
the developer before approval of the final development plan.
Every property developed under the PUD approach should be designated to abut
upon common open space or similar areas. A clustering of dwellings is
encouraged. In areas where townhouses are used, there shall be no more than
eight (8) townhouses in any contiguous group. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-9-7: UTILITY REQUIREMENTS:
Underground utilities, including telephone and electrical systems, are required
within the limits of all PUDs. Appurtenances to these systems, which can be
effectively screened, may be exempted from this requirement if the commission
finds that such exemption will not violate the intent or character of the
proposed PUD. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-9-8: INCREASED RESIDENTIAL DENSITY:
To provide for an incentive for quality PUD, the commission may authorize an
increased residential density of up to fifteen percent (15%) of the allowable
number of dwelling units. Character, identity and architectural and siting
variation incorporated in a development shall be considered cause for density
increases, provided these factors make a substantial contribution to the
objectives of the PUD which are as follows:
   A.   Landscaping (a maximum increase of 5 percent), streetscape, open spaces
and plazas, use of existing landscaping, pedestrianway treatment and
recreational areas;
   B.   Siting (a maximum increase of 5 percent), visual focal points, use of
existing physical features such as topography, view, sun and wind orientation,
circulation pattern, physical environment, variation in building setbacks and
building grouping (such as clustering); and
   C.   Design features (a maximum increase of 5 percent), street sections,
architectural styles, harmonious use of materials, parking areas broken by
landscaping features and varied use of housing types. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-9-9: ARRANGEMENT OF COMMERCIAL USES:
When PUD includes commercial uses, commercial buildings and establishments
shall be planned as groups having common parking areas and common ingress and
egress points in order to reduce the number of potential accident locations at
intersections. Planting screens or fences shall be provided on the perimeter of
the commercial areas abutting residential areas.
The plan of the project shall provide for the integrated and harmonious design
of buildings, and for adequate and properly arranged facilities for internal
traffic circulation, landscaping and such other features and facilities as may
be necessary to make the project attractive and efficient from the standpoint
of the adjoining and surrounding noncommercial areas.
All areas designed for future expansion or not intended for immediate
improvement or development shall be landscaped or otherwise maintained in a
neat and orderly manner. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-9-10: ARRANGEMENT OF INDUSTRIAL USES:
PUDs may include industrial uses if it can be shown that the development
results in a more efficient and desirable use of land.
Industrial uses and parcels shall be developed in parklike surroundings
utilizing landscaping and existing woodlands as buffers to screen lighting,
parking areas, loading areas or docks and/or outdoor storage of raw materials
or products. A planned industrial area shall provide for the harmony of
buildings and a compact grouping in order to economize in the provision of such
utility services as is required. Thoroughfares shall be kept to a minimum
throughout a planned industrial area in order to reduce through traffic.
Project side yards of forty feet (40') and a rear yard of fifty feet (50')
shall be required if the project is located adjacent to any residential uses.
All intervening spaces between the right of way line and project building line
and intervening spaces between buildings, drives, parking areas and improved
areas shall be landscaped with trees and plantings and properly maintained at
all times. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-9-11: PROCEDURE FOR APPROVAL OF PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT:
When the PUD also qualifies as a subdivision, the processing of the special use
permit and subdivision application shall occur at the same time. The granting
of a special use permit for PUD shall require a preapplication, the submission
of a preliminary development plan and approval by the commission of a final
development plan as specified within this title. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-9-12: PREAPPLICATION MEETING:
The developer shall meet with the administrator prior to the submission of the
preliminary development plan. The purpose of this meeting is to discuss early
and informally the purpose and effect of this title and the criteria and
standards contained herein, and to familiarize the developer with the
comprehensive plan, zoning ordinance, subdivision ordinance and such other
plans and ordinances as deemed appropriate. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-9-13: CONTENTS OF APPLICATION FOR APPROVAL OF PRELIMINARY DEVELOPMENT PLAN:
An application for preliminary PUD shall be filed with the administrator by a
property owner or person having existing interest in the property for which the
PUD is proposed. At a minimum, the application shall contain the following
information filed in triplicate:
   A.   Name, address and phone number of applicant;
   B.   Name, address and phone number of registered surveyor, registered
engineer and/or urban planner assisting in the preparation of the preliminary
development plan;
   C.   Legal description of property;
   D.   Description of existing use;
   E.   Zoning districts;
   F.   A vicinity map at a scale approved by the administrator showing
property lines, streets, existing and proposed zoning and such other items as
the commission may require to show the relationship of the PUD to the
comprehensive plan and to existing schools and other community facilities and
services;
   G.   A preliminary development plan at a scale approved by the administrator
showing topography at two foot (2') intervals; location and type of
residential, commercial and industrial land uses; layout, dimensions and names
of rights of way; utility easements; parks and community spaces; layout and
dimensions of lots and building setback lines; preliminary improvements
drawings showing water, sewer, drainage, electricity, telephone and natural gas
and such other characteristics as the commission deems necessary;
   H.   Proposed schedule for the development of the site; and
   I.   Evidence that the applicant has sufficient control over the land in
question to initiate the proposed development plan within two (2) years.
The application for preliminary PUD shall be accompanied by a written statement
by the developer setting forth the reasons why, in his opinion, the PUD would
be in the public interest. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-9-14: PROCEDURE FOR PUBLIC NOTICE:
The same provision for public hearing and legal notifications as required for
special use permits shall be followed. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-9-15: APPROVAL IN PRINCIPLE BY COMMISSION:
Within twenty eight (28) days after the public hearing the commission shall
review the preliminary development plan to determine if it is consistent with
the intent and purpose of this title; whether the proposed development advances
the general welfare of the community and neighborhood and whether the benefits,
combination of various land uses and the inter- relationship with the land uses
in the surrounding area justify the deviation from standard district
regulations. The commission's approval in principle of the preliminary
development plan shall be necessary before an applicant may submit a final
development plan. Approval in principle shall not be construed to endorse a
precise location of uses, configuration of parcels or engineering feasibility.
The commission shall consider the general standards and criteria applicable to
special use permits and subdivisions before approving in principle a
preliminary development plan. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-9-16: CONTENTS OF APPLICATION FOR APPROVAL OF FINAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN:
Upon approval in principle of the development plan, an application for approval
of the final development plan may be filed with the administrator by at least
one property owner or person having a presently existing interest in the
property for which the PUD is proposed. Each application shall be signed by the
applicant, attesting to the truth and exactness of all information supplied on
the application for final development plan. Each application shall clearly
state that the approval shall expire and may be revoked if construction on the
project has not begun within two (2) years from the date of issuance of the
approval. At a minimum, the application shall contain the following
information:
   A.   A survey of the proposed development site, showing the dimensions and
bearings of the property lines, area in acres, topography, existing features of
the development site; including major wooded areas, structures, streets,
easements, utility lines and land uses;
   B.   All the information required on the preliminary development plan; the
location of lots, location and proposed density of dwelling units,
nonresidential building intensity and land use considered suitable for adjacent
properties;
   C.   A schedule for the development of units to be constructed in
progression and a description of the design principles for buildings and
streetscapes; tabulation of the number of acres in the proposed project for
various uses; the number of housing units proposed by type; estimated
residential population by type of housing; estimated nonresidential population;
anticipated timing for each unit and standards for height, open space, building
density, parking areas, population density and public improvements proposed for
each unit of the development whenever the applicant proposes an exception from
standard zoning districts or other ordinances governing development;
   D.   Engineering feasibility studies and plans showing as necessary: water,
sewer, drainage, electricity, telephone and natural gas installations, waste
disposal facilities, street improvements and nature and extent of earthwork
required for site preparation and development;
   E.   Site plan showing building(s), various functional use areas,
circulation and their relationship;
   F.   Preliminary building plans, including floor plans and exterior
elevations;
   G.   Landscaping plans; and
   H.   Deed restrictions, protective covenants and other legal statements or
devices to be used to control the use, development and maintenance of the land,
and the improvements thereon, including those areas that are to be commonly
owned and maintained. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-9-17: RECOMMENDATION BY COMMISSION:
Within sixty (60) days after receipt of the final development plan, the
commission shall recommend to the board or respective council that the final
development plan be approved as presented, approved with supplementary
conditions or disapproved. The commission shall then transmit all papers
constituting the record and the recommendations to the board or respective
council.
The commission shall find that the facts submitted with the application and
presented to them establish that:
   A.   The proposed development can be initiated within two (2) years of the
date of approval;
   B.   Each individual unit of the development, as well as the total
development, can exist as an independent unit capable of creating an
environment of sustained desirability and stability or that adequate assurance
will be provided that such objective will be attained; the uses proposed will
not be detrimental to present or potential surrounding uses, but will have a
beneficial effect which would not be achieved under standard district
regulations;
   C.   The streets and thoroughfares proposed are suitable and adequate to
carry anticipated traffic, and increased densities will not generate traffic in
such amounts as to overload the street network outside the PUD;
   D.   Any proposed commercial development can be justified at the locations
proposed;
   E.   Any exception from standard district requirements is warranted by the
design and other amenities incorporated in the final development plan; in
accordance with the PUD and the adopted policy of the board or respective
council;
   F.   The area surrounding said development can be planned and zoned in
coordination and substantial compatibility with the proposed development;
   G.   The PUD is in general conformance with the comprehensive plan; and
   H.   The existing and proposed utility services are adequate for the
population densities and nonresidential uses proposed. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-9-18: ACTION BY BOARD OR RESPECTIVE COUNCIL:
Within sixty (60) days after receipt of the final recommendation of the
commission, the board or respective council shall either approve, approve with
supplementary conditions or disapprove the application as presented. Upon
granting or denying the application the board or respective council shall
specify:
   A.   The ordinance and standards used in evaluating the application;
   B.   The reason for approval or denial; and
   C.   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain a permit.
If the application is either approved or approved with conditions, the council
shall direct the administrator to issue zoning permits only in accordance with
the approved final development plan and the supplementary conditions attached
thereto. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-9-19: EXPIRATION OR EXTENSION OF APPROVAL PERIOD:
The approval of a final development plan for a PUD shall be for a period not to
exceed two (2) years to allow for preparation and recording of the required
subdivision plat and the development of the project. If no construction has
begun within two (2) years after approval is granted, the approval of the final
development plan shall be void. An extension of time limit or modification of
the approved final development plan may be granted if the commission finds that
such extension or modification is not in conflict with the public interest.
(Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
CHAPTER 10
NONCONFORMING USES
SECTION:
5-10-1: Intent
5-10-2: Incompatibility Of Nonconforming Uses
5-10-3: Avoidance Of Undue Hardship
5-10-4: Single Nonconforming Lots Of Record
5-10-5: Nonconforming Lots Of Record In Combination
5-10-6: Nonconforming Uses Of Structures Or Of Structures And Land In
Combination
5-10-7: Repairs And Maintenance
5-10-8: Uses Under Special Use Provisions Not Nonconforming Uses
5-10-1: INTENT:
It is the intent of this chapter to permit nonconforming uses to continue until
they are removed, but not to encourage their survival. It is further the intent
of this chapter that nonconforming uses shall not be enlarged upon, expanded or
extended, nor be used as grounds for adding other structures or uses prohibited
elsewhere in the same district. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-10-2: INCOMPATIBILITY OF NONCONFORMING USES:
Nonconforming uses are declared by this title to be incompatible with permitted
uses in the district in which such use is located. A nonconforming use shall
not be extended or enlarged after passage of this title by expansion of the
existing use or by alterations or additions to the existing buildings or
premises, or by the addition of other uses of a nature which would be generally
prohibited in the district in which such use is located. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-10-3: AVOIDANCE OF UNDUE HARDSHIP:
To avoid undue hardship, nothing in this title shall be deemed to require a
change in the plans, construction or designated use of any building on which
actual construction was lawfully begun prior to the effective date of adoption
of this title or adoption of a more restrictive amendment which would be
otherwise applicable to a previously permitted use and upon which actual
building construction has been carried on diligently. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-10-4: SINGLE NONCONFORMING LOTS OF RECORD:
In any district in which single-family dwellings are permitted, a single-family
dwelling and customary accessory buildings may be erected on any single lot of
record at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this title,
notwithstanding limitations imposed by the other provisions of this title. Such
lot must be in separate ownership and not of continuous frontage with other
lots in the same ownership (see section
5-10-5 of this chapter). This provision shall apply even though such lot fails
to meet the requirements for area or width, or both, that are generally
applicable in the district, provided that yard dimensions and requirements
other than those applying to area or width, or both, of the lot shall conform
to the regulations for the district in which such lot is located. (Ord. 830, 8-
6-2002)
5-10-5: NONCONFORMING LOTS OF RECORD IN COMBINATION:
If two (2) or more lots or a combination of lots and portions of lots with
continuous frontage in single ownership area of record at the time of passage
or amendment of this title and if all or part of the lots with no buildings do
not meet the requirements established for lot width and area, the lands
involved shall be considered to be an undivided parcel for the purpose of this
title and no portion of said parcel shall be used or sold in a manner which
diminishes compliance with lot width and area requirements established by this
title, nor any division of any parcel be made which creates a lot with a width
or area below the requirements stated in this title. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-10-6: NONCONFORMING USES OF STRUCTURES OR OF STRUCTURES AND LAND IN
COMBINATION:
If a lawful use involving individual structures, or a structure and land in
combination, exists at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this
title that would not be allowed in the district under the terms of this title,
the lawful use may be continued so long as it remains otherwise lawful, subject
to the following provisions:
   A.   An existing structure devoted to a use not permitted by this title in
the district in which it is located shall not be enlarged, extended,
constructed, reconstructed, moved or structurally altered except in changing
the use of the structure to a use permitted in the district in which it is
located;
   B.   A nonconforming use shall not be extended to occupy any additional land
area;
   C.   If no structural alterations are made, any nonconforming use of a
structure or structure and land may, upon the issuance of a special use permit
by the commission, be changed to another nonconforming use provided that the
commission shall find that the proposed use is at least as appropriate to the
district as the existing nonconforming use. In permitting such change, the
commission may require appropriate conditions and safeguards in accord with
other provisions of this title;
   D.   Any structure, or structure and land in combination, in or on which a
nonconforming use is superseded by a permitted use shall thereafter conform to
the regulations for the district, and the nonconforming use may not thereafter
be resumed;
   E.   When a nonconforming use of a structure, or structure and land in
combination, is discontinued or abandoned for more than two (2) years (except
when government action impedes access to the premises), the structure, or
structure and land in combination, shall not thereafter be used except in
conformity with the regulations of the district in which it is located; and
   F.   Where nonconforming use status applies to a structure, or a structure
and land in combination, removal or destruction of the structure shall
eliminate the nonconforming status of the land, and the nonconforming use shall
not be resumed. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-10-7: REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE:
On any nonconforming structure, or portion of a structure containing a
nonconforming use, work may be done on ordinary repairs or on repair or
replacement of nonbearing walls, fixtures, wiring or plumbing, provided that,
the cubic content existing when it became nonconforming shall not be increased.
Nothing in this section shall be deemed to prevent the strengthening or
restoring to a safe condition of any building or part thereof declared to be
unsafe by any official charged with protecting the public safety upon order of
such official. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-10-8: USES UNDER SPECIAL USE PROVISIONS NOT NONCONFORMING USES:
Any use which is permitted as a special use in a district under the terms of
this title shall not be deemed a nonconforming use in such a district, but
shall, without further action, be considered a conforming use for the duration
of the special use permit. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
CHAPTER 11
OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING FACILITIES REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
5-11-1: General Requirements
5-11-2: Parking Standards
5-11-3: Loading Standards
5-11-4: General Standards For Parking And Loading Areas
5-11-5: General Interpretations
5-11-1: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   No building or structure shall be erected, substantially altered or its
use changed unless permanently maintained off street parking and loading spaces
have been provided in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   The provisions of this chapter, except where there is a change of use,
shall not apply to any existing building or structure. Where the use of an
existing building or structure is changed, there shall be provided as many such
spaces as may be required by this chapter.
   C.   Whenever a building or structure constructed after the effective date
hereof is changed or enlarged in floor area, number of employees, number of
dwelling units, seating capacity or otherwise, to create a need for an increase
in the number of existing parking spaces, additional parking spaces shall be
provided on the basis of the enlargement or change. Whenever a building or
structure existing prior to the effective date hereof is enlarged to the extent
of fifty percent (50%) or more in floor area, number of employees, number of
housing units, seating capacity or otherwise, said building or structure shall
then and thereafter comply with the full parking requirements set forth
therein. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
   D.   Except for residential uses and other uses that require all night
parking, the requirements of this chapter shall not apply to buildings and uses
located within a historical district as designated by the city council. (Ord.
837, 3-4-2003)
5-11-2: PARKING STANDARDS:
   A.   The following regulations shall govern the location of off street
parking spaces and areas:
      1.   Parking spaces for all detached residential uses shall be located on
the same parcel as the use which they are intended to serve;
      2.   Parking spaces for commercial, industrial or institutional uses
shall be located not more than five hundred feet (500') from the principal use
if such parking is on the same parcel or a contiguous parcel and not more than
three hundred feet (300') if the parking spaces are located on a noncontiguous
parcel; and
      3.   Parking spaces for apartments, dormitories or similar residential
uses shall be located not more than three hundred feet (300') from the
principal use.
   B.   For the purpose of this chapter the following parking space
requirements shall apply:
Type Of Use Parking Spaces Required
Type Of Use                              Parking Spaces Required
Commercial
 Automobile service garages which also  1 for each 2 gasoline pumps and 3 for
  provide repair                         each service bay
 Banks, financial institutions and      1 for each 250 square feet of public
  similar uses                           floor area
  Funeral parlors, mortuaries and        1 for each 100 square feet of floor
 similar type uses                      area in slumber rooms, parlors or
                                         service rooms
 Hotels, motels                         1 for each sleeping room, plus 1 space
                                         for each 2 employees
 Offices, public or professional        1 for each 400 square feet of floor
  administration or service buildings    area
 Retail stores                          1 for each 250 square feet retail
                                         floor area
  All other types of business or         1 for each 300 square feet of floor
 commercial uses permitted in any       area
  business district
Institutional
                                         1 for each 5 seats. For areas having
                                         fixed benches or pews, the occupant
 Churches and other places of religious load shall be not less than the number
  assembly                               of seats based on 1 person for each 18
                                         inches of length of pew or bench in
                                         the main area of occupancy
 Hospitals                              1 for each bed
 Libraries, museums and art galleries   1 for each 400 square feet of floor
                                         area
                                         1 for each 200 square feet of floor
 Medical and dental clinics             area of examination, treating room,
                                         office and waiting room
  Sanitariums, homes for the aged,
 nursing homes, children homes, asylums 1 for each 2 beds
  and similar uses
Manufacturing
  All types of manufacturing, storage,   1 for every 2 employees (on the
 and wholesale uses permitted in any    largest shift for which the building
  manufacturing district                 is designed), plus 1 for each motor
                                         vehicle used in the business
                                         1 for every 2 employees (on the
 Express, parcel delivery and freight   largest shift for which the building
  terminal                               is designed), plus 1 for each motor
                                         vehicle maintained on the premises
Recreational Or Entertainment
 Auditoriums, sports arenas, theaters   1 for each 4 seats
  and similar uses
                                         2 for each alley or lane, plus 1
 Bowling alleys                         additional space for each 100 square
                                         feet of the area used for restaurant,
                                         cocktail lounge or similar use
 Dance floors                           1 for each 50 square feet of floor
                                         area used for the activity
 Dining rooms, restaurants, taverns,    1 for each 100 square feet of dining
  nightclubs, etc.                       floor area
                                         1 for every 4 seats (every 18 inches
 Outdoor athletic fields                of bleachers), but no less than 10 for
                                         each field
                                         1 for each 5 persons' capacity, plus 1
 Outdoor swimming pools                 for each 4 seats or 1 for each 30
  (public,community, or club)            square feet of floor area used for
                                         seating purposes, whichever is greater
 Skating rinks                          1 for each 100 square feet of floor
                                         area used for the activity
Residential
 Apartments, or multi-family dwelling   2 for each unit
  Boarding houses, rooming houses,       1 for each sleeping room or 1 for each
 dormitories and fraternity houses      permanent occupant
  which have sleeping rooms
 Manufactured home (mobile home)        2 for each unit
 Single-family or two-family dwelling   2 for each unit
Schools (Public, Parochial Or Private)
 Business, technical and trade schools  1 for each 2 students
 Colleges, universities                 1 for each 4 students
 Elementary and junior high schools     2 for each classroom and 1 for every 8
                                         seats in auditoriums or assembly halls
 High schools                           1 for every 8 students and 1 for each
                                         teacher and employee
 Kindergartens, childcare centers,      11/2 for each, but not less than 6 for
  nursery schools and similar uses       the building
 
   C.   Parking spaces and aisleways required by this chapter for the following
types of parking shall be sized as follows:
 
   Type                 Leng   Wid   Aisle
Parallel                23 feet   9 feet   12 feet
Diagonal 45 degree      15 feet   13 feet  13 feet
Diagonal 60 degree      18 feet   10 feet  17 feet
Perpendicular 90 degree 19 feet   9 feet   25 feet
 
(Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-11-3: LOADING STANDARDS:
   A.   The size of an off street loading space shall not be less than the
following, exclusive of platform and loading area:
      1.   Type A: Sixty five feet (65') in length, twelve feet (12') in width.
      2.   Type B: Thirty five feet (35') in length, twelve feet (12') in
width.
   B.   Off street loading spaces for commercial uses shall be provided in
accordance with the following table:
 
Gross Floor Area (Square Feet) Quantity And Type
10,000 to 20,000               1B
20,000 to 40,000               1B + 1A
40,000 to 100,000              2B + 2A
 
For each additional seventy five thousand (75,000) square feet or fraction
thereof, an additional type A space will be provided.
   C.   Convenient access to loading spaces from streets or alleys shall be
provided; they shall not be less than twelve feet (12') in width.
   D.   The off street loading spaces required for the uses mentioned shall not
project into the public right of way. In no case shall the required off street
loading spaces be part of the area used to satisfy the off street parking
requirements. Spaces shall not be located where their use would cause sight
obstructions at intersections.
   E.   Design and location of entrances and exits for required off street
loading areas shall be subject to review of the administrator. (Ord. 830, 8-6-
2002)
5-11-4: GENERAL STANDARDS FOR PARKING AND LOADING AREAS:
   A.   The owner of property used for parking and/or loading areas shall
maintain such area in good condition without holes and free of all
obstructions, trash and other debris.
   B.   All parking and loading areas shall provide for all weather use and
proper drainage of surface water to prevent the drainage of such water onto
adjacent properties or walkways.
   C.   Any parking area, which is intended to be used during nondaylight
hours, shall be properly illuminated to avoid accidents. Any lights used to
illuminate a parking lot shall be so arranged as to reflect the light away from
the adjoining property.
   D.   Any parking area shall be designed in such a manner that any vehicle
leaving or entering the parking area from or onto a public or private street
shall be traveling in a forward motion. Access driveways for parking areas or
loading spaces shall be located in such a way that any vehicle entering or
leaving such area shall be clearly visible by a pedestrian or motorist
approaching the access or driveway from a public or private street for a
reasonable distance considering the normal speed of such traffic.
   E.   Whenever a parking area is located in or adjacent to a residential
district, it shall be effectively screened on all sides which adjoin or face
any property used for residential purposes by an acceptably designed wall,
fence or planting screen. Such fence, wall or planting screen shall be not less
than four feet (4') or more than six feet (6') in height and shall be
maintained in good condition. The space between such fence, wall or planting
screen and the lot line of the adjoining premises in any residential district
shall be landscaped with grass, hardy shrubs or evergreen ground cover, and
maintained in good condition. In the event that terrain or other natural
features are such that the erection of such fence, wall or planting screen will
not serve the intended purpose, then no such fence, wall or planting screen and
landscaping shall be required.
   F.   Whenever a parking lot extends to a property line, wheel blocks or
other suitable devices shall be installed to prevent any part of a parked
vehicle from extending beyond the property line.
   G.   No part of any parking area for more than ten (10) vehicles shall be
closer than twenty feet (20') to any dwelling unit, school, hospital or other
institution for human care located on an adjoining lot unless separated by an
acceptably designed screen. If on the same lot with a one-family residence, the
parking area shall not be located within the front yard required for such
building. In no case shall any part of a parking area be closer than four feet
(4') to any established street or alley right of way.
   H.   The parking of a disabled vehicle within a residential or commercial
district for a period of more than two (2) weeks shall be prohibited, unless
such vehicle is stored in an enclosed garage or other accessory building.
   I.   Two (2) or more nonresidential users may jointly provide and use
parking spaces when their hours of operation do not normally overlap, provided
that a written agreement executed by each owner of the properties involved, and
duly recorded, establishes the unconditional right of each owner to use the
designated parking area during the permitted hours as long as each structure to
which the parking pertains remains in existence. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-11-5: GENERAL INTERPRETATIONS:
In the interpretation of this chapter, the following shall govern:
   A.   Parking spaces for other permitted or conditional uses not listed in
this chapter shall be determined by the administrator;
   B.   Fractional numbers shall be increased to the next whole number; and
   C.   Where there is an adequate public transit system or where for any other
reason parking demand is unusually low, then the parking space provisions cited
may be reduced proportionately by the commission. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
CHAPTER 12
ADMINISTRATION
SECTION:
5-12-1: General
5-12-2: Administrator
5-12-3: Commission Membership
5-12-4: Commission Organization, Rules And Expenditures
5-12-5: Duties Of Commission
5-12-6: Conflict Of Interest
5-12-1: GENERAL:
For the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this title, an administrator
and commission are hereby created. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-12-2: ADMINISTRATOR:
The city shall, as provided in this code, appoint an administrator to
administer this title. The administrator may be provided with the assistance of
such other persons as the city may direct.
For the purpose of this title, the administrator shall have the following
duties:
   A.   Advise interested persons of the zoning ordinance provisions;
   B.   Notify the news media regarding matters of public interest;
   C.   Aid applicants in the preparation and expedition of required
application;
   D.   Issue zoning permits, provide required notifications and such similar
administrative duties;
   E.   Investigate all violations of this title and notify in writing the
persons or entities responsible for such violations, ordering the action
necessary to correct such violations; and
   F.   Assist the commission and council in carrying out the provisions of
this title. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-12-3: COMMISSION MEMBERSHIP:
   A.   City Planning And Zoning Commission: The commission shall consist of
not less than five (5) nor more than nine (9) voting members, all appointed by
the mayor and confirmed by a majority vote of the city council. An appointed
member of a commission must have resided in the county for two (2) years prior
to his appointment, and must remain a resident of the county during his service
on the commission. At least one but not more than two (2) of the members of the
commission shall reside within the city's area of impact. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
   B.   Number And Term: A separate ordinance establishing a planning and
zoning commission to exercise the powers under this title shall set forth the
number of members to be appointed. The term of office for members shall be not
less than three (3) years. Members may be reappointed to additional terms as
deemed necessary by the city council. (Ord. 857, 11-15-2005)
   C.   Vacancies: Vacancies occurring otherwise than through the expiration of
terms shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointment. Members
may be removed for cause by a majority vote of the city council.
   D.   Member Selection; Compensation: Members shall be selected without
respect to political affiliation and may receive such mileage and per diem
compensation as provided by the city council. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-12-4: COMMISSION ORGANIZATION, RULES AND EXPENDITURES:
   A.   Organization: The commission shall elect a chairman and fill any other
office that it may deem necessary. A commission may establish subcommittees,
advisory committees, hearing examiners, or neighborhood groups to advise and
assist in carrying out the responsibilities. A commission may appoint nonvoting
ex officio advisors as may be deemed necessary.
   B.   Rules, Records And Meetings: Written organization papers or bylaws
consistent with this title and other laws of the state for the transaction of
business of the commission shall be adopted. A record of meetings, hearings,
resolutions, studies, findings, permits and actions taken shall be maintained.
All meetings and records shall be open to the public. At least one regular
meeting shall be held each month for not less than nine (9) months in a year. A
majority of voting members of the commission shall constitute a quorum.
   C.   Expenditures And Staff: With approval of the city council, the
commission may receive and expend funds, goods and services from the federal
government or agencies and instrumentalities of state or local governments or
from civic and private sources and may contract with these entities and provide
information and reports as necessary to secure aid. Expenditures by a
commission shall be within the amounts appropriated by the city council. Within
such limits, any commission is authorized to hire employees and technical
advisors, including, but not limited to, planners, engineers, architects and
legal assistants. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-12-5: DUTIES OF COMMISSION:
For the purpose of this title the commission shall have the following duties:
   A.   May initiate proposed amendments to this title and conduct an annual
review of the complete zoning ordinance;
   B.   Review all proposed amendments to this title and make recommendations
to the city council;
   C.   Review all planned unit developments and make recommendations to the
city council;
   D.   Grant special use permits as specified in the official schedule of
district regulations and under the conditions as herein specified with such
additional safeguards as will uphold the intent of this title;
   E.   Hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is an error in any
order, requirement, decision, interpretation or determination made by the
administrator; and
   F.   Authorize such variances from the terms of this title as will not be
contrary to the public interest where, owing to the special conditions, a
literal enforcement of this title will result in unnecessary hardship, and so
that the spirit of this title shall be observed and substantial justice done.
(Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-12-6: CONFLICT OF INTEREST:
A member or employee of the city council or commission shall not participate in
any proceeding or action when the member or employee or his employer, business
partner, business associate or any person related to him by affinity or
consanguinity within the second degree has an economic interest in the
procedure or action. Any actual or potential interest in any proceeding shall
be disclosed at or before any meeting at which the action is being heard or
considered. A knowing violation of this section shall be a misdemeanor. (Ord.
830, 8-6-2002)
CHAPTER 13
ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
5-13-1: Zoning Review Required
5-13-2: Contents Of Application
5-13-3: Zoning Review
5-13-4: Expiration Of Zoning Review Approval
5-13-5: Exemption From Zoning Review/Building Permit
5-13-6: Certificate Of Occupancy
5-13-7: Temporary Certificate Of Occupancy
5-13-8: Statement Of Intent To Declare A Manufactured Home Real Property
5-13-9: Record Of Zoning Permits And Certificates Of Occupancy
5-13-10: Failure To Obtain A Zoning Review Or Certificate Of Occupancy
5-13-11: Construction And Use To Be As Provided In Applications, Plans, Permits
And Certificates
5-13-12: Complaints Regarding Violations
5-13-13: Penalties
5-13-14: Schedule Of Fees, Charges And Expenses
5-13-15: Special Requirements For Issuance Of Building Permits
5-13-1: ZONING REVIEW REQUIRED:
No building or other structure may be erected, moved, added to or structurally
altered, nor shall any building, structure, or land be established or changed
in use without review and approval by the zoning administrator.
Prior to approval of any building permit, the building official will request a
review by the zoning administrator of the associated building permit
application by the zoning administrator, who will determine whether proposed
use in the building permit application is in compliance with the city's zoning
laws. The review will be conducted as provided in section
5-13-3 of this chapter. (Ord. 13-501, 2-26-2013)
5-13-2: CONTENTS OF APPLICATION:
The application for zoning permit shall be signed by the owner or applicant
attesting to the truth and exactness of all information supplied on the
application. Each application shall clearly state that the permit shall expire
and be considered revoked if work has not begun within one hundred eighty (180)
days from the date the permit was issued. At a minimum, the application shall
contain the following information:
   A.   Name, address and phone number of applicant and name, address and phone
number of owner if applicant is not the owner;
   B.   Legal description of property;
   C.   Existing use;
   D.   Proposed use;
   E.   Zoning district;
   F.   Plan, drawn to scale, showing the actual dimensions and the shape of
the lot to be built upon; the exact size and location of existing buildings on
the lot, if any; and the location and dimensions of the proposed building(s) or
alterations;
   G.   Building heights;
   H.   Number of off street parking spaces or loading spaces;
   I.   Number of dwelling units;
   J.   Proposed sewer, water and electrical facilities; and
   K.   Such other matters as may be necessary to determine conformance with,
and provision for, the enforcement of this title. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-13-3: ZONING REVIEW:
Within twenty eight (28) days after the receipt of a request for review as set
forth in section
5-13-1 of this chapter, the administrator shall either approve or disapprove
the application in conformance with the provisions of this title. Any approval
by the zoning administrator shall, however, be conditional upon the
commencement of work within one hundred eighty (180) days. If the proposed use
is not in compliance with the city's zoning laws, the zoning administrator will
determine what is required and advise the building official. Any recommendation
by the zoning administrator that the building permit not be issued because of
lack of compliance with the city's zoning laws shall be in writing and may be
hand delivered, mailed or sent by e-mail to the building official. The building
official shall advise the applicant of such determination. (Ord. 13-501, 2-26-
2013)
5-13-4: EXPIRATION OF ZONING REVIEW APPROVAL:
If the work described in the building permit for which there was a zoning
review under sections
5-13-1 and
5-13-3 of this chapter has not begun within one hundred eighty (180) days from
the date of issuance of the building permit, said zoning review approval shall
expire and be considered revoked by the zoning administrator. No written notice
of expiration or revocation need be given to the persons affected. (Ord. 13-
501, 2-26-2013)
5-13-5: EXEMPTION FROM ZONING REVIEW/BUILDING PERMIT:
Structures or buildings constructed and located in an agricultural zone on a
parcel that meets the below definition for agricultural exemption, will only be
required to obtain a siting permit in lieu of a building permit. (Ord. 830, 8-
6-2002)
A parcel or tract of land that is more than five (5) contiguous acres, and is
actively devoted to agriculture is eligible for an agricultural exemption when
meeting the following criteria:
   A.   It is used to produce field crops including, but not limited to,
grains, feed crops, fruits and vegetables; or
   B.   It is used to produce nursery stock as defined in Idaho Code section
22-2302; or
   C.   It is used by the owner for the grazing of livestock to be sold as part
of a net profitmaking enterprise, or is leased by the owner to a bona fide
lessee for grazing purposes; or
   D.   It is in a cropland retirement or rotation program; and
   E.   Is not a lot, tract or parcel within a subdivision or planned unit
development. (Ord. 837, 3-4-2003)
5-13-6: CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY:
It shall be unlawful to use or occupy or permit the use or occupancy of any
building or premises, or both, or part thereof thereafter created, erected,
changed, converted or wholly or partly altered or enlarged in its use or
structure until a certificate of occupancy shall have been issued therefor
stating that the proposed use of the building or land conforms to the
requirements of this title and with all conditional provisions that may have
been imposed. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-13-7: TEMPORARY CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY:
A temporary certificate of occupancy may be issued by the administrator for a
period not exceeding six (6) months during alterations or partial occupancy of
a building pending its completion. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-13-8: STATEMENT OF INTENT TO DECLARE A MANUFACTURED HOME REAL PROPERTY:
Pursuant to Idaho Code section 63-304, manufactured homes may be declared as
real property. A manufactured home may only be accepted as real property upon
the submittal of an application as prescribed by the state, properly completed,
signed and notarized and upon verification of compliance with all state and
local building codes and manufactured home installation standards. (Ord. 857,
11-15-2005)
5-13-9: RECORD OF ZONING PERMITS AND CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY:
The administrator shall maintain a record of all zoning permits and
certificates of occupancy, and copies shall be furnished upon request to any
person. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002; amd. Ord. 857, 11-15-2005)
5-13-10: FAILURE TO OBTAIN A ZONING REVIEW OR CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY:
Failure to obtain a zoning review or certificate of occupancy shall be a
violation of this title, and punished as a misdemeanor. (Ord. 13-501, 2-26-
2013)
5-13-11: CONSTRUCTION AND USE TO BE AS PROVIDED IN APPLICATIONS, PLANS, PERMITS
AND CERTIFICATES:
Zoning permits or certificates of occupancy issued on the basis of plans and
applications approved by the administrator authorize only the use and
arrangement set forth in such approved plans and applications or amendments
thereto, and no other use, arrangement or construction. Use, arrangement or
construction contrary to that authorized shall be deemed a violation of this
title. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002; amd. Ord. 857, 11-15-2005)
5-13-12: COMPLAINTS REGARDING VIOLATIONS:
Whenever a violation of this title occurs, or is alleged to have occurred, any
person may file a written complaint. Such complaint stating fully the causes
and basis thereof shall be filed with the administrator. The administrator
shall properly record such complaint and immediately investigate and take
action thereon as provided by this title. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002; amd. Ord. 857,
11-15-2005)
5-13-13: PENALTIES:
The county attorney or respective city attorney may, in addition to taking
whatever criminal action deemed necessary, take steps to civilly enjoin any
violation of this title. Penalties for failure to comply with or violations of
the provisions of this title shall be as follows:
   Violation of any of the provisions of this title or failure to comply with
any of its requirements shall constitute a misdemeanor and shall be subject to
a fine not exceeding three hundred dollars ($300.00) and to imprisonment not
exceeding thirty (30) days or both such fine and imprisonment. Each day such
violation continues shall be considered a separate offense. The landowner,
tenant, subdivider, builder, public official or any other person who commits,
participates in, assists in or maintains such violation may be found guilty of
a separate offense. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the council or any
other public official or private citizen from taking such lawful action as is
necessary to restrain or prevent any violation of this title or the Idaho Code.
(Ord. 857, 11-15-2005)
5-13-14: SCHEDULE OF FEES, CHARGES AND EXPENSES:
The city council, by resolution, shall establish a schedule of fees, charges
and expenses and a collection procedure for zoning permits, amendments,
appeals, variances, special use permits, plan approvals and other matters
pertaining to the administration and enforcement of this title requiring
investigations, inspections, legal advertising, postage and other expenses. The
schedule of fees shall be posted in the office of the administrator, and may be
altered or amended only by the city council. Until all applicable fees, charges
and expenses have been paid in full, no action shall be taken on any
application or appeal. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002; amd. Ord. 857, 11-15-2005)
5-13-15: SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ISSUANCE OF BUILDING PERMITS:
The following are requirements dealing with providing utility hookups and
payment of hookup fees prior to the issuance of a zoning/building permit:
   A.   It shall be unlawful to request or demand from any utility, private or
public, the connection of power to any structure, house, building,
installation, including manufactured homes, for which a building permit is
required, without first displaying to said utility or other company a valid
building permit.
   B.   Each utility, private or public, receiving such a request for
connection of utilities without compliance with the terms of this section,
shall promptly notify the city.
   C.   No building permit shall be issued for any structures located within
the corporate limits of the cities which would require public services without
verification that the appropriate hookup fees or deposits have been paid.
   D.   Manufactured home parks (mobile home parks) shall not allow a unit to
be connected to utilities without verification that a building permit has been
issued as required by state law and local ordinances.
   E.   No building permit shall be issued for structures utilizing private
septic systems without first obtaining a subsurface sewage permit from the
applicable health authority. (Ord. 09-507, 9-1-2009)
CHAPTER 14
APPEAL, VARIANCE AND ACTION BY AFFECTED PERSONS
SECTION:
5-14-1: General
5-14-2: Administrative Appeals
5-14-3: Stay Of Proceedings
5-14-4: Variance
5-14-5: Application And Standards For Variances
5-14-6: Supplementary Conditions And Safeguards
5-14-7: Public Hearing
5-14-8: Variance Procedure In City Areas Of Impact
5-14-9: Action By Commission
5-14-10: Notification Of Applicant
5-14-11: Appeal To Board Or Respective Council
5-14-12: Request For Hearing By Affected Persons
5-14-13: Application And Standards For Appeals
5-14-14: Mediation
5-14-1: GENERAL:
The commission shall consider administrative appeals: a) alleging that an error
has been made by the administrator, b) applications for variances from the
terms of this title, and c) requests for hearings from affected persons. (Ord.
830, 8-6-2002)
5-14-2: ADMINISTRATIVE APPEALS:
Appeals to the commission concerning interpretation or administration of this
title may be taken by any person aggrieved or by any officer or bureau of the
legislative authority affected by any decision of the administrator. Such
appeal shall be taken within twenty eight (28) days after the decision of the
administrator by filing with the administrator and with the commission a notice
of appeal specifying the grounds upon which the appeal is being taken. The
administrator shall transmit to the commission all the papers constituting the
record upon which the appeal is based. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-14-3: STAY OF PROCEEDINGS:
An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action taken unless the
administrator certifies to the commission after the notice of appeal is filed
with him that by reason of facts stated in the application, a stay would, in
his opinion, cause imminent peril to life and property. In such case,
proceedings shall not be stayed other than by a restraining order which may be
granted by the commission or by a court based upon an application, with notice
to the administrator showing due cause. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-14-4: VARIANCE:
The commission may authorize in specific cases such variance from the terms of
this title as will not be contrary to the public interest where, owing to
special conditions, a literal enforcement of the provisions of this title would
result in unnecessary hardship. No nonconforming use of the neighboring lands,
structures or buildings in the same district and no permitted or nonconforming
use of lands, structures or buildings in other districts shall be considered
grounds for issuance of a variance. Variances shall not be granted on the
grounds of convenience or profit, but only where strict application of the
provisions of this title would result in unnecessary hardship. (Ord. 830, 8-6-
2002)
5-14-5: APPLICATION AND STANDARDS FOR VARIANCES:
A variance from the terms of this title shall not be granted by the commission
unless and until a written application for a variance is submitted to the
administrator and the commission containing:
   A.   Name, address and phone number of applicant;
   B.   Legal description of property;
   C.   Description of nature of variance requested; and
   D.   A narrative statement demonstrating that the requested variance
conforms to the following standards:
      1.   That special conditions and circumstances exist which are not
applicable to other lands, structures or buildings in the same district;
      2.   That a literal interpretation of the provisions of this title would
deprive the applicant of rights commonly enjoyed by other properties in the
same district under the terms of this title;
      3.   That special conditions and circumstances do not result from the
actions of the applicant; and
      4.   That granting the variance requested will not confer on the
applicant any special privilege that is denied by this title to other lands,
structures or buildings in the same district.
A variance shall not be granted unless the commission makes specific findings
of fact based directly on the particular evidence presented to it, which
supports conclusions that the above mentioned standards and conditions have
been met by the applicant. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-14-6: SUPPLEMENTARY CONDITIONS AND SAFEGUARDS:
Under no circumstances shall the commission grant an appeal or variance to
allow a use not permissible under the terms of this title in the district
involved, or any use expressly or by implication prohibited by the terms of
this title in said district. In granting any appeal or variance, the commission
may prescribe appropriate conditions and safeguards in conformity with this
title. Violation of such conditions and safeguards, when made a part of the
terms under which the appeal or variance is granted, shall be deemed a
violation of this title. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-14-7: PUBLIC HEARING:
Upon receipt of the application for an appeal or a variance, the commission
shall hold a public hearing, publish notice in a newspaper and give written
notice to all parties as required for special use permits. (See section
5-15-7 of this title.) (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-14-8: VARIANCE PROCEDURE IN CITY AREAS OF IMPACT:
In cases where the parcel or property involved in the variance application is
located in an area of city impact, the applicable city shall have thirty (30)
days to review the application. The purpose of this review is to allow the city
time to review and evaluate the application with respect to the possible impact
on the city or compliance with the city's ordinances and comprehensive plan. If
the city deems that thirty (30) days is inadequate for a thorough review, it
may be granted a thirty (30) day extension upon written request.
After the review, the city shall make a recommendation to the Minidoka County
commission to approve, conditionally approve, postpone decision for additional
information or disapprove the request for variance. Upon making a
recommendation the commission shall specify:
   A.   The ordinance and standards used in evaluating the application;
   B.   The reasons for the specific recommendation; and
   C.   The recommended actions, if any, that the applicant could take to
obtain a permit. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-14-9: ACTION BY COMMISSION:
Within twenty eight (28) days after the public hearing the commission shall
approve, conditionally approve, postpone decision for further study or
disapprove the request for appeal or variance. Upon granting or denying an
application the commission shall specify:
   A.   The ordinance and standards used in evaluating the application;
   B.   The reasons for approval or denial; and
   C.   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain a permit.
(Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-14-10: NOTIFICATION OF APPLICANT:
Within seven (7) days after a decision has been rendered, the administrator
shall provide the applicant with written notice of the action on the request.
(Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-14-11: APPEAL TO BOARD OR RESPECTIVE COUNCIL:
The applicant or any affected persons who appeared in person or in writing
before the commission may appeal the decision of the commission to the board or
respective council provided the appeal is submitted to the council within
fourteen (14) days from the date of the commission's action. Upon receipt of an
appeal from the action of the commission, the board or respective council shall
set a hearing date to consider all information, testimony and commission's
minutes of the public hearing to reach decision. The board or respective
council may overrule the commission by a favorable vote of a simple majority of
the full board or respective council. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-14-12: REQUEST FOR HEARING BY AFFECTED PERSONS:
An "affected person" shall mean one having an interest in real property, which
may be adversely affected by the issuance or denial of a permit authorizing the
development.
Any affected person may at any time prior to final action on rezone, special
use, or variance permit, if no hearing has been held on the application,
petition the commission or board or respective council, in writing, to hold a
hearing as required in section
5-14-7 of this chapter. Upon petition for a hearing, the hearing shall be held.
After a hearing, the commission, board or respective city council may:
   A.   Grant or deny a permit; or
   B.   Delay such a decision for a definite period of time for further study
or hearing not to exceed sixty (60) days. (Ord. 09-507, 9-1-2009)
5-14-13: APPLICATION AND STANDARDS FOR APPEALS:
An administrative appeal or a decision of the commission shall not be
considered until an appeal is submitted in writing to the administrator and/or
board or applicable city council containing:
   A.   Name, address and phone number of appellant;
   B.   Legal description of property;
   C.   Description of nature of the appeal requested;
   D.   A narrative statement demonstrating legal basis and reason for the
appeal; and
   E.   Applicable fee as established by the board or applicable city council.
Any decision as a result of an appeal becomes valid when the specific findings
of fact based directly on the particular evidence presented to it, is approved
and signed. (Ord. 09-507, 9-1-2009)
5-14-14: MEDIATION:
   A.   Application For Mediation: Mediation may be requested in writing by any
applicant, an affected person, the mayor, the city council, the planning and
zoning commission, any department head of the city, a planning and zoning
commission member or member of the city council as to any decision of the
planning and zoning commission or council with respect to any decision of the
city council under this title, at any time prior to filing of a lawsuit with
the district court.
   B.   Mediation Session: The applicant and any party or parties objecting to
the application shall participate in at least one mediation session, if
mediation is requested by any party referred to in subsection A of this
section, except as herein provided. City council shall select the mediator and
shall pay the expense of mediation for the first meeting among mediating
parties, if the mediation has been requested by the city council or the city's
planning and zoning commission. If mediation is not requested by the city
council or the planning and zoning commission, or in the case of subsequent
sessions of the mediation when the city council or planning and zoning
commission requested mediation, compensation of the mediator shall be
determined among each party participating in the mediation prior to or at the
outset of the first mediation. If not so determined, then the city council may
require the parties to the mediation to share the costs as it determines. A
party requesting mediation, other than the city council or the city's planning
and zoning commission, shall at the time of request of mediation tender to the
city clerk in full the estimated mediator's fees for one session of mediation
as determined by the city clerk as a condition of going forward with the
mediation. Such prepayment is without prejudice to the parties or city council
determining which parties shall actually bear the cost of the meditation as
above provided.
   C.   Participation: If the first mediation session has been requested by the
planning and zoning commission or by the city council, all parties to the
controversy shall be required to participate in at least one session of
mediation as a condition precedent to other relief. However, an applicant may
decline to participate in mediation which has been requested by an affected
person and an affected person may decline to participate in a mediation
requested by the applicant. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002; amd. Ord. 09-507, 9-1-2009)
   D.   Time Limitation: Upon request for mediation, any time limitation shall
be tolled. Such tolling shall cease when the first of any of the following
occurs:
      1.   When the applicant or any affected person(s) has participated in at
least one mediation session and states in writing that no further participation
by that party is desired the person making such statement is obligated to serve
or deliver a copy of same to all parties entitled to notice; or
      2.   Upon receipt by the city as well as the applicant or affected person
of a written refusal by the applicant or affected person to mediate when such
person is not obligated to mediate as herein provided. The party declining to
mediate shall have the obligation of giving notice of same to all parties to
whom notice should be given; or
      3.   Upon notice of a request for mediation where no mediation session is
scheduled for at least twenty eight (28) days from the date of such a request.
(Ord. 09-507, 9-1-2009)
   E.   Public Hearing: A public hearing shall be held before city council
where a resolution through mediation occurs following a final decision on an
application made the basis of such mediation.
   F.   Not Part Of Official Record: The mediation process shall not be part of
the official record regarding consideration of the application upon which the
mediation is based. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002; amd. Ord. 09-507, 9-1-2009)
CHAPTER 15
SPECIAL USE
SECTION:
5-15-1: General
5-15-2: Contents Of Application For Special Use Permit
5-15-3: General Standards Applicable To All Special Uses
5-15-4: Public Sites And Open Spaces
5-15-5: Supplementary Conditions And Safeguards
5-15-6: Transfer Of Special Use Permits
5-15-7: Procedure For Hearing And Notice
5-15-8: Special Requirements For Hearings In The County
5-15-9: Special Use Permit Application Procedure In City Area Of Impact
5-15-10: Action By The Commission
5-15-11: Notification To Applicant
5-15-12: Appeal To City Council
5-15-1: GENERAL:
It is recognized that an increasing number of new kinds of uses are appearing,
and that many of these and some other conventional uses possess characteristics
of such unique and special nature relative to location, design, size, method of
operation, circulation and public facilities that each specific use must be
considered individually.
The commission shall hold a public hearing on each special use permit
application as specified in the schedule of regulations. The commission may
approve, conditionally approve or deny a special use permit under the
conditions herein specified and such additional safeguards as will uphold the
intent of this title. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-15-2: CONTENTS OF APPLICATION FOR SPECIAL USE PERMIT:
An application for special use permit shall be filed with the administrator by
at least one owner or lessee of property for which such special use is
proposed. At a minimum, the application shall contain the following: (Ord. 09-
507, 9-1-2009)
   A.   Name, address and phone number of applicant and name, address and phone
number of owner, if applicant is not the owner;
   B.   Legal description of property;
   C.   Description of existing use;
   D.   Zoning district;
   E.   Description of proposed special use; (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
   F.   A plan drawn to an approved scale of the proposed site for the special
use showing the location of all buildings, parking and loading area, traffic
access and traffic circulation, open spaces, landscaping, refuse and service
areas, utilities, signs, yards and such other information as the commission may
require to determine if the proposed special use meets the intent and
requirements of this title; and (Ord. 09-507, 9-1-2009)
   G.   A narrative statement evaluating the effect on adjoining property, the
effect of such elements as noise, glare, odor, fumes and vibration on adjoining
property, a discussion of the general compatibility with adjacent and other
properties in the district, and the relationship of the proposed use to the
comprehensive plan. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-15-3: GENERAL STANDARDS APPLICABLE TO ALL SPECIAL USES:
The commission shall review the particular facts and circumstances of each
proposed special use in terms of the following standards and shall find
adequate evidence showing that such use at the proposed location:
   A.   Will in fact, constitute a special use as established on the official
schedule of district regulations for the zoning district involved;
   B.   Will be harmonious with and in accordance with general objectives or
with any specific objective of the comprehensive plan and/or the zoning
ordinance;
   C.   Will be designed, constructed, operated and maintained to be harmonious
and appropriate in appearance with the existing or intended character of the
general vicinity and that such use will not change the essential character of
the same area;
   D.   Will not be hazardous or disturbing to existing or future neighboring
uses;
   E.   Will be served adequately by essential public facilities and services
such as highways, streets, police and fire protection, drainage structures,
refuse disposal, water and sewer and schools, or the persons or agencies
responsible for the establishment of the proposed use shall provide adequately
any such services;
   F.   Will not create excessive additional requirements at public cost for
public facilities and services and will not be detrimental to the economic
welfare of the community;
   G.   Will not involve uses, activities, processes, materials, equipment and
conditions of operation that will be detrimental to any persons, property or
the general welfare by reason of excessive production of traffic, noise, smoke,
fumes, glare or odors;
   H.   Will have vehicular approaches to the property which shall be so
designed as not to create an interference with traffic on surrounding public
thoroughfares; and
   I.   Will not result in the destruction, loss or damage of a natural, scenic
or historic feature of major importance. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-15-4: PUBLIC SITES AND OPEN SPACES:
Public sites and open spaces shall conform to the following:
   A.   Public Uses: Where it is determined that a proposed park, playground,
school or other public use as shown on the future acquisition map, as
authorized in section 67-6517, Idaho Code, is located in whole or in part
within a proposed development the commission shall notify the appropriate
public agency concerning the land proposed to be acquired. Within thirty (30)
days of the date of notice, the public agency may request the governing body to
suspend consideration of the permit for sixty (60) days from the date of the
request; however, if an agreement is not reached within sixty (60) days the
commission shall resume consideration of the special use application.
   B.   Natural Features: Existing natural features which add value to
residential development and enhance the attractiveness of the community (such
as trees, watercourses, historic spots and similar irreplaceable assets) shall
be preserved in the design of the development.
   C.   Special Developments: In the case of planned unit developments and
large scale developments the commission shall require sufficient park or open
space facilities of acceptable size, location and site characteristics that may
be suitable for the proposed development. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-15-5: SUPPLEMENTARY CONDITIONS AND SAFEGUARDS:
In granting any special use, the commission may prescribe appropriate
conditions, bonds and safeguards in conformity with this title. Violations of
such conditions, bonds or safeguards, when made a part of the terms under which
the special use permit is granted, shall be deemed a violation of this title
and may be subject to revocation of said permit. (Ord. 857, 11-15-2005)
5-15-6: TRANSFER OF SPECIAL USE PERMITS:
Special use permits will transfer with the change of ownership of the property
unless prohibited by specific condition(s) of the permit. Prohibition or
special provisions for transfer of permit may be specified as conditions of
permit approval. (Ord. 857, 11-15-2005)
5-15-7: PROCEDURE FOR HEARING AND NOTICE:
Prior to granting a special use permit, at least one public hearing in which
interested persons shall have an opportunity to be heard shall be held. At
least fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing notice of the time and place and a
summary of the proposal shall be published in the official newspaper or paper
of general circulation within the jurisdiction. Notice may also be made
available to other newspapers, radio and television stations serving the
jurisdiction for use as a public service announcement. Notice shall be posted
on the premises not less than one week prior to the hearing. Notice shall also
be provided to property owners or purchasers of record within three hundred
feet (300') of the external boundaries of the land being considered, and any
additional area that may be substantially impacted by the proposed special use
as determined by the commission. When notice is required to two hundred (200)
or more property owners or purchasers of record, in lieu of the mailing
notification, two (2) notices in the newspaper or paper of general circulation
is sufficient; provided, the second notice appears ten (10) days prior to the
public hearing. If notice is given to fewer than two hundred (200) property
owners or purchasers of record, notice shall be by regular first class mail
with postage prepaid to the address shown on the rolls of the county tax
collector at the time of mailing. An agent from the respective jurisdiction who
mails the notices shall file a certificate with the commission secretary
showing the date of mailing and listing the names and addresses to which the
notice was sent. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002; amd. Ord. 857, 11-15-2005)
5-15-8: SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS FOR HEARINGS IN THE COUNTY:
In cases where the parcel or property involved in the special use application
is located outside any of the incorporated city limits the following additional
hearing requirements shall apply:
   A.   If the parcel borders on or is close to a city limits, notice shall be
provided to property owners or purchasers of record located in the city limits
within three hundred feet (300') of the external boundaries of the land being
considered. In addition notice shall be provided to property owners or
purchasers of record located outside the city limits within one-half (1/2) mile
of the external boundaries of the land being considered;
   B.   If the parcel is completely outside and at least three hundred feet
(300') from a city limits, notice shall be provided to property owners or
purchasers of record located outside the city limits within one-half (1/2) mile
of the external boundaries of the land being considered; and
   C.   If the parcel is completely outside and at least three hundred feet
(300') from a city limit and if the application is for a commercial or
industrial livestock confinement operation, notice shall be provided to
property owners or purchasers of record located outside the city limits within
one mile of the external limits of the confinement operation considered. (Ord.
830, 8-6-2002; amd. Ord. 857, 11-15-2005)
5-15-9: SPECIAL USE PERMIT APPLICATION PROCEDURE IN CITY AREA OF IMPACT:
In cases where the parcel or property involved in the special use permit
application is located in a city's area of impact, the city shall have thirty
(30) days to review the application. The purpose of this review is to allow the
city time to review and evaluate the application with respect to the possible
impact on the city or compliance with the city's ordinances and comprehensive
plan. If the city deems that thirty (30) days is inadequate for a thorough
review, it may be granted a thirty (30) day extension upon written request.
After the review, the city shall make a recommendation to the county commission
to approve, conditionally approve, postpone decision for additional information
or disapprove the request for the special use permit. Upon making a
recommendation the commission shall specify:
   A.   The ordinance and standards used in evaluating the application;
   B.   The reasons for the specific recommendation; and
   C.   The recommended actions, if any, that the applicant could take to
obtain a permit. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002; amd. Ord. 857, 11-15-2005)
5-15-10: ACTION BY THE COMMISSION:
   A.   Within twenty eight (28) days after the public hearing, the commission
shall either approve, conditionally approve, postpone decision for further
study or disapprove the application as presented. If the application is
approved or approved with modifications, the commission shall direct the
administrator to issue a special use permit listing the specific conditions
specified by the commission for approval.
   B.   Upon granting of a special use permit, conditions may be attached to a
special use permit, including, but not limited to, those:
      1.   Minimizing adverse impact on other development;
      2.   Controlling the sequence and timing of development;
      3.   Controlling the duration of development;
      4.   Assuring that development is maintained properly;
      5.   Designating the exact location and nature of development;
      6.   Requiring the provision for on site public facilities or services;
      7.   Requiring more restrictive standards than those generally required
in an ordinance; and
      8.   Limiting duration of the special use permit and requiring
termination of the use upon expiration of the permit.
   C.   Prior to granting a special use permit, the commission may request
studies from the planning staff or public agencies concerning social, economic,
fiscal and environmental effects of the proposed special use. A special use
permit is not transferable from one parcel of land to another. Upon granting or
denying an application the commission shall specify:
      1.   The ordinance and standards used in evaluating the application;
      2.   The reasons for approval or denial; and
      3.   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain a
permit. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002; amd. Ord. 857, 11-15-2005)
5-15-11: NOTIFICATION TO APPLICANT:
Within seven (7) days after a decision has been rendered the administrator
shall provide the applicant with written notice of the action on the request.
(Ord. 830, 8-6-2002; amd. Ord. 857, 11-15-2005)
5-15-12: APPEAL TO CITY COUNCIL:
The applicant or any affected person who appears in person or in writing before
the commission may appeal the decision of the commission to the city council
provided the appeal is submitted to the city council within fourteen (14) days
from the commission's action. Upon receipt of an appeal from the action of the
commission, the city council shall set a hearing date to consider all
information, testimony and the commission's minutes of the public hearing to
reach a decision to uphold, conditionally uphold or overrule the decision of
the commission. The city council may overrule, amend, approve or conditionally
approve that action of the commission or remand the matter back to the
commission by a simple majority of the quorum of the city council. (Ord. 830,
8-6-2002; amd. Ord. 857, 11-15-2005)
CHAPTER 16
AMENDMENTS
SECTION:
5-16-1: General
5-16-2: Initiation Of Zoning Amendments
5-16-3: Contents Of Application
5-16-4: Transmittal To Commission
5-16-5: Commission Public Hearing
5-16-6: Recommendation By Commission
5-16-7: Action By City Council
5-16-8: Special Requirements For Hearings In The County
5-16-9: Amendment Or Rezone Procedure In City Area Of Impact
5-16-10: Resubmission Of Application
5-16-1: GENERAL:
Whenever the public necessity, convenience, general welfare or good zoning
practices require, the city council may, by ordinance after receipt of
recommendation thereon from the commission and subject to procedures provided
by law, amend, supplement, change or repeal the regulations, restrictions and
boundaries or classification of property. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-16-2: INITIATION OF ZONING AMENDMENTS:
Amendments to this title may be initiated in one of the following ways:
   A.   By adoption of a motion by the commission;
   B.   By adoption of a motion by the city council; and
   C.   By the filing of an application by a property owner or a person who has
existing interest in property within the area proposed to be changed or
affected by said amendment. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-16-3: CONTENTS OF APPLICATION:
Applications for amendments to the official zoning map adopted as part of this
title shall contain at least the following information:
   A.   Name, address and phone number of applicant;
   B.   Proposed amending ordinance, approved as to form by the city attorney;
   C.   Present land use;
   D.   Present zoning district;
   E.   Proposed use;
   F.   Proposed zoning district;
   G.   A vicinity map at a scale approved by the administrator showing
property lines, thoroughfares, existing and proposed zoning and such other
items as the administrator may require;
   H.   A list of all property owners and their mailing addresses who are
within three hundred feet (300') of the external boundaries of the land being
considered;
   I.   A statement on how the proposed amendment relates to the comprehensive
plan, availability of public facilities and compatibility with the surrounding
area and quantifiable data that will verify that rezoning would not cause
economic, social or physical stress on existing uses of surrounding areas; and
   J.   A fee as established by the council. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-16-4: TRANSMITTAL TO COMMISSION:
Zoning districts shall be amended in the following manner:
   A.   Requests for an amendment to the zoning ordinance shall be submitted to
the commission, which shall evaluate the request to determine the extent and
nature of the amendment requested;
   B.   If the request is in accordance with the adopted comprehensive plan,
the commission may recommend and the city council may adopt or reject the
ordinance amendment under the notice and hearing procedures as herein provided;
and
   C.   If the request is not in accordance with the adopted comprehensive
plan, the request shall be submitted to the commission, which may recommend and
the council may adopt or reject an amendment to the comprehensive plan under
the notice and hearing procedures provided in section 67-6509 of the Idaho
Code. After the comprehensive plan has been amended, the zoning ordinance may
then be amended as hereinafter provided for. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-16-5: COMMISSION PUBLIC HEARING:
The commission shall hold a public hearing and make recommendations on proposed
zoning amendments. Zoning amendments may consist of text or map revisions.
   A.   Zoning Ordinance Text Amendment: The commission, prior to recommending
a zoning ordinance text amendment to the city council shall conduct at least
one public hearing in which interested persons shall have an opportunity to be
heard. At least fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing, notice of time and
place and the amendment shall be published in the official newspaper or paper
of general circulation within the jurisdiction. Following the commission's
hearing, if the commission makes a material change from what was presented at
the public hearing, further notice and hearing shall be provided before the
commission forwards the amendment with its recommendation to the city council.
   B.   Zoning Ordinance Map Amendment: The commission, prior to recommending a
zoning ordinance map amendment that is in accordance with the comprehensive
plan to the city council shall conduct at least one public hearing in which
interested persons shall have an opportunity to be heard. At least fifteen (15)
days prior to the hearing, notice of time and place of hearing and an accurate
summary of the amendment shall be published in the official newspaper or paper
of general circulation within the jurisdiction. Additional notice shall be
provided by mail to property owners and residents on the land being considered,
owners and residents within three hundred feet (300') of the external
boundaries of the land being considered, and any owners and residents of
additional areas that may be impacted by the proposed change as determined by
the commission. A copy of the notice shall be posted on the subject property at
least one week prior to the hearing. When notice is required to two hundred
(200) or more property owners or residents, in lieu of the mail notification
two (2) notices in the official newspaper or paper of general circulation is
sufficient, provided that the second notice appears ten (10) days prior to the
public hearing. If the notice is given to fewer than two hundred (200) property
owners or purchasers of record, notice shall be by regular first class mail
with postage prepaid to the address shown on the rolls of the county tax
collector at the time of mailing. The city zoning commission agent who mails
the notices shall file a certificate with the commission secretary showing the
date of mailing and listing the names and addresses to which the notice was
sent.
   C.   Material Change: Following the commission's hearing, if the commission
makes material change from what was presented at the public hearing, further
notice and hearing shall be provided before the commission forwards the
amendment with its recommendation to the city council. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-16-6: RECOMMENDATION BY COMMISSION:
Within seventy (70) days from the receipt of the proposed amendment, the
commission shall transmit its recommendation to the city council. The
commission may recommend a modification of the amendment requested, or it may
recommend that the amendment be denied. The commission shall ensure that any
favorable recommendations for amendments are in accordance with the
comprehensive plan and established goals and objectives. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-16-7: ACTION BY CITY COUNCIL:
The city council, prior to adopting, revising or rejecting the amendment to the
zoning ordinance as recommended by the commission shall conduct at least one
public hearing using the same notice and hearing procedures as the commission.
Following the city council hearing, if the city council makes a material change
from what was presented at the public hearing, further notice and hearing shall
be provided before the city council adopts the amendment.
The city council shall accept the recommendation of the commission's report
unless rejected by a vote of a simple majority of the full city council.
Upon granting or denying an application to amend the zoning ordinance, the city
council shall specify:
   A.   The ordinance and standards used in evaluating the application;
   B.   The reasons for approval or denial; and
   C.   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain an
amendment to the ordinance or a permit to use the applicant's property in the
way which the applicant seeks if a means exists to obtain such permit.
In the event the city council shall approve an amendment, such amendment shall
thereafter be made part of this title upon the preparation and passage of an
ordinance. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-16-8: SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS FOR HEARINGS IN THE COUNTY:
In cases where the parcel or property involved in the rezone or map amendment
application is located outside any of the incorporated city limits the
following additional hearing requirements shall apply:
   A.   If the parcel borders on or is close to a city limits, notice shall be
provided to property owners or purchasers of record located in the city limits
within three hundred feet (300') of the external boundaries of the land being
considered. In addition notice shall be provided to property owners or
purchasers of record located outside the city limits within one-half (1/2) mile
of the external boundaries of the land being considered;
   B.   If the parcel is completely outside and at least three hundred feet
(300') from a city limits, notice shall be provided to property owners or
purchasers of record located outside the city limits within one-half (1/2) mile
of the external boundaries of the land being considered; and
   C.   If the parcel is completely outside and at least three hundred feet
(300') from a city limit and if the application is for a commercial or
industrial livestock confinement operation, notice shall be provided to
property owners or purchasers of record located outside the city limits within
one mile of the external limits of the confinement operation considered. (Ord.
830, 8-6-2002)
5-16-9: AMENDMENT OR REZONE PROCEDURE IN CITY AREA OF IMPACT:
In cases where the parcel or property involved in the amendment or rezone
application is located in an area of city impact, the applicable city shall
have thirty (30) days to review the application. The purpose of this review is
to allow the city time to review and evaluate the application with respect to
the possible impact on the city or compliance with the city's ordinances and
comprehensive plan. If the city deems that thirty (30) days is inadequate for a
thorough review, it may be granted a thirty (30) day extension upon written
request.
After the review, the city shall make a recommendation to the county commission
to approve, conditionally approve, postpone decision for additional information
or disapprove the request for the amendment or rezone. Upon making a
recommendation the commission shall specify:
   A.   The ordinance and standards used in evaluating the application;
   B.   The reasons for the specific recommendation; and
   C.   The recommended actions, if any, that the applicant could take to
obtain a permit. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-16-10: RESUBMISSION OF APPLICATION:
No application for a reclassification of any property which has been denied by
the board shall be resubmitted in either substantially the same form or with
reference to substantially the same premises for the same purpose within a
period of one year from the date of such final action, unless there is an
amendment in the comprehensive plan which resulted from a change in conditions
as applying to the specific property under consideration. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
CHAPTER 17
CONFINED ANIMAL FEEDING OPERATION REGULATIONS
SECTION:
5-17-1: General, Scope, And Applicability
5-17-2: Definitions
5-17-3: Application Requirements And Procedure
5-17-4: Existing Confined Animal Feeding Operations
5-17-5: Location, Separation And Setbacks
5-17-6: Performance Standards
5-17-7: Building Permits And Certificate Of Occupancy
5-17-8: Procedure For Hearing
5-17-9: Administrative Approval
5-17-10: Revision Of Operating Permit
5-17-11: Enforcement And Termination
5-17-12: Permit Application Fees
5-17-1: GENERAL, SCOPE, AND APPLICABILITY:
   A.   General: The specific provisions of this chapter have been implemented
by the city of Rupert as an accommodation to Minidoka County but the uses
herein described and regulated are not permitted in the city of Rupert. The
provisions of this chapter are minimum standards and any more restrictive
standards required by other local, state and/or federal laws, rules and/or
regulations must be complied with.
   B.   Classes Of Confined Animal Feeding Operations: Confined animal feeding
operations are classified in the different levels as established in this
chapter and chapter 2 of this title.
   C.   Scope And Applicability: Confined animal feeding operations subject to
the requirements of this chapter include all new operations or expanding
existing operations, which meet the definition of a "confined animal feeding
operations" as defined in this title.
      1.   Commercial And Industrial Confined Animal Feeding Operation: Any
owner and/or operator of a commercial or industrial confined animal feeding
operation shall, prior to the commencement of any such confinement operation,
secure an operating permit for such operation from the Minidoka County planning
and zoning commission, pursuant to the procedure set forth in this title. Such
permit shall be required for all commercial or industrial confined animal
feeding operations, including those operations that are considered
nonconforming uses of record upon expansion or increase of the size of
operation. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
      2.   Domestic Confined Animal Feeding Operation: Any owner and/or
operator of a domestic confined animal feeding operation may obtain an
operating permit for such confinement operation from the Minidoka County
planning and zoning commission, pursuant to the procedure set forth in this
title. All domestic confined animal feeding operations shall comply with
section
5-17-5 of this chapter, whether or not a CAFO permit has been obtained. (Ord.
857, 11-15-2005)
      3.   Building Permit: Any owner and/or operator of a confined animal
feeding operation shall obtain a building permit prior to the construction of
any permanent structures associated with a confined animal feeding operation
except as exempted in section
5-13-5 of this title. Such construction shall be issued by the Minidoka County
building inspector upon approval of a livestock confinement application by the
planning and zoning commission. (Ord. 09-507, 9-1-2009)
5-17-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, certain terms, phrases, or words used herein
shall be defined as follows (these definitions are also included in chapter 2
of this title):
ANIMAL UNIT EQUIVALENTS: All livestock shall have the following animal unit
equivalents:
Dairy cattle:                                  
 Holsteins      Milking and dry cows          1.4 AU
 Jerseys        Milking and dry cows          1.0 AU
 Others         1,000 lb. of live body weight 1.0 AU
                 100 lb. to 300 lb.            0.2 AU
                 300 lb. to 500 lb.            0.4 AU
  Heifers        500 lb. to 700 lb.            0.6 AU
                 700 lb. to 900 lb.            0.8 AU
                 900 lb. to 1,000 lb.          1.0 AU
                 100 lb. to 300 lb.            0.2 AU
Beef cattle -    300 lb. to 500 lb.            0.4 AU
slaughter/feeder 500 lb. to 700 lb.            0.6 AU
                 700 lb. to 900 lb.            0.8 AU
                 900 lb. to 1,000 lb.          1.0 AU
Swine:                                         
 Boars          1,000 lb. of live body weight 1.0 AU
 Sows           1,000 lb. of live body weight 1.0 AU
 Pigs           55 lb. to market              0.5 AU
 Pigs           up to 55 lb.                  0.25 AU
Sheep/lambs      Each                          0.1 AU
Horse                                         1.25 AU
Chickens:                                      
 Layers         Each                          0.033 AU
 Boilers        Each                          0.033 AU
 Turkeys        Each                          0.18 AU
 Ducks          Each                          0.02 AU
 
For species not specifically identified: 1,000 lb. of live body weight = 1.0
AU.
CAFO: See definition of Confined Animal Feeding Operations.
COMMERCIAL CONFINED ANIMAL FEEDING OPERATION: A contiguous parcel of land upon
which there is one or more livestock confinement areas, and upon which there
are confined more than two hundred (200) but less than one thousand (1,000)
livestock animal equivalent units of large livestock or more than one thousand
five hundred (1,500) but less than fifteen thousand (15,000) units of fowl and
furbearers.
COMMERCIAL FEEDLOT-STOCKYARD: See definition of Commercial Confined Animal
Feeding Operation or Industrial Confined Animal Feeding Operation.
CONFINED ANIMAL FEEDING OPERATION, EXISTING: The use of any premises as a
confined animal feeding operation which does not conform to the regulations of
this title, but which was in existence at the effective date hereof.
CONFINED ANIMAL FEEDING OPERATIONS: The use of real property for the keeping,
stabling, feeding, confinement and maintenance of livestock, except where such
livestock are fed exclusively on growing range or pasturage when one or more of
the following conditions will exist:
   A.   Livestock operations or facilities that confine, stable, feed or
maintain one hundred (100) or more total animal units or operations located on
twenty (20) acres or less with more than five (5) animal units per acre.
   B.   Livestock operations that consist of one hundred (100) to one thousand
(1,000) animal units that stable or confine and feed or maintain for a total of
one hundred twenty (120) days or more in any twelve (12) month period and
crops, vegetation forage growth, or postharvest residues are not sustained in
the normal growing season over any portion of the lot or facility.
   C.   Livestock operations that consist of one thousand (1,000) animal units
or more that stable or confine and feed or maintain for a total of forty five
(45) days or more in any twelve (12) month period and crops, vegetation forage
growth, or postharvest residues are not sustained in the normal growing season
over any portion of the lot or facility.
Confined animal feeding operation shall include barns, sheds, feed storage
facilities as well as corrals, lagoons, and parking, feed and waste storage
areas. Operations located on properties that are not contiguous shall be
treated as separate operations. Also known as livestock confinement operation
or LCO, but for the purpose of this title shall be referred to as confined
animal feeding operation or CAFO. The three (3) classifications of confined
animal feeding operations are domestic, commercial and industrial and are
separately defined in this chapter.
DAIRY: See definition of Industrial Confined Animal Feeding Operation,
Commercial Confined Animal Feeding Operation or Domestic Confined Animal
Feeding Operation.
DOMESTIC CONFINED ANIMAL FEEDING OPERATION: A contiguous parcel of land upon
which there is one or more livestock confinement areas, and upon which there
are confined at least twenty five (25) but no more than two hundred (200)
livestock animal equivalent units of large livestock and/or at least five
hundred (500) but no more than one thousand five hundred (1,500) units of fowl
and/or furbearers.
FEEDLOT: See definition of Industrial Confined Animal Feeding Operation,
Commercial Confined Animal Feeding Operation or Domestic Confined Animal
Feeding Operation.
FOWL: Chickens, ducks, geese, pheasants, partridge, guinea hens, peacocks, or
other similar domesticated birds excluding ostriches and emus.
FURBEARERS: Mink, fox, beaver, otter, or other similar domesticated animals.
INDUSTRIAL CONFINED ANIMAL FEEDING OPERATION: A contiguous parcel of land upon
which there is one or more confinement areas, and upon which there are confined
two thousand (2,000) or more livestock animal equivalent units of large
livestock or fifteen thousand (15,000) or more units of fowl and furbearers.
LCO: Livestock confinement operation.
LAGOONS, WASTE: Ponds or other facilities designed and used for the storage of,
or as a waste treatment system for liquid or semiliquid waste, waste products
or wastewater for confined animal feeding operations. For the purpose of this
title waste lagoons do not include facilities such as berms, banks, trenches,
ponds or other storm runoff containment systems designed strictly for the
occasional or seasonal rain or snow melt runoff of livestock confinement areas.
LIQUID WASTE: A liquid substance containing any wastewater, waste or waste
products, separately or in combination.
LIVESTOCK: Fowl, furbearers, cattle, dairy animals, swine, sheep, goats,
horses, mules, llamas, ostriches, emus, and other similar domesticated animals
including their offspring.
LIVESTOCK CONFINEMENT AREA: A structure or area of land within which livestock
are confined for a period of more than forty eight (48) hours during any seven
(7) consecutive days.
LIVESTOCK CONFINEMENT OPERATION: See definition of Confined Animal Feeding
Operation. Also known as LCO, but for the purpose of this title shall be
referred to as confined animal feeding operations or CAFO.
LIVESTOCK, LARGE: Cattle, dairy animals, swine, sheep, goats, horses, llamas,
mules, donkeys, ostriches, emus and other similar domesticated animals,
including their offspring.
OCCUPIED RESIDENTIAL USE: A "residential use" defined in chapter 2 of this
title, which has actual residential habitation by one or more persons during
the preceding three (3) years.
ODOR: The presence in the outdoor atmosphere of any contaminant or combination
thereof in such quantity, nature and duration and under such conditions as
would be injurious to human health or welfare, to animal or plant life, or to
property, or to interfere unreasonably with the enjoyment of life or property.
ODOR ABATEMENT: The reduction or elimination of odors present in the ambient
air.
ODOR ABATEMENT PLAN: A written plan prepared by the owner/applicant stating
methods and practices to be used to minimize or eliminate odors.
PEST ABATEMENT: The reduction or elimination of pests such as, but not limited
to, flies, insects, rodents, etc.
PEST ABATEMENT PLAN: A written plan prepared by the owner/applicant stating
methods and practices to be used to minimize or eliminate pests.
SITING ADVISORY TEAM ("TEAM"): A team comprised of representatives from the
Idaho state department of agriculture (ISDA), Idaho division of environmental
quality (IDEQ), Idaho department of water resources (IDWR), and an official
designee of Minidoka County. The siting advisory team may invite
representatives of the state universities of Idaho and following federal
agencies, U.S. environmental protection agency (EPA), U.S. natural resources
conservation service (NRCS), U.S. geological survey (USGS), and the United
States department of agricultural research services (USDA), to participate as
advisor and/or consultants to the team.
STORM RUNOFF CONTAINMENT: The storage facility that intercepts precipitation
runoff of a corral(s) based on the requirement for a 25-year, 24-hour storm
event only. This does not include wastewater.
WASTE: Waste normally associated with animal feeding operations, which may
include waste products, wastewater and feed residues.
WASTE PRODUCTS: Organic waste matter such as urine and/or feces.
WASTE TREATMENT SYSTEM: The process, area, or mechanism employed for the
retention, storage and treatment of liquid or solid wastes.
WASTEWATER: Water that has been used for washing, flushing, or in a
manufacturing process, which also contains waste products. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-17-3: APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS AND PROCEDURE:
An application for a livestock confinement operating permit shall be filed with
the office of the administrator upon a form prescribed by the administrator and
approved by the board. At a minimum the application shall contain the
following:
   A.   Name, address, and telephone number of the operator and name, address
and telephone number of owner if different than operator.
   B.   Legal description and address of the property including the acreage.
   C.   A full description of the present use of the property including the
present zoning of property.
   D.   The proposed animal capacity of the operation and the type of animals
to be confined.
   E.   For expansion of an existing operation, the existing or previous
capacity of the operation and the type of animals that had been confined.
   F.   A narrative statement describing the confined animal feeding operation
including a complete description of the facilities and their capacities.
   G.   A map including surface contours, soil depths and types, size and
location of drainage points of the CAFO site obtained from the USDA natural
resource conservation service or other source. Changes to the existing contours
shall be shown on a separate contour map prepared by an engineer or land
surveyor licensed in the state of Idaho.
   H.   A vicinity map showing the following information within one mile of the
exterior boundaries of the proposed operation:
      1.   Location of all residences.
      2.   Location and use of all other buildings.
      3.   Location of all public, domestic, or irrigation wells.
      4.   Location of monitoring and injection wells and seep tunnels of
record.
      5.   Irrigation canals, laterals and ditches.
      6.   Rivers, streams, springs, reservoirs and wetlands.
      7.   Flood zones if applicable.
      8.   Other confined animal feeding operations.
   I.   The site plan submitted with said application shall comply with and
include the following:
      1.   Dimensions, size and location of any existing or proposed buildings
or additions, including setback measurements.
      2.   Dimensions, size and location of all, but not limited to, feed
storage areas, livestock confinement areas, waste storage areas and water
wells.
      3.   The CAFO's location and distance from canals, ditches, injection
wells and sink holes.
      4.   Traffic access and public roads or highways.
      5.   The location and placement of area lighting fixtures.
      6.   The site plan shall indicate planned expansion areas, future
construction sites and all other proposed aspects of the CAFO as herein
mentioned. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
      7.   The site plan shall be prepared a minimum size of eighteen by twenty
four inches (18 x 24") and drawn to a scale approved by the administrator.
(Ord. 837, 3-4-2003)
   J.   Waste system design plan for solid and liquid waste approved by the
appropriate agency of the state of Idaho.
   K.   Nutrient management plan.
   L.   A characterization of the proposed CAFO and any land application site
(s) owned, leased, operated or contracted by the applicant, which land is part
of the nutrient management plan and includes the following information:
      1.   Annual precipitation as contained in the Idaho waste management
guidelines.
      2.   Soil characteristics from NRCS.
      3.   Hydrogeological factors from IDWR, ISDA, and USGS including:
         a.   Depth to first water yielding zone and first encountered water,
         b.   Direction of ground water movement and gradient,
         c.   Sources of estimated recharge,
         d.   Seasonal variations in water level and recharge characteristics,
         e.   Susceptibility to contamination, and
         f.   Ground water/surface water relationships.
      4.   Water quality data from IDEQ, ISDA, and USGS including:
         a.   Microorganisms (bacteria or single cell),
         b.   Nutrients, including, but not limited to, nitrates and
phosphorous, and
         c.   Pharmaceuticals and organic compounds.
   M.   Idaho department of water resources application and subsequent licensor
for water source and rights.
   N.   Pest and odor abatement plans.
   O.   Written comment on and the approval from the Minidoka County highway
district of ingress and egress points of the site.
   P.   Written comment on and the approval from the applicable local fire
protection district of roads on the site plan.
   Q.   Written comment on and the approval from the applicable irrigation
district with respect to the CAFO operation.
   R.   Siting advisory team report.
   S.   Application fee as established by resolution of the board. (Ord. 830,
8-6-2002)
5-17-4: EXISTING CONFINED ANIMAL FEEDING OPERATIONS:
   A.   General:
      1.   This title does not relieve any nonregistered confined animal
feeding operation of any requirements by other local, state or federal
ordinances and laws.
      2.   A confined animal feeding operation which has previously received
its approval and is in compliance with conditions of said approval need not
reapply under this title.
      3.   For the purpose of this chapter a nonconforming confined animal
feeding operation shall be one that does not conform to the regulations of this
chapter, but which was lawfully in existence at the time that this chapter went
into effect.
      4.   A nonconforming confined animal feeding operation may be changed to
a conforming use by meeting the requirements of this chapter.
      5.   A nonconforming confined animal feeding operation may make
improvements provided that the number of animal units does not increase, that
the improvements will be a benefit to the area, will improve operating and
maintenance practices of the facility, and improve the overall appearance of
the site.
      6.   Any improvements made to a nonconforming confined animal feeding
operation shall not increase in any manner a noncomplying existing condition of
the operation.
      7.   A confined animal feeding operation to be considered nonconforming
or existing shall provide proof of continuous operation and evidence of the
number of animal units at various stages of operation prior to the enactment of
this original ordinance.
      8.   A nonconforming confined animal feeding operation shall lose its
nonconforming or grandfather use rights if the operation ceases for more than
three (3) years.
      9.   An owner/operator may establish a new and/or different confined
animal feeding operation without bringing the nonconforming CAFO into
compliance. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
   B.   Expansion Of Existing Confined Animal Feeding Operations:
      1.   Nonconforming animal feeding operations shall not increase in size
or capacity without first conforming to the requirements of this chapter and
obtaining applicable approval for a confined animal feeding operation.
      2.   Upon establishment of the records for a nonconforming confined
animal feeding operation, an operation of one thousand (1,000) animal units or
less may apply for a one time expansion up to ten percent (10%) of the existing
operation but not to exceed a total of one thousand (1,000) animal units.
      3.   The expansion of a nonconforming confined animal feeding operation
will be allowed if it does not result in the required expansion of the lagoon
or runoff containment.
      4.   The expansion of a nonconforming confined animal feeding operation
shall not decrease the distance of any nonconforming setback without first
obtaining a variance by virtue of a signed notarized waiver of the affected
property owner.
      5.   Nonconforming animal feeding operations that request expansion
beyond the criteria set forth herein shall comply with the provisions and
approval process as set forth in this chapter. (Ord. 09-507, 9-1-2009)
   C.   Conversion Of Existing Livestock Confinement Operation: An existing
approved livestock confinement operation (LCO) permit may be converted to a new
confined animal feeding operation permit pursuant to the following conditions
and procedures:
      1.   The livestock confinement operation shall have been in continuous
operation with no period of ceased operations greater than three (3) years;
      2.   The conversion to a new CAFO permit shall not increase the operation
from domestic to commercial;
      3.   The approved number of animals approved in the original permit shall
be converted to the applicable animal units;
      4.   Waste management plans shall be brought to current standards and
requirements and be approved by the applicable Idaho state agency; and
      5.   An application for conversion of a livestock confinement operation
to a current confined animal feeding operation shall be submitted to the
administrator and reviewed and approved or denied by the Minidoka County
planning and zoning commission. (Ord. 857, 11-15-2005)
5-17-5: LOCATION, SEPARATION AND SETBACKS:
   A.   Existing Facilities: Existing facilities associated with a confined
animal feeding operation which do not meet the location, separation and setback
requirements of this chapter at the time of the adoption of this title shall be
exempt from said requirements, provided said facilities do not become an
inactive operation as set forth in section
5-17-4 of this chapter. Replacement of existing structures, or additions
thereto shall be subject to public road right of way setbacks as provided in
this title, but shall not be placed any closer to occupied residential uses.
   B.   Permitted Locations: New confined animal feeding operations shall be
allowed to locate as follows:
      1.   Permitted locations for all new confined animal feeding operations
shall be allowed only in zoning districts as set forth in the official schedule
of zoning regulations in section
5-5-2 of this title.
      2.   New industrial confined animal feeding operations shall not locate
within any of the city's areas of impact.
      3.   New industrial confined animal feeding operations shall not locate
within one mile of any of the city's corporate limits.
      4.   New commercial confined animal feeding operations shall be allowed
to locate within any of the city's areas of impact only within the proper
zoning district and with the granting of a special use approved by both the
city and county planning and zoning commissions.
   C.   Public Rights Of Way: All new structures and facilities shall be
subject to public road setback limitations, including confinement areas,
loading, off loading, and feed storage facilities as set forth in the official
height and area regulations in section
5-5-3 of this title. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
   D.   Separation From Residences And Other Buildings: All livestock
confinement areas, sewage lagoons, separators, solid waste storage and
composting facilities shall be located not less than the following distances
from occupied uses not associated with the confined animal feeding operation
including residential uses, churches, schools or other buildings used for human
occupancy, including mobile homes: (Ord. 09-507, 9-1-2009)
      1.   Domestic confined animal feeding operation: Five hundred feet
(500').
      2.   Commercial confined animal feeding operations: One thousand feet
(1,000').
      3.   Industrial confined animal feeding operations: One thousand three
hundred twenty feet (1,320').
   E.   Residential Encroachment:
      1.   No residential use, including mobile homes (not associated with the
confined animal feeding operation) shall be permitted upon any property where
the location of such residential use would encroach upon the separations
required of an approved confined animal feeding operation, which has a
construction or operating permit.
      2.   New residential subdivisions or planned unit developments proposed
after the effective date hereof shall be located no closer than one mile to any
approved industrial confined animal feeding operation.
   F.   Other Use Encroachment:
      1.   No commercial uses, churches, schools or other buildings used for
human occupancy shall be permitted upon any property where the location of such
use would encroach upon the separations required of an approved confined animal
feeding operation, which has a construction or operating permit.
      2.   New commercial subdivisions or planned unit developments proposed
after the effective date hereof shall be located no closer than one mile to any
approved industrial confined animal feeding operation.
   G.   Waste Lagoons:
      1.   Liquid waste treatment lagoons, separators, holding ponds, liquid
and/or solid waste storage facilities shall be a minimum of fifty feet (50')
away from the water's edge of any canal, lateral or ditch.
      2.   Liquid waste treatment lagoons, separators, holding ponds, liquid
and/or solid waste storage facilities shall be not less than three hundred feet
(300') from any public road rights of way and property boundaries.
      3.   Liquid waste treatment lagoons, separators, holding ponds, liquid
and/or solid waste storage facilities shall be not less than three hundred feet
(300') from any domestic well.
      4.   Liquid waste treatment lagoons, separators, holding ponds, liquid
and/or solid waste storage facilities shall be not less than one thousand feet
(1,000') from any public water system.
   H.   Corrals:
      1.   The closest edge of corrals shall be located at least three hundred
feet (300') from any domestic well.
      2.   The closest edge of corrals shall be located at least one thousand
feet (1,000') from any public water system.
   I.   Runoff Containment:
      1.   For maintenance and control reasons all runoff containment systems
shall be maintained entirely on the property of the confined animal feeding
operation.
      2.   For maintenance and control reasons any part of a runoff containment
system shall be located at least thirty feet (30') from any public right of way
or property line.
      3.   The closest inside edge of runoff containing wall or bank shall be
located at least three hundred feet (300') from any domestic well and one
thousand feet (1,000') from any public water system.
   J.   Feed Storage Areas:
      1.   All feed storage facilities shall be serviced with adequate ingress
and egress to public rights of way that do not obstruct vision or cause any
other type of traffic hazard.
      2.   All permanent feed storage structures shall comply with setbacks and
separation as established in this title and the adopted building code.
      3.   Feed storage areas that utilize beet pulp, corn silage, haylage,
potatoes or any other feed product resulting from the ensilage process shall
comply with the same location and setback requirements as those required of
confinement areas.
   K.   Composting Facilities: Composting facilities shall be located a minimum
of fifty feet (50') from public road rights of way, and any canal, lateral, or
ditch water edge. Separation for composting facilities from residential and
other uses shall comply with requirements established in subsection D of this
section.
   L.   Wellhead Protection District: All confined animal feeding operations
located within a wellhead protection district shall be in compliance with the
wellhead protection district ordinance requirements.
   M.   Other Location And Separation Requirements: Location of waste lagoons,
corrals, wells, septic systems and other livestock confinement related
facilities and structures shall comply with all applicable requirements of the
department of environmental quality, the department of agriculture or other
applicable state or federal agency.
   N.   Variances: Variances from the separation requirements of residential
uses, other buildings, and property boundaries may be granted if consent
thereto is obtained and recorded by the landowners of such property and the
owner/operator of an affected confined animal feeding operation. (Ord. 830, 8-
6-2002)
5-17-6: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
   A.   General:
      1.   The owner/operator must be in compliance with and not in violation
of any federal, state or other local law or ordinance.
      2.   The owner/operator shall not begin construction of new improvements
for a CAFO at the proposed site without the final zoning approval. If it is
determined that construction has commenced, penalties will be imposed in
accordance with the provisions of this title.
   B.   Waste Management:
      1.   Liquid waste, solid waste, and manure shall be handled and managed
in accordance with the design plan approved by the Idaho department of health
and welfare, division of environmental quality and the Idaho department of
agriculture, and submitted with the application for the CAFO operating permit.
(Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
      2.   Industrial confined animal feeding operations using a liquid waste
system shall have waste and odor management systems designed by a professional
engineer registered in the state of Idaho and having experience in the design
and implementation of said systems or an Idaho department of agriculture
certified nutrient management planner.
         a.   The applicant's contract with said engineering firm or certified
planner shall contain a supervision and completion inspection clause that will
assure proper installation and operation of the system and insurance or a
performance bond in an amount sufficient to cover the replacement or
modification of the system.
         b.   At project completion the engineer or certified planner shall
submit a report to the administrator certifying that the waste and odor
management systems have been installed in accordance with original design
specifications or if modifications have been made, what those modifications
are, how they will affect overall performance and that the systems will
function properly.
         c.   At the end of one year the engineer or certified planner shall
submit a written report certifying that all systems are functioning properly.
(Ord. 857, 11-15-2005)
      3.   Lagoons, storm runoff containment or earthen structures containing
waste shall meet both the state of Idaho and environmental protection agency's
standards for leakage and construction.
      4.   The confined animal feeding operation shall have a favorable rating
from the siting advisory team or documented information showing the detail for
the mitigation of problem areas for an unfavorable rating.
      5.   Solid and liquid waste may be applied to property not owned by the
animal feeding operation owner. In such circumstances the owner/operator shall
maintain records of any agreements or arrangements with the applicable
landowners demonstrating permission for such waste land application. These
records shall be maintained on an ongoing basis and made available to the
administrator upon request.
      6.   A new animal feeding operation siting permit, expansion or transfer
of an existing permit will require the applicant to provide documentation
listing facilities located off site of the animal feeding operation taking
solid or liquid waste and documentation shall be part of the siting permit
application. Transferring the waste to another entity does not relieve the
owner/operator from meeting the requirements of the nutrient management plan or
the responsibility to prevent pollution of the surface or ground water of the
state of Idaho. Duplication of land application sites for liquid or solid waste
is prohibited.
      7.   The owner of the confined animal feeding operation shall maintain
records, available to the administrator: a) to verify that the number of
animals does not exceed the number of permitted animal units; b) nutrient
management plan is functioning properly; c) contracts for the application of
wastes are valid; and d) waste and odor systems are functioning as designed.
Failure to do so will render the owner in noncompliance and subject to the
enforcement section of this chapter. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
      8.   Each confined animal feeding operation shall maintain records
documenting the land area set aside for waste application as established in the
approved nutrient and waste management plan. Such documentation shall be made
available, upon request, to the administrator. (Ord. 857, 11-15-2005)
   C.   Pest Abatement Plan:
      1.   A pest abatement plan shall be prepared and submitted by the owner/
applicant for the confined animal feeding operation.
         a.   The pest abatement plan shall provide specific methods for
preventing pests, including, but not limited to, flies, insects, rodents, etc.
         b.   The pest abatement plan shall include physical, structural, or
chemical means to abate the population of flies, insects, rodents, etc.
      2.   The owner/operator shall examine the plan annually to evaluate the
effectiveness of the plan, modify for changed conditions and determine if
feasible technologies are available and appropriate for the operation.
      3.   The owner/operator shall maintain records of all pest abatement
practices for verification, if necessary, to the administrator.
   D.   Odor Abatement Plan:
      1.   An odor abatement plan shall be prepared and submitted by the owner/
operator of the confined animal feeding operation for approval.
      2.   Odor abatement facilities shall be designed, constructed and managed
so as to minimize any adverse impacts on the surrounding property not owned by
the owner/operator.
      3.   The plan shall address specific methods for the abatement of odors
including, but not limited to, the following:
         a.   Drainage: Corrals, holding pens, etc.
         b.   Manure storage management: Liquid and solid.
         c.   Land application of waste: Application rates, dilution factors,
etc.
         d.   Carcass disposal.
         e.   General housekeeping.
         f.   Chemical or microbic practices.
         g.   Any other facility or practice for odor control.
      4.   The owner/operator shall examine the plan annually to evaluate the
effectiveness of the plan, modify for changed conditions and determine if
feasible technologies are available and appropriate for the operation.
      5.   The owner/operator shall maintain records of all odor abatement
practices for verification, if necessary, to the administrator.
   E.   Runoff Control And Water Quality: The confined animal feeding operation
shall be constructed and operated so as to prevent the runoff of animal waste,
silt, or other debris to adjoining property, public rights of way, or
irrigation works.
      1.   Operation of the confined animal feeding operation will not cause,
either alone or in conjunction with other causes, contamination of surface or
ground water and will comply with the state of Idaho's antidegradation policy.
      2.   There shall be no discharge of pollutants into surface or ground
water except as permitted by the appropriate state and/or federal agency. A
copy of such permit from any agency relative to discharge of pollutants must be
on file with the siting permit.
      3.   The confined animal feeding operation has adequate potable water to
operate, which must be evidenced by a permit or license from the Idaho
department of water resources.
      4.   The confined animal feeding operation permit may be approved and
issued with proof of application for a water right; building or construction
permits will be issued; however, no construction may be started without written
proof of an approved water right or completed transfer from the Idaho
department of water resources.
   F.   Area Lighting: Area lighting shall be located and/or shielded in such a
manner so that the light source will be directed down and inside the property
lines of the confined animal feeding operation. Area lighting shall also be
located and/or shielded in such a manner so that the light source will not
blind, restrict, or otherwise interfere with the vision of operators of motor
vehicles on public roadways.
   G.   Capacity And Density: Livestock confined within a confined animal
feeding operation shall not exceed the number allowed by the operating permit.
The maximum density of animal units shall not exceed five (5) per acre in
livestock density unless an approved waste management plan is in place allowing
a greater density. Nor shall the total number exceed that approved on the
confined animal feeding operation permit or that is allowed in the applicable
zoning district for the designated class of the confined animal feeding
operation.
   H.   Dust Control: The confined animal feeding operation shall be managed to
prevent dust from creating a public road visibility hazard.
   I.   Zoning: Confined animal feeding operations shall be permitted only as
established in the official schedule of zoning regulations. (Ord. 830, 8-6-
2002)
5-17-7: BUILDING PERMITS AND CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY:
   A.   Building Permits: Building and/or siting permits are required before
construction shall commence on new or expanding facilities. Where building
permits are required, a certificate of occupancy will be required before
occupancy and/or use of the new or expanded facilities.
      1.   Prior to commencing construction on a new facility or before making
any improvements or expansion to an existing facility, the owner/operator shall
contact the administrator to obtain the necessary permits.
      2.   Inspection during construction of the facilities authorized by the
building permit(s) shall occur at regular intervals as determined by the
building official, and additional inspections may occur at request of the
owner/operator or his/her duly appointed agent.
      3.   The building official or his/her appointed representative shall
perform the inspections and shall have the right to enter the property to
conduct such inspections to assure compliance with the provisions of Minidoka
County ordinances.
      4.   The administrator, building official or their appointed
representative shall have authority to issue and post on the premises of the
property a "stop work" order, if an inspection reveals a violation of the terms
of the siting or building permits. All work must cease after posting of the
order and will not be permitted to resume until the violation(s) have been
corrected.
   B.   Change Orders:
      1.   If the owner/operator desires to make changes to the proposed
facilities authorized under the siting and building permits, he/she shall
present a written change order request to the administrator or building
official.
      2.   The request shall clearly specify the proposed change(s) being
requested, including an explanation and justification for such change(s) along
with any supporting documents.
      3.   If the proposed change(s) involves the relocation of major
improvements such as, but not limited to, the waste treatment system, free
stalls, barns or corrals, notice of the proposed change(s) will be given to
those affected persons noticed in the initial hearing.
      4.   No change order request(s) will be considered which may violate the
requirements of this title or any other local, state or federal requirements.
      5.   The administrator shall review all change order requests to
determine if they substantially alter the siting permit. If it is determined
that the request does substantially alter the permit, then the request shall be
presented to the commission for a determination.
      6.   Decisions by the administrator may be appealed to the commission and
decisions of the commission may be appealed to the board.
   C.   Certificates Of Occupancy And Compliance:
      1.   Prior to the occupancy and/or use of a new or expanded confined
animal feeding operation facility the owner/operator shall obtain a certificate
of compliance for the operation.
      2.   Prior to the occupancy and/or use of buildings which did require a
building permit, the owner/operator shall obtain a certificate of occupancy for
those buildings.
      3.   The owner/operator shall provide a copy of licensor for the water
source from the Idaho department of water resources.
      4.   The owner/operator shall have the necessary certificate(s) and/or
permit(s) from the appropriate local, state and/or federal agencies prior to
the commencement of operations or occupancy.
      5.   Upon completion and final inspection of the facilities authorized by
the permit(s) and upon compliance with the provisions of the applicable
ordinances the administrator or building official shall issue a certificate of
occupancy.
      6.   The certificate shall certify that all facilities have been
inspected and conform to the terms of the permit(s), is in compliance with the
provisions of Minidoka County ordinances and the owner/operator is fully
authorized to occupy and operate the confined animal feeding operation.
   D.   Construction:
      1.   Construction of a confined animal feeding operation must commence
within two (2) years of the issuance of the permit and must be ready for
operation within five (5) years of the issuance of the permit or it shall
expire.
      2.   Construction and operation levels may be accomplished in stages if
such proposal is submitted and approved with the application. (Ord. 830, 8-6-
2002)
5-17-8: PROCEDURE FOR HEARING:
   A.   Application Review: The administrator shall review the application for
completeness. Upon determining that the application is complete, the zoning
official shall submit the application to the siting advisory team within
fifteen (15) days.
   B.   Siting Advisory Report: Upon receipt of the siting advisory team report
and after determination by the administrator that the application and report is
complete, the application will be prepared for public hearing.
   C.   Hearing Notice: Notice of hearing on a proposed confined animal feeding
operation shall be given as provided in
chapter 15 of this title.
   D.   Action By The Commission: The Minidoka County planning and zoning
commission shall render a decision on a CAFO application pursuant to
chapter 15 of this title, which said decision may be appealed pursuant to
chapter 14 of this title.
   E.   Issuance Of Permit: The administrator shall issue an operating permit
within fifteen (15) working days of approval of an application by the planning
and zoning commission, and shall cause a notice of the issuance of such permit
to be recorded in the office of the county recorder of Minidoka County within
five (5) working days of issuance.
   F.   Issuance Of Construction Permits: Upon approval and recording of the
CAFO permit and after construction plans have been reviewed and applicable fees
paid, the building official shall issue appropriate construction or building
permits. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-17-9: ADMINISTRATIVE APPROVAL:
   A.   An administrative approval process when permitted in the official
schedule of zoning regulations may be used to approve applications for a
confined animal feeding operation.
   B.   For a commercial application the administrator shall review the
application for completeness. Upon determining that the application is
complete, the zoning official shall submit the application to the siting
advisory team within fifteen (15) days.
   C.   Upon receipt of the siting advisory team report of a commercial
application and after determination by the administrator that the application
is complete, the administrator shall review the application and either approve,
approve with conditions or deny the application.
   D.   For a domestic application the administrator shall review the
application for completeness. After determination by the administrator that the
application is complete, the administrator shall review the application and
within thirty (30) working days either approve, approve with conditions or deny
the application.
   E.   The administrator will inform the applicant in writing within fifteen
(15) working days of the decision. The decision of the administrator may be
appealed to the Minidoka County planning and zoning commission within twenty
eight (28) days of the administrator's decision.
   F.   The administrator may authorize a public hearing on any application
submitted if in his/her judgment it is necessary to comply with the objectives
of this title and/or in a situation where special circumstances or conditions
may exist. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-17-10: REVISION OF OPERATING PERMIT:
   A.   Revision Of Permit: An owner/operator of a confined animal feeding
operation may be granted a revision of an operating permit upon application
therefor to the zoning administrator. Said application shall contain a summary
of proposed changes to the confined animal feeding operation, and shall include
a revised site plan if the location of any permanent facility is changed from
the existing permit. If the proposed changes in livestock numbers exceed the
capacity of the waste system design plan, a revised waste system design must be
approved by the Idaho department of health and welfare, division of
environmental quality, for feedlots and the Idaho department of agriculture for
dairies, and submitted with the application.
   B.   Hearing Required: Any revision of an operating permit which will
include property outside the boundaries of an existing permit, which involves a
change of class of operation, or which exceeds the exempted increase amount
shall require a public hearing as set forth in section
5-17-8 of this chapter. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
   C.   Transfer Of Permit: The holder of the existing permit may transfer an
existing CAFO or LCO operating or construction permit to a new owner or
operator upon written notification to the zoning administrator, provided that:
      1.   The new owner shall file a transfer statement with the administrator
within ninety (90) days from the date of purchase. The transfer statement shall
include the date of transfer and purchase, with names and mailing addresses of
both the transferor and transferee.
      2.   The previous owner/operator shall provide a signed statement,
stating that the confined animal feeding operation is in compliance with all
local, state and federal regulations and/or requirements.
      3.   If not currently in place at the time of the transfer, the new
owner/operator shall submit a current nutrient management plan and odor and
pest abatement plans with the other transfer documents. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002;
amd. Ord. 09-507, 9-1-2009)
5-17-11: ENFORCEMENT AND TERMINATION:
   A.   General Procedure:
      1.   Whenever a zoning official shall determine that a violation of this
chapter has occurred or is about to occur, the zoning official shall take
action in accordance with the provisions of this title.
      2.   Complaints made by individuals shall be in writing and contain the
nature of the complaint(s), name and address of the confined animal feeding
operation, time(s) and date(s) of occurrence, and name, address and phone
number of the complainant.
      3.   Complaints properly submitted for odor problems will be forwarded to
the appropriate state agency for enforcement of state regulation for odor
control.
      4.   Upon receiving a complaint the administrator shall have the alleged
complaint investigated.
      5.   Upon investigation of the alleged complaint the administrator shall
determine if a violation exists. If no violation exists the administrator will
notify the complainant within twenty (20) working days. If there is a violation
the administrator will take action in accordance with the provisions of this
title.
      6.   Upon determination that a violation exists the administrator shall
notify the owner/operator within ten (10) working days. Notice shall be
effective upon hand delivery or three (3) days after the date of mailing.
      7.   The owner/operator shall respond to the administrator within ten
(10) working days.
         a.   If the violation can be corrected within twenty eight (28)
working days or less, the response shall contain a description of the
corrective action(s) and estimated time necessary for completion.
         b.   If the violation is such that it will require additional time to
correct, the owner/operator will submit in writing within ten (10) working days
of the above described notice a proposed compliance schedule for review and
approval by the administrator. The compliance schedule will explain in detail
what actions will be taken to correct the violation(s) and a time schedule for
completion.
      8.   The administrator shall review the proposed compliance schedule and
determine if the time requested is reasonable. The owner/operator shall be
required to schedule and attend a meeting with the administrator within ten
(10) working days of submittal of the proposed compliance schedule.
      9.   In the event that a compliance schedule cannot be agreed upon, the
administrator shall then send the proposal to the commission for their review.
The commission will review the proposal and recommendations of the
administrator and render a decision within twenty (20) working days.
      10.   Upon acceptance of the compliance schedule the administrator shall
contact the complainant with the decision and provide a copy of the schedule.
      11.   Failure of the owner/operator to meet the requirements of this
section or abide by the proposed compliance schedule shall result in final
enforcement action.
   B.   Final Enforcement And/Or Revocation:
      1.   The administrator may revoke a CAFO operating permit if an owner/
operator fails to comply with the conditions of such permit or the compliance
schedule after thirty (30) days' written notice of such noncompliance. Notice
of such termination shall be mailed to the owner/operator, which shall advise
said owner/operator of the effective date of such termination and of his right
to appeal such decision pursuant to
chapter 14 of this title.
      2.   In the event the violation threatens the public health, safety and
general welfare of the citizens of Minidoka County, the Minidoka County board
of county commissioners may take any actions it deems necessary to abate such
violation.
   C.   Penalty For Violation Of CAFO Operating Permit: Any owner/operator of a
confined animal feeding operation who violates the conditions of the operating
permit granted said operation shall be in violation of this zoning ordinance
and subject to civil and criminal penalties as set forth in
chapter 13 of this title.
   D.   Inactive Operations: Upon application to the zoning administrator by an
interested party, a confined animal feeding operation permit may be terminated
where there have been no active confinement activities within such CAFO for a
period of three (3) years. The administrator shall give ninety (90) days' prior
written notice to any owner/operator of his intention to terminate such permit
unless operations are resumed with confinement of the minimum number of
livestock for the type of operating permit held for such CAFO.
   E.   Voluntary Termination: An owner/operator of a confined animal feeding
operation may voluntarily terminate a confined animal feeding operation permit
by delivering to the administrator a written termination notice.
   F.   Termination Notices: The administrator within five (5) days of its
effective date shall record notice of the termination of a confined animal
feeding operation permit in the office of the county recorder of Minidoka
County, Idaho. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-17-12: PERMIT APPLICATION FEES:
The board of county commissioners or the respective city council, by
resolution, shall establish a schedule of fees for CAFO operating permits
pursuant to
chapter 13 of this title. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
CHAPTER 18
TELECOMMUNICATIONS TOWERS, ANTENNAS AND RELATED FACILITIES
SECTION:
5-18-1: General, Scope And Applicability
5-18-2: Definitions
5-18-3: Exemptions
5-18-4: Permitted/Prohibited Locations
5-18-5: Special Use Permit
5-18-6: Annual Information Report
5-18-7: Removal And Security For Removal
5-18-8: Preexisting Telecommunication Towers
5-18-9: Enforcement
5-18-10: Structural Design And Environmental Standards
5-18-11: Separation And Setback Requirements
5-18-12: Permits
5-18-1: GENERAL, SCOPE AND APPLICABILITY:
   A.   General: The purpose of this chapter is to provide a set of standards
for the development and installation of telecommunication towers, antennas and
related facilities. The regulations contained herein are designed to protect
and promote public health, safety and the community welfare of the city of
Rupert, and to encourage managed development of telecommunications
infrastructure, while not unduly restricting the development of needed
telecommunications facilities.
   B.   Scope And Applicability: The city shall apply these regulations to
accomplish the following:
      1.   Minimize adverse visual effects of telecommunication towers,
antennas and related facilities through design and siting standards.
      2.   Maintain and ensure that a nondiscriminatory, competitive and broad
range of telecommunications services and high quality telecommunications
infrastructure consistent with the federal telecommunications act of 1996 are
provided to serve the community.
      3.   Provide a process for obtaining necessary permits for
telecommunications facilities while at the same time protecting the interests
of the citizens of Rupert.
      4.   Protect environmentally sensitive areas of the city by regulating
the location, design and operation of telecommunication facilities.
      5.   Encourage the use of alternative support structures, collocation of
new antennas on existing telecommunication towers, camouflaged towers, and
construction of towers with the ability to locate more than one provider.
Furthermore, this chapter is not intended to regulate residential satellite
dishes or residential television antennas that are used privately. Additionally
it is not intended to regulate satellite dishes/antennas whose regulation is
prohibited by Idaho statutes or as preempted by federal law. (Ord. 830, 8-6-
2002)
5-18-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, certain terms, phrases, or words used herein
shall be defined as follows (these definitions are also included in
chapter 2 of this title):
ALTERNATIVE SUPPORT STRUCTURE: Clock towers, steeples, silos, light poles,
water towers, buildings or similar structures that may support
telecommunication facilities.
ANTENNA: Any system of wires, poles, rods, reflecting discs, or similar devices
used for the transmission or reception of electromagnetic waves when such
system is either external to or attached to the exterior of a structure.
Antennas shall include devices having active elements extending in any
direction, and directional beam type arrays having elements carried by and
disposed from a generally horizontal boom that may be mounted upon and rotated
through a vertical mast or tower interconnecting the boom and antenna support,
all of which elements are deemed to be a part of the antenna.
ANTENNA, BUILDING MOUNTED: Any antenna, other than an antenna with its supports
resting on the ground, directly attached or affixed to a building.
ANTENNA, GROUND MOUNTED: Any antenna with its base placed directly on the
ground.
ANTENNA, UTILITY POLE MOUNTED: An antenna attached, without regard to mounting,
to or upon an existing or replacement electric transmission or distribution
pole, streetlight, traffic signal, athletic field light, utility support
structure or other similar structure approved by the city of Rupert planning
and zoning department.
BUILDING: Any structure designed or intended for the support, enclosure,
shelter or protection of persons, animals, chattels, or property of any kind,
but not including fences or advertising signs.
HEIGHT, TELECOMMUNICATIONS TOWER: The distance measured from the original grade
at the base of the tower to the highest point of the tower. This measurement
excludes any attached antennas, protection devices (e.g., lightning rods) and
lighting.
MONOPOLE: A telecommunication tower of a single pole design.
NAVIGABLE STREAM OR LAKE: As designated on the United States geological survey
(USGS) map and/or the maps of Minidoka County or the city of Rupert.
OPERATION (TELECOMMUNICATIONS): Means other than nominal use; when a facility
is used regularly as an integral part of an active system of telecommunications
it shall be deemed in operation.
PLATFORM (ANTENNAS): A support system that may be used to connect antennas and
antenna arrays to telecommunication towers or alternative support structures.
SATELLITE DISH: A device incorporating a reflective surface that is solid, open
mesh, or bar configured that is shell dish, cone, horn, or cornucopia shaped
and is used to transmit and/or receive electromagnetic signals. This definition
is meant to include, but is not limited to, what are commonly referred to as
satellite earth stations, TVROs (satellite television receive only) and
satellite microwave antennas.
TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITY: A facility, site, or location that contains one or
more antennas, telecommunication towers, alternative support structures,
satellite dish antennas, other similar communication devices, and support
equipment which is used for transmitting, receiving, or relaying
telecommunications signals.
TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITY (COLLOCATED): A telecommunication facility comprised
of a single telecommunication tower or building supporting multiple antennas,
dishes, or similar devices owned or used by more than one public or private
entity.
TELECOMMUNICATION SUPPORT FACILITY: The telecommunication equipment buildings
and equipment cabinets.
TOWER, CAMOUFLAGED: Any telecommunication tower that due to design or
appearance entirely hides, obscures, or conceals the presence of the tower and
antennas.
TOWER FARM: A parcel of ground on which multiple telecommunication towers or
antennas are located and clustered together on a single parcel for economic,
aesthetic, or other reasons.
TOWER, GUYED: A telecommunications tower that is supported in whole or in part
by guy wires and ground anchors or other means of support besides the
superstructure of the tower itself.
TOWER, LATTICE: A telecommunication tower that consists of vertical and
horizontal supports and crossed metal braces.
TOWER, TELECOMMUNICATION: Any structure that is designed and constructed
primarily for the purpose of supporting one or more antennas, including
camouflaged towers, lattice towers, guy towers, or monopole towers. This
includes radio and television transmission towers, microwave towers, and common
carrier towers. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-18-3: EXEMPTIONS:
The following shall be permitted without county review and approval:
   A.   Receive Only Antennas: The use of all television antenna, satellite
dishes and receive only antennas, provided that the primary use of the property
is not a telecommunications facility and that the antenna use is accessory to
the primary use of the property.
   B.   Amateur Radio: This chapter shall not govern the installation of any
antenna and their supporting towers, poles and masts that is owned and/or
operated by a federally licensed amateur radio operator or is used exclusively
for receive only antennas.
   C.   Mobile Services: Mobile services providing public information coverage
of news events of a temporary or emergency nature. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
   D.   Ground Mounted Antennas: Freestanding (ground mounted antenna) antennas
(not supported on or attached to a building) and their supporting towers, poles
or masts and their equipment buildings one hundred twenty (120) square feet or
less in size, may be installed without a zoning review when the overall height
of the antennas and their supporting structures do not exceed a height of
twenty feet (20') above the original grade at the site of the installation.
(Ord. 13-501, 2-26-2013)
   E.   Building Mounted Antennas: Antennas installed on, or attached to, any
existing building (building mounted antenna), an existing telecommunication
tower, or alternative support structure and their equipment buildings one
hundred twenty (120) square feet or less in size, when the height of the
antenna and its supporting tower, pole or mast is twenty feet (20') or less
above the highest part of the building or alternative support structure to
which it is attached.
   F.   Utility Pole Mounted Antennas: Utility pole mounted antennas if the
height of the antenna is twenty feet (20') or less above the highest part of
the utility pole. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-18-4: PERMITTED/PROHIBITED LOCATIONS:
   A.   Permitted Locations: Telecommunications facilities may be permitted in
zoning districts as established by the official schedule of zoning regulations.
(Ord. 837, 3-4-2003)
   B.   Prohibited Locations: No telecommunications facilities will be allowed
in the following areas:
      1.   Historic sites, as defined by local, state and/or federal
regulation.
      2.   Critical species habitats, as defined by local, state and/or federal
regulation.
      3.   Wetlands, as defined by local, state and/or federal regulation.
      4.   Floodplains, as defined by local, state and/or federal regulation.
(Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-18-5: SPECIAL USE PERMIT:
When required by the official schedule of zoning regulations, an application
will be submitted for approval pursuant to the procedure established in
chapter 15 of this title for the location and construction of telecommunication
towers or associated structures.
   A.   Submittal Information: Applications for telecommunication towers and
associated structures will provide the following information:
      1.   Completed special use permit application.
      2.   Original signature of applicant and landowner (if the
telecommunication facility is located in an easement or pursuant to a ground
lease, the beneficiaries of the easement or ground lease and underlying
property owner must authorize the application).
      3.   The identity of the carrier, provider, applicant, landowner and
service provider and their legal status.
      4.   The name, address and telephone number of the officer, agent and/or
employee responsible for the accuracy of the application.
      5.   A plat of survey, showing the parcel boundaries, tower, facilities,
location, access, landscaping and fencing.
      6.   A written legal description of the site.
      7.   In the case of a leased site, a lease agreement or binding lease
memorandum, which shows on its face that it does not preclude the tower owner
from entering into leases on the tower with other provider(s) and the legal
description and amount of property leased.
      8.   A description of the telecommunications services that the applicant
offers or provides to persons, firms, businesses or institutions.
      9.   Federal communication commission (FCC) license numbers and
registration numbers, if applicable.
      10.   Copies of finds of no significant impacts (FONSI) statement from
the federal communication commission (FCC) or environmental impact study (EIS),
if applicable.
      11.   An alternatives analysis prepared by the applicant or on behalf of
the applicant by its designated technical representative, subject to the review
and approval of the planning and zoning commission, which identifies all
reasonable, technically feasible, alternative locations and/or facilities which
could provide the proposed telecommunication service. The intention of the
alternatives analysis is to present alternative strategies that could minimize
the number, size, and adverse environmental impacts of facilities necessary to
provide the needed services to the county. The analysis shall address the
potential for collocation and the potential to locate facilities as close as
possible to the intended service area. It shall also explain the rationale for
selection of the proposed site in view of the relative merits of any of the
feasible alternatives. Approval of the project is subject to the review and
approval of the planning and zoning commission. The county may require
independent verification of this analysis at the applicant's expense; the
consultant will be chosen by the planning and zoning commission from a list
mutually agreed upon by the county and the telecommunications industry.
      12.   Plans indicating security measures (e.g., access, fencing,
lighting, etc.).
      13.   Tabular and map inventory of all of the applicant's existing
telecommunications towers that are located within the city of Rupert and
including all of the applicant's existing towers within one thousand five
hundred feet (1,500') of the county boundary. The inventory shall specify the
location, height, type, and design of each of the applicant's existing
telecommunication towers, and the ability of the tower or antenna structure to
accommodate additional collocation antennas.
      14.   A report prepared by an engineer licensed by the state of Idaho
certifying the structural design of the tower and its ability to accommodate
additional antennas.
      15.   Proof of liability coverage.
      16.   Such other information as the planning and zoning commission may
require.
      17.   Proof of notification to and request for approval from the federal
aviation administration with respect to tower location, height and lighting
requirements. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
   B.   Collocation: As a condition of approval of the special use permit and/
or building permit, all tower owners shall make available unused space for
collocation of other telecommunication facilities, including space for those
entities providing similar, competing services. Collocation is not required if
the host facility can demonstrate that the addition of the new service or
facilities would impair existing service.
All telecommunication support facilities shall be designed to facilitate site
sharing. Special use permits or building permits for new telecommunication
towers will not be issued until the applicant demonstrates that collocation on
an existing facility is not feasible. Feasibility shall be determined through a
review process by the commission. (Ord. 857, 11-15-2005)
   C.   Technical Review: The planning and zoning department, upon direction of
the city of Rupert planning and zoning commission, shall employ on behalf of
the county an independent technical expert to review materials submitted. The
consultant will be chosen from a list mutually agreed upon by the county and
the applicant. The applicant shall pay all the costs of said review. The
payment to the planning and zoning department shall be due upon receipt of the
invoice. All fees and charges accumulated for the technical review must be paid
in full prior to the issuance of the special use permit.
   D.   Required Submittals Following Permit Approval: For each
telecommunication tower or associated structure special use permit approved by
the city of Rupert planning and zoning commission the applicant shall submit
the following before the special use permit will be issued:
      1.   Copies of the determination of no hazard from the federal aviation
administration (FAA) including any aeronautical study determination or other
findings and other agencies, if applicable.
      2.   Copies of any environmental assessment (EA) reports on form 600 or
form 854 submitted to the federal communication commission (FCC), if
applicable.
      3.   Copies of any filings submitted to the federal communication
commission (FCC) shall be submitted within thirty (30) days of filing, subject
to the review of the administrator.
      4.   Proof of bond as security for removal. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-18-6: ANNUAL INFORMATION REPORT:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of the annual review report is to provide the
county with accurate and current information concerning the telecommunications
tower owners and providers who offer or provide telecommunications services
within the county, to assist the county in enforcement of this chapter, and to
assist the county in monitoring compliance with the conditional use permit.
   B.   Required Submittals: Upon request and when directed and authorized by
the city council, all telecommunications tower owners of any new or existing
telecommunication tower shall submit annually on or before January 31 of each
year, to the planning and zoning department, a telecommunications facility
annual information report. The annual report shall include the following:
      1.   The tower owner name(s), address(s), phone number(s), contact person
(s).
      2.   Annual review fee.
      3.   Proof of bond as security for removal.
      4.   List of all collocating operators utilizing the tower.
   C.   Annual Report Fee: Following the special use permit approval, and every
year thereafter the tower owner shall submit, on or before January 31 of each
year, to the planning and zoning department, an annual review fee as
established by the city of Rupert for each tower site. The fee submittal is the
responsibility of each tower owner. Failure to provide this information shall
result in a civil forfeiture of three hundred dollars ($300.00) per day until
the administrator receives the information. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-18-7: REMOVAL AND SECURITY FOR REMOVAL:
   A.   Removal: It is the express policy of city of Rupert that
telecommunications facilities be removed once they are no longer in use and not
a functional part of providing telecommunication service and that it is the
telecommunications tower owner's responsibility to remove such facilities and
restore the site to its original condition or a condition approved by the city
of Rupert planning and zoning commission. This restoration shall include
removal of any subsurface structure or foundation, including concrete, used to
support the telecommunications facility down to five feet (5') below the
surface. After a telecommunications facility is no longer in operation, the
tower owner shall have ninety (90) days to effect removal and restoration
unless weather prohibits such efforts.
   B.   Security For Removal: The telecommunications tower owner shall provide
to the city of Rupert, prior to the issuance of the special use permit or the
issuance of a building permit, a performance bond in the amount of twenty
thousand dollars ($20,000.00) or a bond equal to a written estimate from a
qualified tower removal contractor to guarantee that the telecommunications
facility will be removed when no longer in operation. City of Rupert will be
named as obligee in the bond and must approve the bonding company. (Ord. 830,
8-6-2002)
5-18-8: PREEXISTING TELECOMMUNICATION TOWERS:
   A.   Nonconforming And Conforming: Telecommunication towers, and facilities
may add to, move or replace the tower and facilities upon approval of the
administrator. An existing tower may be replaced by the same size of tower,
increased in height a maximum of fifty feet (50'), and/or relocated or
reconstructed within fifty feet (50') of its existing location to accommodate
collocation subject to meeting all the applicable sections of this chapter.
Routine maintenance and repair on telecommunications facilities is permitted.
   B.   Existing Use Review:
      1.   Towers Structurally Capable For Collocation: Beginning the effective
date hereof, all telecommunications tower owners, applicable to the
requirements of this chapter operating in the city of Rupert prior to the
adoption of this chapter, shall provide the information required under section
5-18-5 of this chapter (except proof of bond and proof of insurance), and pay
the annual fee for tower site on or before January 31 of each year. Failure to
provide this information shall result in a civil forfeiture of three hundred
dollars ($300.00) per day until the administrator receives the information.
      2.   Towers Structurally Incapable For Collocation: Beginning the
effective date hereof, all telecommunications tower owners, applicable to the
requirements of this chapter operating in the city of Rupert prior to the
adoption of this chapter, shall provide the information required under section
5-18-5 of this chapter (except proof of bond and proof of insurance), and
submit documents that the tower is structurally incapable of collocation, and
pay a one time fee equivalent to the annual fee for each tower site on or
before the following January 31. Failure to provide this information shall
result in a civil forfeiture of three hundred dollars ($300.00) per day until
the administrator receives the information. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-18-9: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Revocation Grounds: Grounds for revocation of the special use permit
telecommunication towers and associated structures, shall be limited to one of
the following findings:
      1.   The owner of such site, service provider and/or tower owner fails to
comply with the requirements of this chapter.
      2.   The permittee has failed to comply with the conditions of approval
of the special use permit.
      3.   The facility has not been properly maintained.
   B.   Revocation Process: The following is the procedure for revocation of a
special use permit for telecommunication towers and associated structures:
      1.   The owner of such site, service provider and/or tower owner shall be
notified by certified mail of noncompliance by the city's planning and zoning
department.
      2.   The owner shall comply with such notice within thirty (30) days to
the satisfaction of the administrator.
      3.   If compliance is not obtained within thirty (30) days, the
administrator shall notify the city attorney of the noncompliance and proceed
with the revocation process. (Staff, to adjust for seasonal limitations, may
extend this time period.)
   C.   Abandonment: Any antenna or tower that is not operated for a continuous
period of twelve (12) months shall be considered abandoned. Time may be
extended upon review and approval of the administrator, if the tower owner
demonstrates a good faith effort to secure new tenants. In such circumstances,
the following shall apply:
      1.   The owner of such antenna or tower shall remove said antenna and/or
tower including all supporting equipment and building(s) within ninety (90)
days of receipt of notice from the planning and zoning department notifying the
owner of such abandonment. If removal to the satisfaction of the planning and
zoning department does not occur within said ninety (90) days, the city will
order removal utilizing the established bond and salvage said antenna or tower
and all supporting equipment and building(s). If there are two (2) or more
users of a single tower, then this provision shall not become effective until
all operations of the tower cease.
      2.   The recipient of a conditional use permit for a telecommunications
facility under this title shall notify the planning and zoning department when
the facility is no longer in operation. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-18-10: STRUCTURAL DESIGN AND ENVIRONMENTAL STANDARDS:
   A.   Tower, Antenna And Facilities Requirements: All telecommunication
facilities shall be designed to blend into the surrounding environment to the
greatest extent feasible. To this end, all of the following measures shall be
implemented:
      1.   All telecommunication facilities shall comply at all times with all
federal communication commission (FCC) rules, regulations, and standards. To
that end no telecommunication facility or combination of facilities shall
produce at any time power densities in any inhabited area that exceed the
federal communication commission (FCC) adopted standard for human exposure, as
amended, or any more restrictive standard subsequently adopted or promulgated
by the federal government. All telecommunication towers and antennas shall meet
or exceed the standards and regulations in place at the time of the issuance of
the special use permit, of the federal aviation administration (FAA), the Idaho
state bureau of aeronautics, occupational safety and health association (OSHA),
the federal communication commission (FCC) and authority to regulate towers and
antennas.
      2.   Telecommunication towers shall be constructed out of metal or other
nonflammable material, unless specifically permitted for monopole applications.
      3.   All ground mounted telecommunication towers shall be self-
supporting monopoles or lattice towers except where satisfactory evidence is
submitted to the planning and zoning commission that a guyed tower is required.
      4.   Satellite dish and parabolic antennas shall be situated as close to
the ground as possible to reduce visual impact without compromising their
function.
      5.   Telecommunication support facilities (e.g., equipment rooms,
utilities, and equipment enclosures) shall be constructed out of nonreflective
materials (visible exterior surfaces only). Telecommunication support
facilities shall be no taller than one story fifteen feet (15') in height,
measured from the original grade at the base of the facility to the top of the
structure, and shall be designed to blend with existing architecture in the
area or shall be screened from sight by mature landscaping, and shall be
located or designed to minimize their visibility.
      6.   Telecommunications towers, facilities and antennas shall be designed
and constructed in accordance with the uniform building code and other
applicable state and federal requirements.
      7.   The maximum height of an antenna platform located on a rooftop shall
be twenty feet (20') above the roof.
      8.   Telecommunication facilities shall not interfere with or obstruct
existing or proposed public safety, fire protection or supervisory controlled
automated data acquisition (SCADA) operation telecommunication facilities. The
applicant, at no cost to the county, shall correct any actual interference and/
or obstruction.
   B.   Height: The height of a telecommunication tower shall be measured from
the original grade at the base of said tower to the highest part of the tower
itself. In the case of building mounted towers the height of the tower includes
the height of the portion of the building on which it is mounted. In the case
of "crankup" or other similar towers whose height can be adjusted, the height
of the tower shall be the maximum height to which it is capable of being
raised.
   C.   Lighting: Telecommunication towers shall not be artificially lighted
unless required by the federal aviation administration (FAA) or other
applicable regulatory authority. When required by the FAA, white strobe lights
during the day will be permitted with red flashing lights required from dusk to
dawn.
   D.   Site Development, Roads And Parking:
      1.   A leased parcel intended for the location of new telecommunication
towers and associated structures shall maintain a minimum parcel size of two
thousand five hundred (2,500) square feet. The Minidoka County planning and
zoning commission may modify the leased parcel size requirement after public
hearing and review.
      2.   A parcel owned by the telecommunication carrier and/or provider and
intended for the location of new telecommunication towers and equipment
buildings shall meet the minimum size requirement of this chapter.
      3.   All sites must be served by a minimum thirty foot (30') wide
easement with a turnaround. The Minidoka County planning and zoning commission
may modify the easement and turnaround requirement after public hearing and
review. All sites shall use existing access points and roads whenever possible.
The respective county highway district or the applicable road jurisdiction
shall approve the access point to the site.
   E.   Vegetation Protection And Facility Screening:
      1.   All telecommunications facilities shall be installed in such a
manner so as to minimize disturbance to existing native vegetation and shall
include suitable mature landscaping to screen the facility, where necessary to
be compatible with adjoining and surrounding areas. For purposes of this
subsection, "mature landscaping" shall mean trees, shrubs or other vegetation
of a size that will provide the appropriate level of visual screening.
      2.   Upon project completion, the owner(s)/operator(s) of the facility
shall be responsible for maintenance and replacement of all required vegetation
and landscaping.
      3.   Facility structures and equipment, including supporting structures,
shall be located, designed and screened to blend with the existing natural or
built surroundings, so as to reduce visual impacts.
   F.   Fire Prevention: All telecommunication facilities shall be designed and
operated in accordance with all applicable codes regarding fire prevention.
   G.   Noise And Traffic: All telecommunication facilities shall be
constructed and operated in such a manner as to minimize the amount of
disruption caused to nearby properties. To that end all the following measures
shall be implemented for telecommunication facilities:
      1.   Noise producing construction activities shall only take place on
weekdays (Monday through Saturday, nonholiday) between the hours of six o'clock
(6:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) P.M., except in times of emergency repair.
      2.   Backup generators shall only be operated during power outages and
for testing and maintenance purposes. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-18-11: SEPARATION AND SETBACK REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Separation Requirements: Minimum separation required between
telecommunication towers (by tower type):
 
   Tower Type     Latti   GuyedMonopole
                                           >85 Feet
Lattice           1,500 feet 1,500 feet 750 feet
Guyed             1,500 feet 1,500 feet 750 feet
Monopole >85 feet 750 feet   750 feet   750 feet
 
      1.   Two (2) or more towers may be permitted to be located within one
hundred feet (100') of each other subject to approval of special use permit or
when located in a tower/antenna farm.
      2.   Camouflaged towers are exempt from separation between towers
requirement listed above.
      3.   Even when reduction in separations are allowed location or placement
shall comply with separate setback requirements.
   B.   Setback Requirements: All setbacks shall be measured from the base of
the tower or structure and are required as follows:
      1.   Setback requirements shall apply to new towers and antennas,
existing towers or antennas are allowed to remain in present location.
      2.   Setbacks from all habitable residential buildings, except buildings
located on the subject parcel, shall be a distance equal to one hundred twenty
five percent (125%) of the height of the tower.
      3.   Setbacks from all historic sites and districts shall be a distance
equal to one hundred twenty five percent (125%) of the height of the tower from
historic sites and districts.
      4.   Setbacks from property lines shall be set back a minimum of fifty
feet (50') from all property lines. This requirement does not apply to the
boundary of the leased parcel unless the leased parcel boundary is also a
property line. Under special circumstances the Minidoka County planning and
zoning commission may modify this setback requirement after public hearing and
review.
      5.   Setback from the high water mark of the Snake River shall be a
minimum of one hundred twenty five percent (125%) of the tower height measured
from the natural high water mark.
      6.   All guy wire anchors shall be at least twenty five feet (25') from
all property lines. Under special circumstances the Minidoka County planning
and zoning commission may modify this setback requirement after public hearing
and review. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-18-12: PERMITS:
   A.   Special Use Permit: A special use permit is required for all
telecommunication towers and associated structures as established by the
official schedule of zoning regulations. The administrator shall approve
collocation on facilities previously approved by Minidoka County planning and
zoning commission administratively, provided that the applicant complies with
the provisions of this chapter and provides a completed application and permit
fee.
   B.   Building Permit: A building permit will be required for all
telecommunication towers and associated structures. No building permit will be
required for the installation of additional equipment directly to the tower or
antenna for the purpose of collocation. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
CHAPTER 19
SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
SECTION:
5-19-1: Purpose And Intent
5-19-2: Definitions
5-19-3: Establishment And Classification Of Businesses
5-19-4: Measurement Of Distance
5-19-5: Location Of Sexually Oriented Businesses
5-19-6: Regulations Governing Existing Businesses
5-19-7: Injunction
5-19-8: Permit; Purpose And Intent
5-19-9: Permit Required
5-19-10: Investigation And Application
5-19-11: Issuance Of Permit
5-19-12: Annual Permit Fee
5-19-13: Inspection
5-19-14: Expiration Of Permit
5-19-15: Suspension Of Permit
5-19-16: Revocation Of Permit
5-19-17: Judicial Review Of Permit Denial, Suspension Or Revocation
5-19-18: Transfer Of Permit
5-19-19: Employee License
5-19-20: Regulations Pertaining To Exhibition Of Sexually Explicit Films Or
Videos In Video Booths
5-19-21: Prohibitions Regarding Minors And Sexually Oriented Businesses
5-19-22: Advertising And Lighting Regulations
5-19-23: Hours Of Operation
5-19-24: Public Nudity Prohibited
5-19-25: Prohibition Of Live Adult Entertainment
5-19-26: Additional Criminal Prohibitions For Operation Without A Valid Permit
5-19-27: Exemptions
5-19-28: Criminal Penalties And Additional Legal, Equitable, And Injunctive
Relief
5-19-29: Immunity From Prosecution
5-19-30: Prohibition Of Distribution Of Sexual Devices
5-19-31: Scope And Interpretation
5-19-32: Severability
5-19-33: Conflicting Ordinances Repealed
5-19-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
   A.   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate sexually oriented businesses
which sell, display, or distribute indecent materials, or which sponsor,
exhibit or engage in conduct, which is indecent, but which is not obscene such
as to be prohibited by state law.
   B.   It is also the purpose and intent of this chapter to regulate sexually
oriented businesses to promote the health, safety, morals, and general welfare
of the citizens of the city and to establish reasonable and uniform regulations
to prevent any deleterious location and concentration of sexually oriented
businesses within the city, thereby reducing or eliminating the adverse
secondary effects from such sexually oriented businesses.
   C.   The provisions of this chapter have neither the purpose nor effect of
imposing a limitation or restriction on the content of any communicative
materials, including sexually oriented materials. Similarly, it is not the
intent nor effect of this chapter to restrict or deny access by adults to
sexually oriented materials protected by the first amendment, or to deny access
by the distributors and exhibitors of sexually oriented entertainment to their
intended market. Neither is it the intent nor effect of this chapter to condone
or legitimize the distribution of obscene material. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-19-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, certain terms and words are defined as
follows:
COUCH OR STRADDLE DANCE: An employee of the establishment intentionally
touching or coming within ten feet (10') of any patron while engaged in the
display or exposure of any "specified anatomical area", or any "specified
sexual activity".
EMPLOYEE: A person who works or performs in and/or for a sexually oriented
business, regardless of whether or not said person is paid a salary, wage or
other compensation by the operator of said business.
ESTABLISHMENT: Means and includes any of the following:
   A.   The opening or commencement of any such business as a new business;
   B.   The conversion of an existing business, whether or not a sexually
oriented business, to any of the "sexually oriented businesses" defined in this
chapter;
   C.   The addition of any of the "sexually oriented businesses" defined in
this chapter to any other existing sexually oriented business; or
   D.   The relocation of any such sexually oriented business.
LIVE ADULT ENTERTAINMENT: Any exhibition, dance, or performance for
consideration by a person who appears nude or seminude, or a performance, which
is characterized by the exposure of "specified anatomical areas" or by
"specified sexual activities", including the performance of a "straddle" or
"couch" dance.
NUDITY OR STATE OF NUDITY: The appearance of human bare buttocks, anus, male
genitals, female genitals, or the areola or nipple of the female breast; or a
state of dress which fails to opaquely and fully cover a human buttocks, anus,
male or female genitals, pubic region or areola or nipple of the female breast.
OPERATOR: The owner, permit holder, custodian, manager, operator or person in
charge of any permitted or licensed premises.
PERMITTED OR LICENSED PREMISES: Any premises that requires a license and/or
permit and that is classified as a sexually oriented business.
PERMITTEE AND/OR LICENSEE: A person in whose name a permit and/or license to
operate a sexually oriented business has been issued, as well as the individual
listed as an applicant on the application for a permit and/or license.
PERSON: An individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation, association,
or other legal entity.
PUBLIC BUILDING: Any building owned, leased or held by the United States, the
state, the county, the city, any special district, school district, or any
other agency or political subdivision of the state or the United States, which
building is used for governmental purposes.
PUBLIC PARK OR RECREATION AREA: Any public land which has been designated for
park or recreational activities including, but not limited to, a park,
playground, nature trails, swimming pool, reservoir, athletic field, basketball
or tennis courts, pedestrian/bicycle paths, open space, wilderness areas, or
similar public land within the city which is under the control, operation, or
management of the city park and recreation authorities.
PUBLIC PLACE: All outdoor places owned by or open to the general public, and
all buildings and enclosed places owned by or open to the general public,
including, but not limited to, places of entertainment, taverns, restaurants,
clubs, theaters, dance halls, banquet halls, party rooms or halls limited to
specific members, restricted to adults or to patrons invited to attend, whether
or not an admission is charged. The term does not include private rooms used
primarily for residential purposes, hotel rooms or other private places used
for human habitation or bona fide dressing rooms or restrooms.
RELIGIOUS INSTITUTION: Any church, synagogue, mosque, temple or building which
is used primarily for religious worship and related religious activities.
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT: Any district established by the zoning ordinance, which
is characterized by residential uses.
RESIDENTIAL USE: A single-family dwelling, duplex, townhouse, multiple-family,
or mobile park or subdivision and campground or other use characterized by its
devotion to human habitation, excluding hotels, motels, boarding establishments
or similar commercial establishments.
SCHOOL: Any public or private educational facility including, but not limited
to, child daycare facilities, nursery schools, preschools, kindergartens,
elementary schools, primary schools, intermediate schools, junior high schools,
middle schools, high schools, vocational schools, secondary schools,
continuation schools, special education schools, junior colleges, and
universities. "School" includes the school grounds, but does not include the
facilities used primarily for another purpose and only incidentally as a
school.
SEMINUDE: A state of dress in which clothing covers no more than the genitals,
pubic region, and areola of the female breast, as well as portions of the body
covered by supporting straps or devices.
SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES: Those businesses defined as follows:
   Adult Arcade: An establishment where, for any form of consideration, one or
more still or motion picture projectors, slide projectors, computers, or other
similar image producing machines, for viewing by five (5) or fewer persons
each, are regularly used to show films, motion pictures, videocassettes, DVDs,
CD-ROMs, slides, computer generated images, or other photographic reproductions
which are characterized by the depiction or description of "specified sexual
activities" or "specified anatomical areas".
   Adult Bookstore, Adult Novelty Store Or Adult Video Store: A commercial
establishment which has a significant or substantial portion of its stock in
trade or derives a significant or substantial portion of its revenues or
devotes a significant or substantial portion of its interior business or
advertising to the sale, rental, for any form of consideration, of any one or
more of the following:
   A.   Books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter, or photographs,
films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides, DVDs, CD-ROMs, or other visual
representations which are characterized by the depiction or description of
"specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas".
   B.   Instruments, devices, or paraphernalia which are designed for use or
marketed primarily for stimulation of human genital organs or for
sadomasochistic use or abuse of themselves or others.
   C.   An establishment may have other principal business purposes that do not
involve the offering for sale, rental or viewing of materials depicting or
describing "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas", and
still be categorized as adult bookstore, adult novelty store, or adult video
store. Such other business purposes will not serve to exempt such
establishments from being categorized as an adult bookstore, adult novelty
store or adult video store so long as one of its business purposes is offering
for sale or rental, for some form of consideration, the specified materials
which depict or describe "specified anatomical areas" or "specified sexual
activities". For the purpose of determining whether a significant or
substantial portion of the stock in trade or revenues consist of or is derived
from the sale of materials which depict or describe "specified sexual
activities" or "specified anatomical areas", the amount of such stock in trade
or revenues shall be compared to the aggregate amount of revenues derived from
the sale of all such materials sold or displayed and the revenues or amount of
stock in trade derived from or consisting of all materials described in
subsections A and B of this definition, over a period of at least one month.
   Adult Cabaret: A nightclub, bar, restaurant, "bottle club", juice bar or
similar commercial establishment, whether or not alcoholic beverages are
served, which regularly features: a) persons who appear nude or in a state of
nudity or seminude; b) live performances which are characterized by the
exposure of "specified anatomical areas" or by "specified sexual activities",
or c) films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides, or other photographic
reproductions which are characterized by the depiction or description of
"specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas".
   Adult Motel: A motel, hotel or similar commercial establishment which: a)
offers public accommodations, for any form of consideration, which provides
patrons with closed circuit television transmissions, films, motion pictures,
videocassettes, slides, DVDs, CD-ROMs, or other photographic reproductions
which are characterized by the depiction or description of "specified sexual
activities" or "specified anatomical areas" and which advertises the
availability of this sexually oriented type of material by means of a sign
visible from the public right of way, or by means of any off premises
advertising including, but not limited to, newspapers, magazines, pamphlets or
leaflets, radio or television; or b) offers a sleeping room for rent for a
period of time less than ten (10) hours; or c) for any form of consideration,
allows a tenant or occupant to subrent the sleeping room for a time period of
less than ten (10) hours.
   Adult Motion Picture Theater: A commercial establishment where films, motion
pictures, videocassettes, slides, DVDs, CD-ROMs, or similar photographic
reproductions which are characterized by the depiction or description of
"specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas" are shown, for
any form of consideration.
   Adult Theater: A theater, concert hall, auditorium, or similar commercial
establishment which, for any form of consideration, regularly features persons
who appear in a state of nudity or live performances which are characterized by
exposure of "specified anatomical areas" or by "specified sexual activities".
   Escort: A person who, for any form of consideration, agrees or offers to act
as a companion or date for another person, or who agrees or offers to privately
model lingerie or to privately perform a striptease for or dance with another
person.
   Escort Agency: A person or business association who furnishes, offers to
furnish, or advertises to furnish escorts as one of its primary business
purposes for a fee, tip, or other consideration.
   Massage Parlor: Any place where, for any form of consideration or gratuity,
massage, alcohol rub, administration of fomentations, electric or magnetic
treatments, or any other treatment manipulation of the human body which occurs
as a part of or in connection with "specified sexual activities", or where any
person providing such treatment, manipulation, or service related thereto,
exposes his or her "specified anatomical areas". The definition of "sexually
oriented businesses" shall not include the practice of massage in any licensed
hospital, nor by a licensed hospital, nor by a licensed physician, surgeon,
chiropractor or osteopath, massage therapist, nor by any nurse or technician
working under the supervision of a licensed physician, surgeon, chiropractor or
osteopath, nor by trainers for any amateur, semiprofessional or professional
athlete or athletic team or school athletic program.
   Nude Model Studio: Any place where a person, who regularly appears in a
state of nudity or displays "specified anatomical areas" is provided, for money
or any form of consideration, to be observed, sketched, drawn, painted,
sculptured, photographed, or similarly depicted by other persons.
   Sexual Encounter Establishment: A business or commercial establishment, that
as one of its primary business purposes, offers, for any form of consideration,
a place where two (2) or more persons may congregate, associate, or consort for
the purpose of "specified sexual activities" or the exposure of "specified
anatomical areas" or activities when one or more of the persons is in a state
of nudity or seminude. The definition of "sexually oriented businesses" shall
not include an establishment where a medical practitioner, psychologist,
psychiatrist, or similar professional person licensed by the state engages in
medically approved and recognized sexual therapy.
SIGNIFICANT OR SUBSTANTIAL: At least twenty five percent (25%).
SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS: Means and includes any of the following:
   A.   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic region,
anus, or female breasts below a point immediately above the top of the areolas;
or
   B.   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if completely
and opaquely covered.
SPECIFIED CRIMINAL ACT: Any sexual crimes against children, sexual abuse, rape
or crimes connected with another sexually oriented business including, but not
limited to, distribution of obscenity or material harmful to minors,
prostitution, pandering, or tax violations.
SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES: As used in this chapter, means and includes any of
the following:
   A.   The fondling or other intentional touching of human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, anus, or female breasts;
   B.   Sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation, or sodomy;
   C.   Masturbation, actual or simulated; or
   D.   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation, arousal or tumescence.
   E.   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the
activities set forth in subsections A through D of this definition.
SUBSTANTIAL ENLARGEMENT OF A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS: The increase in the
floor areas occupied by the business by more than fifteen percent (15%), as the
floor areas exist on the effective date hereof.
TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL OF A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS: Includes any
of the following:
   A.   The sale, lease or sublease of the business;
   B.   The transfer of securities which constitute a controlling interest in
the business, whether by sale, exchange or similar means;
   C.   The establishment of a trust, gift or other similar legal devise which
transfers ownership or control of the business, except for transfer by bequest
or other operation of law upon the death of a person possessing the ownership
or control.
ZONING ORDINANCE: The Minidoka County/cities zoning ordinance as adopted by
Minidoka County, or the cities of Rupert, Heyburn, Paul, Acequia or Minidoka,
Idaho, as presently constituted or as may be amended hereafter. (Ord. 830, 8-6-
2002)
5-19-3: ESTABLISHMENT AND CLASSIFICATION OF BUSINESSES:
   A.   The establishment and operation of a sexually oriented business shall
be permitted only in an industrial light or heavy (IL or IH) zone, and shall be
subject to the restrictions set forth in this chapter. (Ord. 857, 11-15-2005)
   B.   No person shall cause or permit the establishment of a sexually
oriented business within one thousand feet (1,000') of another such business or
within one thousand five hundred feet (1,500') of any religious institution,
school, boys' club, girls' club, or similar existing youth organization, or
public park or public building, or within one thousand five hundred feet
(1,500') of any property zoned for residential use or used for residential
purposes.
   C.   Notwithstanding the distance requirements of subsection B of this
section, the location of sexually oriented businesses within retail shopping
centers in such zones is permitted where such activities will have their only
frontage upon enclosed malls or malls isolated from direct view from public
streets, parks, schools, religious institutions, boys' clubs, girls' clubs, or
similar existing youth organizations, public buildings or residential districts
or uses. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-19-4: MEASUREMENT OF DISTANCE:
As regarding subsection
5-19-3B of this chapter, distance between any two (2) sexually oriented
businesses shall be measured in a straight line, without regard to intervening
structures, from the closest exterior structural wall of each business. The
distance between any sexually oriented business and any religious institution,
public or private elementary or secondary school, boys' club, girls' club, or
similar existing youth organization, or public park or public building or any
properties zoned for residential use or used for residential purposes shall
also be measured in a straight line, without regard to intervening structures
or objects from the nearest point of the property line of the premises where
the sexually oriented business is conducted, to the nearest point of the
property line of the premises of a religious institution, public or private
elementary or secondary school, boys' club, girls' club, or similar existing
youth organization, or public park or public building or any properties zoned
for residential use or used for residential purposes. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-19-5: LOCATION OF SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES:
Sexually oriented businesses shall be permitted only in the IL (industrial
light) or IH (industrial heavy) zone and shall otherwise be subject to the
provisions of this zoning ordinance applicable to such zones, together with the
provisions of this chapter. In the event of any conflict between the zoning
ordinance and this chapter, then the provisions of this chapter shall control.
Permits for sexually oriented businesses shall be required and governed by the
procedures and policies specified in section
5-19-9 of this chapter. In addition, any person who owns, operates or controls
a sexually oriented business shall be subject to the following restrictions:
   A.   The person commits a misdemeanor if he operates or causes to be
operated a sexually oriented business except as provided in section
5-19-3 of this chapter.
   B.   The person commits a misdemeanor if he operates or causes to be
operated a sexually oriented business within one thousand five hundred feet
(1,500') of the following:
      1.   Any religious institution;
      2.   Any school;
      3.   The boundary of any residential zone;
      4.   A public park adjacent to any residential zone;
      5.   A property line of a lot devoted to residential use; or
      6.   A boys' club, girls' club, or similar existing youth organization,
except as provided in subsection
5-19-3C of this chapter.
   C.   A person commits a misdemeanor if he operates or causes to be operated
a sexually oriented business within one thousand feet (1,000') of another such
business, which will include any adult arcade, adult bookstore, adult video
store, adult cabaret, adult motel, adult motion picture theater, adult theater,
massage parlor or any sexual encounter establishment, except as provided in
subsection
5-19-3C of this chapter.
   D.   A person commits a misdemeanor if he causes or permits the operation,
establishment, or maintenance of more than one sexually oriented business
within the same building, structure, or portion thereof, except as provided in
subsection
5-19-3C of this chapter, or causes the substantial enlargement of any sexually
oriented business in any building, structure or portion thereof containing
another sexually oriented business.
   E.   It is a defense to prosecution under this section if a person appearing
in a state of nudity did so in a modeling class operated:
      1.   By a proprietary school, licensed by the state of Idaho; a college,
junior college, or university supported entirely or partly by taxation;
      2.   By a private college or university which maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior
college, or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or
      3.   In a structure:
         a.   Which has no sign visible from the exterior of the structure and
no other advertising that indicates a nude person is available for viewing;
         b.   Where, in order to participate in a class a student must enroll
at least three (3) days in advance of the class; and
         c.   Where no more than one nude model is on the premises at any one
time. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-19-6: REGULATIONS GOVERNING EXISTING BUSINESSES:
   A.   Any sexually oriented businesses lawfully operating on the effective
date hereof that are in violation of sections
5-19-3 and
5-19-5 of this chapter shall be deemed a nonconforming use. A nonconforming use
will be permitted to continue for a period of one year, with a possible
extension of one year to be granted by the city planning and zoning commission
only upon a convincing showing of extreme financial hardship which is defined
as the recovery of the initial financial investment in the nonconforming use,
unless sooner terminated for any reason or voluntarily discontinued for a
period of thirty (30) days or more. Such nonconforming uses shall not be
increased, enlarged, extended or altered except that the use may be changed to
a conforming use. If two (2) or more sexually oriented businesses are within
one thousand feet (1,000') of one another and otherwise in a permissible
location, the sexually oriented business which was first established and
continually operating at the particular location is the conforming use and the
later established business(es) is nonconforming, except as provided in
subsection 5-19-3C of this chapter.
   B.   A sexually oriented business lawfully operating as conforming use is
not rendered a nonconforming use by the location, subsequent to the grant or
renewal of a sexually oriented business permit and/or license, of a church,
public or private elementary or secondary school, public park, public building,
residential district, or residential lot within one thousand five hundred feet
(1,500') of the sexually oriented business. This provision applies only to the
renewal of a valid permit and/or license and does not apply when an application
for a permit and/or license is submitted after a permit and/or license has
expired or has been revoked.
   C.   Any establishment subject to the provision of this section shall apply
for the permit provided for by section
5-19-10 of this chapter within thirty (30) days of the effective date hereof.
Any establishment, existing prior to the effective date hereof, shall comply
with the regulations pertaining to sections
5-19-20,
5-19-22, and
5-19-30 of this chapter, within sixty (60) days of the effective date hereof,
and all other applicable permit regulations within thirty (30) days of the
effective date hereof. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-19-7: INJUNCTION:
A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented business
without having a valid permit due to locational restrictions is subject to a
suit for injunction as well as prosecution for the criminal violation. Such
violation shall be punishable by a fine of three hundred dollars ($300.00) and/
or thirty (30) days' imprisonment, and if an injunction must be sought,
attorney fees and costs may be assessed by the court against the sexually
oriented business. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-19-8: PERMIT; PURPOSE AND INTENT:
It is the purpose of this chapter to regulate sexually oriented businesses, to
promote the health, safety, morals and general welfare of the citizens of the
city, and to establish reasonable and uniform regulations to prevent
deleterious effects of sexually oriented businesses within the city. The
provisions of this chapter have neither the purpose nor effect of imposing a
limitation or restriction on the content of any communicative materials,
including sexually oriented materials. Similarly, it is not the intent nor
effect of this chapter to restrict or deny access by adults to sexually
oriented materials protected by the first amendment, or to deny access by the
distributors and exhibitors of sexually oriented entertainment to their
intended market. Neither is it the intent nor effect of this chapter to in any
way condone or legitimize the distribution of obscene or harmful material to
minors. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-19-9: PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   No sexually oriented business shall be permitted to operate without a
valid sexually oriented business permit issued by the city for the particular
type of business. It shall be unlawful and a person commits a misdemeanor if
he/she operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented business without
said permit.
   B.   The city planning and zoning administrator or his/her designee is
responsible for granting, denying, revoking, renewing, suspending, and
canceling sexually oriented business permits for proposed or existing sexually
oriented businesses. The city planning and zoning administrator or his/her
designee is also responsible for ascertaining whether a proposed sexually
oriented business for which a permit is being applied for complies with all
locational requirements of sections
5-19-3,
5-19-5, and
5-19-6 of this chapter, all applicable zoning laws and/or regulations now in
effect or as amended or enacted subsequent to the effective date hereof in the
city and the city comprehensive plan.
   C.   The city police department shall be responsible for enforcing all other
provisions of this chapter. The city police department shall, upon request from
the city planning and zoning administrator, provide information on whether an
applicant has been convicted of a specified criminal act during the time period
set forth.
   D.   The city planning and zoning administrator and the applicable law
enforcement department shall be jointly responsible for inspecting a proposed,
permitted or nonpermitted sexually oriented business in order to ascertain
whether it is in compliance with this chapter.
   E.   An application for a permit must be made on a form provided by the
city. Any person desiring to operate a sexually oriented business shall file
with the city clerk an original and two (2) copies of a sworn permit
application on the standard application form supplied by the city or designee.
   F.   The completed application shall contain the following information and
shall be accompanied by the following documents:
      1.   If the applicant is:
         a.   An individual, the individual shall state his/her legal name and
any aliases and submit satisfactory proof that he/she is eighteen (18) years of
age;
         b.   A partnership, the partnership shall state its complete name, and
the names of all partners, whether the partnership is general or limited, and a
copy of the partnership agreement, if any;
         c.   A corporation, the corporation shall state its complete name, the
date of its incorporation, evidence that the corporation is in good standing
under the laws of Idaho, the names and capacity of all officers, directors and
principal stockholders, and the name of the registered corporate agent and the
address of the registered office for service of process.
      2.   If the applicant intends to operate the sexually oriented business
under a name other than that of the applicant, he must state:
         a.   The sexually oriented business's fictitious name, and
         b.   Submit documents evidencing compliance with chapter 5, title 53,
Idaho Code.
      3.   Whether the applicant or any of the other individuals listed
pursuant to this section has, within the two (2) or five (5) year period as
specified in section
5-19-11 of this chapter immediately preceding the date of the application, been
convicted of a specified criminal act, and, if so, the specified criminal act
involved, the date of conviction and the place of conviction.
      4.   Whether the applicant or any of the other individuals listed
pursuant to this subsection has had a previous permit under this chapter or
other similar sexually oriented business ordinances from another city or county
denied, suspended or revoked, including the name and location of the sexually
oriented business for which the permit was denied, suspended or revoked, as
well as the date of the denial, suspension or revocation, and whether the
applicant or any other individuals listed pursuant to this subsection has been
a partner in a partnership or an officer, director or principal stockholder of
a corporation that is permitted under this chapter whose permit has previously
been denied, suspended or revoked, including the name and location of the
sexually oriented business for which the permit was denied, suspended or
revoked as well as the date of denial, suspension or revocation.
      5.   Whether the applicant or any other individual listed pursuant to
this subsection holds any other permits and/or licenses under this chapter or
other similar sexually oriented business ordinance from another city or county
and, if so, the names and locations of such other permitted businesses.
      6.   The single classification of permit for which the applicant is
filing.
      7.   The location of the proposed sexually oriented business, including a
legal description of the property, street address, and telephone number(s), if
any.
      8.   The mailing addresses and residential addresses of the applicant and
each partner, member, officer, director and shareholder listed in this
subsection.
      9.   A recent photograph of the applicant(s) or its manager, partner,
member or president.
      10.   The driver's permit number, social security number, and/or state or
federally issued tax identification number of the applicant or its manager,
partner, member or president.
      11.   A sketch or diagram showing the configuration of the premises,
including a statement of total floor space occupied by the business. The sketch
or diagram need not be professionally prepared, but it must be drawn to a
designated scale or drawn with marked dimensions of the interior of the
premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six inches (±6").
      12.   A current certificate and straight line drawing prepared within
thirty (30) days prior to application by an Idaho registered land surveyor
depicting the property lines and the structures containing any established
existing uses regulated by this chapter within one thousand five hundred feet
(1,500') of the property to be certified; the property lines of any established
religious institution/synagogue, school, or public park or recreation area
within one thousand five hundred feet (1,500') of the property to be certified;
and the property lines of any residentially zoned area or residential property
within one thousand five hundred feet (1,500') of the property to be certified.
For purposes of this section, a use shall be considered existing or established
if it is in existence at the time an application is submitted. Sexually
oriented businesses allowed under subsection
5-19-3C of this chapter are exempt from this requirement.
      13.   If a person who wishes to operate a sexually oriented business is
an individual, he/she must sign the application for a permit as applicant. If a
person who wishes to operate a sexually oriented business is other than an
individual, each individual who has a ten percent (10%) or greater interest in
the business must sign the application for a permit as applicant. If a
corporation is listed as owner of a sexually oriented business or as the entity
which wishes to operate such a business, each individual having a ten percent
(10%) or greater interest in the corporation must sign the application for a
permit as applicant.
      14.   If a person wishes to operate a sexually oriented business which
shall exhibit on the premises films, videocassettes, DVDs, CD-ROMs, or other
video reproductions which depict specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas, then said person shall comply with the application
requirements stated at section
5-19-20 et seq., of this chapter.
   G.   Applicants for a permit under this section shall have a continuing duty
to promptly supplement application information required by this section in the
event that said information changes in any way from what is stated on the
application. The failure to comply with said continuing duty within thirty (30)
days from the date of such change, by supplementing the application on file
with the city clerk or his/her designee, shall be grounds for suspension of a
permit.
   H.   In the event that the city clerk or his/her designee determines or
learns at any time that the applicant has improperly completed the application
for a proposed sexually oriented business, he/she shall promptly notify the
applicant of such fact and allow the applicant ten (10) days to properly
complete the application. The time period for granting or denying a permit
shall be stayed during the period in which the applicant is expressly allowed
an opportunity to properly complete the application.
   I.   The applicant must be qualified according to the provisions of this
chapter and the premises must be inspected and found to be in compliance with
all federal, state or city health, fire and building codes and laws.
   J.   The applicant shall be required to pay a nonrefundable application fee
of one hundred dollars ($100.00) at the time of filing an application under
this chapter.
   K.   Prior to obtaining any permit or license to operate any sexually
oriented business defined in this chapter, and as part of any application for a
permit under this section, the applicant shall obtain from the administrator of
planning and zoning, or his or her designee, a certification that the proposed
location of such business complies with the locational requirements of sections
5-19-5 and
5-19-6 of this chapter.
   L.   The fact that a person possesses other types of state or city permits
and/or licenses does not exempt the applicant from the requirement of obtaining
a sexually oriented business permit.
   M.   By applying for a permit under this chapter, the applicant shall be
deemed to have consented to the provisions of this chapter and to the exercise
by the administrator of planning and zoning or his/her designee, the Rupert
police department and all other city agencies charged with enforcing the laws,
ordinances and codes applicable in the city of their respective
responsibilities under this chapter.
   N.   The applicant shall be required to provide the city with the names of
any and all employees who are required to be licensed pursuant to section
5-19-19 of this chapter. This shall be a continuing requirement even after a
permit is granted or renewed. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-19-10: INVESTIGATION AND APPLICATION:
   A.   Upon receipt of an application properly filed with the city clerk and
upon payment of the nonrefundable application fee, the city clerk or his/her
designee, shall immediately stamp the application as received and shall
immediately thereafter send photocopies of the application to the city police
department and any other city divisions or agencies responsible for enforcement
of health, fire and building codes and laws. Each division or agency shall
promptly conduct an investigation of the applicant, application and the
proposed sexually oriented business in accordance with its responsibilities
under law and as set forth in this chapter. Said investigation shall be
completed within twenty (20) days of receipt of the application by the city or
its designee. At the conclusion of its investigation, each department or agency
shall indicate on the photocopy of the application its approval or disapproval
of the application, date it, sign it, and, in the event it disapproves, state
the reasons therefor. The city police department shall only be required to
certify the NCIC records request check mentioned in section
5-19-11 of this chapter. The city police department shall not be required to
approve or disapprove applications.
   B.   The city council shall disapprove an application if it finds that the
proposed sexually oriented business will be in violation of any provision of
any statute, code, ordinance, regulation or other law in effect in the city.
(Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-19-11: ISSUANCE OF PERMIT:
   A.   Application Approval Or Rejection: The city council shall grant or deny
an application for a permit within sixty (60) days from the date of its proper
filing. Upon the expiration of the sixtieth day, unless the applicant requests
and is granted a reasonable extension of time, the applicant shall be permitted
to begin operating the business for which the permit is sought, unless and
until the administrator of planning and zoning, or his/her designee, notifies
the applicant of a denial of the application and states the reason(s) for that
denial.
   B.   Grant Of Application For Permit:
      1.   The city council shall grant the application unless one or more of
the criteria set forth in subsection C of this section is present.
      2.   The permit, if granted, shall state on its face the name of the
person or persons to whom it is granted, the expiration date, and the address
of the sexually oriented business. The permit shall also indicate that the
sexually oriented business whether permitted or not may be subject to
prohibitions against public nudity and indecency pursuant to the United States
supreme court decision in Barnes v. Glen Theater, Inc., 501 U.S. 560 (1991).
The permit shall be posted in a conspicuous place at or near the entrance to
the sexually oriented business so that it can be read easily at any time.
   C.   Denial Of Application For Permit:
      1.   The city council shall deny the application for any of the following
reasons:
         a.   An applicant is under eighteen (18) years of age.
         b.   An applicant or an applicant's spouse is overdue on his/her
payment to the city of any taxes, fees, fines, or penalties assessed against
him/her or imposed upon him/her in relation to a sexually oriented business.
         c.   An applicant is residing with a person who has been denied a
permit by the city to operate a sexually oriented business within the preceding
twelve (12) months, or residing with a person whose permit to operate a
sexually oriented business has been revoked by any other governmental or
regulatory agency within the preceding twelve (12) months.
         d.   An applicant has failed to provide information required by this
section or permit application for the issuance of the permit or has falsely
answered a question or request for information on the application form.
         e.   The premises to be used for the sexually oriented business has
not been approved as being in compliance with health, fire and building codes
by the department or agency responsible under law for investigating said
compliance.
         f.   The application or permit fees required by this chapter have not
been paid.
         g.   An applicant of the proposed business is in violation of, or is
not in compliance with, any of the provisions of this chapter including, but
not limited to, the zoning locational requirements for a sexually oriented
business under sections
5-19-3,
5-19-5, and
5-19-6 of this chapter.
         h.   The granting of the application would violate a statute,
ordinance, or court order.
         i.   The applicant has a permit under this chapter, which has been
suspended or revoked.
         j.   An applicant has been convicted of a "specified criminal act" for
which:
            (1)   Less than two (2) years have elapsed since the date of
conviction or the date of release from confinement, whichever is the later
date, if the conviction is of a misdemeanor offense for the "specified criminal
acts" which are sexual crimes against children, sexual abuse, rape or crimes
connected with another sexually oriented business including, but not limited
to, distribution of obscenity or material harmful to minors, prostitution,
pandering, or tax violations;
            (2)   Less than five (5) years have elapsed since the date of
conviction or the date of release from confinement, whichever is the later
date, if the conviction is of a felony offense for the "specified criminal
acts" which are sexual crimes against children, sexual abuse, rape or crimes
connected with another sexually oriented business including, but not limited
to, distribution of obscenity or material harmful to minors, prostitution,
pandering, or tax violations;
            (3)   Less than five (5) years have elapsed since the date of
conviction or the date of release from confinement, whichever is the later
date, if the convictions are of two (2) or more misdemeanor offenses for
"specified criminal acts" which are sexual crimes against children, sexual
abuse, rape or crimes connected with another sexually oriented business
including, but not limited to, distribution of obscenity or materials harmful
to minors, prostitution, pandering or tax violations; offenses occurring within
any twenty four (24) month period;
            (4)   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no
effect on disqualification of the applicant;
            (5)   An applicant who has been convicted of the above described
"specified criminal acts" may qualify for a sexually oriented business permit
only when the time period required above in this subsection C1j has elapsed.
         k.   An applicant knowingly has in his or her employ, an employee who
does not have a valid license as required in section
5-19-19 of this chapter.
      2.   If the city council denies the application, the city clerk shall
notify the applicant of the denial and state the reason(s) for the denial
within ten (10) days after the date of such denial.
      3.   If a person applies for a permit for a particular location within a
period of twelve (12) months from the date of denial of a previous application
for a permit at the location, and there has not been an intervening change in
the circumstances which could reasonably be expected to lead to a different
decision regarding the former reasons for denial, the application shall be
denied. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-19-12: ANNUAL PERMIT FEE:
The annual fee for a sexually oriented business permit is eight hundred fifty
dollars ($850.00). Such fee shall accompany the application filed under
subsection
5-19-9F of this chapter. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-19-13: INSPECTION:
   A.   An applicant or permittee shall permit representatives of the planning
and zoning office, the county health department, and the fire department to
inspect the premises of a sexually oriented business for the purpose of
ensuring compliance with the law, at any time it is occupied or open for
business.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for a person who operates a sexually oriented
business, regardless of whether or not a permit has been issued for said
business under this chapter, or his/her agent or employee, if he/she refuses to
permit such lawful inspection of the premises at any time that it is occupied
or open for business. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-19-14: EXPIRATION OF PERMIT:
   A.   Each permit shall expire one year from the date of issuance and may be
renewed only by making application as provided in section
5-19-11 of this chapter (for renewals, filing of original survey shall be
sufficient). Application for renewal shall be made at least thirty (30) days
before the expiration date, and when made less than thirty (30) days before the
expiration date, the expiration of the permit will not be affected.
   B.   When the city council denies renewal of the permit, the applicant shall
not be issued a permit under this chapter for one year from the date of denial.
If, subsequent to denial, the city council finds that the basis for denial of
the renewal of the permit has been corrected, the applicant shall be granted a
permit if at least ninety (90) days have elapsed since the date denial became
final. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-19-15: SUSPENSION OF PERMIT:
   A.   The administrator of planning and zoning and/or the chief of police of
the city of Rupert shall suspend a permit for a period not to exceed thirty
(30) days if he/she determines that a permittee, or an employee of a permittee,
has:
      1.   Violated or is not in compliance with any section of this chapter;
or
      2.   Been under the influence of alcoholic beverages while working in the
sexually oriented business premises; or
      3.   Refused to allow an inspection of sexually oriented business
premises as authorized by this chapter; or
      4.   Knowingly permitted gambling by any person on the sexually oriented
business premises; or
      5.   Operated the sexually oriented business in violation of a building,
fire, health, or zoning statute, code, ordinance or regulation, whether
federal, state or local, said determination being based on investigation by the
division, department or agency charged with enforcing said rules or laws. In
the event of such statute, code, ordinance or regulation violation, the city or
its designee, shall promptly notify the permittee of the violation and shall
allow the permittee a seven (7) day period in which to correct the violation.
If the permittee fails to correct the violation before the expiration of the
seven (7) day period, the city or its designee, shall forthwith suspend the
permit and shall notify the permittee of the suspension.
      6.   Engaged in permit transfer contrary to section
5-19-18 of this chapter. In the event that the administrator of planning and
zoning suspends a permit on the ground that a permittee engaged in a permit
transfer contrary to section
5-19-18 of this chapter, the director or his/her designee shall forthwith
notify the permittee of the suspension. The suspension shall remain in effect
until the applicable section of this chapter has been satisfied.
      7.   Operated the sexually oriented business in violation of the hours of
operation required in section
5-19-23 of this chapter.
      8.   Knowingly employs a person who does not have a valid license as
required in section
5-19-19 of this chapter.
   B.   The suspension shall remain in effect until the violation of the
statute, code, ordinance or regulation in question has been corrected. (Ord.
830, 8-6-2002)
5-19-16: REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
   A.   The city council shall revoke a permit if a cause of suspension in
section
5-19-15 of this chapter occurs and the permit has been suspended within the
preceding twelve (12) months.
   B.   The city council shall revoke a permit upon determining that:
      1.   A permittee gave false or misleading information in the material
submitted during the application process that tended to enhance the applicant's
opportunity for obtaining a permit; or
      2.   A permittee or an employee has knowingly allowed possession, use or
sale of controlled substances in or on the premises; or
      3.   A permittee or an employee has knowingly allowed prostitution on the
premises; or
      4.   A permittee or an employee knowingly operated the sexually oriented
business during a period of time when the permittee's permit was suspended; or
      5.   A permittee has been convicted of a "specified criminal act" for
which the time period required in section
5-19-11 of this chapter has not elapsed; or
      6.   On two (2) or more occasions within a twelve (12) month period, a
person or persons committed an offense, occurring in or on the permitted
premises, constituting a specified criminal act for which a conviction has been
obtained, and the person or persons were employees of the sexually oriented
business at the time the offenses were committed. The fact that a conviction is
being appealed shall have no effect on the revocation of the permit; or
      7.   A permittee is convicted of tax violations for any taxes or fees
related to a sexually oriented business; or
      8.   A permittee or an employee has knowingly allowed any act of sexual
intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation, masturbation, or any other specified
sexual activities to occur in or on the permitted premises.
      9.   A permittee has been operating more than one sexually oriented
business under a single roof except as provided in subsection
5-19-3C of this chapter.
   C.   When the city council revokes a permit, the revocation shall continue
for one year and the permittee shall not be issued a sexually oriented business
permit for one year from the date revocation became effective. If, subsequent
to revocation, the city council finds that the basis for revocation under this
section has been corrected, the applicant shall be granted a permit if at least
ninety (90) days have elapsed since the date revocation became effective. If
the permit was revoked under this section, an applicant may not be granted
another permit until the number of years required under this section have
elapsed. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-19-17: JUDICIAL REVIEW OF PERMIT DENIAL, SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION:
After denial of an application, or denial of a renewal of an application, or
suspension or revocation of a permit, the applicant or permittee may seek
review of such administrative action pursuant to and within the time frames
established by the Idaho administrative procedure act. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-19-18: TRANSFER OF PERMIT:
   A.   A permittee shall not operate a sexually oriented business under the
authority of a permit at any place other than the address designated in the
application for permit.
   B.   A permittee shall not transfer his/her permit to another person unless
and until such other person satisfies the following requirements:
      1.   Obtains an amendment to the permit from the city council which
provides that he/she is now the permittee, which amendment may be obtained only
if he/she has completed and properly filed an application with the city clerk
or his/her designee, setting forth the information called for under section
5-19-11 of this chapter in the application; and
      2.   Pays a transfer fee of twenty percent (20%) of the annual permit fee
set by this chapter.
   C.   No permit may be transferred when the administrator of planning and
zoning, the chief of police or the city council have notified the permittee
that suspension or revocation proceedings have been or will be brought against
the permittee.
   D.   A permittee shall not transfer his permit to another location.
   E.   Any attempt to transfer a permit either directly or indirectly in
violation of this section is hereby declared void and the permit shall be
deemed revoked upon the date such transfer is made. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-19-19: EMPLOYEE LICENSE:
   A.   License; Fee: Each individual to be employed in a sexually oriented
business, as defined in section
5-19-2 of this chapter, who engages in the services rendered by a nude model
studio, escort or escort agency, sexual encounter establishment, massage
parlor, or a live performer or entertainer shall be required to obtain a
sexually oriented business employee license. Each applicant shall pay a permit
fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00). Said fee is to cover reasonable
administrative costs of the licensing application process.
   B.   License Form: Before any applicant may be issued a sexually oriented
business employee license, the applicant shall submit on a form to be provided
by the city clerk or his/her designee the following information:
      1.   The applicant's name or any other names (including "stage" names) or
aliases used by the individual.
      2.   Age, date, and place of birth.
      3.   Height, weight, hair and eye color.
      4.   Present residence address and telephone number.
      5.   Present business address and telephone number.
      6.   State driver's license or identification number.
      7.   Social security number.
      8.   Acceptable written proof that the individual is at least eighteen
(18) years of age.
      9.   Attached to the application form as provided above, a color
photograph of the applicant clearly showing the applicant's face, and the
applicant's fingerprints on a form provided by the city police department. Any
fees for the photographs and fingerprints shall be paid by the applicant.
      10.   A statement detailing the license or permit history of the
applicant for the five (5) years immediately preceding the date of the filing
of the application, including whether such applicant previously operating or
seeking to operate, in this or any other county, city, state, or country has
ever had a license, permit, or authorization to do business denied, revoked, or
suspended, or had any professional or vocational license or permit denied,
revoked, or suspended. In the event of any such denial, revocation, or
suspension, state the date, the name of the issuing or denying jurisdiction,
and describe in full the reasons for the denial, revocation, or suspension. A
copy of any order of denial, revocation, or suspension shall be attached to the
application.
      11.   Whether the applicant has been convicted of a "specified criminal
act" as defined in section
5-19-2 of this chapter. This information shall include the date, place, nature
of each conviction or plea of nolo contendere and identifying the convicting
jurisdiction.
      12.   The city clerk or his or her designee shall refer the sexually
oriented business employee license application to the city police department
for an investigation to be made of such information as is contained on the
application. The application process shall be completed within ten (10) days
from the date the completed application is filed. After the investigation, the
city clerk or his or her designee shall issue a license unless the report from
the police department finds that one or more of the following findings is true:
         a.   That the applicant has knowingly made any false, misleading, or
fraudulent statement of a material fact in the application for a license, or in
any report or record required to be filed with the sheriff's department or
other city department;
         b.   That the applicant is under eighteen (18) years of age;
         c.   That the applicant has been convicted of a "specified criminal
act" as defined in section
5-19-2 of this chapter;
         d.   That the sexually oriented business employee license is to be
used for employment in a business prohibited by local or state law, statute,
rule or regulation, or prohibited by particular provisions of this chapter;
         e.   That the applicant has had a sexually oriented business employee
license revoked by the city or any other governmental or regulatory agency
within two (2) years of the date of the current application.
   C.   Renewal Of License:
      1.   A license granted pursuant to this section shall be subject to
annual renewal by the city clerk or his or her designee upon the written
application of the applicant and a finding by the city clerk or his or her
designee and the city police department that the applicant has not been
convicted of any "specified criminal act" as defined in section
5-19-2 of this chapter or committed any act during the existence of the
previous license period which would be grounds to deny the initial permit
application.
      2.   The renewal of the license shall be subject to payment of a fee of
twenty five dollars ($25.00). (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-19-20: REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO EXHIBITION OF SEXUALLY EXPLICIT FILMS OR
VIDEOS IN VIDEO BOOTHS:
   A.   A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented
business, other than an adult motel and regardless of whether or not a permit
has been issued to said business under this chapter, and who exhibits on the
premises in a viewing room of less than one hundred fifty (150) square feet of
floor space, a film, videocassette, DVD, CD-ROM, or other video reproduction
which depicts specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas, shall
comply with the following requirements:
      1.   Upon application for a sexually oriented business permit, the
application shall be accompanied by a diagram of the premises showing a plan
thereof specifying the location of one or more manager's stations, the location
of all overhead lighting fixtures and designating any portion of the premises
in which patrons will not be permitted. A manager's station may not exceed
thirty two (32) square feet of floor area with no dimension greater than eight
feet (8'). The diagram shall also designate the place at which this permit will
be conspicuously posted, if granted. A professionally prepared diagram in the
nature of an engineer's or architect's blueprint shall not be required;
however, each diagram should be oriented to the north or to some designated
street or object and should be drawn to a designated scale with marked
dimensions sufficient to show the various internal dimensions of all areas of
the interior of the premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six inches (±6").
The administrator of planning and zoning or his/her designee may waive the
foregoing diagram for renewal applications if the applicant adopts a diagram
that was previously submitted and certifies that the configuration of the
premises has not been altered since it was prepared.
      2.   The application shall be sworn to be true and correct by the
applicant.
      3.   No alteration in the configuration or location of a manager's
station may be made without the prior approval of the administrator of planning
and zoning or his/her designee.
      4.   It is the duty of the owners and operator of the premises to ensure
that at least one employee is on duty and situated at each manager's station at
all times that any patron is present inside the premises.
      5.   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner
that there is an unobstructed view from a manager's station of every area of
the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose, excluding
restrooms. Restrooms may not contain video reproduction equipment. If the
premises has two (2) or more manager's stations designated, then the interior
of the premises shall be configured in such a manner that there is an
unobstructed view of each area of the premises to which any patron is permitted
access for any purpose from at least one of the manager's stations. The view
required in this subsection must be by direct line of sight from the manager's
station.
      6.   It shall be the duty of the owners and operator, and it shall also
be the duty of any agents and employees present on the premises, to ensure that
the view area specified in subsection A5 of this section remains unobstructed
by any doors, walls, merchandise, display racks or other materials or person at
all times and to ensure that no patron is permitted access to any area of the
premises which has been designated as an area in which patrons will not be
permitted in the application filed pursuant to this subsection.
      7.   No viewing room may be occupied by more than one person at any one
time. No holes, commonly known as "glory holes", shall be allowed in the walls
or partitions, which separate each viewing room from an adjoining viewing room
or restroom.
      8.   The premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting fixtures of
sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are permitted
access and an illumination of not less than two (2) foot-candles as measured at
the floor level.
      9.   It shall be the duty of the owners and operator, and it shall also
be the duty of any agents and employees present on the premises, to ensure that
the illumination described above is maintained at all times that any patron is
present on the premises.
   B.   A person having a duty under subsection A of this section commits a
misdemeanor if he/she knowingly fails to fulfill that duty. (Ord. 830, 8-6-
2002)
5-19-21: PROHIBITIONS REGARDING MINORS AND SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES:
A person commits a misdemeanor if he/she operates or causes to be operated a
sexually oriented business, regardless of whether or not a permit has been
issued for said business under this chapter, and knowingly or with reasonable
cause to know, permits, suffers, or allows:
   A.   Admittance of a person under eighteen (18) years of age to the business
premises unless accompanied by a parent or guardian;
   B.   A person under eighteen (18) years of age to remain at the business
premises unless accompanied by a parent or guardian;
   C.   A person under eighteen (18) years of age to purchase goods or services
at the business premises without the specific consent of a parent or guardian;
or
   D.   A person who is under eighteen (18) years of age to work at the
business premises as an employee. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-19-22: ADVERTISING AND LIGHTING REGULATIONS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful and a person commits a misdemeanor if he/she
operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented business, regardless of
whether or not a permit has been issued for said business under this chapter,
and advertises the presentation of any activity prohibited by any applicable
state statute or local ordinance.
   B.   It shall be unlawful and a person commits a misdemeanor if he/she
operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented business, regardless of
whether or not a permit has been issued for said business under this chapter,
and displays or otherwise exhibits the materials and/or performances at such
sexually oriented business in any advertising which is visible outside the
premises. This prohibition shall not extend to advertising of the existence or
location of such sexually oriented business.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any permittee to allow any portion of the
interior premises of a sexually oriented business to be visible from outside
the licensed premises.
   D.   All off street parking areas and premises entries of the sexually
oriented business shall be illuminated from dusk to closing hours of operation
with a lighting system which provides an average maintained horizontal
illumination of one foot-candle of light on the parking surface and/or
walkways. This required lighting level is established in order to provide
sufficient illumination of the parking areas and walkways serving the sexually
oriented business for the personal safety of patrons and employees and to
reduce the incidence of vandalism and criminal conduct. The lighting shall be
shown on the required sketch or diagram of the premises.
   E.   Nothing contained in this section shall relieve the operator(s) of a
sexually oriented business from complying with the requirements of this title,
as it may be amended from time to time, or any subsequently enacted city
ordinances or regulations. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-19-23: HOURS OF OPERATION:
   A.   It shall be unlawful and a person commits a misdemeanor if he/she
operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented business, regardless of
whether or not a permit has been issued for said business under this chapter,
and allows such business to remain open for business, or to permit any employee
to engage in a performance, solicit a performance, make a sale, solicit a sale,
provide a service, or solicit a service on Sunday between the hours of one
o'clock (1:00) A.M. and nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. of the following Monday or
between the hours of one o'clock (1:00) A.M. and nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. of
any other day.
   B.   It shall be unlawful and a person commits a misdemeanor if, working as
an employee of a sexually oriented business, regardless of whether or not a
permit has been issued for said business under this chapter, said employee
engages in a performance, solicits a performance, makes a sale, solicits a
sale, provides a service, or solicits a service on Sunday between the hours of
one o'clock (1:00) A.M. and nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. of the following Monday or
between the hours of one o'clock (1:00) A.M. and nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. of
any other day. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-19-24: PUBLIC NUDITY PROHIBITED:
   A.   The United States supreme court decision in Barnes v. Glen Theater,
Inc., 501 U.S. 560, 111 S. Ct. 2456, 115 L. Ed.2d 504 (1991) and Erie v. Pap's
A.M., 120 S. Ct. 1382, 146 L. Ed.2d 265, upheld the rights of cities to
prohibit public nudity at any sexually oriented businesses, regardless of
whether or not a permit has been issued to said businesses, including
businesses where no alcoholic beverages are sold, served, or consumed at the
premises. The city expressly finds that the secondary effects associated with
live adult entertainment and public nudity adversely impact and threaten to
impact the public health, safety and welfare by providing an atmosphere
conducive to violence, sexual harassment, public intoxication, prostitution,
the spread of sexually transmitted disease and other deleterious effects.
Accordingly, consistent with such decisions, the city intends by this chapter
to prohibit public nudity within the city.
   B.   No person shall knowingly or intentionally, in a public place:
      1.   Engage in sexual intercourse,
      2.   Appear in a state of nudity,
      3.   Fondle his or her genitals or the genitals another person, or
      4.   Engage in specified sexual activities.
   C.   No person who owns, operates or otherwise controls a sexually oriented
business shall permit, allow, hire, sponsor or employ any other person for the
purpose of appearing in a state of nudity at any public building, public park
or recreation area or public place.
   D.   The prohibition set forth in subsections B and C of this section shall
not apply to:
      1.   Any child under ten (10) years of age;
      2.   Any individual exposing a breast in the process of breast feeding an
infant less than two (2) years of age;
      3.   Any person while performing any excretory function within a public
restroom;
      4.   Any person changing his or her clothing in a dressing room, the sole
purpose of which is to provide personal privacy for such purposes; or
      5.   Any person while receiving medical or therapeutic treatment from any
physician, paramedic, nurse or other medical practitioner licensed by the state
of Idaho. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-19-25: PROHIBITION OF LIVE ADULT ENTERTAINMENT:
   A.   No person shall perform, cause or allow the performance of live adult
entertainment in any public place within the city or at any private place or
location where any individual admissions charge or consideration is charged to
or collected from persons attending such performance.
   B.   No employee of a sexually oriented business shall engage in any
"specified sexual activity" or display or expose any "specified anatomical
area" while acting as a waiter, waitress, host, hostess, or bartender. (Ord.
830, 8-6-2002)
5-19-26: ADDITIONAL CRIMINAL PROHIBITIONS FOR OPERATION WITHOUT A VALID PERMIT:
In addition to the criminal provisions in other sections of this chapter, the
following additional criminal provisions shall also apply to sexually oriented
businesses:
   A.   It shall be unlawful and a person commits a misdemeanor if he/she
operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented business, regardless of
whether or not a permit has been issued for said business under this chapter,
and said person knows or should know that:
      1.   The business does not have a sexually oriented business permit under
this chapter for any applicable classification;
      2.   The business has a permit which is under suspension;
      3.   The business has a permit which has been revoked; or
      4.   The business has a permit which has expired. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-19-27: EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   It is a defense to prosecution for any violation of this chapter that a
person appearing in a state of nudity did so in a modeling class operated:
      1.   By a college, junior college, or university supported entirely or
partly by taxation;
      2.   By a private college or university which maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior
college, or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or
      3.   In a structure:
         a.   Which has no sign visible from the exterior of the structure and
no other advertising that indicates a nude person is available for viewing;
         b.   Where, in order to participate in a class a student must enroll
at least three (3) days in advance of the class; and
         c.   Where no more than one nude model is on the premises at any one
time.
   B.   It is a defense to prosecution for a violation of this chapter that an
employee of a sexually oriented business, regardless of whether or not it is
permitted under this chapter, exposed any specified anatomical area during the
employee's bona fide use of a restroom, or during the employee's bona fide use
of a dressing room which is accessible only to employees. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-19-28: CRIMINAL PENALTIES AND ADDITIONAL LEGAL, EQUITABLE, AND INJUNCTIVE
RELIEF:
   A.   In addition to whatever penalties are applicable under the Idaho
criminal code, if any person fails or refuses to obey or comply with or
violates any of the criminal provisions of this chapter, such person upon
conviction of such offense, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
punished by a fine not to exceed three hundred dollars ($300.00) or by
imprisonment not to exceed six (6) days in the city jail, or both, in the
discretion of the court. Each violation or noncompliance shall be considered a
separate and distinct offense. Further, each day of continued violation or
noncompliance shall be considered as a separate offense.
   B.   Nothing herein contained shall prevent or restrict the city from taking
such other lawful action in any court of competent jurisdiction as is necessary
to prevent or remedy any violation or noncompliance. Such other lawful actions
shall include, but shall not be limited to, an equitable action for injunctive
relief or an action at law for damages.
   C.   All remedies and penalties provided for in this section shall be
cumulative and independently available to the city and the city shall be
authorized to pursue any and all remedies set forth in this section to the full
extent allowed by law. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-19-29: IMMUNITY FROM PROSECUTION:
The city and its designee, the city police department and all other departments
and agencies, and all other city officers, agents and employees, charged with
enforcement of state and local laws and codes shall be immune from prosecution,
civil or criminal, for reasonable, good faith trespass upon property owned or
controlled by a sexually oriented business while acting within the scope of
authority conferred by this chapter. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-19-30: PROHIBITION OF DISTRIBUTION OF SEXUAL DEVICES:
It is unlawful for any person to distribute, for commercial purposes, sell or
offer for sale any device, instrument or paraphernalia designed or marketed
primarily for stimulation of human genital organs or for sadomasochistic use or
abuse of themselves or others. Such devices, instruments or paraphernalia
include, but are not limited to: phallic shaped vibrators, dildos, muzzles,
whips, chains, bather restraints, racks, nonmedical enema kits, body piercing
implements (excluding earrings or other decorative jewelry) or other tools
designed for sadomasochistic abuse. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-19-31: SCOPE AND INTERPRETATION:
Notwithstanding the other provisions of this title, nothing in this chapter
shall apply to the sale, loan, distribution, dissemination, presentation or
exhibition of material or live conduct which is obscene, as defined under
chapter 41, title 18, Idaho Code, unless such chapter or any provision thereof,
is determined to be unconstitutional or unenforceable for any reason. This
chapter shall be interpreted to be consistent in all respects with the
provisions of Idaho Code section 18-4113 and shall be applicable only to the
extent it regulates the sale, loan, distribution, dissemination, presentation
or exhibition of material or live conduct that is not otherwise obscene, as
defined by Idaho Code section 18-4101, provided, however, if any provision of
such chapter of the Idaho Code is determined to be unconstitutional or
unenforceable for any reason, then this chapter shall be fully enforceable
notwithstanding such determination. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-19-32: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, subsection or clause of this chapter shall be deemed to be
unconstitutional or otherwise invalid, the validity of the remaining sections,
subsections and clauses shall not be affected thereby. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-19-33: CONFLICTING ORDINANCES REPEALED:
All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict with the provisions of this
chapter are hereby repealed. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
CHAPTER 20
WELLHEAD PROTECTION
SECTION:
5-20-1: Purpose
5-20-2: Definitions
5-20-3: Establishment Of Wellhead Protection Zones
5-20-4: Restrictions Within Zone I Of Wellhead Protection Area
5-20-5: Permitted Uses
5-20-6: Restrictions Within Zone II Of Wellhead Protection Area
5-20-7: Zone III Uses
5-20-8: Administration
5-20-9: Repeal Of Conflicting Provisions
5-20-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to ensure the provisions of safe and sanitary
drinking water supply for the city of Rupert by the establishment of wellhead
protection zones surrounding the wellheads for all wells which are the supply
sources for the Rupert city water system and by the designation and regulation
of property uses and conditions which may be maintained within such zones.
(Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-20-2: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this chapter the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings given in this section:
HAZARDOUS OR TOXIC WASTE OR MATERIAL: Any waste or material which because of
its quantity, concentration or physical, chemical or infectious characteristics
may:
   A.   Cause or significantly contribute to an increase in mortality or an
increase in serious irreversible or incapacitating reversible illness; or
   B.   Pose a substantial present or potential hazard to human health or to
the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported, disposed of or
otherwise managed.
   C.   "Hazardous or toxic waste" means any material or substance designated
as a hazardous or toxic substance by the United States of America acting
through the environmental protection agency, or any successor agency, section
101 (14) of the comprehensive environmental response, compensation and
liability act of 1980, or any material or substance designated as a hazardous
or toxic substance by the state of Idaho, acting through the division of
environmental quality or any successor agency.
SANITARY LANDFILL: A disposal site where solid wastes, including putrescible
wastes, or hazardous wastes, are disposed of on land by placing earth cover
thereon.
WELLHEAD: The upper terminal of a well, including adapters, ports, seals,
valves and other attachments.
ZONE I: An area extending fifty feet (50') radially from any wellhead supplying
potable water to the city water system.
ZONE II: An area extending between the fifty feet (50') designated as zone I
and the city impact area.
ZONE III: The city's area of impact. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-20-3: ESTABLISHMENT OF WELLHEAD PROTECTION ZONES:
There is hereby established a use district to be known as a wellhead protection
area identified and described as all the area within the city limits and to
include the city impact area. It is further established that this area be
composed of two (2) zones: "zone I" and "zone II" as they are defined in
section
5-20-2 of this chapter. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-20-4: RESTRICTIONS WITHIN ZONE I OF WELLHEAD PROTECTION AREA:
Uses or conditions, including, but not limited to, the following, shall be and
are hereby prohibited within zone I of the wellhead protection area:
   Hazardous or toxic waste disposal sites.
   Sanitary landfills.
   Sanitary sewer lines and septic systems within one hundred feet (100') of a
wellhead (existing systems within 100 feet must be maintained in very good
repair and monitored on a regular basis).
   Surface use or storage of hazardous or toxic material, expressly including
herbicide and pesticide applications to the soils, ground water or surface
water.
   Underground storage tanks. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-20-5: PERMITTED USES:
The following uses shall be permitted only within zone II of the wellhead
protection area:
   Most uses will not be restricted as long as these uses comply with the
existing ordinances, county, state and federal regulations pertaining to the
discharge of contaminates. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-20-6: RESTRICTIONS WITHIN ZONE II OF WELLHEAD PROTECTION AREA:
Uses or conditions, including, but not limited to, the following, shall be and
are hereby prohibited within zone II of the wellhead protection area, whether
or not such uses or conditions may otherwise be ordinarily included as a part
of a use permitted under section
5-20-5 of this chapter:
   Agricultural uses, immediately adjacent to a wellhead and outside zone I,
shall be restricted specifically, and raising, keeping of livestock will be
prohibited within five hundred feet (500') of wellhead, and other similar uses
beyond this limit will be subject to restrictions if warranted.
   Hazardous or toxic waste disposal sites.
   Sanitary landfills.
   Sanitary sewer lines and septic systems within one hundred feet (100') of a
wellhead (existing systems within 100 feet must be maintained in very good
repair and monitored on a regular basis).
   Underground injection wells. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-20-7: ZONE III USES:
Not in contravention with any existing or any hereafter validly enacted
ordinance, rule, regulation or law of any governing body having lawful
jurisdiction pertaining to health and sanitation, there shall be no
restrictions in zone III. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-20-8: ADMINISTRATION:
The policies and procedures for administration of any wellhead protection zone
established under this chapter, including, without limitation, those applicable
to nonconforming uses, exceptions, enforcement and penalties, shall be the same
as provided in this title, as the same is presently enacted or may from time to
time be amended. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-20-9: REPEAL OF CONFLICTING PROVISIONS:
All ordinances and parts of ordinances in conflict herewith shall be and the
same are hereby repealed. If any portion of this chapter is found to be
unenforceable or unconstitutional for any reason, the remaining portion of this
chapter shall remain in full force and effect. (Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
CHAPTER 21
GENERAL SUBDIVISION PROVISIONS
SECTION:
5-21-1: Title
5-21-2: Authority
5-21-3: Purpose
5-21-4: Jurisdiction
5-21-5: Interpretation
5-21-6: Administration
5-21-7: Combining Of Permits
5-21-8: Severability
5-21-9: Definitions
5-21-10: Procedure For Subdivision Approval
5-21-11: Design Standards
5-21-12: Improvement Standards
5-21-13: Special Developments
5-21-14: Vacations, Dedications And Variances
5-21-15: Enforcement And Penalties
5-21-1: TITLE:
These regulations shall be known and cited as the CITY OF RUPERT SUBDIVISION
ORDINANCE. (Ord. 734, 4-18-1995; amd. Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-21-2: AUTHORITY:
These regulations are adopted pursuant to title 50, chapter 13 and title 67,
chapter 65 of the Idaho Code. (Ord. 734, 4-18-1995; amd. Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-21-3: PURPOSE:
The purposes of these regulations are to promote the public health, safety,
general welfare, and to provide for:
   A.   The harmonious development of the city.
   B.   The coordination of streets, alleys and easements in new subdivisions
with existing and future development and improvements.
   C.   Adequate park and open spaces for travel, light, fresh air and
recreation.
   D.   Adequate transportation, water, sanitary drainage, irrigation and other
public services and facilities.
   E.   Economical development and extension of public facilities and services
to meet the demands of growth.
   F.   An orderly and efficient procedure for submission and disposal of
requests for approval of subdivision plats.
   G.   The delegation of authority for administration of these regulations.
(Ord. 734, 4-18-1995; amd. Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-21-4: JURISDICTION:
These regulations shall apply to the subdivision and development of all land
within the incorporated territory of the city, including the property within
the area of impact of the city under section 50-1306, Idaho Code. (Ord. 734, 4-
18-1995; amd. Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-21-5: INTERPRETATION:
All "subdivisions" as herein defined shall be submitted for approval of the
council and shall comply with the provisions of these regulations. These
regulations shall supplement all other regulations, and where at variance with
other laws, regulations, ordinances, or resolutions, the more restrictive
requirements shall apply. This chapter shall not apply to any subdivision
created and recorded prior to the effective date hereof, except for the further
dividing of lots; nor is it intended by this chapter to repeal, abrogate, annul
or in any way impair or interfere with existing provisions of other laws,
ordinances, or regulations, or with private restrictions placed upon property
by deed, covenant or other private agreements, or with restrictive covenants
running with the land to which the city is a party. (Ord. 734, 4-18-1995; amd.
Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-21-6: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   The council shall appoint a planning and zoning commission to carry out
the provisions as herein specified. The commission shall receive and make
recommendations on all subdivision applications.
   B.   In the event the commission fails to act or carry out its
responsibilities according to the regulations contained herein, the council
shall assume all the duties of the commission as herein specified in relation
to the application concerned. (Ord. 734, 4-18-1995; amd. Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-21-7: COMBINING OF PERMITS:
The commission is hereby required to combine all permits which may be required
in this chapter and previously or subsequently adopted city ordinances which
are relative to land development into one permit application procedure. In
conjunction with a combined permit, the commission shall coordinate methods of
approval with various utilities through the city public works director for the
purpose of reducing errors and unnecessary delays in processing applications.
(Ord. 734, 4-18-1995; amd. Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-21-8: SEVERABILITY:
Where any word, phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph, or section, or other part
of these regulations is held invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, such
judgment shall affect only that part so held invalid. (Ord. 734, 4-18-1995;
amd. Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-21-9: DEFINITIONS:
   A.   Interpretation Of Terms Or Words: For the purposes of these
regulations, certain terms or words used herein shall be interpreted as
follows:
      1.   The present tense includes the past or future tense, the singular
includes the plural and the plural includes the singular;
      2.   The word "shall" is mandatory; "may" is permissive; the word
"should" is preferred; and
      3.   The masculine shall include the feminine.
   B.   Meaning Of Terms Or Words:
    BLOCK: A group of lots, tracts, or parcels within well defined boundaries,
usually streets.
   BUILDING: A structure designed or used as the living quarters for one or
more families, or the structure designed or used for occupancy by people for
commercial or industrial uses.
   BUILDING SETBACK LINE: An imaginary line established by subdivision
regulations and zoning provisions requiring all buildings to be set back a
certain distance from lot lines and street rights of way.
   BUILDING SITE: An area proposed or provided and improved by grading,
filling, excavation or other means for erecting pads for buildings.
   CEMETERY: A lot that has been planned for the selling of sites for the
burial of animal or human remains.
   COMMISSION: The planning and zoning commission as appointed by the council
to administer this chapter, having jurisdiction over the parcel of land under
consideration.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: A plan, comprehensive plan, or comprehensive development
plan adopted by the local authority and showing the general location and extent
of present and proposed development, including, but not limited to, housing,
industrial and commercial uses, streets, parks, schools and other community
facilities.
   CONDOMINIUM: An estate consisting of: 1) an undivided interest in common in
real property, in an interest or interests in real property, or in any
combination thereof, together with, 2) a separate interest in real property, in
an interest or interests in real property, or in combination thereof.
   COUNCIL: The city council of the city of Rupert.
   COUNTY RECORDER: The office of the Minidoka county recorder.
   COVENANT: A written promise or pledge.
   CULVERT: A drain that channels water under a bridge, street, road or
driveway.
   DEDICATION: The setting apart of land or interests in land for use by the
public. Land becomes dedicated when accepted by the city as a public
dedication, either by ordinance, resolution, or entry in the official minutes,
or by the recording of a plat showing such dedication.
   DEVELOPER: Authorized agent(s) of a subdivider or the subdivider himself.
   DWELLING UNIT: A building or other structure, proposed or built for
occupancy by people.
   EASEMENT: A grant by a property owner to specific persons or to the public
to use land for specific purposes.
   ENGINEER: Any person who is licensed in the state to practice professional
engineering.
   GOVERNING BODY: The mayor and city council of the city of Rupert, Idaho.
   HIGHWAY: A street designated as a highway by an appropriate state or federal
agency.
   IMPROVEMENT: Any alteration to the land or other physical constructions
associated with subdivision and building site developments.
   LARGE SCALE DEVELOPMENT: A subdivision the size of which consists of thirty
(30) or more lots or dwelling units.
   LOT: A parcel, plot, tract, or other land area of suitable size as required
in these regulations and existing zoning ordinances; and created by subdivision
for sale, transfer, or lease.
   LOT AREA: The area of any lot shall be determined exclusive of street,
highway, alley, road, or other rights of way.
   LOT TYPES: As used in these regulations, lot types are as follows:
      Corner Lot: A lot located at the intersection of two (2) or more streets;
or, a lot bounded on at least two (2) sides by the same street.
      Interior Lot: A lot other than a corner lot, with frontage on only one
street.
      Reversed Lot: A lot with frontage on a side street or other right of way
other than an interior or corner lot.
      Through Lot: A lot other than a corner lot, with frontage on only one
street, not a corner lot. Also known as double frontage lot. Through lots are
prohibited under these regulations unless such a lot meets the criteria of a
back up lot in subsection
5-21-11J6 of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME: A house built to the uniform building code standards in a
factory or other facility and then delivered to the construction site. A
manufactured house or travel trailer is not to be considered as a mobile home.
A travel trailer is one that can legally be towed by passenger car.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK (MOBILE HOME PARK): Any area, tract, plot or site of
land developed as a planned unit development located and maintained for
dwelling purposes on a permanent or semipermanent basis for two (2) or more
manufactured houses or travel trailers.
   MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION: A subdivision designed and intended for
residential use where residence is in manufactured homes exclusively.
   MONUMENT: Any permanent marker either of concrete, galvanized iron pipe, or
iron or steel rods, used to permanently establish any tract, parcel, lot or
street lines, as specified in section 50-1303, Idaho Code.
   OPEN SPACE: An area open to the sky for outdoor recreation activity.
Streets, buildings, or other covered structures are not included in computing
these areas.
   ORIGINAL PARCEL OF LAND: A lot or tract as recorded on any plat or record on
file in the office of the county recorder, each one-sixteenth (1/16) of a
section (40 acres) or any unplatted contiguous parcel of land held in one
ownership and of record at the effective date of this chapter.
   OWNER: The individual, firm, association, syndicate, partnership, or
corporation having proprietary interest in the land to be subdivided.
   PERFORMANCE BOND: An amount of money or other negotiable security paid by
the subdivider or his surety to the city clerk and recorder which guarantees
that the subdivider will perform all actions required by an approved plat, and
provides that if the subdivider defaults and fails to comply with provisions of
an approved plat, the subdivider or his surety will pay damages up to the limit
of the bond, or the surety will itself complete the requirements of the
approved plat. The amount of the bond shall be set by the council in its sole
discretion with regard to the recommendation of the commission.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT: A use or a combination of residential, commercial
and industrial uses planned for a tract of land to be developed as a unit under
single ownership or control, which is developed for the purpose of selling or
renting individual lots or estates, whether fronting on private or dedicated
streets, which may include two (2) or more principal buildings as governed by
the zoning ordinance. The requirements of this chapter may be modified by the
council upon recommendation by the commission to achieve the best possible
planned development for the specific site under consideration.
   PLAT: The drawing, mapping, or planning of a subdivision, cemetery, town
site or other tract of land or a replatting of such including certifications,
descriptions and approvals.
      Final Plat: The final and formal presentation by maps or drawings of an
approved subdivision development, the original and one copy of which is filed
with the county clerk and recorder.
      Preliminary Plat: The first formal presentation by maps or drawings of a
proposed subdivision, as required in these regulations.
   PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR: The public works director/city engineer for the city
of Rupert.
   RESERVE STRIP: A strip of land between a dedicated street or partial street
and adjacent property, in either case, reserved or held in public ownership for
future street extension or widening.
   RIGHT OF WAY: A strip of land dedicated or reserved for use as a public way
of which normally includes sidewalks and other public utilities of service
areas.
   SIDEWALK: That portion of the street right of way outside the street
pavement, which is improved for pedestrian use (also known as "walkway").
   STANDARD SPECIFICATIONS: The specifications as may be specified in this
chapter or as officially adopted by the city.
   STATE: The state of Idaho.
   STREET: A right of way which provides access to adjacent properties, the
dedication of which has been officially accepted. The term "street" also
includes the terms highway, thoroughfare, parkway, road, avenue, boulevard,
lane, place, and similar terms. Some related terms and definitions are as
follows:
      Alley: A street providing secondary access at the back or side of a
property otherwise abutting a street.
      Arterial: A street designated for the purpose of carrying fast and/or
heavy traffic.
      Collector: A street designated for the purpose of carrying traffic from
minor streets to other collector streets and/or arterial streets.
      Commercial: A street designated for the purpose of providing traffic
movement in a commercial area.
      Cul-De-Sac: A street connected to another street at one end only and
provided with a turnaround space.
      Dead End: A street connecting to another street at one end only and not
having provision for vehicular turnaround at its terminus.
      Frontage: A minor street, parallel to and adjacent to an arterial street,
which has the primary purpose of providing access to abutting properties.
      Industrial: A street designated for the purpose of providing traffic
movement in an industrial area.
      Loop: A minor street with both terminal points on the same street of
origin.
      Minor: A street which has the primary purpose of providing access to
abutting properties.
      Partial: A dedicated right of way providing only a portion of the
required street width, usually along the edge of a subdivision or tract of
land.
      Private: A street which provides vehicular and pedestrian access to one
or more properties, however, not accepted for public dedication or maintenance.
      Side Street: A secondary street that provides access to a corner lot
toward which the principal building is not oriented.
   SUBDIVIDER: A subdivider shall be deemed to be the individual, firm,
corporation, partnership, association, syndicate, trust, or other legal entity
that executes the application and initiates proceedings for the subdivision of
land in accordance with the provisions of this chapter; the subdivider need not
be the owner of the property, however, he shall be an agent of the owner or
have sufficient proprietary rights in the property to represent the owner.
   SUBDIVISION: The division of an original lot, tract, or parcel of land into
more than five (5) parts for the purpose of transfer of ownership or
development; the dedication of a public street and the addition to, or creation
of, a cemetery. However, this title shall not apply to any of the following:
      1.   An adjustment of lot lines as shown on a recordage, width, depth, or
building setback lines of each building site below the minimum zoning
requirements, and does not change the original number of lots in any block of
the recorded plat.
      2.   An allocation of land in the settlement of an estate of a decedent
or a court decree for the distribution of property.
      3.   The unwilling sale of land as a result of legal condemnation as
defined and allowed in the Idaho Code.
      4.   Widening of existing streets to conform to the comprehensive plan.
      5.   The acquisition of collector and arterial street rights of way by a
public agency in conformance with the comprehensive plan.
      6.   The exchange of land for the purpose of straightening property
boundaries which does not result in the change of the present land usage of the
properties involved.
   SURVEYOR: Any person who is licensed in the state as a public land surveyor
to do professional surveying.
   TRAVEL TRAILER PARK: Rental space for travel trailers on a limited basis.
   UTILITIES: Installations for conducting water, sewage, gas, electricity,
television, storm drains, and similar facilities providing service to and used
by the public.
   VARIANCE: A variance is a modification of the strict terms of the relevant
regulations where such modification will not be contrary to the public interest
and where, owing to conditions peculiar to the property and not the result of
the action of the applicant, a literal enforcement of the regulations would
result in unnecessary and undue hardship.
   VICINITY MAP: A small scale map showing the location of a tract of land in
relation to a larger area. (Ord. 734, 4-18-1995; amd. Ord. 753, 1-7-1997; Ord.
830, 8-6-2002)
5-21-10: PROCEDURE FOR SUBDIVISION APPROVAL:
   A.   Application Required: Any person desiring to create a "subdivision" as
defined in section
5-21-9 of this chapter shall submit all necessary applications to the
commission. No final plat shall be filed with the county recorder until the
plat has been acted upon by the commission and approved by the council. No lots
shall be sold from any plat until it has been recorded in the office of the
county recorder. (Ord. 734, 4-18-1995; amd. Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
   B.   Preapplication:
      1.   Application: Prior to the filing of an application for approval of a
preliminary plat the subdivider shall submit a completed subdivision
preapplication form as provided by the city and with up to eight (8) copies, as
required by the zoning administrator of a sketch plan to the commission. The
sketch plan shall include the entire developmental scheme of the proposed
subdivision, in schematic form and including the area proposed for immediate
development in such a form and content as required by the commission and shall
include the following:
         a.   The general layout of streets, blocks, and lots in sketch form;
         b.   The existing conditions and characteristics of the land adjacent
to the proposed subdivision site;
         c.   Areas set aside for schools, parks and other public facilities.
      2.   Fee: As established by city council resolution.
      3.   Preapplication Approval Procedure: The subdivider shall submit the
preapplication materials and plans to the zoning administrator. The zoning
administrator will schedule, within thirty (30) days of receipt thereof, a
meeting to review the application with the city superintendent and
representatives of the city's street, sewer and electrical departments, the
local fire district or fire department, as well as any other applicable
utility, agency or department. At the aforementioned meeting the subdivider
shall present his preapplication and intent for review and comment by the
zoning administrator, city representatives and other agency representatives.
The zoning administrator and the other city and agency representatives will
review the preapplication to determine its compliance with this title as well
as the following concerns: (Ord. 07-504, 6-5-2007)
         a.   The general compliance of the proposed development with existing
local or state policies, goals and objectives or development plans;
         b.   Determination if additional special permits or ordinances
conflict (such as rezoning) or if there may be a special development permit or
variance that may be needed and the determination of the manner that such
requirements can be combined into one permit;
         c.   Advise the applicant of any unique environmental or hazardous
concerns that may be directly or indirectly associated with the subject
property, such as areas that have been designated by the state as areas of
critical environmental concern, unique plant or animal life, floodplain,
airport flight pattern and the like; and
         d.   Provide the subdivider with all necessary forms and checklists.
   C.   Preliminary Plat:
      1.   Application: Upon completion of the preapplication procedures, the
subdivider may file with the commission a completed subdivision application
form and preliminary plat data as required in this chapter in such form and
content as required by the commission. (Ord. 734, 4-18-1995; amd. Ord. 830, 8-
6-2002)
      2.   Combining Both Preliminary And Final Plats: The applicant may also
request that the subdivision application be processed as both a preliminary and
final plat if the following conditions are met:
         a.   The proposed subdivision does not exceed ten (10) lots;
         b.   No new street or major street widening is involved;
         c.   No major special development considerations are involved, such as
infrastructure development or the like; and
         d.   All required information for both preliminary and final plat is
complete and in an acceptable form.
A request to combine both preliminary plat and final plat into one application
shall be acted upon by the zoning administrator. (Ord. 07-504, 6-5-2007)
      3.   Content Of Preliminary Plat: Preliminary plat shall contain the
information required under subsection C4 of this section. Additional maps or
data deemed necessary by the commission may also be required. The subdivider
shall submit to the commission at least the following:
         a.   Four (4) copies of the preliminary plat of the proposed
subdivision, drawn in accordance with the requirements hereinafter stated;
         b.   Four (4) sets of preliminary engineering plans for streets,
water, sewers, sidewalks and other required public improvements, including a
master utility map; said engineering plans shall contain sufficient information
and detail to enable the commission to make a preliminary determination as to
conformance of the proposed improvements to applicable regulations, ordinances
and standards as outlined in the special development section of this chapter;
         c.   A written application requesting approval of the preliminary plat
on a form prescribed by the commission;
         d.   Appropriate information that sufficiently details the proposed
development within any special development area, such as hillside, planned unit
development, floodplain, cemetery, mobile home, large scale development,
hazardous and unique areas of development. (Ord. 734, 4-18-1995; amd. Ord. 830,
8-6-2002)
      4.   Requirements Of Preliminary Plats And Plat Applications: The
following shall be shown on any preliminary plat submitted or shall be
submitted with the same:
         a.   The name of the proposed subdivision;
         b.   The names, addresses and telephone numbers of the present owners
of the property and the subdivider or subdividers and the surveyor or engineer
who will prepare the final plat; (Ord. 07-504, 6-5-2007)
         c.   The name and address of all adjoining property owners, whether or
not bisected by a public right of way, as shown on records in the county
assessor's office;
         d.   The legal description of the subdivision;
         e.   A statement of the intended use of the proposed subdivision, such
as residential single-family; two-family and multiple housing; commercial;
industrial; recreational; or agricultural and a showing of any sites proposed
for parks, playgrounds, schools, churches or other public uses;
         f.   A map of the entire area scheduled for development if the
proposed subdivision is a portion of a larger holding intended for subsequent
development;
         g.   A vicinity map showing the relationship of the proposed plat to
the surrounding area (1/2 mile minimum radius, scale optional);
         h.   The land use and existing zoning of the proposed subdivision and
the adjacent land;
         i.   Streets, street names, rights of way and roadway widths,
including adjoining streets or roadways;
         j.   Lot lines, dimensions and numbers, and the total number of lots
by block;
         k.   Contours, shown at five foot (5') intervals where land slope is
greater than ten percent (10%) and at two foot (2') intervals where land slope
is ten percent (10%) or less, with an established bench mark, including
location and elevation;
         l.   A site report as required by the appropriate health district
where individual wells or septic tanks are proposed;
         m.   Any proposed or existing utilities, including, but not limited
to, storm and sanitary sewers, irrigation laterals, ditches, drainages,
bridges, culverts, water mains, fire hydrants, electric power lines, gas lines,
cable lines, and their respective profiles or indicated alternative methods;
         n.   A copy of any proposed restrictive covenants and/or deed
restrictions or, if none, a statement that none are proposed;
         o.   Any dedications to the public and/or easements, together with a
statement of location, dimensions, and purpose of such;
         p.   Any additional required information for special developments as
specified in this chapter;
         q.   A statement as to whether or not a variance will be requested
with respect to any provision of this chapter describing the particular
provision, the variance requested, and the reason therefor.
      5.   Application Fee: At the time of submission of an application for a
preliminary plat a nonrefundable fee shall be paid, the amount which shall be
set by resolution of the city council. There shall be no additional fee for the
combining of the preliminary and final plats, other than the prepayment of the
required plat recording fee to the city. Only the plat recording fee is
refundable in the event the final plat is not approved.
      6.   Submission Requirements: The subdivider shall have submitted the
required four (4) copies of the preliminary plat and required supplemental
material, and required fee to the commission at least ten (10) days prior to
the regular commission meeting.
      7.   Public Notification:
         a.   Posting A Commission Meeting: The subdivider shall post a
reasonable number of posters on or near the subject property under
consideration to be subdivided. Such poster and stated information shall be of
such size and content as may be approved by the commission. The location of the
posters shall be on the closest public roads in visible locations surrounding
the subject property and erected at least fifteen (15) days prior to the
commission's meeting. Further, the subdivider shall give actual written notice
to every person residing within three hundred feet (300') of any border of the
proposed subdivision at least fifteen (15) days prior to the commission's
meeting.
         b.   Failure To Notify: The failure of the subdivider to comply with
the exact provisions of these procedures shall invalidate the commission's
action.
      8.   Commission Action: At the next regular commission meeting, the
subdivider shall present the preliminary plat for action. The commission may
approve, approve conditionally, disapprove, or table the preliminary plat for
additional information. Such action shall occur within thirty (30) days of the
date of the regular meeting at which the plat is first considered. The action,
and the reasons for such action shall be stated in writing by the commission
and forwarded to the applicant. The commission shall also forward a statement
of the action taken and the reasons for such action, together with a copy of
the preliminary plat to the city council for their action.
      9.   Council Action:
         a.   Action On Preliminary Plat: At the next regular council meeting,
the subdivider shall present the preliminary plat for action. The council may
approve, approve conditionally, disapprove, or table the preliminary plat for
additional information. Such action shall occur within thirty (30) days of the
date of the regular meeting at which the plat is first considered. The action,
and the reasons for such action, shall be stated in writing by the council
forwarded to the applicant.
         b.   Action On Combined Preliminary And Final Plat: If the
commission's conclusion is favorable to the subdivider's request and
recommendation from the commission that the subdivider be considered as both a
preliminary plat and final subdivision, then a recommendation shall be
forwarded to the council in the same manner as herein specified for a final
plat. The commission may recommend that the combined application be approved,
approved conditionally or disapproved.
      10.   Appeals: Any person who appeared in person or writing before the
commission or the subdivider may appeal in writing the decision of the
commission relative to any action taken by the commission. Such appeal must be
submitted to the council within fifteen (15) days from such commission action.
(Ord. 734, 4-18-1995; amd. Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
      11.   Approval Period:
         a.   Failure to file and obtain the certification of the acceptance of
the final plat application by the developer within one year after action by the
commission shall cause all approvals of said preliminary plat to be null and
void, unless an extension of time is applied for and granted by the commission
prior to the expiration date. The approval period for the final plat may be in
excess of one year if so requested in the application or in writing before the
expiration of the preliminary plat and approved by the commission and council.
(Ord. 09-507, 9-1-2009)
         b.   In the event that the development of the preliminary plat is made
in successive continuous segments in an orderly and reasonable manner, and
conforms substantially to the approved preliminary plat, such segments, if
submitted within successive intervals of one year, may be considered for final
approval without resubmission for preliminary plat approval.
   D.   Final Plat:
      1.   Application: After the approval or conditional approval of the
preliminary plat, the subdivider may cause the subdivision, or any part
thereof, to be surveyed and a final plat prepared in accordance with the
approved preliminary plat. The subdivider shall submit to the commission the
following:
         a.   Four (4) copies and the original of the final plat. The original
plat shall be returned to the subdivider for other approval, if needed, and
recording upon council approval.
         b.   Four (4) copies and the original of the final engineering
construction drawings for the streets, water, sewers, sidewalks and other
public improvements.
      2.   Content Of Final Plat: The final plat shall include and be in
compliance with all items required under title 50, chapter 13 of the Idaho Code
and shall be drawn at a scale and contain lettering of such size as to enable
the same to be placed on one sheet of eighteen inch by twenty four inch (18" x
24") drawing paper, with no part of the drawing nearer to the edge than one
inch (1"). The reverse of said sheet shall not be used for any portion of the
drawing, but may contain written matter as to dedications, certifications and
other information. The final plat shall include or shall be submitted at the
same time, as the case may be, at least the following:
         a.   A written application for approval of such final plat as
stipulated by the commission;
         b.   Proof of current ownership of the real property included in the
proposed final plat;
         c.   Such other and further information as the commission may deem
necessary to establish whether or not all proper parties have signed and/or
approved said final plat;
         d.   Conformance with the approved preliminary plat and meeting all
requirements or conditions thereof;
         e.   Conform to all requirements and provisions of this chapter; and
         f.   Acceptable engineering practices and local standards.
      3.   Commission Review:
         a.   Submittal Of Final Plat: The commission shall review the final
plat for compliance with the approved or conditionally approved preliminary
plat. If the commission determines that there is substantial difference in the
final plat from that which was considered as a preliminary plat or conditions
which have not been met, the commission may require that the final plat be
resubmitted to the technical review committee and commission in the same manner
as required in the preliminary plat process.
         b.   Submission To The Council: Upon the determination that the final
plat is in compliance with the preliminary plat and all conditional
requirements have been met, the commission shall place the final plat on the
council agenda within forty five (45) days from the date that an acceptable
final plat application was received and acknowledged by the commission.
      4.   Agency Review: The commission may transmit one copy of the final
plat, or other document submitted, for review and recommendation to the same
departments and agencies, or others as they may deem necessary to ensure
compliance with the preliminary approval and/or conditions of preliminary
approval. Such agency review shall also include the construction standards of
improvements, compliance with health standards, the cost estimate for all
improvements and the legal review of the performance bond.
      5.   Council Action: The council at its next meeting following receipt of
the commission's report shall consider the commission's findings and comments
from concerned persons and agencies to arrive at a decision on the final plat.
If said final plat conforms to the requirements of this chapter applicable at
the time of approval of the preliminary plat, all rulings made by the
commission on the preliminary plat, and the requirements of the Idaho state
law, the council shall approve, approve conditionally, disapprove or table the
final plat for additional information within thirty (30) days of the date of
the regular meeting at which the plat is first considered.
      6.   Approval Period: Final plat and covenants, if any, shall be filed by
the subdivider/developer with the county recorder within ninety (90) days after
written approval by the council; otherwise, such approval shall become null and
void unless prior to said expiration date an extension of time is applied for
and granted by the commission.
      7.   Method Recording: Upon approval of the final plat by the council,
and the inclusion of the following signatures on the final plat, then the
subdivider shall deliver the final plat to the county recorder for recording:
         a.   Certification and signature of the council verifying that the
subdivision has been approved;
         b.   Certification and signature of the city public works director/
city engineer verifying that the subdivision meets the city requirements and
has been approved by the council; and
         c.   Certification and signature of local or state health agency that
all health requirements have been complied with or the required sanitary
restriction set forth in title 50, chapter 13, Idaho Code has been placed
thereon. (Ord. 734, 4-18-1995; amd. Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-21-11: DESIGN STANDARDS:
   A.   Minimum Design Standards Required: All plans submitted pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter, and all subdivisions, improvements and facilities
done, constructed or made in accordance with said provisions shall fully comply
with the minimum design standards set forth hereinafter in this chapter;
provided, however, that any higher standards adopted by any highway district,
state highway department or health agency shall prevail over those set forth
herein.
   B.   Dedication: Arterial collector streets shall be dedicated to the public
in all cases; in general, all other streets shall also be dedicated to public
use.
   C.   Location: Street and road location shall conform to the following:
      1.   Street Location And Arrangements: When a major street plan or
comprehensive development plan has been adopted, subdivision streets shall
conform to such plans;
      2.   Local Or Minor Streets: Local or minor streets shall be so arranged
as to discourage their use by through traffic;
      3.   Street Continuation And Extension: The arrangement of streets shall
provide for the continuation of existing streets from adjoining areas into new
subdivisions unless otherwise approved by the council and the highway district
or department having jurisdiction over such streets;
      4.   Stub Streets: Where adjoining areas are not subdivided, the
arrangement of streets in new subdivisions shall be such that said streets
extend to the boundary line of the tract to make provisions for the future
extension of said streets into adjacent areas. A reserve strip may be required
and held in public ownership;
      5.   Relation To Topography: Streets shall be arranged in proper relation
to topography so as to result in usable lots, safe streets and acceptable
gradients;
      6.   Alleys: Alleys shall be provided in multiple dwelling or commercial
subdivisions unless other provisions are made for service access and off street
loading and parking. Dead end alleys shall be prohibited in all cases;
      7.   Frontage Roads: Where a subdivision abuts or contains an arterial
street, it may be required, in the discretion of the commission, that there be
frontage roads approximately parallel to and on each side of such arterial
street, and that there be such other treatment as is necessary for the adequate
protection of residential properties and to separate through traffic from local
traffic;
      8.   Cul-De-Sac Streets: Cul-de-sac streets are discouraged, but if used,
must be a minimum of a fifty foot (50') radius (100 foot diameter from curb to
curb), and the street to the cul-de-sac shall be no longer than two hundred
feet (200') to the mouth of the cul-de-sac;
      9.   Half Streets: Half streets shall be prohibited except where unusual
circumstances make such necessary to the reasonable development of a tract in
conformance with this chapter and where satisfactory assurance for dedication
of the remaining part of the street is provided. Whenever a tract to be
subdivided borders on an existing half or partial street, the other part of the
street shall be dedicated with such tract; and
      10.   Private Streets: Private streets and roads shall be prohibited
except within planned unit developments.
   D.   Specifications:
      1.   Street Right Of Way Widths: Street and road right of way widths
shall conform to the adopted major street plan or comprehensive development
plan and the rules of the state department of highways and the highway district
or department having jurisdiction; minimum right of way standards are as
follows:
 
Street Types   Widths   Widths Of Pavement
Major arterial 100 feet 50 feet divided to back of curb
Collector      60 feet  50 feet from back of curb to back of curb
Minor          50 feet  40 feet from back of curb to back of curb
 
Curbs on minor streets shall be at least forty feet (40') apart as measured
from the back of the curb on one side of the street to the back of the curb on
the opposite side of the street.
      2.   Street Grades: Street grades shall not exceed nine percent (9%) on
either minor or collector streets, and no street grade shall be less than
three-tenths foot (0.3') per one hundred feet (100').
      3.   Vertical Street Alignment: Minimum sight distances shall be two
hundred feet (200') for minor streets and three hundred feet (300') for other
streets.
   E.   Street Names: The naming of streets shall conform to the following: 1)
street names shall not duplicate any existing street name except where a new
street is a continuation of an existing street; 2) street names that may be
spelled differently but sound the same as existing streets shall not be used.
   F.   Intersections: Intersections shall conform to the following:
      1.   Angle Of Intersection: Streets shall intersect at ninety degrees
(90°) or as closely thereto as possible, and in no case shall streets intersect
at less than eighty degrees (80°);
      2.   Number Of Streets: No more than two (2) streets shall cross at any
one intersection;
      3.   T-Intersections: T-intersections may be used wherever such design
will not unduly restrict the free movement of traffic;
      4.   Vertical Alignment Of Intersection: A nearly flat grade with
appropriate drainage slopes is desirable within intersections. This flat
section shall extend fifty feet (50') to one hundred feet (100') each way from
the intersection. An allowance of two percent (2%) maximum intersection grade
in rolling terrain and four percent (4%) in hilly terrain will be permitted.
   G.   Pedestrian Walkways: Right of way for pedestrian walkways in the middle
of long blocks shall be required where necessary to obtain convenient
pedestrian circulation to schools, parks or shopping areas; the right of way
shall be at least ten feet (10') wide and shall extend entirely through the
block.
   H.   Easements: Unobstructed utility easements shall be provided along front
lot lines, rear lot lines, and side lot lines when necessary; where easements
are provided on two (2) adjoining lots, a ten foot (10') easement per lot is
required. Alleyways shall be required unless all services are provided from the
front of the lots. Unobstructed drainage way easements shall be provided as
needed or required by the city council.
   I.   Blocks:
      1.   Every block shall be so designed as to provide two (2) tiers of
lots, except where lots back onto an arterial street, natural feature, or
subdivision boundary; blocks shall not be less than three hundred feet (300')
long.
      2.   The length, width and shape of blocks shall be determined with due
regard to adequate sites suitable to the special needs of the type of use
contemplated; the zoning requirements as to lot size and dimensions; the need
for convenient access, circulation, control and safety of street traffic; and
the limitations and opportunities of topography.
   J.   Lots: Lots shall conform to the following:
      1.   Lot Sizes: No subdivision plat in the area included in an R-
1 district shall hereafter be approved by the city unless all interior lots
shown thereon shall have a frontage of seventy five feet (75') or more and a
minimum area of six thousand one hundred (6,100) square feet. Corner lots shall
have a frontage of seventy five feet (75') or more and a minimum area of seven
thousand three hundred twenty (7,320) square feet or more, except in the event
a cul-de-sac variance is granted, that lots fronting on cul-de-sac circles may
have reduced frontage as approved by the council, but shall not be less than
forty feet (40');
      2.   Lot Lines: Side lot lines shall be essentially at right angles to
straight streets and shall generally conform to the radius of curved streets;
      3.   Width Related To Length: Narrow, deep lots shall be avoided;
      4.   Corner Lots: Corner lots shall have sufficient extra width to permit
appropriate building setback from both streets or orientation to both streets;
      5.   Uninhabitable Areas: Land subject to flooding or which shall
otherwise be deemed to be uninhabitable shall not be platted for residential
purposes or for any other uses that may increase or create a danger to health,
life, or property or which may increase or create a flood hazard. Such land
within a subdivision shall be set aside for other uses such as parks or other
open space;
      6.   Back Up Lots: Lots shall not back into such features as freeways,
arterial streets, shopping centers, or industrial properties, except where
there is a marginal access street, unless a secondary access is provided. Such
lots shall contain a landscaped easement along the rear at least twenty feet
(20') wide in addition to the utility easement; the restricted access to the
arterial street will minimize noise and protect outdoor living areas. Lots
extending through a block and having frontage on two (2) local streets are to
be discouraged and may be prohibited by the commission;
      7.   Lot Frontage: All rectangular lots shall have at least seventy five
feet (75') of frontage upon a publicly dedicated street. Variances may be
permitted for an approved planned unit development; and
      8.   Future Arrangements: Where parcels of land are subdivided into
unusually large lots (such as when large lots are approved for septic tank
operations) the parcels shall be divided, where feasible, so as to allow for
future resubdividing into smaller parcels. Lot arrangements shall allow for the
ultimate extension of adjacent streets through the middle of wide blocks.
Whenever such future subdividing or lot splitting is contemplated the plan
thereof shall be approved by the commission prior to the taking of such action;
      9.   Further Subdivision Of Lots: In order to protect the easements,
traffic density plans, utility plans of the city, and general plans of ingress
and egress from a subdivision, the platted lots, as depicted upon the final
plat as approved by the city, shall not be further subdivided for the purpose
of creating a greater density without a submission of an amended subdivision
plat, and conforming with the requirements of this chapter for submission and
approval of amended plats.
   K.   Planting Strips And Reserve Strips: Planting strips and reserve strips
shall conform to the following:
      1.   Planting Strips: Planting strips shall be required to be placed next
to incompatible features such as highways, railroads, commercial or industrial
uses to screen the view from residential properties. Such screens shall be a
minimum of twenty feet (20') wide, and shall not be a part of the normal
roadway right of way or utility easement; and
      2.   Reserve Strips:
         a.   Reserve Strips, Private: Privately held reserve strips
controlling access to streets shall be prohibited.
         b.   Reserve Strips, Public: A one foot (1') reserve may be required
to be placed at the end or along "stub", "dead end", or "half" streets which
terminate at subdivision boundaries. These reserves shall be deeded in fee
simple to the city for future street purposes.
   L.   Public Sites And Open Spaces: Public sites and open spaces shall
conform to the following:
      1.   Public Uses: Where a proposed park, playground, school or other
public use shown on the comprehensive development plan is located in whole or
part within a subdivision, a suitable area for this purpose shall be dedicated
to the public or reserved for public purchase. If within two (2) years of plat
recording, the purchase is not agreed on, the reservation shall be canceled or
shall automatically cease to exist; and
      2.   Natural Features: Existing natural features which add value to
residential development and enhance the attractiveness of the community (such
as trees, watercourses, historic spots, and similar irreplaceable assets) shall
be preserved, insofar as possible, in the design of the subdivision.
   M.   Large Scale Developments: Large scale developments shall be governed by
the following provisions:
      1.   Modification: This chapter may be modified in accordance with the
variance provisions of this section in the case of a subdivision large enough
to constitute a complete community or neighborhood, consistent with the
comprehensive development plan which provides and dedicates adequate public
open space and improvements for circulation, recreation, education, light, air,
and service needs of the track when fully developed and populated; and
      2.   Neighborhood Characteristics: A community or neighborhood under this
provision shall be consistent with the comprehensive development plan, bounded
by major streets or natural physical barriers, and shall contain public areas
of sufficient size for schools, playgrounds, parks and other public facilities
to serve its population. (Ord. 734, 4-18-1995; amd. Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-21-12: IMPROVEMENT STANDARDS:
   A.   Purpose: It is the purpose of this section to establish and define the
public improvements which will be required to be constructed by the subdivider
as conditions for final plat approval and also to outline the procedures and
responsibilities of the subdivider and the various public officials and
agencies concerned with the administration, planning, design, construction, and
financing of public facilities and to further establish procedures for assuring
compliance with these requirements.
   B.   Responsibility For Plans: It shall be the responsibility of the
subdivider of every proposed subdivision to have prepared by a registered
engineer, a complete set of construction plans, including profiles, cross
section, specifications, and other supporting data, for all required public
streets, utilities and other facilities. Such construction plans shall be based
on preliminary plans which have been approved with the preliminary plat, and
shall be prepared in conjunction with the final plat. Construction plans are
subject to approval by the public works director/city engineer and other
responsible public agencies. All construction plans shall be prepared in
accordance with the public agencies' standards or specifications.
   C.   Required Public Improvements: Every subdivider shall be required to
install the following public and other improvements in accordance with the
conditions and specifications as follows:
      1.   Monuments: Monuments shall be set in accordance with section 50-
1313, Idaho Code.
      2.   Streets And Alleys: All streets and alleys shall be constructed in
accordance with the standards and specifications adopted by the council.
Vertical curbs and gutters shall be constructed on arterial streets.
      3.   Curbs And Gutters: Curbs and gutters shall be required on minor
streets and shall be constructed in accordance with the standards and
specifications adopted by the council.
      4.   Installation Of Public Utilities: Underground utilities are
recommended and may be required by the council in areas where overhead
facilities would not be compatible with the surrounding properties.
      5.   Driveways: All driveway openings in curbs shall be as specified by
the public works department, highway district or state highway department.
      6.   Water Supply System: When a proposed subdivision is to be serviced
by a public water supply system, fire hydrants and other required water system
appurtenances shall be provided by the subdivider. If there is no existing or
accessible public water supply system, the subdivider shall be required to
install a water supply system for the common use of the lots within the
subdivision as approved by state department of environmental quality.
Individual wells may be permitted in accordance with the requirements of the
appropriate health district.
      7.   Sanitary Sewer System: When a proposed subdivision is to be served
by a public sanitary sewage system, sanitary sewers and other required
appurtenances thereto shall be provided by the subdivider as approved by the
state department of environmental quality. Where it is determined in the
judgment of the commission, based upon the advice of the appropriate health
district, that a subdivision cannot be feasibly connected with an existing
public or private sewer system, a public or private sewer system may be
authorized which shall comply with the requirements of the appropriate health
district.
      8.   Sidewalks And Pedestrian Walkways: Sidewalks shall be required on
both sides of the street. Where the average width of lots, as measured at the
frontage line or at the building setback line, is over one hundred feet (100'),
sidewalks on one side may be required by the council. Pedestrian walkways, when
required, shall have easements at least ten feet (10') in width and include a
concrete walk at least five feet (5') in width, located generally along the
centerline of the easement, dedicated as a public pedestrian walkway. Sidewalks
and crosswalks shall be constructed in accordance with the standards and
specifications as adopted by the council.
      9.   Greenbelt: Greenbelts or landscaping screening may be required for
the protection of residential properties from adjacent major arterial streets,
waterways, railroad rights of way or other features. Subdivision plats shall
show the location of any greenbelt areas.
      10.   Street Lighting: Streetlights may be required to be installed at
intersections throughout the subdivision. In these cases a subdivider shall
conform to the requirements of the city and the public utility in providing
such lighting.
      11.   Bicycle Paths: Bicycle paths should be considered in all
developments and may be required by the commission.
      12.   Responsibility For Private Improvements And Public Utilities: It
shall be the responsibility of the subdivider to arrange and provide for the
development, installation, construction or other improvement of private
facilities and public utilities within and for the subdivision in accordance
with applicable standards and requirements.
      13.   Responsibilities For Construction Of Public Works:
         a.   The scope of this section is to define the respective areas of
responsibility of the subdivider and the city relative to the installation,
construction, or other improvements of public works en route to and within the
boundaries of a subdivision.
         b.   In certain instances, the city may require formal written
agreements with the subdivider that more fully and specifically describe their
respective obligations and responsibilities.
      14.   General: It shall be the responsibility of the subdivider to
complete at his sole expense all the development and construction of public
works for and within his subdivision, except as specifically provided otherwise
to be the obligation and responsibility of the city, or as may be accepted by
the city as being within the spirit and intent of its responsibilities.
      15.   Completion Of Public Works: The subdivider shall complete the
installation or construction of all the different phases of public works for
which he is responsible before the city will accept any of them. This
requirement may be satisfied by completion of a stage if a staged development
is called for in the approved development plan.
      16.   Guarantee Of Completion: Until the public works for which the
subdivider is responsible are complete, or an acceptable stage of the
development is completed, the city will issue no building permit for private
construction therein, unless a satisfactory performance bond or other suitable
guarantee of performance acceptable to the city is provided by the subdivider.
      17.   Evidence Of Completion:
         a.   The subdivider shall notify the city in writing when the public
works for which he is responsible have been completed;
         b.   The public works director/city engineer shall also certify in
writing, a copy of which shall be sent to the subdivider, that the said public
works have been inspected by him or his authorized representative, and that the
said public works have been completed in accordance with applicable standards
and specifications. "As built construction plans" shall be submitted to the
city upon completion.
      18.   Acceptance Of Public Works: Compliance with the foregoing
provisions shall constitute the city's acceptance of the public works. The city
shall thereby accept said public works and be responsible for their operation
and maintenance in accordance with city policies.
      19.   Streets:
         a.   Subdivider Requirements: The subdivider shall perform, install,
construct, or otherwise complete at his sole expense the following items
relative to street improvements within the boundaries of the subdivision:
            (1)   Route (or boundary) surveys of the dedicated rights of way.
            (2)   Construction surveys of line and grade.
            (3)   Installation of sidewalks, as applicable.
            (4)   Installation of curb and gutters, as applicable.
            (5)   Preparation of the subgrade.
            (6)   Installation of the roadway base course.
            (7)   Installation of a crushed gravel leveling course to be used
as a temporary wearing surface until a permanent asphalt pavement is installed.
            (8)   Installation of asphalt pavement shall be installed following
the installation of curbs and gutters.
            (9)   Adequate runoff, storm sewers, pipes, culverts, ditches or
other drainage facilities as designated by the commission.
         b.   City Requirements: The city shall perform, install, construct, or
otherwise complete at its sole expense the following items relative to street
improvements within the boundaries of the subdivision:
            (1)   Installation of traffic control signs and signals and street
name signs;
            (2)   Improvements, to the extent the city deems suitable, subject
to budgetary limitations, such existing right of way it considers necessary to
provide adequate access to the subdivision;
            (3)   Inspection of all phases of construction to assure compliance
with applicable standards and specifications.
      20.   Sanitary Sewage Collection System: The subdivider shall be
responsible for the installation of a sanitary sewage collection system within
the boundaries of the subdivision. The subdivider shall perform, install,
construct or otherwise complete at his sole expense the following items
relative to sanitary sewers:
         a.   Preparation of plans and specifications for the construction of
the sanitary sewer system, including extensions from the existing collection
system, and the approval of said plans and specifications by the Idaho
department of health and welfare, division of environmental quality;
         b.   Construction surveys of line and grade within the subdivision;
         c.   Installation of the sewer system within the subdivision,
including sewers, manholes and other appurtenances, and, if applicable, sewage
pumping stations;
         d.   Installation of a sewer service line to the property line of each
lot with appropriate termination cleanout with traffic lid;
         e.   Installation of a sewer extension from the existing collection
system to a designated point of connection near the subdivision;
         f.   Connections to the sewers will be in accordance with existing
procedures and the policies of the city; and the subdivider will be liable for
the payment of sewer assessment and hookup charges as provided by city
ordinances.
      21.   Water Distribution System: The subdivider shall be responsible for
the installation of a culinary water distribution system within the boundaries
of the subdivision. The subdivider shall perform, install, construct, or
otherwise complete at his sole expense the following items relative to a
culinary water distribution system:
         a.   Preparation of plans and specifications for the construction of
the water distribution system, and the approval of said plans and
specifications by the Idaho department of health and welfare, division of
environmental quality;
         b.   Construction surveys of line and grade within the subdivision;
         c.   Installation of the water distribution system within the
subdivision, including water lines, control valves, fire hydrants, and
appurtenant facilities;
         d.   Installation of a water service line to the property line of each
lot;
         e.   Installation of a water line extension or extensions as indicated
above;
         f.   Connections to the water mains shall be in accordance with
existing procedures and policies of the city; and the subdivider shall be
liable for the payment of water assessment and hookup charges as provided by
city ordinances.
      22.   Reimbursement For Oversizing: In the event the city requires the
subdivider to install oversized pipelines or other excess facilities to make
provisions for present or future service needs in excess of the requirements
for the subdivision, the city shall reimburse the subdivider for the additional
costs of material and installation resulting therefrom.
      23.   Building Line Setback: In all new subdivisions the building line
setback shall be a minimum of twenty feet (20') from the property line. In the
event that a new subdivision is located along a street with existing
residences, the setback line shall be not less than other structures along the
street and preferably should be set back at an average of the existing
structures.
      24.   Side And Rear Lot Line Clearance: In all new subdivisions no
building of any nature shall be placed or constructed nearer than five feet
(5') of the property line. Where utility rights of way or other rights of way
or easements are provided along property lines and lot lines no structure of
any nature shall be permitted in such rights of way or easements, except for
the purpose for which they are provided. (Ord. 734, 4-18-1995; amd. Ord. 830,
8-6-2002)
5-21-13: SPECIAL DEVELOPMENTS:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to identify the various types
of special developments that normally pose special concerns to the commission
and elected officials when reviewing and acting upon subdivision requests.
Therefore, this chapter outlines the general plan submittal requirements and
design standards that shall be taken into consideration when acting on special
developments. The provisions of this section are in addition to the plan
requirements and design standards that are required by sections
5-21-10 and
5-21-11 of this chapter. The required information shall be submitted to the
commission with the preliminary plat.
   B.   Planned Unit And Condominium Developments:
      1.   Site Development Plan: The developer shall provide the commission
with a colored rendering of adequate scale to show the completed development
that will include at least the following:
         a.   Private Streets: Private street construction standards shall be
based upon recommendations from the public works director/city engineer and
commission. Adequate construction standards may vary depending on the size of
the development and demands placed on such improvements.
         b.   Homeowners' Association: Homeowners' association bylaws and other
similar deed restrictions which provide for the control and maintenance of all
common areas, recreation facilities or open space shall meet with the approval
of the council. Any and all powers as specified in such agreements may be
required to also be assigned to the jurisdictional agency to ensure continued
and adequate maintenance of all such common areas, recreational facilities and
open spaces, ability to assess property for delinquencies and enforcement of
motor vehicle speed to the best interest of the owners involved and of the
general public.
         c.   Storage Areas: Storage areas shall be provided for the
anticipated needs of boats, campers and trailers. For typical residential
development, one adequate space shall be provided for every three (3) living
units. This may be reduced by the council if there is a showing that the needs
of a particular development are less.
         d.   Parking Space: One additional parking space beyond that which is
required by the zoning ordinance may be required for every three (3) dwelling
units to accommodate visitor parking.
         e.   Maintenance Building: A maintenance building shall be provided,
size and location to be determined by the type and service needed for the
necessary repair and maintenance of all common areas.
         f.   Open Space: The location of open space shall be appropriate to
the development and shall be of such shape and area to be usable and convenient
to the residents of the development.
         g.   Control During Development: Single ownership or control during
development shall be required and a time limit may be imposed and/or a
performance bond may be required to guarantee the development is built and
constructed as planned.
   C.   Cemeteries:
      1.   Function: The developer shall provide the commission with written
documentation that will sufficiently explain if the proposed cemetery will be
used for either human or animal remains and the functions that are anticipated
on the property.
      2.   Compliance With Idaho Code: The developer shall submit a written
statement that has been prepared by an attorney that adequately assures the
compliance of the proposed cemetery with the procedural platting requirements
that are outlined in title 27, Idaho Code.
   D.   Manufactured Home (Mobile Home) Parks:
      1.   General: Manufactured home parks shall in general be treated the
same as any residential subdivision, subject to any special requirements set
forth in the zoning ordinance and also subject to the following special
requirements.
      2.   Special Requirements: Manufactured home parks shall be subject to
the following special requirements:
         a.   Developed as a planned unit development with a minimum lot area
for the planned development of two (2) acres;
         b.   Essential community facilities and services for the type of
development under consideration is available, or provisions shall be made to
assure that these facilities will be provided;
         c.   The site shall be suitable for residential development and not be
subject to hazards such as insect or rodent infestation, objectionable smoke,
noxious odors, unusual noise, or the probability of flooding or erosion;
         d.   Adequacy of provisions for drainage of surface waters and for
waste disposal;
         e.   Protection of existing ground cover;
         f.   Screening from adjacent areas, other than subdivisions of the
same type, by aesthetically acceptable fences, walls, living plant areas, and
existing natural or manmade barriers;
         g.   The width and construction of access streets shall be suitable
for the vehicular traffic requirements of the property served. No lot within
the development shall have direct vehicular access to a street bordering the
development; and
         h.   Creation of a homeowners' association to assure that all common
open spaces are adequately maintained.
   E.   Recreational Vehicle Parks:
      1.   General: Recreational vehicle parks shall in general be treated the
same as any residential subdivision, subject to any special requirements set
forth in the zoning ordinance and also subject to the following special
requirements.
      2.   Special Requirements:
         a.   Recreation vehicle parks shall be developed as a planned unit
development with a minimum lot area for the planned development of two (2)
acres;
         b.   Essential community facilities and services for the type of
development under consideration shall be included in the plans or there shall
be reasonable assurance that the facilities and services are available, or
provisions shall be made to assure that these facilities will be provided;
         c.   There shall be adequate provisions for drainage of surface waters
and for waste disposal;
         d.   There shall be adequate protection of existing ground cover;
         e.   There shall be adequate screening from adjacent areas, other than
subdivisions of the same type, by aesthetically acceptable fences, walls,
living plant areas, and existing natural or manmade barriers; and
         f.   There shall be adequate provision for width and construction of
access streets which shall be suitable for the vehicular traffic requirements
of the property served. No lot within the development shall have direct
vehicular access to a street bordering the development.
   F.   Large Scale Development Subdivision; Required Information: Due to the
impact that large scale development would have on public utilities and
services, the developer shall submit the following information along with the
preliminary plat:
      1.   Identification of all public services that would be provided to the
development that will occur as a result of the subdivision (re: fire
protection, police protection, central water, central sewer, road construction,
recreation, maintenance, schools and other);
      2.   Estimate the public service costs to provide adequate service to the
development;
      3.   Estimate the tax revenue that will be generated from the
development; and
      4.   Public means of financing the services for the development if any
public services would not be offset by tax revenue received from the
development. (Ord. 734, 4-18-1995; amd. Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-21-14: VACATIONS, DEDICATIONS AND VARIANCES:
   A.   Application Procedure:
      1.   Application: Any property owner desiring to vacate an existing
subdivision public right of way or easement, or desiring to dedicate a street
right of way or easement, shall complete and file an application with the
commission and also file such other applications as are otherwise required by
law. These provisions shall not apply to the widening of any street which is
shown in the comprehensive development plan, or the dedication of streets,
rights of way, or easements to be shown on a recorded plat of a subdivision.
      2.   Council Action:
         a.   When considering an application for vacation procedures, the
council shall establish a date for a public hearing and give such public notice
as required by Idaho law. The council may approve, deny, or modify the
application. Whenever public rights of way or lands are vacated, the council
shall provide adjacent property owners with a quitclaim deed for said vacated
rights of way in such proportions as are prescribed by Idaho law.
         b.   When considering an application for dedication procedures, the
council may approve, deny, or modify the application. When a dedication is
approved, the required street improvements shall be constructed or a bond
furnished assuring the construction prior to acceptance of the dedication. To
complete the acceptance of any dedication of land, the owner shall furnish to
the council a deed describing and conveying such lands to be recorded with the
county recorder.
   B.   Purpose Of Variances: The commission may recommend to the council a
variance from the provisions of this chapter on a finding that undue hardship
may result from strict compliance with specific provisions or requirements of
this chapter or that application of such provisions or requirements is
impracticable. The commission shall only recommend variances that it deems
necessary to or desirable for the public interest. In making its findings, the
commission shall take into account the nature of the proposed use of land and
the existing use of land in the vicinity, the number of persons to reside or
work in the proposed subdivision, and the probable effect of persons to reside
or work in the proposed subdivision, and the probable effect of the proposed
subdivision upon traffic conditions in the vicinity. No variance shall be
recommended unless the commission finds after a public hearing that:
      1.   There are such special circumstances or conditions affecting said
property that the strict application of the provisions of this chapter would
clearly be impracticable, or unreasonable; in such cases, the subdivider shall
first state his reasons in writing as to the specific provisions or requirement
involved;
      2.   The granting of the specified variance will not be detrimental to
the public welfare or injurious to other property in the area in which said
property is situated;
      3.   Such variance will not violate the provisions of the Idaho Code; and
      4.   Such variance will not have the effect of nullifying the interest
and purpose of this chapter and the comprehensive development plan. (Ord. 734,
4-18-1995; amd. Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
5-21-15: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Enforcement: No subdivision plat required by this chapter or the Idaho
Code shall be admitted to the public land records of the county or recorded by
the county recorder until such subdivision plat has received final approval by
the council. No public board, agency, commission, official or other authority
shall proceed with the construction of or authorize the construction of any of
the public improvements required by this chapter until the final plat has
received the approval by the council.
   B.   Penalties: Penalties for failure to comply with the provisions of this
chapter shall be as follows:
      1.   Violation of any of the provisions of this chapter or failure to
comply with any of its requirements shall constitute a misdemeanor. Each day
such violation continues shall be considered as a separate offense. The
landowner, tenant, subdivider, builder, public official or any other person who
commits, participates in, assists in, or maintains such violation may each be
found guilty of a separate offense and suffer the penalties herein provided.
      2.   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the council or any other
public official or private citizen from taking such lawful action as is
necessary to retain or prevent any violation of this chapter or of the Idaho
Code. (Ord. 734, 4-18-1995; amd. Ord. 830, 8-6-2002)
TITLE 6
FIRE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
FIRE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
6-1-1: Department Personnel
6-1-2: Appointment Of Chief
6-1-3: Appointment Of Assistant Chief; Duties
6-1-4: Powers And Duties Of Chief
6-1-5: Authority To Blockade Streets
6-1-6: Compensation Of Members
6-1-7: Unlawful Acts
6-1-1: DEPARTMENT PERSONNEL:
The fire department of the city shall consist of the following officers and
firemen: one chief, one assistant chief and as many men as may be determined by
the mayor and council from time to time. (1960 Code, Sec. 1-701)
6-1-2: APPOINTMENT OF CHIEF:
The mayor shall have the power to appoint a competent person to act as chief of
the fire department, and to fill a vacancy whenever such vacancy shall occur,
said appointment to be subject to the confirmation of the city council. (1960
Code, Sec. 1-702)
6-1-3: APPOINTMENT OF ASSISTANT CHIEF; DUTIES:
The chief of the fire department shall have the power to appoint a competent
member of the department to act as assistant chief of the fire department. The
assistant chief shall perform those duties assigned to him by the chief, and
shall, in the absence of the chief, perform the duties and have the powers of
the chief. (1960 Code, Sec. 1-703)
6-1-4: POWERS AND DUTIES OF CHIEF:
The duty of extinguishing fires, preventing the spread of fires, preventing
fires and protecting life and property from fire, within the city, and the
power to do all things reasonably necessary for the performance of those
duties, shall be and hereby are entrusted to the chief of the fire department.
In addition, the chief shall perform those duties and exercise those powers
otherwise provided in this code or assigned to him by the mayor and council.
The chief shall have full control over the fire department and its members and
equipment at all times, subject, however, to the approval of the mayor and city
council. (1960 Code, Sec. 1-704)
6-1-5: AUTHORITY TO BLOCKADE STREETS:
Whenever a fire shall occur, it shall be lawful for the chief, or other officer
in command, to blockade any street, avenue, alley, sidewalk or other place, if
in his judgment it is necessary to ensure the efficient working of the
department or to protect equipment of the department or to protect persons from
injury. (1960 Code, Sec. 1-705)
6-1-6: COMPENSATION OF MEMBERS:
The chief shall receive as compensation a salary per month as is fixed by the
mayor and council from time to time, and each member of the department shall
receive such compensation as is fixed by the mayor and council from time to
time by resolution. No compensation shall be paid in event of false alarms or
where there is no need of the department to extinguish the fire. (1960 Code,
Sec. 1-706; amd. 1977 Code)
All sums for the purposes of this chapter shall be paid out of any monies in
the general funds of the city immediately after being approved by the mayor and
council at any regular meeting or special meeting called for that purpose.
Provision shall be made at the time of making the regular city tax levies to
meet the requirements of this chapter. (1960 Code, Sec. 1-706)
6-1-7: UNLAWFUL ACTS:
   A.   Break Through Blockade: It shall be unlawful for any person to break
through or attempt to break through any blockade by the chief of the fire
department, or other officer in command, of any street, avenue, alley, sidewalk
or other place, or to interfere in any manner with the fire department or any
of its members in the performance of their duties at any fire. (1960 Code, Sec.
4-301)
   B.   Injure Equipment: It shall be unlawful for any person to injure or
attempt to injure any fire hose or fire equipment or apparatus, or to run over
with a vehicle, or attempt to run over with a vehicle, any fire hose 1 . (1960
Code, Sec. 4-302)
   C.   Injure Fire Alarms Or Send False Alarms: It shall be unlawful for any
person to injure or in any manner interfere with any fire alarm, fire alarm
system or apparatus, or to send any false fire alarm. (1960 Code, Sec. 4-303)
   D.   Follow Fire Vehicles: The driver of any vehicle, other than an
authorized emergency vehicle, shall not follow any fire apparatus or vehicles
traveling to a fire alarm or fire call closer than five hundred feet (500'), or
drive or park such vehicle within a block of the place the fire apparatus or
vehicles have stopped in response to a fire alarm 2 . (1960 Code, Sec. 4-304)
   E.   Violations, Misdemeanor: Any violation of the foregoing subsections
shall constitute a misdemeanor, and any person, upon conviction of such
violation, shall be punished accordingly. (1960 Code, Sec. 4-305)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  9-1-13 of this code.
2 1. See also section
  9-1-12 of this code.
CHAPTER 2
FIRE CODE
SECTION:
6-2-1: Fire Code
6-2-2: Enforcement
6-2-3: Modifications
6-2-4: Appeals
6-2-5: Penalties
6-2-1: FIRE CODE:
See sections
4-1-1 and
4-1-2 of this code for the provisions adopting the fire code. (Ord. 771, 4-7-
1998; amd. Ord. 834, 1-1-2003)
6-2-2: ENFORCEMENT:
The fire code hereby adopted shall be enforced by the chief of the fire
department or other duly authorized state of Idaho fire inspector appointed by
the chief for specific acts of enforcement. (Ord. 724, 2-1-1994; amd. Ord. 834,
1-1-2003)
6-2-3: MODIFICATIONS:
The chief of the fire department shall have power to modify any of the
provisions of the fire code hereby adopted upon application in writing by the
owner or lessee, or his duly authorized agent, when there are practicable
difficulties in the way of carrying out the strict letter of the code, provided
that the spirit of the code shall be observed, public safety secured, and
substantial justice done. The particulars of such modification when granted or
allowed and the decision of the chief of fire department thereon shall be
entered upon the records of the department and a signed copy shall be furnished
the applicant. (Ord. 724, 2-1-1994; amd. Ord. 834, 1-1-2003)
6-2-4: APPEALS:
Whenever the chief of the fire department shall disapprove an application or
refuse to grant a permit applied for, or when it is claimed that the provisions
of fire code do not apply or that the true intent and meaning of said code have
been misconstrued or wrongly interpreted, the applicant may appeal from the
decision of the chief of the fire department to the city council within thirty
(30) days from the date of the decision appealed. (Ord. 724, 2-1-1994; amd.
Ord. 834, 1-1-2003)
6-2-5: PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of the fire code
hereby adopted or fail to comply therewith, or who shall violate or fail to
comply with any order made thereunder, or who shall build in violation of any
detailed statement of specifications or plans submitted and approved
thereunder, or any certificate or permit issued thereunder, and from which no
appeal has been taken, or who shall fail to comply with such an order as
affirmed or modified by the city council or by a court of competent
jurisdiction, within the time fixed herein, shall severally for each and every
such violation and noncompliance respectively, be guilty of a misdemeanor,
punishable by a fine of not more than three hundred dollars ($300.00) or by
imprisonment for not more than six (6) months or by both such fine and
imprisonment. The imposition of one penalty for any violation shall not excuse
the violation or permit it to continue; and all such persons shall be required
to correct or remedy such violations or defects within a reasonable time; and
when not otherwise specified, each ten (10) days that prohibited conditions are
maintained shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 724, 2-1-1994; amd. Ord.
834, 1-1-2003)
   B.   The application of the above penalty shall not be held to prevent the
enforced removal of prohibited conditions. (Ord. 724, 2-1-1994)
CHAPTER 3
FIREWORKS
SECTION:
6-3-1: Enactment Of Regulations
6-3-2: Definitions
6-3-3: Dangerous Fireworks; Public Display
6-3-4: Safe And Sane Fireworks
6-3-5: Applications For Permits
6-3-6: Investigation Of Applicant
6-3-7: Grant Or Deny Permit
6-3-8: Term Of Permit; Filing
6-3-9: Liability Insurance
6-3-10: Hours Of Sale
6-3-11: Fireworks Stands; Regulation Of Sales
6-3-12: Evidence Of Source Of Fireworks
6-3-13: Removal Of Stands; Bond Or Deposit
6-3-14: Compliance With State Law
6-3-15: Violation
6-3-1: ENACTMENT OF REGULATIONS:
The city council does hereby enact regulations for the sale and discharge of
fireworks in the city as set forth in this chapter. (Ord. 482, 6-3-1969)
6-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
DANGEROUS FIREWORKS: Include any of the following:
   A.   Firecrackers, cannon crackers, giant crackers, salutes, silver tube
salutes, cherry bombs, mines, ground bombardment, grasshoppers and other
explosive articles of similar nature.
   B.   Blank cartridges.
   C.   Skyrockets and rockets, including similar devices employing any
combustible or explosive material and which rise in the air during discharge,
except model rockets and model rocket engines designed, sold and used for the
purpose of repelling of recoverable aero model rockets.
   D.   Roman candles, including all devices which discharge balls of fire into
the air.
   E.   Chasers and whistles, including all devices which dart or travel about
the surface of the ground during the discharge.
   F.   Snakes and hats containing bichloride of mercury.
   G.   Sparklers more than ten inches (10") in length or one-fourth inch (1/
4") in diameter.
   H.   All articles for pyrotechnic display such as aerial shells, salutes,
flash shells, sky battles, parachute shells, mines, dago bombs and similar
devices.
   I.   All torpedoes which explode by means of friction or which contain
arsenic, and all other similar fireworks devices including cracker balls.
   J.   Fire balloons or balloons of any type which have burning material of
any kind attached thereto.
FIREWORKS: Shall include:
   A.   Blank cartridges, toy pistols, toy cannons, toy canes or toy guns in
which explosives are used, fire balloons (balloons of a type which have burning
material of any kind attached thereto or which require fire underneath to
propel them), firecrackers, torpedoes, skyrockets, rockets, Roman candles,
fountain wheels, dago bombs, sparklers and other fireworks of like construction
and any fireworks containing any combustible or explosive substance for the
purpose of producing a visible or audible effect by combustion, deflagration,
explosion or detonation.
   B.   Exempted from this subsection are all toy pistols, toy cannons, toy
canes and toy guns and similar devices such as party poppers or party favors in
which paper caps containing not more than twenty five hundredths (0.25) grain
of explosive compound per cap are used and such caps whether single, roll or
tape type.
SAFE AND SANE FIREWORKS: Include any of the following:
   A.   Cone fountains with pyrotechnic composition not exceeding fifty grams
(50 g) each.
   B.   Cylindrical fountains, whether base, spike or handle, with pyrotechnic
composition not exceeding seventy five grams (75 g) each and inside tube
diameter not exceeding three- fourths inch (3/4").
   C.   Sparklers and "dipped sticks" not more than ten inches (10") in length
or one-fourth inch (1/4") in diameter and Suzuki and morning glories with
pyrotechnic composition not exceeding four grams (4 g) each.
   D.   Snakes which do not contain bichloride of mercury and pyrotechnic
composition not exceeding two grams (2 g) each.
   E.   Wheels with pyrotechnic composition not exceeding sixty (60) grains for
each driver unit or two hundred forty (240) grains for each complete wheel. The
inside tube diameter of driver unit shall not exceed one-half inch (1/2").
   F.   Whistles, without report and which do not dart or travel about the
ground during discharge with pyrotechnic composition not exceeding six grams (6
g) and containing no picric or gallic acid. (Ord. 482, 6-3-1969; amd. 1977
Code)
6-3-3: DANGEROUS FIREWORKS; PUBLIC DISPLAY:
   A.   Permit Required: It shall be unlawful for any person in the city to
import, export, offer for sale, sell, possess, keep or store or permit the
keeping or storing of any dangerous fireworks for any use or purpose, except
that a person holding a dangerous fireworks permit issued pursuant to the terms
and conditions of this chapter may use dangerous fireworks for a safely
supervised and conducted public display of fireworks, and said fireworks may be
stored for a period of not exceeding four (4) days immediately preceding the
date of said public display provided the fireworks are to be used exclusively
for the public display. No permit shall be issued without the approval of the
fire chief; all applicants must comply with any and all safety regulations
established by the city of Rupert and/or the city's fire department.
   B.   Application, Fee: Any reputable person in reasonable pursuit or
furtherance of any legitimate personal, business or charitable purpose,
desiring to make a public display of dangerous fireworks shall first make
written application to the city clerk for a dangerous fireworks permit. Said
written application shall set forth the time and place of the proposed public
display and shall include descriptions of the types of fireworks to be used and
the manner in which said dangerous fireworks will be stored, controlled, and
ignited. Each applicant shall pay to the city clerk a fee at the time he or she
files his or her application in an amount set by city council resolution. At
the time and as a condition of such filing, and with each application, each
applicant shall pay an additional fee to defray costs of preliminary
investigations required hereunder, and to be conducted by the fire chief, which
fee shall be paid per site applied for, in an amount set by resolution of the
city council and shall not be refundable in any event. In the event the fire
chief determines that city firefighters or other city personnel must be
utilized to assure public safety, the applicant must pay, in advance, the costs
associated thereto before a permit will issue. (Ord. 12-506, 6-12-2012)
6-3-4: SAFE AND SANE FIREWORKS:
   A.   Permit Required: No person, without having a valid safe and sane
fireworks permit issued pursuant to terms and conditions set forth in this code
shall import, export, possess for the purpose of sale, offer for sale, give
away or sell any safe and sane fireworks for any use or purpose.
   B.   Application, Fee: Any reputable person in reasonable pursuit or
furtherance of any legitimate personal, business or charitable purpose,
desiring to engage in the sale of safe and sane fireworks within the city shall
first make written application to the city clerk for a safe and sane fireworks
permit. Each applicant shall pay to the city clerk a fee at the time he files
his application in an amount set by city council resolution. In the event no
safe and sane fireworks permit is issued by the city council by June 15 in the
year during which the application is made, the city clerk shall, upon request
of the applicant, refund the application fee; provided however that the city
council may approve an application after June 15 in said year. At the time and
as a condition of such filing, and with each application, each applicant shall
pay an additional fee to defray costs of preliminary investigations required
hereunder and to be conducted by the fire chief, which fee shall be paid per
site applied for, in an amount set by resolution of the city council and shall
not be refundable in any event. (Ord. 12-506, 6-12-2012)
6-3-5: APPLICATIONS FOR PERMITS:
Each applicant for a safe and sane fireworks permit or a dangerous fireworks
permit shall file his application with the city clerk. Each application shall
show the following:
   A.   Name and address of applicant.
   B.   The purpose for which the applicant is primarily existing and for which
it was organized.
   C.   The names and addresses of the officers, trustees or directors, if any,
of the applicant.
   D.   The location where the applicant requests permission to sell safe and
sane fireworks or display dangerous fireworks.
   E.   When and where the applicant was organized and established, or, if a
natural person, the applicant's age.
   F.   The location of the applicant's principal and permanent meeting place
or places, or principal place or places of business.
   G.   The applicant's state sales tax permit number.
   H.   If the applicant is an entity other than a sole proprietorship, the
name and a general description of the business activities of each parent or
subsidiary company, business or entity, and a general description of the
ownership organization of each parent or subsidiary, if any.
   I.   Such other information as the city clerk may require on a standard form
submitted to all applicants and which is reasonably necessary to protect the
public health, safety and morals. (Ord. 482, 6-3-1969)
6-3-6: INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT:
The city clerk shall cause an investigation to be made of each application and
applicant, and shall submit a written report of his findings and
recommendations for or against the issuance of the permit, together with his
reasons therefor, to the city council, which report shall not be public
information except on request of the applicant or by order of the city council.
(Ord. 482, 6-3-1969)
6-3-7: GRANT OR DENY PERMIT:
The city council shall have the power in its discretion to grant or deny any
application, subject to such reasonable conditions, if any, as it shall
prescribe so long as the denial of the application or any conditions imposed on
the granting of the application are reasonably necessary for protection of the
public health, safety and morals. (Ord. 482, 6-3-1969)
6-3-8: TERM OF PERMIT; FILING:
A safe and sane fireworks permit or a dangerous fireworks permit issued
pursuant to this chapter shall be valid only within the calendar year in which
issued. A permit shall be valid only for the specific premises or location
designated in the permit. However, subject to reasonable conditions necessary
for protection of the public health, safety and morals, an applicant may be
granted permits for more than one site or location within the city. No permit
shall be transferable or assignable.
Each application for a permit to sell safe and sane fireworks at retail shall
be filed with the city clerk on or before May 30 of the calendar year for which
the permit is sought. (Ord. 482, 6-3-1969)
6-3-9: LIABILITY INSURANCE:
Each applicant for a safe and sane fireworks permit or for a dangerous
fireworks permit shall have filed with the city clerk prior to the issuance and
validity of any permit, a policy, or a certified true copy thereof, of public
liability and products liability insurance, including both accident and
occurrence coverage. The insurance coverage limits for both public liability
coverage and for products liability coverage shall be at least one hundred
thousand dollars ($100,000.00) per person per occurrence bodily injury, three
hundred thousand dollars ($300,000.00) per occurrence aggregate bodily injury,
and one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) per occurrence aggregate
property damage. Each policy shall be in form and substance acceptable to the
city council, and shall name as insured parties under the terms of the policy
the city, all officials of the city in the performance of official functions
regarding all operations under or pertaining to said permit, any licensee or
licensor of the applicant, and all vendors of the fireworks covered by the
permit to be issued to the applicant. Said policy of insurance shall be so
written that it cannot be canceled without at least ten (10) days' prior
written notice to the city from the underwriting insurance company. The policy
of insurance shall be underwritten through or by a qualified and duly licensed
insurance company or companies doing or authorized to do insurance business in
Idaho. (Ord. 482, 6-3-1969)
6-3-10: HOURS OF SALE:
No safe and sane fireworks shall be given away, sold or offered for sale except
from twelve o'clock (12:00) noon on June 23 to twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight
on July 5 of each year; provided however, that the city council may extend the
period of sales in any year by not more than five (5) days as allowed by Idaho
Code 39-2606. (Ord. 12-506, 6-12-2012)
6-3-11: FIREWORKS STANDS; REGULATION OF SALES:
Temporary fireworks stands from which safe and sane fireworks are to be sold
shall be subject to the following provisions:
   A.   All such stands shall meet the structural stability requirements of the
building regulations of the city and all lighting circuits and other electrical
equipment shall meet the requirements of the electrical regulations of the
city.
   B.   The stand shall have exit doors at least thirty inches (30") wide at
both ends of the structure and one additional door for each twenty five feet
(25') of rear wall in excess of twenty five feet (25'). All doors shall open
outward from the stand and all doorways shall be kept free and clear from all
supplies and materials at all times.
   C.   Each stand shall be provided with a minimum of two (2) fire
extinguishers with a 2A minimum rating, in good working order, and easily
accessible for use in case of fire, which shall be kept in immediate proximity
to the location where the fireworks are retailed.
   D.   There shall be at least one supervisor, twenty one (21) years of age or
older, on duty at all times. All fireworks shall be effectively kept away from
any kind of self-service by the public, and shall be placed in a location which
is unavailable and inaccessible to members of the public in capacities other
than as legal customers.
No person under sixteen (16) years of age shall be allowed inside the temporary
stand at any time, nor shall any person under sixteen (16) years of age work at
or about any stand where safe and sane fireworks are sold or offered for sale.
   E.   No person employed as a watchman shall be permitted to remain inside of
any stand when it is not open for business.
   F.   "No Smoking" signs shall be prominently displayed both inside and
outside the stand. No smoking shall be permitted within the stand or within
fifteen feet (15') of the stand.
   G.   No temporary stand shall be erected before the date allowed by state
law of any year. The premises on which the stand is erected shall be cleared of
all structures and debris, not later than twelve o'clock (12:00) noon of the
second day following the last day of permitted sales.
   H.   No fireworks shall be discharged in or within twenty five feet (25') of
any fireworks stand.
   I.   No person shall allow any rubbish to accumulate in or around any
fireworks stand or permit a fire nuisance to exist.
   J.   No fireworks shall be left in the stand when it is not open for
business unless the stand is locked or secured. If any fireworks are stored,
they shall only be stored at such places as are approved for storage of
fireworks by the fire chief.
   K.   No stand shall have a floor area in excess of seven hundred fifty (750)
square feet.
   L.   The stand must comply with any and all other requirements in Idaho
statute. (Ord. 12-506, 6-12-2012; amd. Ord. 20-503, 5-12-2020)
6-3-12: EVIDENCE OF SOURCE OF FIREWORKS:
Each permittee shall be required to retain at the licensed premises while said
premises are open, and at his principal place of business for a year
thereafter, copies of all invoices, receipts and orders evidencing the source
from which he acquired the fireworks which he handled. (Ord. 482, 6-3-1969)
6-3-13: REMOVAL OF STANDS; BOND OR DEPOSIT:
In those cases where the applicant conducts the sale of fireworks from a
temporary fireworks stand, he shall post with the city clerk a cash bond or
cash deposit in the amount of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) (or such
other security as may be acceptable to the city council) conditioned upon the
prompt removal of the temporary fireworks stand and the cleaning up of debris
from the site of the temporary fireworks stand, which deposit or security shall
be returned to the applicant only in the event he removes said temporary
fireworks stand and cleans up all debris to the satisfaction of the city
council, or such other official as the city council may designate. In the event
of the applicant's failure to so remove the stand and debris, said cash bond or
cash deposit shall be forfeited to the city. In no event shall the applicant be
entitled to the return of said cash bond or cash deposit if he has failed to
remove said temporary fireworks stand and clean up all debris by twelve o'clock
(12:00) noon of July 7 of any year. It shall be the legal duty of each
permittee to clean such sites and remove all debris therefrom on or before July
6 of the year in which the permit is granted, and failure to do so shall be
punishable as hereinafter provided. (Ord. 482, 6-3-1969)
6-3-14: COMPLIANCE WITH STATE LAW:
It shall be the duty of every person issued a fireworks permit to comply with
all the provisions of the Idaho state fireworks act 1  and this chapter. The
conviction of violation of the aforesaid Idaho state fireworks act or any of
the provisions of this chapter by the permittee, or by any of its agents,
employees or officers shall constitute a cause, in and of itself, to deny any
subsequent application for a permit. (Ord. 482, 6-3-1969)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 39-2605 et seq.
6-3-15: VIOLATION:
Any person who violates this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction thereof shall be punished accordingly. (Ord. 482, 6-3-1969)
CHAPTER 4
OPEN BURNING
SECTION:
6-4-1: Purpose
6-4-2: Definition
6-4-3: General Restrictions
6-4-4: Allowable Burning
6-4-5: Requirements For Burning
6-4-6: Visible Emissions
6-4-7: Additional Requirements
6-4-8: Violation
6-4-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose and intent of this chapter is to eliminate all forms of open
burning except those for which there is no means of producing a similar public
benefit, or such as may be permitted herein. (Ord. 536, 2-20-1973)
6-4-2: DEFINITION:
"Open burning" is hereby defined as the outdoor burning of materials where the
products of combustion are not directed through a duct, passage, smokestack or
chimney. (Ord. 536, 2-20-1973)
6-4-3: GENERAL RESTRICTIONS:
Except as herein otherwise provided, no person shall allow, suffer, cause or
permit the open burning of materials which emit toxic contaminants, large
volumes of smoke, particulates or odors. (Ord. 536, 2-20-1973)
6-4-4: ALLOWABLE BURNING:
   A.   Fires used for the preparation of food, campfires and fires for
recreational purposes, under control of a responsible person.
   B.   Fires used for control or alleviation of fire hazard or for weed
control when no alternate control method exists.
   C.   Fires used in the training of organized firefighting personnel.
   D.   Properly operated industrial flares for combustion of flammable gases.
   E.   Readily combustible rubbish produced by operation of a domestic
household may be burned on the property from which the rubbish was generated,
if no collection and disposal service is available and such is approved by the
mayor and council. This shall include tree leaves and gardening waste.
"Rubbish" is defined as nonputrescible solid waste except abandoned vehicles
and car bodies or car body parts, industrial solid waste and agricultural solid
waste.
   F.   Open burning of junked motor vehicles when permitted by the council
shall be under the following additional conditions:
      1.   No burning will be allowed on Saturday or Sunday.
      2.   Burning hours shall be between ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. and four
o'clock (4:00) P.M.
      3.   Number of units to be burned at any one location at one burn shall
be limited to one hundred (100) unless otherwise approved by the city council.
      4.   Tires and floormats shall be removed prior to burning.
      5.   Every reasonable effort shall be made on the part of the salvage
operator to prepare the units in such a manner that rapid and efficient
combustion will occur.
Any burning of motor vehicles deemed necessary by the council shall be
conducted at one or several centralized locations. Such locations shall be
approved by the Idaho air pollution control section and the Idaho solid waste
control section of the state department of health.
   G.   Burning of plant life grown on the premises in the course of
agricultural, forestry or land clearing operation.
   H.   During the months of April and October the city council, after
consultation with the Idaho air pollution control section of the state
department of health, may establish "cleanup weeks" during which property
owners will be allowed without special permit to burn leaves, shrubbery,
trimmings, grass and such other materials at such times and in such manner as
may be designated in the public proclamation. (Ord. 536, 2-20-1973)
6-4-5: REQUIREMENTS FOR BURNING:
   A.   Permit Required: No person shall conduct burning within the provision
of section
6-4-4 hereof on or in any public street, alley, road or other public ground
without a permit or other proper authorization.
   B.   Attendance Of Open Fires: All open burning shall be constantly attended
by a competent person until such fire is extinguished. This person shall have a
garden hose connected to the water supply or other fire extinguishing equipment
readily available for use.
   C.   Chief May Prohibit: The chief of the fire department may prohibit any
or all open burning when atmospheric conditions as published by the weather
bureau or the environmental services as to burning or when local circumstances
make such fires hazardous. (Ord. 536, 2-20-1973)
6-4-6: VISIBLE EMISSIONS:
   A.   No person shall allow the emission of any air contaminant for a period
or periods aggregating more than three (3) minutes in any one hour which is:
      1.   Darker in shade than that designated no. 2 (40 percent density) on
the Ringelmann chart as published by the United States bureau of mines; or
      2.   Of such opacity as to obscure an observer's view to the same degree
as an emission described in subsection A of this section.
   B.   Testing shall be done in accordance with the procedures manual for
sampling and analysis of air pollutants, published by the state air pollution
control commission.
   C.   The visible emissions regulation applicable to equipment installed
after the effective date hereof shall be as above, except that the criteria for
determining compliance shall be Ringelmann no. 1 or equivalent opacity.
   D.   The density or opacity of an air contaminant shall be measured at the
point of its emission if observable, and if not shall be measured at an
observable point on the plume nearest the point of emission. (Ord. 536, 2-20-
1973)
6-4-7: ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS:
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as repealing or amending in any way
any safety provisions of the fire prevention code heretofore adopted by the
city 1 . All of the safety requirements therein prescribed for outdoor burning,
bonfires or rubbish fires shall be required of all persons holding permits
under the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 536, 2-20-1973)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 2 of this title.
6-4-8: VIOLATION:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter or wilfully refusing
to comply with any proper requirements of the designated officer shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. Each day a violation of the provisions of this
chapter continues shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 536, 2-20-1973)
TITLE 7
HEALTH AND SANITATION
CHAPTER 1
MISCELLANEOUS SANITARY PROVISIONS
SECTION:
7-1-1: Stables Kept Clean And Wholesome; Nuisance
7-1-2: Privies Or Cesspools
7-1-3: Junk On Premises
7-1-1: STABLES KEPT CLEAN AND WHOLESOME; NUISANCE:
   A.   Maintain Premises: Every owner, lessee, tenant or occupant of any
stable or place in which any horse or cattle, or any other animal shall be kept
or of any place in which manure or any liquid discharge of such animal shall
accumulate, shall cause such manure and liquid to be removed to some proper
place, and shall at all times keep, or cause to be kept, such stable or place
in a clean and wholesome condition. (1960 Code, Sec. 8-401)
   B.   Violation A Nuisance: The violation of any of the provisions of
subsection A hereof is hereby declared to be a nuisance. (1960 Code, Sec. 8-
402)
   C.   Penalty For Violations: Any person violating any of the provisions of
subsection A hereof shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction
thereof shall be punished by fine not exceeding the sum of twenty five dollars
($25.00). (1960 Code, Sec. 8-403)
   D.   Chief Of Police To Enforce: Whenever the chief of police shall be
notified of the existence of any nuisance or the violation of any of the
provisions of subsection A hereof, he shall immediately make or cause to be
made an examination of the yard, lot, place, premises, street, sidewalk or
alley on which it is charged that such nuisance is suffered or permitted, and
if he finds such nuisance to exist thereon, he shall forthwith give or cause to
be given either to the owner, agent or occupant of such yard, lot or premises,
or to all of them, a notice to remove or abate such nuisances; and if such
nuisance shall not be removed or abated within twenty four (24) hours, cause
the owner, occupant of, or agent to be arrested and brought before the proper
magistrate; and if the person or persons so arrested are convicted, the chief
of police shall cause the nuisance to be removed or abated, and the chief of
police is hereby authorized to remove any obstruction that it may be necessary
to remove, in order to reach and remove or abate such nuisance. The expense of
such removal of any nuisance by the chief of police shall be paid by the city
in the first instance but the same shall be taxed upon and assessed against the
property or premises chargeable therewith and certified up to the proper
officer of the county and collected as other taxes. (1960 Code, Sec. 8-404)
7-1-2: PRIVIES OR CESSPOOLS:
   A.   Unlawful Where Sewer Available: It shall be unlawful for any person to
keep or maintain any privy or cesspool appertaining to any property within the
city where said property is accessible to any public sewer of the city. (1960
Code, Sec. 8-405)
   B.   Where Sewer Available: It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or
maintain any privy or cesspool appertaining to any property within the city,
where said property is not accessible to any public sewer of the city, in such
a condition as to cause a noisome or offensive odor, or without screening or
other construction adequate to keep out flies. (1960 Code, Sec. 8-406)
   C.   Violation A Misdemeanor: A violation of subsection A or B of this
section shall constitute a misdemeanor, and shall be punishable as such. (1960
Code, Sec. 8-407)
   D.   Violations After Notice A Nuisance; Notice; Abatement:
      1.   Any privy or cesspool kept or maintained in the city for the space
of three (3) days after notice hereinafter provided is hereby declared to be a
nuisance.
      2.   In the event any privy or cesspool appertaining to any property
within the city is kept or maintained where said property is accessible to any
public sewer of the city, the city may give the owner of said property written
notice to connect said property to the public sewer of the city within forty
five (45) days. In the event any privy or cesspool appertaining to any property
within the city not accessible to any public sewer of the city is kept or
maintained in such a condition as to cause a noisome or offensive odor, or
without screening or other construction adequate to keep out flies, the city
may give the owner of said property written notice to remove or abate the same
within fifteen (15) days.
      3.   The city may remove or abate any nuisance herein declared at the
expense of the property upon which the same exists; and the expense thereof to
the city may be certified to the proper officer of Minidoka County for
collection as other taxes as provided by law. (1960 Code, Sec. 8-408)
7-1-3: JUNK ON PREMISES:
   A.   Definition: "Junk" is hereby defined to be any used material or any
parts of material units which have become useless for the purpose for which
said material was originally fabricated or manufactured. (1960 Code, Sec. 9-
1101)
   B.   Violation A Misdemeanor: It shall be unlawful and a misdemeanor for any
person to keep, or to permit to be kept, any junk upon premises owned or
occupied by him. (1960 Code, Sec. 9-1102)
   C.   Nuisance; Abatement: The keeping by any person of junk upon premises
owned or occupied by him is hereby declared to be a nuisance. The city may
remove or abate such nuisance at the expense of the property upon which the
same exists after giving the owner thereof written notice to remove the same
within fifteen (15) days, and the failure of said owner to remove or cause to
be removed said nuisance within said time; and the expense thereof to the city
may be certified to the proper officer of Minidoka County for collection as
other taxes as provided by law. (1960 Code, Sec. 9-1103)
CHAPTER 2
FOOD HANDLERS; BARBERS AND HAIRDRESSERS
SECTION:
7-2-1: Purpose
7-2-2: Health Certificate And X-Rays
7-2-3: Scope Of Chapter
7-2-4: Jurisdiction Of Chapter
7-2-5: Enforcement
7-2-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is the exercise of the police power of the city in
safeguarding and securing the health of the citizens and residents of the city
by providing adequate rules and regulations pertaining to persons engaged in
the handling of food and drink for public consumption, and to barbers and
hairdressers. (1960 Code, Sec. 8-201)
7-2-2: HEALTH CERTIFICATE AND X-RAYS:
All persons working, handling, serving, dispensing or in any way coming in
contact with food, drink or the cleaning of food or drinking equipment or
utensils used in the preparation, service or cleaning of the aforesaid, shall
provide themselves with a state of Idaho health certificate, as required by
section 39-1705, Idaho Code; and it is further provided that all said persons
shall secure a plural X-ray or tuberculin test (intermediate strength P.P.D.)
and present a certificate from an accredited physician or duly licensed
authority showing a negative finding to their employer; a person who cannot
comply with the foregoing shall not be employed at any establishment which
works, serves, handles, dispenses or in any way comes in contact with food,
drink or the cleaning of food and drinking equipment and utensils used therein.
The said plural X-ray or tuberculin test must be secured yearly, and said
certificate presented to the employer. (1960 Code, Sec. 8-202)
7-2-3: SCOPE OF CHAPTER:
This chapter shall apply to barbers, hairdressers and to all persons handling
raw or cooked food, drink, meat, milk, candy or any other food or drink
articles which are not received and dispensed in presealed, sanitary
containers, and to all persons engaged in the handling, cleaning or dispensing
of dishes, food and drinking equipment and utensils used in connection
therewith; and the provisions for the enforcement of this chapter and the
penalties provided herein shall apply equally to such persons and to any person
who shall knowingly hire, employ or permit any person not meeting the
requirements of section
7-2-2 hereof, to handle, clean, sell or dispense any such articles, equipment,
containers, food or drink, or to engage in barbering or hairdressing. (1960
Code, Sec. 8-203)
7-2-4: JURISDICTION OF CHAPTER:
Under the authority of title 50, chapter 6, section 606, Idaho Code,
jurisdiction for the enforcement of this chapter is hereby vested in the mayor
of the city, over all places within five (5) miles of the corporate limits of
the city. (1960 Code, Sec. 8-204)
7-2-5: ENFORCEMENT:
The mayor of the city is herewith charged with the enforcement of this chapter
and for this purpose is authorized and directed to utilize to the fullest
extent the police force of the city, to call on the sheriff of the county of
Minidoka, the department of law enforcement of the state of Idaho, the
department of public health of the state of Idaho, and any and all other law
enforcement agencies or bodies deemed necessary for the full and adequate
enforcement of this chapter. (1960 Code, Sec. 8-205)
CHAPTER 3
MUNICIPAL SWIMMING POOL
SECTION:
7-3-1: Admission To Swimming Pool, Health Certificate
7-3-2: Form Of Health Certificate
7-3-1: ADMISSION TO SWIMMING POOL, HEALTH CERTIFICATE:
The city, by its officers, employees or agents, may demand as a prerequisite to
admission to the city's municipal swimming or wading pool, that any person
seeking such admission present a health certificate issued not more than two
(2) days previously by a physician duly licensed to practice medicine within
the state of Idaho. (1960 Code, Sec. 8-301)
7-3-2: FORM OF HEALTH CERTIFICATE:
The health certificate provided for in section
7-3-1 of this chapter shall be substantially in the following form and shall be
signed and dated by the issuing physician:
   This is to certify that I have this date examined (name of person seeking
admission to municipal swimming or wading pool) and have found him (or her) to
have no contagious or infectious diseases, and that his (or her) physical
condition is not dangerous to the public health.
(1960 Code, Sec. 8-302)
CHAPTER 4
GARBAGE AND RUBBISH
SECTION:
7-4-1: Definitions
7-4-2: Accumulation Of Garbage And Rubbish
7-4-3: Garbage Containers
7-4-4: Collection And Disposal Service; Fees
7-4-5: Burning Unlawful
7-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
BUSINESS: Any commercial enterprise and includes, but it is not limited to, any
group enterprise, whether commercial or noncommercial, not included in the term
"residence", and any combination residence and business.
GARBAGE: All putrescible wastes except sewage, including, but not limited to,
table refuse, swill, offal, waste products of the preparation, consumption and
storage of foodstuffs.
RESIDENCE: A dwelling, whether a single unit or a unit in a multiple-dwelling
construction.
RUBBISH: All nonputrescible wastes, including, but not limited to, discarded,
worthless and valueless personal wreckage, vegetation cuttings, sod and stumps.
(1960 Code, Sec. 8-101)
7-4-2: ACCUMULATION OF GARBAGE AND RUBBISH:
   A.   Unlawful: It shall be unlawful to deposit, collect or accumulate, or to
permit the deposit, collection or accumulation of any garbage or rubbish upon
land, lots, premises, alleys or streets within the city, except in the manner
herein provided.
   B.   Lawful: Garbage and rubbish shall be placed in separate containers that
will be provided by the City; provided, however, that rubbish incapable of
being placed in a container shall be reduced to a suitable size to be bundled
and shall be bundled in bundles not to exceed five feet (5') in length and
fifty (50) pounds in weight. City provided containers, when full, shall not
weigh more than three hundred and twenty (320) pounds. Rubbish incapable of
being placed in containers or bundled, as hereinbefore provided, shall be
disposed of within forty eight (48) hours by the person accumulating the same,
by agreement for special truck service with the city or a private contractor.
Garbage and rubbish shall be placed outside of buildings in places easily
accessible for collection, but the same shall not be placed in alleys or
streets. (1960 Code, Sec. 8-102; amd. Ord. 533, 10-3-1972; Ord. 22-501, - -
2021)
7-4-3: GARBAGE CONTAINERS:
Requirements: Sanitary containers or containers authorized under Section
7-4-2B shall be provided by the City. All containers shall be maintained in
good condition and at ground level. The Sanitation Superintendent shall have
authority to refuse collection service for failure to comply herewith. It shall
be the duty of the user to maintain the same in a reasonably sanitary condition
in keeping with reasonable health standards. The Sanitation Inspector shall
have the responsibility of inspecting containers and to notify the user for
failure to maintain the same in a reasonably sanitary condition. (Ord. 12-512,
11-13-2012; amd. Ord. 22-501, - -2021)
7-4-4: COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL SERVICE; FEES:
There shall be assessed to each and every metered electrical connection a
sanitation charge for garbage pick up. (Res. 366, 11-17-1998)
   A.   The city shall provide for all businesses and residences in the city a
service for the collection and disposal of all garbage and rubbish accumulated
and deposited in containers and bundles, as herein provided, within the city,
and shall provide special truck service as provided in subsection
7-4-2B of this chapter, and shall be paid for said service according to a
schedule of fees adopted by the mayor and city council and filed with the city
clerk in the city office for inspection by anyone concerned. Said fee schedule
may be amended by the mayor and city council from time to time so that the same
shall produce only an amount of funds necessary for the collection and disposal
of garbage and rubbish pursuant to the provisions of this chapter. Said fees
shall be billed to the persons concerned on their light and water bills and
shall be due and payable at the same time as light and water bills are due and
payable at the office of the city clerk. In the event said fees are not paid
when due and payable as aforesaid, the city may discontinue its collection and
disposal service and may discontinue to furnish light and water until said fees
are paid, and after such discontinuance it shall be unlawful for any person to
deposit, collect or accumulate, or to permit the deposit, collection or
accumulation of any garbage or rubbish upon any land, lot, premises, street or
alley within the city. Upon the payment of said overdue fees, the city shall
resume the service. Nothing contained in this section shall limit the right of
the city to recover delinquent fees by an action at law for debt, or to recover
fines for violations of this chapter as hereinafter provided. Nothing in this
chapter prohibits any inhabitant of the city from contracting privately for the
collection and disposal of such person's garbage and rubbish, provided, that
any inhabitant so contracting privately for the collection and disposal of such
person's garbage and rubbish, and all persons disposing of their own garbage
and rubbish, shall pay for garbage service pursuant to this chapter as if the
city were providing garbage service.
   B.   Garbage collection fees shall be established by way of resolution.
(Ord. 636, 10-21-1980; amd. Res. 19-110, 9-24-2019)
7-4-5: BURNING UNLAWFUL 1 :
It shall be unlawful to burn garbage or rubbish within the fire limits of the
city. (1960 Code, Sec. 8-106)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 6, chapter 4 of this code for open burning provisions.
CHAPTER 5
WEEDS
SECTION:
7-5-1: Weeds Cut By Owners
7-5-2: Chief Of Police To Enforce
7-5-3: Violation, Penalty
7-5-1: WEEDS CUT BY OWNERS:
Any owner, occupant or agent of real property who shall neglect to cut and
remove the weeds from his premises or from the sidewalk, street or alley
adjacent to or abutting his premises and permit the same to grow in excess of
ten inches (10") high and become unsightly and a nuisance, shall be deemed
guilty of having violated this chapter. (1960 Code, Sec. 9-501; amd. 1977 Code)
7-5-2: CHIEF OF POLICE TO ENFORCE:
Whenever the chief of police shall be notified of the existence of any nuisance
or the violation of any of the provisions of this chapter, he shall immediately
make or cause to be made an examination of the yard, lot, place, premises,
street, sidewalk or alley on which it is charged that such nuisance is suffered
or permitted, and if he finds such nuisance to exist thereon, he shall
forthwith give or cause to be given to either the owner, agent or occupant of
such yard, lot or premises, or to all of them, a notice to remove or abate such
nuisance; and if such nuisance shall not be removed or abated within twenty
four (24) hours, he shall cause the owner, occupant of, or agent to be arrested
and brought before the proper magistrate; and if the person so arrested shall
be convicted, the chief of police shall cause the nuisance to be removed or
abated, and the chief of police is hereby authorized to remove any obstruction
that it may be necessary to remove in order to reach and remove or abate such
nuisance. The expense of the removal of any nuisance by the chief of police
shall be paid by the city in the first instance but the same shall be taxed up
to and assessed against the property or premises chargeable therewith and
certified up to the proper officer of the county and collected as other taxes.
(1960 Code, Sec. 9-504)
7-5-3: VIOLATION, PENALTY:
The violation of any of the provisions of this chapter is hereby declared to be
a nuisance. (1960 Code, Sec. 9-502)
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1960 Code, Sec. 9-503; amd. 1977 Code)
CHAPTER 6
BODY ART SERVICES AND RESTRICTIONS
SECTION:
7-6-1: Definitions
7-6-2: Body Art Performed On Minors Restricted
7-6-3: Permit To Provide Body Art Services
7-6-4: Body Art Establishments; General Provisions
7-6-5: Sanitation And Sterilization Procedures
7-6-6: Professional Standards
7-6-7: Penalties
7-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, and their
derivations shall have the meanings given in this section:
BODY ART: The practice of physical body adornment, alteration, or modification
by permitted establishments and operators using, but not limited to, the
following techniques: body piercing, tattooing, branding, surgical
modifications, and scarification. This definition does not include practices
that are considered medical procedures by the state board of medical examiners
nor does this definition include, for the purpose of this title, the piercing
of noncartilaginous lobe(s) of the ear with presterilized single use stud and/
or clasp ear piercing systems.
BODY ART ESTABLISHMENT: Any place or premises where the practices of body art
are conducted, whether or not for profit.
BODY PIERCING: The piercing of any part of the body for the purpose of
inserting studs, pins, rings, chains, or other jewelry or adornment.
DEPARTMENT: The police and fire department and inspections.
OPERATOR: A permittee, or person working for a permittee, performing body art
services.
TATTOOING: The marking of the skin of a person by insertion of permanent colors
by introducing such colors through puncture of the skin. (Ord. 16-501, 5-10-
2016)
7-6-2: BODY ART PERFORMED ON MINORS RESTRICTED:
No person shall tattoo, body pierce, brand, or otherwise physically modify
through body art any person under the age of eighteen (18) years, except in the
presence of and with written permission of the properly identified parent or
legal guardian of such person. Under no circumstances shall any person tattoo,
body pierce, brand, or otherwise physically modify through body art a person
under the age of sixteen (16). A person providing body art services shall
conspicuously post a notice stating that it is illegal to tattoo, body pierce,
brand, or otherwise physically modify through body art any person under the age
of eighteen (18) without the parent or legal guardian's consent and without the
parent or legal guardian present and that it is illegal to provide such
services for any person under the age of sixteen (16) years old. (Ord. 16-501,
5-10-2016)
7-6-3: PERMIT TO PROVIDE BODY ART SERVICES:
   A.   Permit Required: No person, firm or corporation shall establish,
operate, conduct, maintain or manage any establishment or place offering body
art services without first obtaining a permit to do so. Said permits are
subject to the following:
      1.   A permit issued under the provisions of this chapter shall be for a
period of up to one year and all permits shall expire on December 31 of each
year regardless of date of issue.
      2.   A permit is required for both permanent and temporary locations. All
of the requirements of this chapter apply to both the permanent and temporary
locations.
      3.   The city council shall establish, by resolution, the amount of a
required annual fee to obtain and/or maintain a permit for each location where
body art services are provided or offered.
      4.   The permit must be posted in the permitted location in a manner
visible to all customers at all times of operation.
      5.   A permit issued under this chapter is not transferable to another
operator or location.
   B.   Application For Permit: Any person, firm, or corporation, that desires
to engage in business of body art within the city, shall make application for a
body art permit at the Rupert City Hall. Prior to issuance of a body art
permit, the fire department and police department shall conduct an inspection
of the applicant's proposed location and equipment to ensure compliance with
this chapter. The application shall be in writing on forms provided by the city
clerk. A permit issued under this chapter shall be limited to a single location
specified in the permit. No person, firm, or corporation shall provide body art
services at any place other than the place or location named in the permit.
   C.   Inspections: An initial inspection must occur prior to opening any body
art establishment to assure that permit requirements are met. Each permitted
body art establishment shall make the premises available at reasonable times
for periodic subsequent inspections by city officials to assure compliance with
this chapter. (Ord. 16-501, 5-10-2016)
7-6-4: BODY ART ESTABLISHMENTS; GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   All walls, floors, ceilings, and procedure surfaces of a body art
establishment shall be smooth, free of open holes or cracks, washable, and in
good repair. Walls, floors, and ceilings shall be maintained in a clean
condition. All procedure surfaces, including client chairs or benches, shall be
constructed so as to be easily cleaned and sanitized after each client. The
permitted location shall be completely separated from any other activities that
may cause potential contamination of work surfaces.
   B.   Effective measures shall be taken by permittee to protect against the
entrance of or the breeding or presence of insects, vermin, or rodents in the
permitted location, its appurtenances, or appertaining premises. A body art
establishment must be maintained in a clean, sanitary and vermin free condition
and be kept in good repair.
   C.   There shall be adequate floor space for each operator in the permitted
location. Each permitted location shall have an area that may be screened from
the public view for clients requesting privacy. Multiple stations shall be, at
a minimum, separated by dividers or partitions.
   D.   Permitted location shall be well ventilated and provided with an
artificial light source equivalent to at least twenty (20) foot-candles at a
height of three feet (3') off the floor, except that at least one hundred (100)
foot-candles shall be provided at the level where the body art procedure is
being performed, and where instruments and sharps are assembled.
   E.   No animals of any kind shall be allowed in a body art establishment
except for service animals used by persons with disabilities (e.g., seeing eye
dogs). Fish aquariums shall be allowed in waiting rooms and nonprocedural
areas.
   F.   A hand sink with hot and cold water, under pressure (preferably
equipped with wrist and foot operation controls) and supplied with liquid soap
and disposable paper towels shall be readily accessible to each procedural area
within the permitted location. There shall be at least one hand sink for each
three (3) operators.
   G.   At least one covered waste receptacle shall be provided in each
operator area and each toilet room. Receptacles in the operator area shall be
emptied daily, and solid waste shall be removed from the premises daily, all
refuse containers shall be lidded, and kept clean.
   H.   All instruments and supplies shall be stored in clean, dry, covered
containers. Reusable cloth items shall be mechanically washed with detergent
and dried after each use. Cloth items shall be stored in a clean environment
until used.
   I.   Private toilet facilities must be available for body art establishment
patrons and employees pursuant to the requirements of all federal, state and
local regulation(s) pertaining to public restrooms.
   J.   Tables, chairs, and other general use equipment must be constructed of
plastic, metal with enamel or porcelain coating, or stainless steel. General
use equipment must be maintained in an easily cleanable condition. Covered
waste receptacles for wastes generated from the operation not directly
associated with the application of tattoos, body piercings or other body art
must be equipped with disposable single use plastic liners. (Ord. 16-501, 5-10-
2016)
7-6-5: SANITATION AND STERILIZATION PROCEDURES:
   A.   A body art establishment must be equipped with a steam pressure
autoclave capable of producing the minimum psi and temperature to sterilize to
the autoclave manufacturer's specifications. Body art establishments must also
be equipped with an ultrasonic cleaner equipped to hold disposable containers
of cleaning solutions and clean rinsing water.
   B.   All non-single use, nondisposable instruments used for body art shall
be cleaned thoroughly after each use by scrubbing with an appropriate soap or
disinfectant solution and hot water or by following the manufacturer's
instructions, to remove blood and tissue residue, and shall be placed in an
ultrasonic unit also operated in accordance with the manufacturer's
instructions.
   C.   After cleaning, all nondisposable instruments used for body art shall
be packed individually in approved bags and subsequently sterilized. All bags
shall contain either a sterilizer indicator or internal temperature indicator.
Bags must be dated with an expiration date not to exceed six (6) months.
   D.   All cleaned, nondisposable instruments used for body art shall be
sterilized in an approved steam autoclave. The sterilizer shall be used,
cleaned, and maintained according to the manufacturer's instructions. A copy of
the manufacturer recommended procedures for the operation of the sterilization
unit must be available for inspection by the fire chief. Sterile equipment may
not be used if the package has been breached or after the expiration date
without first repacking and resterilizing. Sterilizers shall be located away
from work stations or areas frequented by public. If a body art establishment
uses only single use disposable instruments and products and only sterile
supplies, an autoclave shall not be required.
   E.   Each permittee shall demonstrate that the sterilizer used is capable of
attaining sterilization by appropriate spore destruction tests. These tests
shall be verified through an independent laboratory. The permit shall not be
issued or renewed until documentation of the sterilizer's ability to destroy
spores is received by the fire chief. These test records shall be retained by
the body art establishment for a period of three (3) years and made available
to the fire chief on request.
   F.   All instruments used for tattooing or body piercing shall remain stored
in sterile packages until just prior to performance of the body art procedure.
When assembling instructions used for body art procedures, the operator shall
wear disposable gloves and use medically recognized techniques to ensure that
the instruments and gloves are not contaminated.
   G.   All inks, dyes, and pigments, needles, and equipment shall be
specifically manufactured for performing tattoo procedures and shall be used
according to manufacturer's instructions. The mixing of inks, dyes, or pigments
or their dilution with potable water is acceptable. Immediately before a tattoo
is applied the quantity of dye to be used shall be transferred from the dye
bottle and placed into the single use paper cups or plastic cups. Upon
completion of the tattoo, these single cups or caps and their contents shall be
discarded.
   H.   Single use items shall not be used on more than one client for any
reason. After use, all single use needles, razors and other sharps shall be
immediately disposed of in an industry standard "sharps" container. All
products applied to the skin, including body art stencils, shall be single use
and disposable. Petroleum jellies, soaps and other products used in application
of stencils shall be dispensed and applied on area to be tattooed with gauze or
in a manner to prevent contamination of the original container and its
contents. The gauze or single use towel shall be used only once and then
discarded.
   I.   Floors, walls, counters, chairs and other equipment coming in contact
with blood and/or body fluids shall be cleaned and sanitized immediately after
a procedure has been performed. (Ord. 16-501, 5-10-2016)
7-6-6: PROFESSIONAL STANDARDS:
Body art operators shall comply with the following practices:
   A.   No operator shall perform body art on a person who the operator knows
is under the influence of alcohol or drugs, or has reason to believe may be
otherwise legally incapacitated or incompetent or under the age of eighteen
(18) years of age except as provided in this chapter. Nothing in this section
is intended to require an operator to perform any body art procedure on a
person under eighteen (18) years of age with parental or guardian consent.
   B.   Body art operators must be at least eighteen (18) years of age.
   C.   Smoking, eating and drinking are prohibited in any body art procedure
area. No alcohol in establishment.
   D.   All operators shall maintain a high degree of personal cleanliness,
conform to hygienic practices, and wear clean clothes when performing body art
procedures. Before performing a body art procedure, the operator must
thoroughly wash his or her hands in hot running water with liquid soap, rinse
hands and dry them with disposable paper towels and do so as often as necessary
to remove contaminants.
   E.   In performing body art procedures, the operator shall wear disposable
medical gloves. Gloves must be changed if they become contaminated by contact
with any nonclean surface or object or by contact with a third person. The
gloves shall be discarded, at a minimum, after the completion of each procedure
on an individual client, and hands shall be washed before the next set of
gloves is donned. The use of disposable medical gloves does not preclude or
substitute for hand washing procedures. Under no circumstances shall a single
pair of gloves be used on more than one person.
   F.   If, while performing a body art procedure, the operator's glove is
pierced, torn or otherwise contaminated, the procedure delineated in subsection
E of this section shall be repeated immediately. The contaminated gloves shall
be immediately discarded, and the hands washed thoroughly before a fresh pair
of gloves is donned. Any item or instrument used for body art that is
contaminated during the procedure shall be discarded immediately and replaced
with a new disposable item or a new sterilized instrument or item before the
procedure resumes.
   G.   Waste that may release liquid blood or bodily fluids when compressed or
may release dried blood or body fluids when handled must be placed in an
approved "red" bag marked with the international biohazard symbol. It must then
be disposed of by a waste hauler or by operator at a designated biohazard
facility or at a minimum, in compliance with 29 CFR part 1910.1030,
"Occupational Exposure To Blood-Borne Pathogens" or any subsequent iteration
thereof. Sharps ready for disposal shall be disposed of in approved sharps
containers. Contaminated waste that does not release liquid blood or body
fluids when compressed or does not release dried blood or body fluids when
handled may be placed in a covered receptacle and disposed of through normal,
approved disposal methods. Storage of contaminated waste on site shall not
exceed the period specified by the fire chief or more than a maximum of thirty
(30) days, as specified in 29 CFR part 1910.1030, whichever is less. In any
event, the disposal of blood or bodily fluids shall comply with all federal,
state, or local statute(s) and/or regulation(s).
   H.   Any skin or mucosa surface receiving a body art procedure shall be free
of rash or any visible infection.
   I.   The skin of the operator shall be free of rash or infection. Unless an
impermeable cover such as a bandage, finger cot, and medical glove protects the
lesion, no person or operator affected with boils, infected wounds, open sores,
abrasions, weeping dermatological lesions or acute respiratory infection shall
work in any area of a body art establishment in any capacity in which there is
a likelihood that person could contaminate body art equipment, supplies, or
working surfaces with body substances or pathogenic organisms.
   J.   Written aftercare instructions shall be provided to and reviewed with
each client.
   K.   Ear piercing studs and clasps shall not be used anywhere on the body
other than the noncartilaginous perimeter and lobe of the ear. (Ord. 16-501, 5-
10-2016)
7-6-7: PENALTIES:
   A.   Any permit issued under the provisions of this chapter may be suspended
or revoked by the Rupert mayor and/or city council for a violation of the
provisions of this chapter, after notice and an opportunity for a hearing.
   B.   Any person who performs body art or is a body art operator without a
permit shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Any person who performs body art on a
person younger than sixteen (16) years old shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 16-501, 5-10-2016)
TITLE 8
POLICE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
POLICE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
8-1-1: Police Department Established, Personnel
8-1-2: Appointment Of Officers And Members
8-1-3: Powers Of Police Officers
8-1-4: Officers And Members Under Chief
8-1-5: Report Of Chief Of Police
8-1-6: Power Of Officers To Call For Assistance
8-1-7: Standards And Training Of Peace Officers
8-1-1: POLICE DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED, PERSONNEL:
There is hereby established a police department of the city. Said department
shall consist of a chief of police and such patrolmen as shall be authorized by
the mayor and council. (1960 Code, Sec. 1-801)
8-1-2: APPOINTMENT OF OFFICERS AND MEMBERS:
The mayor, with the consent of the council, shall appoint a chief of police and
such number of regular patrolmen as may be necessary and may also appoint
special policemen from time to time as exigencies arise. The chief of police
shall hold office during the pleasure of the mayor. (1960 Code, Sec. 1-802)
8-1-3: POWERS OF POLICE OFFICERS:
The officers and members of the police department shall have power to arrest
all offenders against the laws of the state, or of the city, by day or by
night, in the same manner as other police officers of the state, and keep them
in the city jail or other place to prevent their escape, until trial can be had
before the proper officer. They shall likewise be vested with power to serve
any other process issued under authority of the ordinances of the city. (1960
Code, Sec. 1-803)
8-1-4: OFFICERS AND MEMBERS UNDER CHIEF:
All persons appointed under the provisions of this chapter as patrolmen or
special police shall be under the direction and supervision of the chief of
police. They shall be subject to the orders of the chief of police, except in
cases otherwise provided by ordinance. It shall be their duty to cause the
public peace to be preserved and to see that all laws and ordinances are
enforced within the city limits. When violations of any law or ordinance shall
be reported to them or come to their knowledge, they shall cause the required
complaint to be made and see that all possible evidence is procured for the
successful prosecution of the offenders. (1960 Code, Sec. 1-804)
8-1-5: REPORT OF CHIEF OF POLICE:
The chief of police shall make a written report at such times as the mayor and
council shall require, giving a true account of arrests made, persons arrested
and nature of offense charged, such reports to be made at any time when
requested by the mayor and council. (1960 Code, Sec. 1-805)
8-1-6: POWER OF OFFICERS TO CALL FOR ASSISTANCE:
The chief of police or any member of the police department shall have authority
to call upon any person to assist him in making an arrest, capturing or
retaining in custody any person. Any person, when so requested, who shall
refuse or fail, to the best of his ability, to render such aid as required
shall be guilty of an offense, and upon conviction thereof shall be punished as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1960 Code, Sec. 1-806; amd. 1977 Code)
8-1-7: STANDARDS AND TRAINING OF PEACE OFFICERS:
The city declares that it desires to qualify to receive aid for police training
from the law enforcement planning commission under the provisions of section
19-5118 of the Idaho Code.
Pursuant to section 19-5117, Idaho Code, the city, while receiving aid from the
law enforcement planning commission will adhere to the standards for employment
and training established by the Idaho peace officer standards and training
advisor council. (Ord. 490, 1-6-1970)
CHAPTER 2
MISDEMEANORS
SECTION:
8-2-1: Alcohol Consumption In Public Places
8-2-2: Green River Ordinance
8-2-3: Firearms, Air Rifles
8-2-4: Electric Fences
8-2-5: Obscene, Gruesome Literature
8-2-6: Drunkenness
8-2-7: Disturbing The Peace
8-2-8: Unlawful Assemblages
8-2-9: Riot
8-2-10: Unlawful Loitering Or Prowling
8-2-11: Obstructing Streets Or Sidewalks
8-2-12: Malicious Or Wilful Injury To Property
8-2-13: Use Regulations Of Parks
8-2-14: Regulation Of Signs
8-2-15: Misdemeanor Defined
8-2-16: Misdemeanor Penalty
8-2-17: Infraction Penalty
8-2-18: Failure To Obey Citation For Misdemeanor Or Infraction
8-2-19: Disorderly Household Or Premises
8-2-1: ALCOHOL CONSUMPTION IN PUBLIC PLACES 1 :
   A.   It is unlawful to consume beer in or on any public street, alley,
avenue, sidewalk, park or public place in the city, except as provided herein.
   B.   Beer may only be consumed by persons of legal age in Flake Field, also
referred to as Neptune ball park, and Big Valley Ball Park, pursuant to section
3-9-7 of this code, by permit issued by the city. Said permits shall be secured
during regular business hours at Rupert City Hall.
Said permit shall be available at no charge, and recite the name and address of
the applicant, the date and time for which the permit is sought, listing the
approximate number of persons sought to be covered by the permit, and the name
of any person or persons who shall be responsible for cleanup of the permit
site.
   C.   Alcoholic beverages may be consumed by persons of legal age in the
Rupert Square or Fremont Plaza only, during any event authorized by the city,
provided that application for an alcohol beverage permit for the event, in
combination with an approved park or facility rental, must be made to the city
not less than thirty (30) days prior to the date of the stated event on the
specific form provided by city administration, which application shall be
required to be completed in its entirety and filed with the sum of fifty
dollars ($50.00). The filing fee shall be nonrefundable The permit shall only
be granted upon adequate showing, as determined by the city administrator and
city council, that alcohol consumption will not endanger public safety or
public property. Sale of alcohol at an authorized event shall be permitted by
any vendor licensed within the state of Idaho, and within any Idaho county.
Approval of an event application shall waive the application of title 3,
chapter 9, of this code.
   D.   Beer lawfully purchased may be transported within the city, but no
person shall break open or cause or allow to be broken or opened any container
of beer, or drink, or use, or allow to be drunk or used, any beer therein while
the same is being transported. (Ord. 716, 4-20-1993; amd. Ord. 839, 6-3-2003;
Ord. 22-510, 8-9-2022)
 
Notes
1    See also section
  3-9-7 of this code.
8-2-2: GREEN RIVER ORDINANCE:
   A.   Peddling And Hawking A Nuisance: The practice of going in and upon
private residences in the city by solicitors, peddlers, hawkers, itinerant
merchants and transient vendors of merchandise, not having been requested or
invited to do so by the owner or occupant of said private residences, for the
purpose of soliciting orders for the sale of goods, wares or merchandise and
for the purpose of dispensing or peddling or hawking the same, is hereby
declared to be a nuisance and punishable as an offense 1 . (1960 Code, Sec. 2-
901)
   B.   Police To Suppress: The chief of police and members of the police
department are hereby required and directed to suppress the same, and to abate
any such nuisance as is described in subsection A of this section. (1960 Code,
Sec. 2-902)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 3, chapter 7 of this code.
8-2-3: FIREARMS, AIR RIFLES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge any firearm or air rifle
within the city, not in necessary self-defense. (1960 Code, Sec. 9-601)
Any person who violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor. (1960 Code,
Sec. 9-602)
8-2-4: ELECTRIC FENCES:
   A.   Declaration Of Nuisance: Electric fences and other similar electrical
devices within the city are hereby declared to be nuisances and menaces to the
safety of persons and property. (1960 Code, Sec. 9-701)
   B.   Fences Unlawful: It shall be unlawful for any person who is the legal
or equitable owner or occupant of, or agent of such owner or occupant of, any
property within the city to construct, permit or cause to be constructed, keep,
use, maintain or permit to be kept, used or maintained on said property any
electric fences or other similar electrical device. (1960 Code, Sec. 9-702)
   C.   Abatement, Special Assessment: The city may cause the destruction or
removal of any such nuisance, as herein defined and declared, at the expense of
the person violating any of the provisions of this section, and may levy a
special assessment on the property whereon the nuisance is situated to defray
the cost or to reimburse the city for the cost of destruction or removal of
said nuisance. Said special levy shall be certified to the proper officer of
Minidoka County for collection as other taxes as provided by law. Provided,
however, that the city, before proceeding to destroy or remove said nuisance,
shall give or cause to be given to either the owner, occupant or agent, or to
all of them, a notice to remove or abate such nuisance within twenty four (24)
hours. (1960 Code, Sec. 9-704)
8-2-5: OBSCENE, GRUESOME LITERATURE 1 :
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to promote the general welfare,
good morals and safety of the inhabitants of the city, and particularly the
minor children thereof, by protecting said minor children from the harmful
influences of the prohibited matters hereinafter mentioned. (1960 Code, Sec. 9-
801)
   B.   Prohibitions: No person shall distribute, exhibit, display, sell, give
or furnish or possess with intent to do the same, to a minor or in any place
within the view or which may be within the view of any minor, any book,
magazine, pamphlet, printed paper, card, postcard, leaflet or article which:
      1.   Contains an account, plot, story, narrative, statement, picture,
drawing, illustration or photograph of a gruesome, weird or horrible deed,
character or thing depicted as real or fanciful, human or inhuman; or of a
crime of violence, brutality, bloodshed or lust;
      2.   Contains an account, plot, story, narrative, statement, picture,
drawing, illustration or photograph which is sexually indecent or suggestive or
which features or portrays illicit love, immoral conduct, or vice, or which is
otherwise obscene, immoral, lewd or lascivious;
      3.   Advertises wares for the prurient minded. (1960 Code, Sec. 9-802)
   C.   Exceptions: The provisions of this section shall not apply to any media
for the general dissemination of current news nor to scientific, sociological
or educational treatises or studies by qualified authorities, nor to such
drawings, illustrations and photographs as are reasonably necessary to
illustrate the same. (1960 Code, Sec. 9-803)
   D.   Enforcement: The publications advisory board shall enforce the
provisions of this section 2 . (1977 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 2-5-2 of this code.
2 1. See title 2, chapter 5 of this code.
8-2-6: DRUNKENNESS:
Any person who shall be drunk or intoxicated on any public or private road,
alley, sidewalk or street, or in any public place, or building, or at any
public gathering or any person who shall be drunk or intoxicated and shall
disturb the peace of any person, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. A "public
place" as defined for this section, includes any place, building or conveyance
to which the public has, or is permitted to have, access, and any place,
highway, street, lane, park or place of public travel, resort or amusement.
(1960 Code, Sec. 10-201)
8-2-7: DISTURBING THE PEACE:
   A.   Every person who maliciously or wilfully disturbs the peace or quiet of
any neighborhood, family or person, by loud or unusual noise, or by tumultuous
or offensive conduct, or by threatening, traducing, quarreling, challenging to
fight, or fighting, or by discharging firearms, or uses any vulgar, profane or
indecent language within the presence or hearing of any women or children, in a
loud or boisterous manner, is guilty of a misdemeanor.
   B.   It shall be a misdemeanor for any person, firm or association to own,
keep or harbor any animal of any species within residential zone A of the city
which animal makes loud, continued or frequent noises which annoy or disturb
any neighborhood or person residing in said residential zone A. If more than
one animal of the same or a similar species occupies the same parcel of
property, it shall not be necessary to prove which animal was the cause of the
prohibited noisemaking if one or more animals occupying said parcel create the
annoyance or disturbance. It shall not be a defense to violation of this
section that the person did not intend to violate this section if it is
reasonably predictable that an animal or group of animals of the species of the
offending animal would be expected to make the noises prohibited by this
section. (Ord. 703, 9-3-1991)
8-2-8: UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLAGES:
If two (2) or more persons assemble for the purpose of disturbing the public
peace, or committing any unlawful act, and do not disperse upon being directed
or commanded so to do by a police officer, the persons so offending are
severally guilty of a misdemeanor. (1960 Code, Sec. 10-203)
8-2-9: RIOT:
Every person who participates in any riot is guilty of a misdemeanor. A "riot"
is any use of force or violence, disturbing the public peace, or any threat to
use such force or violence, if accompanied by immediate power or execution, by
two (2) or more persons acting together and without authority of law. (1960
Code, Sec. 10-204)
8-2-10: UNLAWFUL LOITERING OR PROWLING:
Loitering or prowling within the city shall be unlawful and a misdemeanor as
follows:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to loiter or prowl in a place at a
time or in a manner not usual for law abiding individuals under circumstances
that warrant alarm for the safety of persons or property in the vicinity. Among
the circumstances which may be considered in determining whether such alarm is
warranted is the fact that the actor takes flight upon appearance of a peace
officer, refuses to identify himself, or manifestly endeavors to conceal
himself or any object. Unless flight by the actor or other circumstances makes
it impracticable, a peace officer shall, prior to any arrest for an offense
under this section, afford the actor an opportunity to dispel any alarm which
would otherwise be warranted by requesting him to identify himself and explain
his presence and conduct. No person shall be convicted of an offense under this
section if the peace officer did not comply with the preceding sentence, or if
it appears at trial that the explanation given by the actor was true, and if
believed by the peace officer at the time, would have dispelled the alarm.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to remain standing, lying or
sitting on any sidewalk, street or alley in said manner for more than one
minute after being requested to move by any police officer, or to wilfully
remain on the sidewalk, street or alley in front of any dwelling house or
public building or place of business in such manner as to obstruct the free
passage of any person into or out of such dwelling house, public building or
place of business.
A violation of the actions set forth in this section shall be and is hereby
declared to be a misdemeanor. (Ord. 594, 3-1-1977)
8-2-11: OBSTRUCTING STREETS OR SIDEWALKS:
Any person who shall obstruct or injure, or cause to be obstructed or injured,
any public street, alley or sidewalk, or continue such obstruction so as to
make the same inconvenient or dangerous, or who shall dig up any street or
sidewalk, or obstruct or incumber the same for any purpose within the city,
without first obtaining permission of the city council, is guilty of a
misdemeanor. (1960 Code, Sec. 10-206)
8-2-12: MALICIOUS OR WILFUL INJURY TO PROPERTY:
Every person who maliciously or wilfully injures or destroys any real or
personal property not his own is guilty of a misdemeanor. (1960 Code, Sec. 10-
207)
8-2-13: USE REGULATIONS OF PARKS:
All parks and recreational areas operated and maintained by the city shall be
under the supervision of the mayor and council and their duly designated agents
to ensure that the city parks and recreational areas are used in a safe and
peaceful manner which will promote the purposes for which they were created.
The council may supplement the regulations set forth in this section by
resolution. Regulations adopted by resolution shall have the same force and
effect as the regulations set forth in this section from and after the time the
resolution has been published in the city's legal newspaper and the public has
been given reasonable notice by posting of the regulations or by actual notice
received from a peace officer or city employee of the terms of such regulation.
Any person violating any of the provisions of this section or the provisions of
any resolution shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   A.   The public parks and recreational areas to which this section applies
are as follows:
Neptune tennis courts, Neptune park and swimming pool, Big Valley park and play
area, Flake park and ball field, Memorial Fields, the Rupert City Square and
the park areas along K Street between 1st Street and 8th Street and between
11th Street and 12th Street from D Street to H Street.
   B.   All of the parks and recreational areas referred to above are closed to
the public between eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. and five o'clock (5:00) A.M. of
the prevailing local time each and every day and night. All persons are
required to leave the parks and recreation areas referred to above by eleven
o'clock (11:00) P.M., and no person is to enter said parks prior to five
o'clock (5:00) A.M. on any day without express permission of the Rupert city
council or the director of parks and recreation. No person shall loiter about
said parks during the period said parks are closed to the public or the
adjacent streets and sidewalks. Any person remaining in a park or in the
immediate vicinity on an adjacent sidewalk or roadway after having been
directed by a police officer to leave, shall be deemed to be "loitering". The
city council may, by resolution, authorize the use of a specific park beyond
the normal closing time of eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. Said resolution shall
specify the event, the date and the closing time to which the normal deadline
is extended. (Ord. 677, 3-17-1987)
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any person in a public park or recreational
area to:
      1.   Mark, deface, disfigure, injure, tamper with or remove any
buildings, tables, benches, fireplaces, signs, notices, stakes, posts, markers,
or other structures or equipment, facilities, or park property or appurtenances
whatsoever erected, constructed, owned or placed therein by the city, either
real or personal.
      2.   Damage, cut, carve, mark, transplant, or remove any tree, shrub, or
in any other way injure the natural beauty or usefulness of any park or
recreational area.
      3.   Dig or remove any soil, rock, stone, trees, shrubs, or make any
excavation by tool, equipment, or any other means.
      4.   Bring any glass container into any park or recreational area.
      5.   Cause or permit to run loose any animal.
      6.   No domestic animal shall be taken upon or allowed to be upon any
park, ball field or play area whether it is upon a leash or not. Persons
causing or allowing domestic animals to enter upon said restricted areas shall
be responsible for removal of any solid waste deposited upon said restricted
areas by animals owned or possessed by such persons. The city council may issue
permits for animal shows in restricted areas upon such conditions the council
deems appropriate.
      7.   Ride a horse or bring any other animal into the park except as
provided in subsection C6 of this section.
      8.   Have in his or her possession or set off any fireworks except by a
permit issued by the city council for conducting properly supervised firework
displays in designated park areas.
      9.   Kindle, build, maintain or use a fire except in places provided for
such purposes. Any fire shall be continuously under the care and direction of a
competent person from the time it is kindled until it is extinguished.
      10.   Camp or sleep in any park or recreational areas except on a permit
issued by the city council.
      11.   Use picnic shelters or other areas designated for special use,
baseball and softball fields, or tennis courts, without obtaining a permit from
the parks and recreation department; provided, however, that if such facilities
are not otherwise in use any person or persons may utilize the same subject to
the privileges of a prior permit holder or holders.
      12.   Expose or offer for sale any article in any park or recreational
area without a license from the city as a concessionaire.
      13.   Post, paint, fix, distribute, deliver, place, cast, or leave about
any bill, billboard, placard, handbill, circular or advertisement in any park
or recreational area.
      14.   Park or drive a motorcycle, snowmobile, motor vehicle, truck, or
any other motorized apparatus except on designated roads and in designated
parking areas. City employees using city equipment and persons operating with
express consent of city personnel shall be exempt from this provision during
the time necessary to carry out the specific purpose for which consent has been
given.
      15.   Leave a bicycle lying on the ground or paving or set against a tree
or in any other place or position where persons may trip over or be injured by
them.
      16.   Engage in threatening, abusive, insulting, or indecent language or
engage in any disorderly conduct or behavior tending to breach the public peace
and the use by others of the park and recreational areas.
      17.   Disturb or interfere unreasonably with any person or party
occupying any area or participating in any activity in the parks or
recreational areas.
      18.   Conduct any activity for profit except under a permit issued under
the authority of the city council.
      19.   Throw, place, or cause to be placed any rubbish, refuse, garbage,
or other material in any park or recreational area except in receptacles
provided. If there are no receptacles then such rubbish or waste shall be
carried away by the person responsible for its presence and disposed of
elsewhere.
      20.   Use any park area for playing or practicing golf or engage in the
activities related to archery unless the park is designated specifically for
the purpose. (Ord. 15-503, 10-13-2015)
   D.   Permits for special events in parks and recreational areas shall be
obtained by application to the city council or their designee in accordance
with the following procedure:
      1.   A person seeking issuance of a permit shall file an application
stating:
         a.   The name and address of the applicant.
         b.   The name and address of the person, persons, corporations or
associations sponsoring the activity.
         c.   The day and hours for which the permit is desired.
         d.   The park or portion thereof for which the permit is desired.
         e.   Any other information reasonably necessary for a determination as
to whether a permit should be issued hereunder.
      2.   Standards for issuance of a permit should include the following
findings:
         a.   The proposed activity or use of the park or recreational area
will not unreasonably interfere with or detract from the general enjoyment of
the park by the public.
         b.   The proposed activity and use will not unreasonably interfere
with or detract from the promotion of public health, welfare, safety and
recreation.
         c.   The proposed activity or uses that are reasonably anticipated
will not include violence, crime, or disorderly conduct.
         d.   The proposed activity will not entail extraordinary or burdensome
expense or police operation by the city.
         e.   The facilities desired have not been reserved for their use on
the date and hour requested in the application.
      3.   An applicant for permit may be required to submit evidence of
liability insurance covering injuries to the general public arising out of the
permitted activities in such amounts as may be from time to time determined by
the city council prior to the commencement of an activity or the issuance of
any permit.
   E.   To the extent the prohibitions contained in this section are more
restrictive than the prohibitions in other sections of this code, the more
restrictive provisions of this section shall prevail. (Ord. 677, 3-17-1987)
8-2-14: REGULATION OF SIGNS:
   A.   No person shall, within the city limits, paint, post, stick, stamp, or
otherwise affix or cause the same to be done by any other person, any notice,
placard, bill, card, poster, or advertisement, or other device calculated to
attract attention of the public, to or upon any lamppost, hydrant, tree,
electrical pole, telephone pole, or upon any other pole, post, or fixture of
the fire alarm system, electric light or electric power pole, or utility pole,
on the public street or right of way.
   B.   Any person who either places, or allows to be placed, any notice,
placard, bill, card, poster, or advertisement of any type or kind within the
city limits and not in violation of subsection A of this section shall remove
the same within forty eight (48) hours after the occurrence of the event
advertised, or within forty eight (48) hours after receiving notice to remove
the same by the city, whichever event shall first occur.
   C.   Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor. (Ord. 750, 10-1-1996)
8-2-15: MISDEMEANOR DEFINED:
The violation of any ordinance of Rupert city, or any section of this code is
hereby declared to constitute a misdemeanor and is punishable as such, unless
otherwise provided. (Ord. 769, 3-3-1998)
8-2-16: MISDEMEANOR PENALTY:
Except in cases where a different punishment is prescribed by ordinance, every
public offense and every unlawful act declared by ordinance to be a misdemeanor
is punishable by a fine not exceeding three hundred dollars ($300.00) or
imprisonment in the Mini-Cassia joint jail facility not exceeding six (6)
months. (Ord. 769, 3-3-1998)
8-2-17: INFRACTION PENALTY:
   A.   Infractions: Except in cases where a different punishment is prescribed
by ordinance, every public offense and every unlawful act declared by ordinance
to be an infraction is punishable by a fine not exceeding one hundred dollars
($100.00).
   B.   Failure To Appear On Citation Or Summons: If the defendant fails to
appear before the clerk at or before the time stated in an infraction citation
or summons, the court shall enter default judgment against the defendant for
the infraction as provided by law without giving further notice to the
defendant.
   C.   Failure To Appear After First Appearance: If a defendant fails to
appear at the time fixed by a trial date notice or continuance notice served on
the defendant as provided by law, the court shall enter default judgment
against the defendant for the infraction without giving further notice to the
defendant.
   D.   Notice Of Default Judgment: If a default judgment is entered against a
defendant for an infraction pursuant to law, the clerk shall mail a notice of
judgment to the defendant at the address stated in the citation advising the
defendant that the defendant must pay the judgment by a date certain which
shall not be less than fourteen (14) days after the date of notice. The notice
shall state that failure to pay the judgment will result in suspension of his
driver's license. (Ord. 769, 3-3-1998)
8-2-18: FAILURE TO OBEY CITATION FOR MISDEMEANOR OR INFRACTION:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to appear in court at the
time promised on a misdemeanor or infraction citation or to fail to appear at
the time indicated on a misdemeanor or infraction citation served upon the
defendant or to fail to appear at the time indicated on a misdemeanor or
infraction summons served upon the defendant, regardless of the disposition of
the charge upon which such citation or summons was originally issued.
   B.   The duty to appear in court at the time indicated in a misdemeanor or
infraction citation or summons may be complied with by an appearance by counsel
in the manner prescribed by rule of the supreme court.
   C.   Violation of the provisions of this section shall be a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 769, 3-3-1998)
8-2-19: DISORDERLY HOUSEHOLD OR PREMISES:
   A.   Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to host a
party, gathering or event at any household or premises within the city of
Rupert:
      1.   Which is disruptive to the public peace, health, safety, or welfare
due to the magnitude of the crowd, loud music or other noise, disturbances,
unruly behavior by those attending the party, excessive traffic or destruction
of property; or
      2.   Where a person under the age of twenty one (21) years is in
possession of, is consuming or is under the influence of an alcoholic beverage
and the person or persons responsible for the party knew or reasonably should
have known that the person in possession of, consuming, or under the influence
of an alcoholic beverage is under the age of twenty one (21) years; or
      3.   Where a person is in possession of, is under the influence of, or is
ingesting, injecting, smoking, inhaling, or otherwise introducing into the
human body any controlled substance or intoxicating substance and the person or
persons responsible for the party knew or reasonably should have known that
persons at the party were in possession of, under the influence of, or
ingesting, injecting, smoking, inhaling, or otherwise introducing into the
human body any controlled substance or intoxicating substance. (Ord. 08-508,
12-22-2008)
   B.   Definitions:
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE: Any beverage containing alcohol, including liquor,
spirits, beer, and wine.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE: Any drug, substance, or immediate precursor of such as
defined in title 37, chapter 27, Idaho Code.
   HOUSEHOLD OR PREMISES: Any home, apartment, condominium, premises or other
dwelling unit or meeting room or hall or any other building, including the yard
and curtilage of such household or premises which are owned, rented, leased or
under the control of the person or persons responsible for the party,
regardless of whether such premises are occupied on a permanent or temporary
basis, or merely occupied as a premises for a social function.
   INTOXICATING SUBSTANCE: Any drug, beverage, or substance, other than an
alcoholic beverage and/or other than any other drug that is lawfully prescribed
by a medical professional to the person introducing said drug into his or her
body, which causes a person's mental or physical functioning to be
substantially impaired as a result of introducing the same by any means into
the human body.
   KNOWINGLY: For purposes of this section means having a general knowledge of
or reason to know which warrants further inquiry or inspection.
   MINOR: A person under the age of twenty one (21) years.
   PARTY: A party, gathering or event or other assembly of persons for a social
occasion or activity.
   PERSON RESPONSIBLE FOR THE PARTY: 1. The person or persons in charge of the
premises where the party takes place; and/or
      2.   The person or persons authorizing the use of the premises for the
party; and/or
      3.   The person or persons who organized the party. (Ord. 08-508, 12-22-
2008; amd. Ord. 09-501, 1-6-2009)
   C.   Restitution: The court may order restitution to be paid by the person
or persons responsible for a party or gathering that requires a subsequent law
enforcement or emergency response. Such restitution, if ordered, would include
actual costs for law enforcement or other emergency services incurred for the
purpose of abating any of the conditions or violations described in this
section.
   D.   Misdemeanor: Any person in violation of this section shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor. (Ord. 08-508, 12-22-2008)
CHAPTER 3
DOGS
SECTION:
8-3-1: License Required; Fees
8-3-2: Tag And Collar; Taking Up Dogs; Dogs At Large
8-3-3: Control Of Dogs
8-3-4: Reclaiming Impounded Dogs; Adoption; Euthanization
8-3-5: Responsibility Of Head Of Household
8-3-6: Interference With Person Seizing Dog
8-3-7: Entering Private Property
8-3-8: Penalty
8-3-1: LICENSE REQUIRED; FEES:
All fees set under this Chapter shall be set by Resolution of the City.
The owner or any person who is keeping or harboring a dog in the city, shall
pay to the Minidoka Joint Animal Control Facility for its special revenue
account an annual license fee for each dog so kept or harbored an amount as
established by the city council by resolution. The license fee shall be paid to
any city clerk or at the Minidoka Joint Animal Control Facility, who shall
issue in return a receipt designating the name and address of the owner or
custodian paying the license fee, the number of the license tag assigned, the
sex of the dog, a brief description of the dog, and the amount paid for such
license.
A numbered license tag corresponding to the number listed on the receipt shall
be delivered to the license applicant with a receipt.
The collecting agency shall deliver the fees collected to the Minidoka Joint
Animal Control Facility monthly. The implant of a chip at the Minidoka Joint
Animal Control Facility, with payment of related fee at that facility, shall
waive any licensing fees for five (5) years.
The license shall be effective only to the end of the calendar year in which
the same is issued. (Ord. 781, 3-2-1999; amd. Ord. 19-501, 2-11-2020; Ord. 21-
508, 11-9-2021)
8-3-2: TAG AND COLLAR; TAKING UP DOGS; DOGS AT LARGE:
All dogs are required to have a tag and collar within the City.
Any City peace officer, animal control officer, or other designated person, may
seize and impound any dog
   A.   Without tag and collar;
   B.   At large, off the owner’s property, without an attendant or master, not
securely confined or leashed whether by tether or trained voice command so that
it does not stray;
   C.   That threatens, aggressively intimidates or harasses, or bites any
person, livestock, poultry, or domestic animal; or
   D.   That defecates on the property of any other person, other than the
owner, that is not immediately cleaned.
(Ord. 742, 3-5-1996; Ord. 21-508, 11-9-2021; Ord. 23-501, 5-9-2023; Ord. 24-
501, 3-21-2024)
8-3-3: CONTROL OF DOGS:
   A.   Dogs Which Disturb Neighborhood: No person shall own, keep or harbor
any dog which by loud, continued or frequent barking, howling or yelping shall
annoy or disturb any neighborhood or person. A dog shall not be permitted to
urinate or defecate upon the property of any person other than the dog’s owner,
unless it is immediately cleaned. Violation of this section is an infraction
punishable as provided in section
8-3-8.
   B.   Dogs At Large: Any person who permits any dog owned or possessed or
harbored by him to be, or run at large without a competent and responsible
attendant or master, or wilfully or negligently fails, neglects, or refuses to
keep any such dog securely confined within the limits of his own premises when
not under the immediate care and control of a competent and responsible
attendant or master, shall be guilty of an infraction punishable as provided in
section
8-3-8.
   C.   Vicious Dogs:
      1.   Definitions:
 
                  Any animal which, when not physically provoked, physically
VICIOUS DOG:      attacks, wounds, bites, aggressively chases, harasses, or
                  otherwise injures any person, livestock, or any domestic
                  animal who is not trespassing.
                  One from which the vicious dog cannot escape and for which
SECURE ENCLOSURE: exit and entry is controlled by the owner or tenant of the
                  premises or owner of the vicious dog.
 
      2.   It shall be unlawful for the owner of a vicious dog, or for the
owner or tenant of premises on which a vicious dog is present, to harbor a
vicious dog outside a secure enclosure.
      3.   It shall be unlawful for the owner of a vicious dog, or for the
owner or tenant of premises on which a vicious dog is present, to fail to
maintain the enclosure so that the vicious dog cannot escape the enclosure.
      4.   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove a vicious dog from a
secure enclosure unless the dog is restrained in a manner sufficient to control
the dog.
      5.   Penalty And Sentencing: Persons guilty of violation of any of the
provisions of this subsection
8-3-3(C), shall be guilty of a misdemeanor subject to penalties of up to one
hundred eighty (180) days in jail, a one thousand dollar ($1,000) fine, and up
to two (2) years of probation. Further, at sentencing on a violation of this
subsection, the court may in its discretion, in the interest of public safety,
order the owner to have the vicious dog destroyed or may direct the appropriate
authorities to destroy the dog. Both the prosecution and the owner of the dog
may present evidence relevant to the propriety of the destruction of the
vicious dog. A vicious dog may be seized and impounded during the pendency of
court proceedings pursuant to subsection
8-3-3(C).
      6.   A vicious dog may be seized and impounded during the pendency of
court proceedings pursuant to subsection
8-3-3(C).
      7.   Nothing in this chapter shall preclude any civil liability as
otherwise provided by law for damages or loss caused by a vicious dog to
livestock, poultry, or other domestic animals.
   D.   Dog Bites: Any dog which has bitten any person, livestock, poultry, or
domestic animal shall be surrendered to and/or confiscated by a peace officer
or animal control officer. The dog shall be inspected by a licensed
veterinarian and quarantined, if necessary, as may be required under state law.
No inspection or quarantine is required if reliable, current medical records
are providing showing evidence of current immunizations for hydrophobia. If it
is determined during the observation period that the dog has hydrophobia, the
dog shall be euthanized by the veterinarian. Payment of the actual costs of
inspection, keeping the dog, examining the dog, monitoring the dog’s condition
during the period of observation, or euthanization will be assessed by fee. If
the dog is not claimed by an owner and/or person responsible for the animal
within the observation period, it shall be destroyed.
No dog which has bitten a person, livestock, poultry, or domestic animal shall
be adopted out or surrendered to any third party if the owner or other person
responsible for the animal is not located.
Any dog which appears to be suffering from rabies may be destroyed by a peace
officer or animal control officer if such dog cannot be captured without
exposing such officer or other persons to unreasonable risk of injury. (Ord.
742, 3-5-1996; amd. Ord. 855, 6-21-2005; Ord. 19-501, 2-11-2020; Ord. 21-508,
11-9-2021; Ord. 23-501, 5-9-2023; Ord. 24-501, 3-21-2024)
8-3-4: RECLAIMING IMPOUNDED DOGS; ADOPTION; EUTHANIZATION:
All dogs taken UP by a peace or animal control officer shall be delivered to
the Minidoka Joint Animal Control Facility. Facility shall not refuse any dog.
Dogs shall not be held at any other location. except those delivered to a
veterinarian as directed by the Facility. No fostering of dogs outside the
Facility is permitted. Any dog not reclaimed, adopted, or otherwise committed
to an entity engaged in the legal rescue, adoption or otherwise providing homes
for dogs, within twenty-one (21) days shall be euthanized.
Any dog may be reclaimed at the Minidoka Joint Animal Control Facility by the
owner or other person entitled thereto upon payment of any related fees as
established by the city council by resolution. Fees shall be paid to the
Minidoka Joint Animal Control Facility and a receipt shall be issued fees may
include bail out, vaccination, quarantine, boarding, and other related fees as
established by resolution.
An unlicensed dog which will be kept or harbored within the city, upon release,
shall not be released until the person reclaiming such dog has purchased a
current license and any related fees as established by resolution incurred
related to the dog.
After the five (5) day period for dogs taken UP as found in Idaho Code 25-2804,
rather than euthanizing the dog, the animal control officer may then take steps
to adopt the dog to a third person. Any third person shall pay all impoundment
and adoption fees against the dog and have the dog properly licensed before the
dog may be surrendered to such third person.
Minidoka Joint Animal Control Facility may waive impoundment, adoption, and
other fees for entity engaged in the legal rescue, adoption, or otherwise
providing homes for dogs.
Adoption to a third person is available by Minidoka Joint Animal Control
Facility as provided in this section. Adoption fees shall be established by
city council by resolution. (Ord. 855, 6-21-2005; amd. Ord. 19-501, 2-11-2020;
Ord. 21-508, 11-9-2021)
8-3-5: RESPONSIBILITY OF HEAD OF HOUSEHOLD:
The responsibility for compliance with all provisions of this chapter shall
rest upon the head of the household at which a dog is being kept or harbored
whether the ownership of such dog is claimed by any person residing in said
household. The parents or guardians of minor children with whom said minor
children are residing shall be deemed to be the owners of the dog of a minor
child residing with them for purposes of this section. A husband and wife or
two (2) or more adults living together may be jointly charged as heads of the
household where a dog is kept or harbored if they fail to comply with their
obligations under this chapter. (Ord. 742, 3-5-1996)
8-3-6: INTERFERENCE WITH PERSON SEIZING DOG:
It shall be unlawful for any person to hinder or molest any police officer or
animal control officer who is attempting to perform any act authorized under
this chapter. (Ord. 742, 3-5-1996)
8-3-7: ENTERING PRIVATE PROPERTY:
In the enforcement of the provisions of this chapter, any peace officer or
animal control officer is authorized to enter upon private property to capture
a dog running at large or to destroy a rabid or vicious dog, but the authority
granted by this section does not authorize entry into any building on private
property without the consent of the person entitled to control of said
building. It shall be the responsibility of the city to repair any damage to
property or clean up any mess created by the actions of a peace officer or
animal control officer in the pursuit or destruction of a dog on private
property. (Ord. 742, 3-5-1996)
8-3-8: PENALTY:
Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
guilty of an infraction unless otherwise provided, and upon conviction thereof
shall be punished as follows:
   A.   An admission of guilt or entry of judgment to any such violation shall
result in a penalty of not more than fifty dollars ($50.00) for the first such
violation.
   B.   Upon a subsequent admission of guilt or entry of judgment for violation
of the provisions of this chapter, a penalty of not more than one hundred
dollars ($100.00) shall be assessed.
   C.   Upon a third admission of guilt or entry of judgment for violation of
the provisions of this chapter, a penalty of not more than three hundred
dollars ($300.00) shall be assessed for each subsequent violation.
   D.   Violations of subsection
8-3-3(C), Vicious Dogs, is a misdemeanor punishable as outlined in subsection
8-3-3(C)(5).
(Ord. 781, 3-2-1999; amd. Ord. 21-508, 11-9-2021; Ord. 23-501, 5-9-2023; Ord.
24-501, 3-21-2024)
CHAPTER 4
ANIMALS AND FOWL
SECTION:
8-4-1: Picketing, Driving Animals; Permit
8-4-2: Impounding Animals At Large
8-4-3: Care Of Impounded Animals
8-4-4: Notice Of Impoundment; Form
8-4-5: Redemption Of Impounded Animals
8-4-6: Impounding Fees
8-4-7: Record Of Impounded Animals
8-4-8: Disposition Of Money Received
8-4-9: Taking Animals From Pound Unlawful
8-4-10: Record Of Receipts And Disbursements
8-4-11: Fowl At Large
8-4-12: Keeping Hogs Or Swine
8-4-13: Keeping Farm Animals Within Rupert City Limits
8-4-14: Minidoka Cities Animal Control Facility Fund
8-4-15: Keeping Fowl Within City Limits; Permit Required
8-4-16: Restrictions On Animal Noise And Odors
8-4-17: Application To Annexed Areas
8-4-1: PICKETING, DRIVING ANIMALS; PERMIT:
   A.   Picketing Animals: It shall be unlawful for any person to picket or
tether any horse, mule, cattle, sheep or other animal in or upon the streets,
alleys or public grounds of the city, or to picket or tether such animals upon
private grounds in such a manner as to enable said animal to go in or upon such
streets, alleys or public grounds.
   B.   Trailing Animals: It shall be unlawful for any person to lead, drive or
trail any horse, mule, cattle, sheep or other livestock upon the streets,
alleys or public grounds of the city, or to permit the same to be done, without
a permit therefor as hereinafter provided.
   C.   Permit: Before any person shall lead, drive or trail any horse, mule,
cattle, sheep or other livestock upon the streets, alleys or public grounds of
the city, or permit the same to be done, such person shall first obtain from
the city at the clerk's office a permit therefor. Said permit shall be in such
form as the mayor and council may prescribe. (1960 Code, Sec. 9-201)
8-4-2: IMPOUNDING ANIMALS AT LARGE:
It shall be the duty of the chief of police to impound all horses, cattle,
mules, sheep or other animals or livestock running at large, or picketed or
tethered upon any street, alley or public ground within the city. (1960 Code,
Sec. 9-203)
8-4-3: CARE OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS:
It shall be the duty of the poundkeeper, who shall be appointed by the mayor
and council, to receive and take care of all animals committed to his charge
and provide all necessary forage therefor, and use due diligence to find the
owners of said animals by examining the record of marks and brands and
otherwise, and notify the owner if found. The poundmaster shall not deliver any
animals to the owner until all costs are paid. (1960 Code, Sec. 9-204)
8-4-4: NOTICE OF IMPOUNDMENT; FORM:
As soon as any animals come into the possession of the poundkeeper, he shall
immediately advertise the same by posting notices for a period of ten (10) days
in three (3) of the most public places in the city, one of which places shall
be at or near the post office. He shall also immediately deliver a copy of such
notice to the city clerk. The city clerk shall, upon receipt of said notice,
file and preserve the same in his office for a period of six (6) months
thereafter, and shall immediately post a copy thereof at the front door of his
office. The notice so filed with the city clerk shall be open, during
reasonable hours, for inspection by the public, free of charge. The notice
herein provided for shall contain a description of the animals including all
marks and brands, when taken, and the day, hour and place of sale, and may be
substantially in the following form:
   NOTICE OF SALE
STATE OF IDAHO   ) ss
City of Rupert   )
   I have in my possession the following described animals lawfully impounded,
which, if not claimed and taken away, will be sold at public auction to the
highest cash bidder, at           , in the City, on         day
of                   , 20    , at the hour of            o'clock    M.
   (Description of Animals)
   Said animals were impounded in said City on the         day of
                       , 20    .
                                                        
   CITY POUNDKEEPER
(1960 Code, Sec. 9-205)
8-4-5: REDEMPTION OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS:
If at any time before the sale of any animals, they shall be claimed and proved
to be the property of any person, the poundkeeper shall deliver them to the
owner upon receiving from him the cost of impounding, keeping and advertising
the same. If the animals are not so claimed and taken away, he shall, at the
time and place mentioned in the notice, proceed to sell the same, one at a
time, to the highest cash bidder, and shall execute and deliver a bill of sale
transferring said animals to the purchaser or purchasers thereof, which bill of
sale shall be substantially in the following form:
   I hereby certify that in pursuance of the law regulating the disposal of
impounded animals, I have this day sold to              for the sum of
$        , he being the highest bidder,            head of           ,
described as follows, to-wit:           .
   Witness my hand this          day of           , 20       .
   POUNDKEEPER OF RUPERT,
   Minidoka County, Idaho
The poundkeeper shall immediately file a copy of such bill of sale with the
city clerk. The copy so filed with the clerk shall be preserved for a period of
two (2) years and shall be open to inspection during all reasonable hours free
of charge. Such bill of sale shall transfer and vest in such purchaser the full
title to the animals thus transferred. (1960 Code, Sec. 9-206)
8-4-6: IMPOUNDING FEES:
The chief of police shall receive the sum of twenty five cents ($0.25) per head
for catching and putting in the pound of any of said animals and the
poundmaster shall receive the following fees for his services:
   $0.50 per day for keeping and feeding each animal placed in the pound.
   $1.00 per head for advertising each animal.
   $0.50 extra for each animal after the first if there is more than one taken
up at the same time.
   $1.50 for selling one head.
   $0.50 for selling each extra head in a band. (1960 Code, Sec. 9-211)
8-4-7: RECORD OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS:
The poundkeeper shall keep an accurate record of all impounded animals received
by him, their age, color, sex, marks and brands, the time and place of taking
and the expense of keeping and selling the same, all animals claimed and taken
away, all animals sold and to whom sold and the amount paid, all monies paid to
owners after sale, all monies paid into the city treasury, and all other
matters necessary to a compliance with the provisions of sections
8-4-2,
8-4-3,
8-4-4 and
8-4-5 of this chapter. The city council shall provide the poundkeeper with a
suitable book in which there shall be entered the records required by law to be
kept by the poundkeeper. Such records shall be open to the inspection of the
public at all reasonable hours, and shall be deposited by the poundkeeper with
his successor in office. (1960 Code, Sec. 9-207)
8-4-8: DISPOSITION OF MONEY RECEIVED:
The net proceeds of the sale of all animals made in pursuance to sections
8-4-2 and
8-4-5 of this chapter shall be paid into the city treasury subject to the order
of the owners of the said animals, if applied for within six (6) months from
the date of sale; if not applied for by the owners within that time, the city
treasurer shall place the amount to the credit of the city revenue. (1960 Code,
Sec. 9-208)
8-4-9: TAKING ANIMALS FROM POUND UNLAWFUL:
Any person taking his own animals or that of any other person out of the city
pound, by stealth or by force, or who shall interrupt or hinder anyone while in
the discharge of his duty under the provisions of sections
8-4-2 and
8-4-7 of this chapter shall be liable to a fine in any sum not exceeding fifty
dollars ($50.00) or imprisonment not to exceed thirty (30) days, or both fine
and imprisonment. (1960 Code, Sec. 9-209)
8-4-10: RECORD OF RECEIPTS AND DISBURSEMENTS:
It shall be the duty of the poundkeeper to keep books, in which he shall keep
an accurate account of all receipts and disbursements, and shall make a full
and detailed record of his proceedings to the city council quarterly, stating
therein the number of animals impounded, the number of animals sold, to whom
sold, and the amounts received therefrom, the amounts received and paid for
forage, advertising and sale. (1960 Code, Sec. 9-210)
8-4-11: FOWL AT LARGE:
   A.   Unlawful: Any owner or keeper of chickens, turkeys, ducks, geese or any
other fowl, permitting the same to run at large within the corporate limits of
the city shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. (1960 Code, Sec. 9-212)
   B.   Killing, Restrictions: It shall be lawful for any resident, finding
such fowl upon his premises, to kill and destroy the same, provided the fowl so
killed are not disposed of by sale or consumed as food, and such resident shall
not be liable for damages to the owner of fowl so killed. (1960 Code, Sec. 9-
213)
8-4-12: KEEPING HOGS OR SWINE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to keep and maintain, within the corporate
limits of the city, any hogs or swine. Provided, however, that for the purpose
of loading and shipping of any hogs or swine it shall be lawful to keep the
same in loading pens provided for that purpose, but no hogs or swine shall be
kept for such purpose in such pens within the corporate limits of the city for
a period of more than twelve (12) hours. (1960 Code, Sec. 9-214)
It is hereby declared that keeping of any hogs or swine within the corporate
limits of the city, except as provided above, shall be considered a nuisance.
(1960 Code, Sec. 9-215)
8-4-13: KEEPING FARM ANIMALS WITHIN RUPERT CITY LIMITS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow, permit, own, keep, or
harbor any farm animals, including, but not limited to, horses, cattle, mules,
goats, sheep, on any premises owned or occupied by such person within the city,
except as may be permitted by subsection B of this section.
   B.   Upon any property, within the city limits having an enclosed pasture of
at least one-half (1/2) acre, fenced to hold or contain livestock, the owner,
renter or occupant thereof may have not more than two (2) horses, mules, cattle
or any combination of said animals for each full one-half (1/2) acre of
enclosed pasture; or, not more than five (5) sheep or goats, or combination
thereof for each full one-half (1/2) acre of enclosed pasture; or, such owner,
occupant or renter may have and keep one horse, mule or head of cattle, or any
of the same, in combination with three (3) sheep or goats or combination
thereof on each full one-half (1/2) acre of enclosed pasture. (Ord. 755, 3-4-
1997)
   C.   Any violation of this section shall be deemed to be a misdemeanor and
upon conviction thereof, such violator shall be fined up to a sum of one
hundred dollars ($100.00) together with costs, or shall be confined in the
Minidoka County jail for a term not to exceed five (5) days, or both. (Ord.
567, 10-15-1974)
8-4-14: MINIDOKA CITIES ANIMAL CONTROL FACILITY FUND:
There is established a special revenue fund for the deposit of any and all
revenues from all sources to be dedicated to the Minidoka cities joint animal
control facility, and delegated representatives from the city of Rupert are
empowered to make distributions from the fund pursuant to the joint powers
agreement by and between the municipal corporations within Minidoka County.
(Res. 334, 12-3-1996)
8-4-15: KEEPING FOWL WITHIN CITY LIMITS; PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   It is unlawful to keep or maintain any fowl on any real property inside
the city limits at any time without first obtaining a permit from the city
clerk. Roosters shall not be permitted to be kept or maintained inside city
limits nor shall more than five (5) hens be permitted per city lot. Any person
or persons desiring to keep fowl on real property inside the city, regardless
of the ownership of the real property where such fowl shall be kept or the
ownership of the fowl themselves, must first obtain a permit from the city
clerk.
   B.   Permits for the keeping or maintaining of fowl shall be granted subject
to the applicant meeting the following specifications and requirements:
      1.   Distance Requirements: All fowl or poultry must be in enclosures at
least forty five feet (45') from any neighbor's property line.
      2.   Recommendation Of A City Sanitation Inspector: The city clerk shall
issue a permit to keep or maintain fowl in the city only after the
recommendation of an inspector from the city sanitation department or a
designated ordinance compliance officer ("inspector"). The inspector shall
inform the city clerk that the requirements of this code regarding the keeping
of fowl have been complied with before the city clerk shall issue such permit.
The inspector may deny the issuance of a permit if fraudulent or untrue
representations are made by the applicant or the applicant is in violation of
any of the provisions of this chapter. The inspector, prior to the issuance of
a permit, may inspect places and premises where any of the fowl are kept or
housed and, if a violation of this chapter is found to exist, the inspector
shall deny issuance of the permit to the applicant. Any applicant's refusal to
allow access to the inspector for inspection shall preclude issuance of a
permit.
      3.   Adequate Structure And Sanitary Conditions: Locations, structures,
pens, corrals and any other premises or structure used for the keeping of and
maintaining of fowl must be kept in a clean and sanitary condition, free from
obnoxious odors and substances. All persons who keep or maintain any fowl shall
keep them in enclosures strong enough or in such a manner as to prevent fowl
from going upon the premises or property of another.
   C.   If the applicant is denied a permit, the applicant must, in writing and
within seven (7) days of the denial, appeal to the city council and set forth
the reasons why the applicant should not be denied a permit. The city council
shall set the time and place for a hearing within a reasonable period of time
subsequent to applicant's written notice of appeal. Notice of such hearing
shall be personally served upon the applicant, or mailed postage prepaid to the
applicant at his last known address, at least three (3) days prior to the date
of the hearing. The order of the city council shall be final.
   D.   The application for permit to keep or maintain fowl or poultry in the
city shall pay to the city clerk upon granting of such permit a fee of five
dollars ($5.00) per animal for each year or part of a year preceding the first
day of March. The permit will then be renewable on March 1 of each following
year for five dollars ($5.00) per animal per year. Failure of the permittee to
pay the annual fee shall render the permit void and/or expired.
   E.   A permit, once issued, may be revoked as follows:
      1.   Recommendation Of Revocation: The inspector may recommend to the
city council the revocation of any permit upon evidence that any of the
conditions set forth in this chapter as a prerequisite to the issuance of a
permit have been violated, that the permit was issued upon fraudulent or untrue
representations by the applicant, or that the person holding the permit has
violated any of the provisions of this code with respect to keeping fowl in the
city.
      2.   Inspection And Notice Of Violation: All places and premises upon
which any of the fowl are kept or housed shall be open at all times for
inspection by the inspector. If, upon inspection, there is found to exist any
violation of any provision of this chapter, or this code, related to the
keeping of fowl, the inspector shall give the person responsible for such
violation a written notice specifying the violation in particular and requiring
such offender to abate or correct the same within a period of forty eight (48)
hours. If the violation is not abated or corrected within the forty eight (48)
hour period, the inspector shall recommend to the city council that the permit
of such person be revoked.
      3.   Revocation Of Permit: The city council may revoke any permit issued
under this chapter for violation of any of the provisions of this code or
ordinance of the city or laws of the state of Idaho. Prior to revocation by the
city council, the city shall notify the applicant in writing, setting forth
specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time and place of the hearing
before the city council. Such notice shall be personally served upon the
permittee, or mailed postage prepaid to the permittee at his last known address
at least three (3) days prior to the date set for the hearing.
   F.   Any minor who is participating in an agricultural education program
including 4-H or FFA projects or other similar programs may petition the city
council annually as applicable for an exemption from this chapter's permit
requirement. The city council may, upon review of the application and
recommendations of the inspector, allow for the temporary keeping of fowl
without a permit and without compliance with subsections A (rooster and hen
quantity prohibitions) and B1, "Distance Requirements", of this section. The
exemption may not be granted for any time period longer than necessary to
complete the educational program's annual requirements and shall not exempt the
participant from any other regulations of this code.
   G.   Any person violating any provision of this section shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor whether said person be the owner of the
fowl or the person who has the charge, keeping, or custody of the fowl. The
keeping of fowl without a permit as required by this section shall also be
considered a nuisance.
   H.   The provisions of this section shall not apply to nor shall the
restrictions herein preclude the keeping of fowl on any real property lot or
multiple contiguous lots owned by the same person, persons, or entity totaling
more than one and one-half (1.5) acres. (Ord. 08-506, 9-16-2008)
8-4-16: RESTRICTIONS ON ANIMAL NOISE AND ODORS:
It shall be unlawful for any person keeping or maintaining any animals or fowl
to allow the same to create a disturbance to the residents in the city or
adjacent landowners by creating or allowing any animal noise, odor or other
damage resulting from the keeping of animals that damages any other person's
property or interferes with the peaceful and quiet enjoyment of such property
by such other owners or residents. Such odors, noise, or like result of keeping
animals in the city shall be deemed a nuisance. Violations of this section
shall be measured, enforced, and penalized, as applicable, in the same manner
as set forth in sections
8-9-3,
8-9-4, and
8-9-6 of this title. (Ord. 08-506, 9-16-2008)
8-4-17: APPLICATION TO ANNEXED AREAS:
This chapter shall apply to all animals and poultry now within the city and to
those subsequently brought into the city. (Ord. 08-506, 9-16-2008)
CHAPTER 5
CURFEW
SECTION:
8-5-1: Restrictions At Night
8-5-2: Enforcement, Chief Of Police
8-5-3: Permitting Violation
8-5-4: Procedure, Custody Of Violators
8-5-1: RESTRICTIONS AT NIGHT:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of sixteen (16) years
to be or remain in or upon any street, alley or public ground within the city
between the hours of eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. and five o'clock (5:00) A.M.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person from the age of sixteen (16) years
to the age of eighteen (18) years to be or to remain in or upon any street,
alley or public ground within the city between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:
00) midnight and five o'clock (5:00) A.M.
   C.   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any person who is
accompanied by his parent, guardian or other adult person having the care,
custody or control of him; nor to any person who is in the performance of an
errand or duty directed by his parent or guardian for medicine, medical or
other assistance, or for any other emergency; nor to any person who is actually
at the time engaged in legitimate employment for profit; nor to any person
attending a function or activity of any church or school of which he or his
parent or guardian is a member, or which he might logically be expected to
attend, and he may attend such function or activity; provided, however, any
minor attending such function or activity shall not be upon any public
thoroughfare within a reasonable time after the official close of such function
or activity. (Ord. 428, 1-7-1964)
8-5-2: ENFORCEMENT, CHIEF OF POLICE:
It is the duty of the chief of police to enforce the restrictions set forth in
section
8-5-1 of this chapter. (Ord. 428, 1-7-1964)
8-5-3: PERMITTING VIOLATION:
Any person violating section
8-5-1 of this chapter, and any person who has the care, custody or control of
such person who shall permit such person under his care, custody or control to
violate said section, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. (1960 Code, Sec. 9-403)
8-5-4: PROCEDURE, CUSTODY OF VIOLATORS:
It is the duty of the chief of police and policemen to apprehend all persons
under the age fixed in section
8-5-1 of this chapter who are on the streets, public grounds or any of the
unoccupied lots of the city after the hours fixed in section
8-5-1 of this chapter, and if a parent or guardian of any such person can be
found in the city, to take such person to the parent or guardian. Said officer
shall keep an account of each person so apprehended, which account shall show
the name of such person, the name and address of such person's parents or
guardian, the date, time and place of apprehension, and any other pertinent
facts relating to the matter, including the disposition of such person by said
officer; the said account or a duplicate thereof shall be made available to the
Minidoka County probation officer. (1960 Code, Sec. 9-404)
CHAPTER 6
PUBLIC ASSEMBLIES
SECTION:
8-6-1: Purpose
8-6-2: License Required, Conditions
8-6-3: Requirements For Issuance Of License
8-6-4: Conditions Of Application
8-6-5: Processing Application
8-6-6: Revocation Of License
8-6-7: Enforcement
8-6-1: PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this chapter to regulate the assemblage of large numbers
of people, in excess of those normally needing the health, sanitary, fire,
police, transportation and utility services regularly provided in the city, in
order that the health, safety and welfare of all persons in the city, residents
and visitors alike, may be protected. (Ord. 521, 11-16-1971)
8-6-2: LICENSE REQUIRED, CONDITIONS:
   A.   No person shall permit, maintain, promote, conduct, advertise, act as
entrepreneur, undertake, organize, manage or sell or give tickets to an actual
or reasonably anticipated assembly of five hundred (500) or more people which
continues or can reasonably be expected to continue for twenty two (22) or more
consecutive hours, whether on public or private property, unless a license to
hold the assembly has first been issued by the council, application for which
must be made at least thirty (30) days in advance of the assembly. A license to
hold an assembly shall permit any person to engage in any lawful activity in
connection with the holding of the licensed assembly.
   B.   As used in this chapter, the following terms shall mean:
      ASSEMBLY: A company of persons gathered together at any location at any
single time for any purpose.
      PERSON: Any individual, partnership, corporation, firm, company,
association, society or group.
   C.   A separate license shall be required for each day and each location in
which five hundred (500) or more people assemble or can reasonably be
anticipated to assemble; the fee for each license shall be one hundred dollars
($100.00).
   D.   A license shall permit the assembly of only the maximum number of
people stated in the license. The licensee shall not sell tickets to nor permit
to assemble at the licensed location more than the maximum permissible number
of people.
   E.   The license shall not permit the sound of the assembly to carry
unreasonably beyond the enclosed boundaries of the location of the assembly.
   F.   This chapter shall not apply to any regularly established, permanent
place of worship, stadium, athletic field, arena, auditorium, coliseum or other
similar permanently established place of assembly for assemblies which do not
exceed by more than five hundred (500) people the maximum seating capacity of
the structure where the assembly is held.
   G.   This chapter shall not apply to government sponsored fairs held on
regularly established fairgrounds nor to assemblies required to be licensed by
other laws and regulations of this state. (Ord. 521, 11-16-1971)
8-6-3: REQUIREMENTS FOR ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
Before he may be issued a license the applicant shall first:
   A.   Determine the maximum number of people which will be assembled or
admitted to the location of the assembly, provided that the maximum number
shall not exceed the maximum number which can reasonably assemble at the
location of the assembly in consideration of the nature of the assembly and
provided that, where the assembly is to continue overnight, the maximum number
shall not be more than is allowed to sleep within the boundaries of the
location of the assembly by the zoning or health ordinances of the
municipality.
   B.   Provide proof that he will furnish at his own expense before the
assembly commences:
      1.   A fence completely enclosing the proposed location of sufficient
height and strength to prevent people in excess of the maximum permissible
number from gaining access to the assembly grounds, which shall have at least
four (4) gates, at least one at or near four (4) opposite points of the
compass.
      2.   Potable water, meeting all federal and state requirements for
purity, sufficient to provide drinking water for the maximum number of people
to be assembled at the rate of at least one gallon per person per day and water
for bathing at the rate of at least ten (10) gallons per person per day.
      3.   Separate enclosed toilets for males and females, meeting all state
and local specifications, conveniently located throughout the grounds,
sufficient to provide facilities for the maximum number of people to be
assembled at the rate of at least one toilet for every two hundred (200)
females and at least one toilet for every three hundred (300) males together
with an efficient, sanitary means of disposing of waste matter deposited, which
is in compliance with all state and local laws and regulations; a lavatory with
running water under pressure and a continuous supply of soap and paper towels
shall be provided with each toilet.
      4.   A sanitary method of disposing of solid waste, in compliance with
state and local laws and regulations, sufficient to dispose of the solid waste
production of the maximum number of people to be assembled at the rate of at
least two and five-tenths (2.5) pounds of solid waste per person per day,
together with a plan for holding and a plan for collecting all such waste at
least once each day at the assembly and sufficient trash cans with tight
fitting lids and personnel to perform the task.
      5.   Physicians and nurses licensed to practice in Idaho sufficient to
provide medical care for the maximum number of people to be assembled at the
rate of at least one physician for every one thousand (1,000) people and at
least one nurse for every one thousand (1,000) people, together with an
enclosed covered structure where treatment may be rendered, containing
separately enclosed treatment rooms for each physician, and at least one
emergency ambulance available for use at all times; provided, however, in no
event shall there be less than one physician and one nurse and one emergency
ambulance available to the assembly licensed hereunder in the event the number
of persons is less than one thousand (1,000) as may be reasonably anticipated.
      6.   If the assembly is to continue during hours of darkness,
illumination sufficient to light the entire area of the assembly at the rate of
at least five (5) foot-candles, but not to shine unreasonably beyond the
boundaries of the enclosed location of the assembly.
      7.   A free parking area inside of the assembly grounds sufficient to
provide parking space for the maximum number of people to be assembled at the
rate of at least one parking space for every four (4) persons.
      8.   Telephones connected to outside lines sufficient to provide service
for the maximum number of people to be assembled at the rate of at least one
separate line and receiver for each one thousand (1,000) persons, or part
thereof.
      9.   If the assembly is to continue overnight, camping facilities
sufficient to provide camping accommodations for the maximum number of people
to be assembled.
      10.   Security guards, either regularly employed, duly sworn, off duty
Idaho peace officers or private guards, sufficient to provide adequate security
for the maximum number of people to be assembled at the rate of at least one
security guard for every five hundred (500) people, or part thereof.
      11.   Fire protection, including alarms, extinguishing devices, and fire
lanes and escapes, sufficient to meet all state and local standards for the
location of the assembly, and sufficient emergency personnel to efficiently
operate the required equipment.
      12.   All reasonable necessary precautions to ensure that the sound of
the assembly will not carry unreasonably beyond the enclosed boundaries of the
location of the assembly.
      13.   A bond, filed with the city clerk, either in cash or underwritten
by a surety company licensed to do business in Idaho at the rate of one dollar
($1.00) per person for the maximum number of people permitted to assemble,
which shall indemnify and hold harmless the city, or any of its agents,
officers, servants and employees from any liability or causes of action which
might arise by reason of granting this license, and from any cost incurred in
cleaning up any waste material produced or left by the assembly. (Ord. 521, 11-
16-1971)
8-6-4: CONDITIONS OF APPLICATION:
   A.   Application for a license to hold an actual or anticipated assembly of
five hundred (500) or more persons shall be made in writing to the council of
the city at least thirty (30) days in advance of such assembly.
   B.   The application shall contain a statement made upon oath or affirmation
that the statements contained therein are true and correct to the best
knowledge of the applicant and shall be signed and sworn to or affirmed by the
individual making application in the case of an individual, by all officers in
the case of a corporation, by all partners in the case of a partnership or by
all officers of an unincorporated association, society or group, or if there be
no officers, by all members of such association, society or group.
   C.   The application shall contain and disclose:
      1.   The name, age, residence and mailing address of all persons required
to sign the application by this chapter and, in the case of a corporation, a
certified copy of the articles of incorporation together with the name, age,
residence and mailing address of each person holding ten percent (10%) or more
of the stock of said corporation.
      2.   The address and legal description of all property upon which the
assembly is to be held, together with the name, residence and mailing address
of the record owner(s) of all such property.
      3.   Proof of ownership of all property upon which the assembly is to be
held or a statement made upon oath or affirmation by the record owner(s) of all
such property that the applicant has permission to use such property for an
assembly of five hundred (500) or more persons.
      4.   The nature or purpose of the assembly.
      5.   The total number of days and/or hours during which the assembly is
to last.
      6.   The maximum number of persons which the applicant shall permit to
assemble at any time, not to exceed the maximum number which can reasonably
assemble at the location of the assembly, in consideration of the nature of the
assembly, or the maximum number of persons allowed to sleep within the
boundaries of the location of the assembly by the zoning regulations of the
municipality, if the assembly is to continue overnight.
      7.   The maximum number of tickets to be sold, if any.
      8.   The plans of the applicant to limit the maximum number of people
permitted to assemble.
      9.   The plans for fencing the location of the assembly and the gates
contained in such fence.
      10.   The plans for supplying potable water including the source, amount
available and location of outlets.
      11.   The plans for providing toilet and lavatory facilities including
the source, number and location, type and the means of disposing of waste
deposited.
      12.   The plans for holding, collecting and disposing of solid waste
material.
      13.   The plans to provide for medical facilities including the location
and construction of a medical structure, the names and addresses and hours of
availability of physicians and nurses, and provisions for emergency ambulance
service.
      14.   The plans, if any, to illuminate the location of the assembly
including the source and amount of power and the location of lamps.
      15.   The plans for parking vehicles including size and location of lots,
points of highway access and interior roads including routes between highway
access and parking lots.
      16.   The plans for telephone service including the source, number and
location of telephones.
      17.   The plans for camping facilities, if any, including facilities
available and their location.
      18.   The plans for security including the number of guards, their
deployment; and their names, addresses, credentials and hours of availability.
      19.   The plans for fire protection including the number, type and
location of all protective devices including alarms and extinguishers, and the
number of emergency fire personnel available to operate the equipment.
      20.   The plans for sound control and sound amplification, if any,
including the number, location and power of amplifiers and speakers.
      21.   The plans for food concessions and concessionaires who will be
allowed to operate on the grounds including the names and addresses of all
concessionaires.
   D.   The application shall include the bond required by this chapter and the
license fee. (Ord. 521, 11-16-1971)
8-6-5: PROCESSING APPLICATION:
The application for a license shall be processed within twenty (20) days of
receipt and shall be issued if all conditions are complied with. (Ord. 521, 11-
16-1971)
8-6-6: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
The license may be revoked by the council of the city at any time if any of the
conditions necessary for the issuing of or contained in the license are not in
compliance, or if any condition previously met ceases to be in compliance.
(Ord. 521, 11-16-1971)
8-6-7: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   The provisions of this chapter may be enforced by injunction in any
court of competent jurisdiction.
   B.   The holding of an assembly in violation of any provision or condition
contained in this chapter shall be deemed a public nuisance and may be abated
as such.
   C.   Any person who does not obtain the required license or who violates any
condition upon which he is granted a license is guilty of a misdemeanor. Each
day of violation shall be considered a separate offense. (Ord. 521, 11-16-1971)
CHAPTER 7
ABANDONED, JUNKED PROPERTY
SECTION:
8-7-1: Definitions
8-7-2: Articles On Public Property
8-7-3: Articles On Private Property; Exception
8-7-4: Impoundment
8-7-5: Penalty
8-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
HOUSEHOLD GOODS AND EQUIPMENT: All articles usually referred to as household
goods and articles used in housekeeping, including, but not limited to, chairs,
tables, davenports, beds, refrigerators, stoves, washers, dryers, furnaces,
lamps, appliances, greases, oils, paints and their containers.
JUNKED: Scrapped, wrecked, ruined or dismantled.
MACHINERY: All articles of industrial, farm or domestic machinery or equipment,
and any and all metal or wooden machinery, motors, equipment, tools or
property.
MISCELLANEOUS PROPERTY: All other property including, but not limited to, old
rope, iron, brass, copper, tin, lead, rags, batteries, baggage, bottles, scrap
iron or metals, toys, bicycles or boats.
MOTOR VEHICLE: Any vehicle propelled or drawn by power other than muscular
power designed to travel on the ground by wheels, treads, runners or slides,
and to transport persons or property or pull machinery and including, but not
limited to, automobiles, trucks, trailers, motorcycles, tractors, buggies and
wagons.
PERSON: Any persons, firms, partnerships, associations, corporations or any
other business units or devices.
WRECKED, ABANDONED: The words "wrecked", "abandoned", "dismantled", "damaged"
and "dilapidated" shall have the meaning as set out in "Webster's Dictionary,
Unabridged, Second Edition". (Ord. 498, 6-2-1970)
8-7-2: ARTICLES ON PUBLIC PROPERTY:
No person shall place, allow, discard, maintain, park or store any dismantled,
abandoned, junked, damaged or destroyed household goods or equipment, motor
vehicles, machinery or miscellaneous property as herein defined upon any public
street, alley, sidewalk or other public property within the city. (Ord. 498, 6-
2-1970)
8-7-3: ARTICLES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY; EXCEPTION:
No person, whether he be the owner, tenant, occupant, lessee or otherwise of
any private property or premises shall place, allow, discard, maintain, park,
store or permit to be placed, allowed, discarded, maintained, parked or stored
upon said property or premises for a period of time exceeding forty eight (48)
hours any dismantled, abandoned, junked, damaged or destroyed household goods
and equipment, motor vehicles, machinery or miscellaneous property as herein
defined; provided, however, that the provisions of this section shall not apply
to any property or premises where said household goods and equipment, motor
vehicles, machinery or miscellaneous property is housed within an enclosed
building thereon or to any property or premises lawfully operated as a business
where the same is a part of said business enterprise and necessary to the
operation of said business on said property or premises. (Ord. 498, 6-2-1970)
8-7-4: IMPOUNDMENT:
Any property or goods upon public or private property within the city in
violation hereof may be impounded and removed by the police department and sold
at public or private auction by the police department as is provided in this
code, or the Idaho Code pertaining to the disposal of abandoned property. (Ord.
498, 6-2-1970)
8-7-5: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall, upon conviction,
be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to a fine not exceeding three
hundred dollars ($300.00) or to imprisonment not exceeding thirty (30) days, or
both such fine and imprisonment. Each day of violation under this chapter shall
be deemed a separate offense and punishable as the same. (Ord. 498, 6-2-1970)
CHAPTER 8
GRAFFITI
SECTION:
8-8-1: Definitions
8-8-2: Making Graffiti
8-8-3: Possession Of Graffiti Instruments
8-8-4: Possession By Minors, Parental/Guardian Liability
8-8-5: Building Owner Responsibility
8-8-6: Waiver Of Costs
8-8-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter and except as otherwise required by the context:
BROAD TIPPED INDELIBLE MARKER: Any felt tipped marker or similar implement
which contains a fluid which is not soluble in water and has a flat or angled
writing surface of a width of one-fourth inch (1/4") or greater.
MAKING OF GRAFFITI: The act of defacing, damaging or destroying any real or
personal property of another by any means including, but not limited to,
carving, scratching, etching, burning, marking or painting, through the use of
an aerosol container of spray paint, brush, a broad tipped indelible marker, or
any other method or means. Such defacing shall include, but not be limited to,
walls, buildings, billboards or other signs, rocks or other natural markings or
monuments, gravestones, fencing, roads, bridges or other public property,
vehicles, trees or other vegetation. (Ord. 735, 4-4-1995)
8-8-2: MAKING GRAFFITI:
   A.   No person shall make graffiti of any type on any building, public or
private, or any other property real or personal owned by any person, firm or
corporation or any public agency or instrumentality, without the express
permission of the owner or operator of said property.
   B.   The making of each mark of graffiti in violation of the foregoing shall
be a misdemeanor.
   C.   In addition to any penalty imposed by any court of competent
jurisdiction in the disposition of the misdemeanor charge, the perpetrator
shall be civilly liable to the city and to the building owner, renter or lessee
for the cleanup of the graffiti. (Ord. 735, 4-4-1995)
8-8-3: POSSESSION OF GRAFFITI INSTRUMENTS:
A person is guilty of possession of graffiti instruments when he possesses any
tool, instrument, article, substance, solution or other compound designed or
commonly used to paint, write, spray, scratch, affix, inscribe or otherwise
place a mark upon a piece of property which that person has no permission or
authority to paint, write, spray, scratch, affix, inscribe or otherwise mark,
under circumstances evincing an intent to use same in order to make graffiti
upon such property. Possession of a spray paint can in a public building, park,
facility, or alley shall be presumptive evidence of intent to use same in order
to damage such property. (Ord. 735, 4-4-1995)
8-8-4: POSSESSION BY MINORS, PARENTAL/GUARDIAN LIABILITY:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of eighteen (18)
years to purchase or possess any aerosol container of spray paint or broad
tipped indelible marker unless accompanied by a parent or guardian, or while
involved in an activity sponsored by a school, church or community.
   B.   Each parent or guardian of a minor found guilty of making graffiti
shall be liable for such damages created or caused to the city or to the party
suffering damage as a result of such acts, or both, up to a limit set forth in
Idaho Code section 6-210. (Ord. 735, 4-4-1995)
8-8-5: BUILDING OWNER RESPONSIBILITY:
Each owner or renter or lessee of a building or business upon which graffiti
has been made shall within seventy two (72) hours of notice by the city police
or city sanitation department, remove or obliterate such graffiti so that it
shall become or be made indistinguishable as a message, depiction, code or
marking. If not removed, the obliteration of the graffiti shall be made with
paint or other suitable covering reasonably similar to the background coloring
of the wall or place where the graffiti has been made or placed. Failure to do
so by the building owner, renter or lessee will result in the city taking such
action on its own and then assessing the cost of such to the building owner,
renter or lessee, if the perpetrator of the making of graffiti or his or her
parents or guardian(s) cannot be quickly identified by the city. The cost of
same, being a benefit to the city and to the landowner, may be certified as a
lien or debt against the land and placed on the Minidoka County tax rolls as an
unpaid assessment; provided, however, an owner, renter, or lessee may file, in
writing, an objection to this cleanup requirement with the city council and/or
a request for extension of time for removal or obliteration to the city
superintendent within seven (7) days of receiving the notice. Upon receiving a
request for additional time, the city superintendent may, for good cause,
extend the time period for removal or obliteration for a time period not
exceeding two (2) weeks from the date of the city's original notice. If the
owner, renter, or lessee is not granted additional time for removal or
obliteration by the city superintendent or otherwise believes that removal or
obliteration should not be required or that more than two (2) weeks is needed
for removal or obliteration, the owner, renter or lessee may, after filing a
written request, be heard by the city council in order to obtain such relief;
the city council shall review the matter and determine if additional time
should be granted or whether the removal or obliteration should be required.
Sufficient cause to extend the time period for removal includes inclement
weather and disability. The building owner, renter or lessee required to make
such cleanup shall be subrogated to the rights of the city to require
reimbursement by the party making the graffiti or that party's parents or
guardian, if the maker is of minor age. (Ord. 08-502, 4-1-2008)
8-8-6: WAIVER OF COSTS:
Any owner or renter or lessee of a building or business who has been compelled
to cause removal of such graffiti as set forth in section
8-8-5 of this chapter may petition the city council for waiver of cost and
fees. Consideration for such waiver shall be made based upon income, ability to
pay and any other criteria reasonably calculated to provide a basis for
equitable waiver of any such costs and fees. (Ord. 735, 4-4-1995)
CHAPTER 9
NOISE
SECTION:
8-9-1: Purpose
8-9-2: Definitions
8-9-3: Noise Prohibitions
8-9-4: Enforcement
8-9-5: Exemptions
8-9-6: Penalty
8-9-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is the protection of the health, safety, and
welfare of the citizens of Rupert. It is determined that sound can and does
constitute a hazard to the health, safety, welfare, and quality of life of
residents of the city. The mayor and council, by way of Idaho Code section 50-
308 are empowered to impose reasonable limitations and regulations upon the
production of sound to reduce the harmful effects thereof. Now, therefore, it
is hereafter the policy of this city to prevent and regulate sound generated by
loud amplification devices wherever it is deemed to be harmful to the health,
safety, welfare, or quality of life of the city, and this chapter shall be
liberally construed to effectuate that purpose. (Ord. 769, 3-3-1998)
8-9-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
ABANDONED OR UNIDENTIFIED VEHICLE: Any vehicle which is left, or which is
parked upon any street, alley or public property for a period of twenty four
(24) hours or longer within the "restricted parking district", as defined in
this section or for a period of seventy two (72) hours or longer within any
other district or part of the city, and the owner of which vehicle cannot be
found, located or determined, or the owner of which refuses to remove such
vehicle from such street, alley or public property upon notice, oral or
written, given by the judge or by any member of the police department.
ALLEY OR ALLEYWAY: A minor public way providing secondary access at back or
side of property for vehicle or pedestrian traffic.
AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE: Vehicles operated by any fire department, fire
district, nonprofit fire protection or fire patrol organization, police,
sheriff or other law enforcement agency, ambulances and like emergency vehicles
authorized by the chief of police to mount and use a siren and light of the
type approved by the chief of police.
BICYCLE: Every vehicle propelled by human power upon which person may ride,
having two (2) tandem wheels, except scooters and similar devices.
CITY: Rupert City, Idaho, or the area within the city limits of Rupert City,
Idaho.
COMMERCIAL VEHICLE: Every vehicle designated, maintained or used primarily for
the transportation of property or persons for hire, compensation or profit.
COMMON AREA(S): The area(s) of a facility, complex, apartment unit, hotel,
motel or the like that are open either to the general public or persons with
the permission of the owner or agent of the owner of the area. This definition
would include, but not be limited to, the following: swimming pools,
restaurants, patios, hot tubs, saunas, laundry rooms, meeting rooms, lobbies,
lounges, bars and other areas within the facility that are either constructed
or designed for use in this manner.
CROSSWALK: A. That part of a street included within the connections of the
lateral lines of the sidewalks at intersections measured from the curbs or in
the absence of curbs from the edges of the traversable roadway.
   B.   Any portion of a street distinctly indicated for pedestrian crossing by
lines or other traffic control devices.
DRIVER: Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a vehicle.
EMERGENCY: Any occurrence or set of circumstances involving actual or imminent
physical trauma or property damage demanding immediate attention.
EMERGENCY VEHICLE: A motor vehicle belonging to a fire department, firefighting
association, or fire district, an ambulance, or a motor vehicle belonging to a
federal, state, county, or municipal law enforcement agency.
GROSS WEIGHT: The weight of a vehicle without load, plus the weight of any load
thereon.
INTERSECTION: The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the
intersecting highways or the area within which vehicles traveling on different
highways may come into conflict.
LANED ROADWAY: A roadway which is divided into two (2) or more clearly marked
lanes for vehicular traffic.
LOADING ZONE: A space or section of a street which has been set aside for the
exclusive purpose of loading and unloading persons, supplies and merchandise.
LOUD AMPLIFICATION DEVICE: Any equipment designed or used for sound production,
reproduction, or amplification, including, but not limited to, any radio,
television, phonograph, musical instrument, stereo, tape player, compact disc
player, loud speaker, public address (PA) system, sound amplifier, or
comparable sound broadcasting device.
MOTOR VEHICLE: Every vehicle which is self-propelled but not operated upon
rails, except vehicles moved solely by human power.
MOTORCYCLE: Every motor vehicle having a saddle for the use of the rider and
designed to travel on not more than three (3) wheels in contact with the
ground, but excluding a tractor.
OFFICIAL TIME STANDARD: The standard time or daylight saving time as may be in
current use in the city.
OFFICIAL TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES: All signs, signals, markings and devices
placed or erected by authority of the city or official having jurisdiction, for
the purpose of regulating, warning or guiding traffic.
OPERATOR: Every person who shall operate a vehicle upon any street in the city.
PARKING CONTROL OFFICE OR PARKING CONTROL: A division of the Rupert city
department of customer and support services, or such other administrative
arrangements as the city may establish, and all designated representatives
thereof.
PARKING METER ZONE: Any and all areas or streets established by authority of
the city or official having jurisdiction, as those areas within or upon which
the parking of vehicles shall be controlled and inspected with the aid of
timing devices and meters.
PARKING METERS: A mechanical device which is so adjusted as to show the length
of time of parking upon the streets in the city.
PEDESTRIAN: Any person who is afoot, including infants in a carriage being
pushed or pulled by a person.
PERSON: Any individual, association, organization, or entity having a legally
recognized existence, whether public or private.
PLACE OF RESIDENCE: Any building or portion thereof adapted or used and
intended for the overnight accommodation of persons. In the event the building
is used for multiple individual units (i.e., apartment, condominium, hotel,
motel, duplex, triplex, etc.) each individual unit shall be considered a
separate residence for the purposes of this chapter.
PLAINLY AUDIBLE: Sound for which the information content is clearly
communicated to the listener, including, but not limited to, understandable
spoken speech, comprehension of whether a voice is raised or normal,
comprehensible musical rhythms, melody, or instrumentation, and the source of
which is identifiable to the listener.
PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY: Every way or place in private ownership and used for
vehicular travel only by the owner or by those having express or implied
permission from the owner.
RESTRICTED PARKING DISTRICT: The area of the city so designated for the purpose
of providing special regulations for the control of parking and traffic.
RIGHT OF WAY: The right of one vehicle or pedestrian to proceed in a lawful
manner in preference to another vehicle or pedestrian approaching under such
circumstances of direction, speed and proximity as to give rise to danger of
collision unless one grants precedence to the other.
ROADWAY: That portion of a highway improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. In the event a highway
includes two (2) or more separate roadways, the word "roadway" applies
separately but not to all such roadways collectively.
SCHOOL BUS: Every motor vehicle owned by a public or governmental agency and
operated for the transportation of children to or from school, or privately
owned and operated for compensation for the transportation of children to and
from school.
SIDEWALK: That portion of a street between the curb lines, or lateral lines
defining vehicular traffic and the adjacent property lines, and intended for
pedestrian travel.
STAND OR STANDING: The halting of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, other
than for the purpose of and while actually engaged in receiving or discharging
passengers.
STOLEN VEHICLE: Any vehicle, whether located upon private or public property,
which the police department has reasonable grounds to believe that the owner
thereof has been, or is, unlawfully deprived of possession.
STOP OR STOPPING: The complete cessation of movement; any halting, even
momentarily, of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except when necessary to
avoid conflict with or in compliance with the direction of a police officer or
traffic control signal or device.
STREET OR HIGHWAY: The words "street" or "highway" shall be used
interchangeably and shall mean the entire width between the boundary lines of
every way or place open to the public, as a matter of right for public
vehicular travel, but not to include alleys.
THROUGH STREET: Every street or portion thereof on which vehicular traffic is
given preferential right of way, and at the entrances to which vehicular
traffic from intersecting roadways is required by law to yield the right of way
to vehicles on such through streets.
TRAFFIC: Either persons or vehicles while using any street or sidewalk for the
purpose of travel.
TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL: Any device, whether manually, electrically, or
mechanically operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and
proceed.
TRUCK: Every motor vehicle designed, used or maintained primarily for the
transportation of property.
   Pickup Truck: Every motor vehicle eight thousand (8,000) pounds' gross
weight, or less, which is designed, used or maintained primarily for the
transportation of property.
   Truck Camper: Any structure designed, used or maintained primarily to be
loaded onto or affixed to a motor vehicle to provide a mobile dwelling,
sleeping place, office or commercial space.
   Truck Tractor: Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily for drawing
other vehicles.
VEHICLE: Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a street, except devices used exclusively upon
stationary rails or tracks.
WRECKED VEHICLE: Any vehicle damaged by accidental or other cause and left
unattended upon any street, alley or public property. (Ord. 769, 3-3-1998)
8-9-3: NOISE PROHIBITIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or permit the operation of any
loud amplification device in such a manner that the sound therefrom:
   A.   Is plainly audible within any place of residence not the source of the
sound; or
   B.   Is plainly audible upon a public right of way or street at a distance
of one hundred feet (100') or more from the source of such sound; or
   C.   Is plainly audible from upon or within a motor vehicle upon a public
right of way or street at a distance of fifty feet (50') or more from the
source of such sound. (Ord. 769, 3-3-1998)
8-9-4: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Peace Officer Citation: Any Rupert city peace officer or person
empowered to enforce this provision of this code is authorized to issue a
uniform citation upon his own observation of a violation without the necessity
of a citizen complainant's signature on said citation. By signing the citation,
the officer or person is certifying that he has reasonable grounds to believe
that the person cited committed the offense contrary to law.
   B.   Citizen Citation: A uniform citation may also be signed by any citizen
or person in whose presence an alleged violation of this chapter occurred, and
be witnessed by a city peace officer or person empowered to enforce the
provisions of this chapter whose name shall be endorsed on the citation. (Ord.
769, 3-3-1998)
8-9-5: EXEMPTIONS:
The following sounds are exempted from the provisions of this chapter:
   A.   Sounds caused by any emergency vehicle or personnel when responding to
an emergency call or acting in time of emergency.
   B.   Sounds caused by activities upon any outdoor municipal, school,
religious, or publicly owned property or facility; provided, that such
activities have been authorized by the owner of such property or facility or
its agent.
   C.   Sounds caused by parades, firework displays, or any other event for
which a permit for that type of activity is required and has been obtained from
the authorized governmental entity within such hours as may be imposed as a
condition for the issuance of said permit.
   D.   Sounds caused by locomotives or other railroad equipment.
   E.   Sounds caused by burglar alarms that are not in violation of this
chapter.
   F.   Sounds caused by safety warning devices required by law.
   G.   Sounds caused by devices approved for use within the confines of the
particular zoning designation where the device is located or pursuant to a
conditional use permit (i.e., drive-through window speakers, car lot PA
systems).
   H.   Sounds emanating from devices used within the common areas of a multi-
unit facility whose use has been approved by the owners or management of the
facility. Said use must be in compliance with any regulations imposed by the
owners or management of the facility to be exempt under this chapter. This
exemption only applies in relation to other units within the same facility.
(Ord. 769, 3-3-1998)
8-9-6: PENALTY:
   A.   Fine: Any person who shall violate any of the terms or provisions of
this chapter shall be guilty of an infraction and shall be punishable by a fine
of one hundred dollars ($100.00) excluding court costs and fees. There is no
right to a trial by jury of a citation or complaint for an infraction, and such
trials shall be held before the court without a jury.
   B.   Suspension Of License: If a defendant fails to pay a traffic infraction
penalty: 1) within the time allowed by a notice of default judgment; or 2)
within the time allowed by a deferred payment agreement; or 3) within such
further time as allowed by order of the court; then, unless the court makes a
finding that the defendant has shown that the defendant has complete and
continuing financial inability to pay the penalty, the court shall sign a
notice of nonpayment of penalty and send it to the Idaho department of
transportation for suspension of defendant's driver's license as provided by
law. (Ord. 769, 3-3-1998)
CHAPTER 10
MOTORCADES AND PARADES
SECTION:
8-10-1: Definitions
8-10-2: Permits
8-10-3: Commercial Purpose Prohibited
8-10-4: Interference With Parade Prohibited
8-10-5: Application For Permit
8-10-6: Issuance Or Denial Of Permit
8-10-7: Contents Of Permit
8-10-8: Appeal Procedures
8-10-9: Officials To Be Notified
8-10-10: Revocation Of Permit
8-10-11: Penalty
8-10-1: DEFINITIONS:
MOTORCADE: An organized procession containing ten (10) or more vehicles, except
funeral processions, upon any public street, sidewalk or alleyway.
PARADE: Any march or procession consisting of people, animals or vehicles, or
any combination thereof, except funeral processions, upon any public street,
sidewalk or alleyway. (Ord. 08-505, 6-3-2008)
8-10-2: PERMITS:
It shall be unlawful for any person, business, or other organization of any
sort to conduct a parade or motorcade in or upon any public street, sidewalk or
alleyway in the city of Rupert, or to knowingly participate in any parade or
motorcade unless and until a permit to conduct the parade or motorcade has been
obtained from the chief of police or as hereinafter provided from the city
council. (Ord. 08-505, 6-3-2008)
8-10-3: COMMERCIAL PURPOSE PROHIBITED:
No permit shall be issued authorizing the conduct of a parade or motorcade
which the chief of police finds is proposed to be held for the sole purpose of
advertising any product, good, ware, merchandise or event, and is designed to
be held purely for private profit. (Ord. 08-505, 6-3-2008)
8-10-4: INTERFERENCE WITH PARADE PROHIBITED:
No person shall knowingly join or participate in any parade or motorcade
conducted under permit from the chief of police in violation of any of the
terms of the permit nor knowingly join or participate in any permitted parade
or motorcade without the consent and/or over the objection of the permittee,
nor in any manner interfere with a permitted parade's progress or orderly
conduct. (Ord. 08-505, 6-3-2008)
8-10-5: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
Any person who wants to conduct a parade or motorcade shall apply to the chief
of police for a permit at least thirty (30) days in advance of the date of the
proposed parade or motorcade. The chief of police may, in his or her
discretion, consider any application for a permit to conduct a parade or
motorcade which is filed less than thirty (30) days prior to the date the
parade or motorcade is to be conducted. The application for the permit shall be
made in writing on a form approved by the chief of police. In order that
adequate arrangements may be made for the proper policing of the parade or
motorcade, the application shall contain the following information:
   A.   The name of the applicant, the sponsoring organization, if any, the
parade or motorcade chairperson and the addresses and telephone numbers of
each;
   B.   The purpose of the parade or motorcade, the date when it is proposed to
be conducted, the location of the assembly area, the location of the disbanding
area, route to be traveled and the approximate time when the parade or
motorcade will assemble, start and terminate;
   C.   A description of the individual entries, floats, marching units,
vehicles, bands, including a description of any sound amplification equipment
to be used; and
   D.   Other information as the chief of police may deem reasonably necessary.
(Ord. 08-505, 6-3-2008)
8-10-6: ISSUANCE OR DENIAL OF PERMIT:
   A.   The chief of police shall issue a parade or motorcade permit
conditioned upon the applicant's written agreement to comply with the terms of
the permit unless the chief of police finds that:
      1.   The time, route and size of the parade or motorcade will disrupt, to
an unreasonable extent, the movement of other traffic;
      2.   The parade or motorcade is of a size or nature that requires the
diversion of so great a number of police officers of the city to properly
police the line of movement and the areas contiguous thereto that allowing the
parade or motorcade would deny reasonable police protection to the city; or
      3.   The parade or motorcade will interfere with another parade or
motorcade for which a permit has been issued.
   B.   The chief of police shall deny any application for a parade or
motorcade permit and notify the applicant of the denial where:
      1.   The chief of police makes any finding contrary to the findings
required to be made for the issuance of a permit;
      2.   The information contained in the application is found to be false or
nonexistent in any material detail; or
      3.   The applicant refuses to agree to abide by or comply with all
conditions of the permit. (Ord. 09-504, 6-16-2009)
8-10-7: CONTENTS OF PERMIT:
In each permit, the chief of police shall specify:
   A.   The assembly area and time therefor;
   B.   The starting time;
   C.   The minimum and maximum speeds;
   D.   The route of the parade or motorcade;
   E.   What portions of streets to be traversed may be occupied by the parade
or motorcade;
   F.   The maximum number of platoons or units and the maximum and minimum
intervals of space to be maintained between the units of the parade or
motorcade;
   G.   The maximum length of the parade or motorcade in miles or fractions
thereof;
   H.   The disbanding area and disbanding time;
   I.   The number of persons required to monitor the parade or motorcade;
   J.   The number and type of vehicles, if any;
   K.   The material and maximum size of any sign, banner, placard or carrying
device therefor;
   L.   That the permittee advise all participants in the parade or motorcade,
either orally or by written notice, of the terms and conditions of the permit,
prior to the commencement of the parade or motorcade;
   M.   That the parade or motorcade continue to move at a fixed rate of speed
and that any wilful delay or wilful stopping of the parade or motorcade, except
when reasonably required for the safe and orderly conduct of the parade or
motorcade, shall constitute a violation of the permit; and
   N.   That the city of Rupert is not a sponsor of the parade and that all
liability shall be borne by the permittee.
   O.   Other requirements as are found by the chief of police to be reasonably
necessary for the protection of persons or property.
All conditions of the permit shall be complied with so far as reasonably
practicable. (Ord. 09-504, 6-16-2009)
8-10-8: APPEAL PROCEDURES:
Upon a denial by the chief of police of an application, the applicant may
appeal from the determination of the chief of police within five (5) days
thereafter to the city council by filing a written notice of appeal for hearing
by the council at its next meeting. Upon the appeal, the city council may
reverse, affirm or modify, in any regard, the determination of the chief of
police. (Ord. 08-505, 6-3-2008)
8-10-9: OFFICIALS TO BE NOTIFIED:
Immediately upon the granting of a permit for a parade or motorcade, the chief
of police shall send a copy thereof to the following:
   A.   The mayor;
   B.   The city secretary;
   C.   The fire chief;
   D.   The director of general services; and
   E.   The public works director. (Ord. 08-505, 6-3-2008)
8-10-10: REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
Any permit for a parade or motorcade issued pursuant to this chapter may be
summarily revoked by the chief of police at any time when, by reason of
disaster, public calamity, riot or other emergency, the chief of police
determines that the safety of the public or property requires the revocation.
Notice of the action revoking a permit shall be delivered in writing to the
permittee by personal service or by certified mail. (Ord. 08-505, 6-3-2008)
8-10-11: PENALTY:
Should any person, firm or corporation violate the terms and/or conditions of
this chapter, or the permit issued pursuant thereto, such person, firm or
corporation shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 08-505, 6-3-2008)
CHAPTER 11
SKATEBOARDS, ROLLERBLADES, AND SCOOTERS
SECTION:
8-11-1: Definitions
8-11-2: Areas Prohibited
8-11-3: Other Rules And Regulations
8-11-4: Skateboarding Park
8-11-5: Penalties
8-11-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
following meanings:
 
SCOOTER:        Any device with wheels and handlebars, excluding bicycles,
                designed to be propelled by foot or other mechanical means.
STREET:         Any public road, highway, thoroughfare or alley in the City of
                Rupert.
RIDE OR RIDING: The act of propelling a skateboard, roller blade, or scooter by
                means other than carrying it.
ROLLERBLADE:    Any device with wheels that are attached to, or a part of, any
                shoe or boot.
                Any device with wheels attached to a surface, such surface
SKATEBOARD:     being designed such that a person or persons may stand, sit or
                kneel upon it and that is propelled by foot or other mechanical
                means.
SIDEWALK:       Any paved, concrete, or cement walkway designed for pedestrian
                use. (Ord. 19-503, 5-14-2019)
 
8-11-2: AREAS PROHIBITED:
   A.   No person shall ride a skateboard, rollerblade, scooter, or other
similar device in the City of Rupert on:
   B.   
      1.   Any public basketball, tennis, pickleball, playground, or other
recreation facility;
      2.   Any public bench, stairs, railings, retaining walls, ramp, or other
fixture owned by the City of Rupert;
      3.   Any public parking lot;
      4.   Any place within the Rupert Square Park;
      5.   Any public area, including but not limited to sidewalks, in the
Historic District of the City of Rupert;
      6.   Any public areas on or contiguous to Freemont Street; or,
      7.   The Minidoka Senior Center facilities. (Ord. 19-503, 5-14-2019)
8-11-3: OTHER RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   Yield Right-of-Way: Any person riding a skateboard, rollerblade, or
scooter shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle, bicycle or pedestrian
while on streets, sidewalks, or public rights-of-way.
   B.   Operating on Right-Hand Side: While on a street, skateboards,
rollerblades and scooters shall be operated as close as practicable to the
right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
   C.   Traffic Control Devices and Traffic Regulations: Any person operating a
skateboard, rollerblade or scooter shall obey the instruction of official
traffic control signals, signs and other devices applicable to vehicles. The
operation of a skateboard, roller blade or scooter on a street shall be subject
to all of the provisions or laws of the State and the laws of the City,
including those applicable to the drivers of vehicles, except as to the latter,
those provisions that by their nature have no application.
   D.   Careless Riding: No person shall ride a skateboard, rollerblade or
scooter in a manner that endangers or would be likely to endanger any person or
damages or would be likely to damage real or personal property. (Ord. 19-503,
5-14-2019)
8-11-4: SKATEBOARDING PARK:
The regulations and prohibitions of this chapter shall not apply to use of a
skateboard, rollerblade, or scooter at the City of Rupert Skateboarding Park
located on 11th Street. (Ord. 19-503, 5-14-2019)
8-11-5: PENALTIES:
A person found in violation of this chapter shall be guilty of an infraction
and subject to the following fines:
   A.   First Offense - twenty five dollars ($25.00).
   B.   Second Offense - fifty dollars ($50.00).
   C.   Third Offense - one hundred dollars ($100.00).
   D.   A fine not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense
thereafter. (Ord. 19-503, 5-14-2019)
TITLE 9
TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
TRAFFIC DEFINITIONS, GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
9-1-1: Definitions
9-1-2: Adoption Of Idaho Motor Vehicle Laws
9-1-3: Traffic Control Systems Manual Adopted
9-1-4: Persons Under The Influence Of Liquor Or Drugs
9-1-5: Reckless Driving
9-1-6: Drivers Qualified Under State Law
9-1-7: Driving Through Safety Zone
9-1-8: Unattended Motor Vehicle
9-1-9: Limitations On Backing
9-1-10: Riding On Motorcycles
9-1-11: Obstruction To Driver's View Or Driving Mechanism
9-1-12: Following Fire Apparatus
9-1-13: Crossing Fire Hose
9-1-14: Injurious Materials On Thoroughfares
9-1-15: Preventing Smoke And Noise
9-1-16: Regulation Of Traffic By Council
9-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases when used in this title shall, for the purpose
of this title, have the meanings respectively ascribed to them in this section
unless the context in which they appear indicates differently:
HIGHWAYS, RESTRICTED DISTRICTS, ZONES:
   Arterial Street: Any U.S. or state numbered route, controlled access
highway, or other major radial or circumferential street or highway designated
by local authorities within their respective jurisdictions as part of a major
arterial system of streets or highways.
   Business District: The territory contiguous to and including a highway when
within any six hundred feet (600') along such highway there are buildings in
use for business or industrial purposes, including, but not limited to, hotels,
banks, or office buildings, railroad stations, and public buildings which
occupy at least three hundred feet (300') of frontage on one side or three
hundred feet (300') collectively on both sides of the highway.
   Controlled Access Highway: Every highway, street, or roadway in respect to
which owners or occupants of abutting lands and other persons have no legal
right of access to or from the same except at such points only and in such
manner as may be determined by the public authority having jurisdiction over
such highway, street, or roadway.
   Crosswalk: A. That part of the roadway at an intersection included within
the connections of the lateral lines of the sidewalk on opposite sides of the
highways measured from the curbs or, in the absence of curbs, from the edges of
the traversable roadway.
   B.   Any portion of a roadway at an intersection or elsewhere distinctly
indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on the surface.
   Intersection: The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the
roadways of two (2) highways which join one another at, or approximately at,
right angles, or the area within which vehicles traveling upon different
highways joining at any other angle may come in conflict.
   Laned Roadway: A roadway which is divided into two (2) or more clearly
marked lanes for vehicular traffic.
   Official Traffic Control Devices: All signs, signals, markings and devices
not inconsistent with this title placed or erected by authority of the city for
the purpose of regulating, warning or guiding traffic.
   Park: When prohibited, means the standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or
not, otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged
in loading or unloading.
   Private Road Or Driveway: Every way or place in private ownership and used
for vehicular travel only by the owner or by those having express or implied
permission from the owner.
   Railroad Sign Or Signal: Any sign, signal or device erected by authority of
the city or by a railroad and intended to give notice of the presence of a
railroad train, railroad tracks or the approach of a railroad train.
   Residence District: The territory contiguous to and including a highway not
comprising a business district when the property on such highway for a distance
of three hundred feet (300') or more is in the main improved with residences or
residences and buildings in use for business.
   Right Of Way: The privilege of the immediate use of the highway.
   Roadway: That portion of a highway improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. In the event a highway
includes two (2) or more separate roadways, the term "roadway" as used herein
shall refer to any such roadway separately but not to all such roadways
collectively.
   Safety Zone: The area or space officially set apart within a roadway for the
exclusive use of pedestrians and which is protected or is so marked or
indicated by adequate signs as to be plainly visible at all times while set
apart as a safety zone.
   Sidewalk: That portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral
lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines, intended for the use of
pedestrians.
   Stop: When required means complete cessation from movement.
   Stop, Stopping Or Standing: When prohibited, means any stopping or standing
of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid conflict
with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police officer or
traffic control sign or signal.
   Street Or Highway: The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel.
   Through Highway: Every highway or portion thereof at the entrances to which
vehicular traffic from intersecting highways is required by law to stop before
entering or crossing the same, and when stop signs are erected at such
entrances.
   Traffic: Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles and other
conveyances either singly or together while using any highway for purpose of
travel.
   Traffic Control Signal: Any device, whether manually, electrically or
mechanically operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and to
proceed.
   Urban District: The territory contiguous to and including any street which
is built up with structures devoted to business or industry, or where dwelling
houses are situated at intervals of less than one hundred feet (100') for a
distance of one-fourth (1/4) mile or more.
PERSONS, INDIVIDUALS AND OTHERS:
   Driver: Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
   Owner: A person who holds the legal title to a vehicle, or in the event a
vehicle is the subject of an agreement for the conditional sale or lease
thereof with the right of purchase upon performance of the conditions stated in
the agreement and with an immediate right of possession vested in the
conditional vendee or lessee, or in the event a mortgagor of a vehicle is
entitled to possession, then such conditional vendee or lessee or mortgagor
shall be deemed the owner for the purpose of this title.
   Pedestrian: Any person afoot.
   Person: Every natural person, firm, copartnership, association or
corporation.
   Police Officer: Every officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic or to
make arrests for violation of traffic regulations.
VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT:
   Authorized Emergency Vehicle: Vehicles of the fire department, police
vehicles and such ambulances and emergency vehicles of municipal departments or
public service corporations as are designated or authorized by the director of
law enforcement of the state of Idaho or by the chief of police of the city.
   Bicycle: Every device propelled by human power upon which any person may
ride, having two (2) tandem wheels either of which is more than twenty inches
(20") in diameter.
   Bus: Every motor vehicle designed for carrying more than ten (10) passengers
and used for the transportation of persons; and every motor vehicle, other than
a taxicab, designed and used for the transportation of persons for
compensation.
   Farm Tractor: Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily as a farm
implement for drawing plows, mowing machines and other implements of husbandry.
   Motor Driven Cycle: Every motorcycle, including every motor scooter, with a
motor which produces not to exceed five (5) horsepower, and every bicycle with
motor attached.
   Motor Vehicle: Every vehicle which is self-propelled.
   Motorcycle: Every motor vehicle having a seat or saddle for use of the rider
and designed to travel on not more than three (3) wheels in contact with the
ground, but excluding a tractor.
   Pole Trailer: Every vehicle without motive power designed to be drawn by
another vehicle and attached to the towing vehicle by means of a reach, or
pole, or by being boomed or otherwise secured to the towing vehicle, and
ordinarily used for transporting long or irregularly shaped loads such as
poles, pipes or structural members capable, generally, of sustaining themselves
as beams between the supporting connections.
   Railroad: A carrier of persons or property upon cars, other than streetcars,
operated upon stationary rails.
   Railroad Train: A steam engine, electric or other motor, with or without
cars coupled thereto, operated upon rails.
   Road Tractor: Every motor vehicle designed and used for drawing other
vehicles and not so constructed as to carry any load thereon either
independently or any part of the weight of a vehicle or load so drawn.
   School Bus: Every motor vehicle owned by a public or governmental agency and
operated for the transportation of children to or from school or privately
owned and operated for compensation for the transportation of children to or
from school.
   Semitrailer: Every vehicle with or without motive power, other than a pole
trailer, designed for carrying persons or property and for being drawn by a
motor vehicle and so constructed that some part of its weight and that of its
load rests upon or is carried by another vehicle.
   Trailer: Every vehicle with or without motive power, other than a pole
trailer, designed for carrying persons or property and for being drawn by a
motor vehicle and so constructed that part of the weight rests upon the towing
vehicle.
   Truck: Every motor vehicle designed, used or maintained primarily for the
transportation of property.
   Truck-Tractor: Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily for drawing
other vehicles and not so constructed as to carry a load other than a part of
the weight of the vehicle and load so drawn.
   Vehicle: Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway or street, except devices moved by human
power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks. (1960 Code, Secs. 7-
101, 7-102, 7-103, 7-104; amd. 1977 Code)
9-1-2: ADOPTION OF IDAHO MOTOR VEHICLE LAWS:
   A.   It is hereby declared to be the intent of the governing body of the
city to aid and assist by whatever means possible, for the utmost consistency
in traffic regulation among and between agencies of Idaho having such
jurisdiction. Toward that end, adoption of the Idaho motor vehicle laws by the
cities of Idaho is a necessary means of assuring maximum uniformity within the
state.
   B.   There is hereby adopted for the purpose of establishing rules and
regulations for the use of all streets and public thoroughfares of the city
that certain code more particularly being title 49, Idaho Code, with the 1970
Idaho Code supplement, be and the same is hereby adopted and incorporated as an
ordinance of the city as fully as though set forth at length herein.
   C.   Three (3) copies of title 49, Idaho Code, together with the Idaho Code
1970 supplement, duly certified by the city clerk, shall be kept on file in the
office of the city clerk for use and examination of and by the public. (Ord.
510, 1-19-1971)
9-1-3: TRAFFIC CONTROL SYSTEMS MANUAL ADOPTED:
There is hereby adopted for the purpose of establishing a uniform system of
traffic control devices, that certain manual known as the "Traffic Control
Systems Manual", published by the state department of highways. A minimum of
three (3) copies of said manual are on file in the office of the city clerk and
the same is hereby adopted by reference as fully as if set out at length
herein. (1977 Code)
9-1-4: PERSONS UNDER THE INFLUENCE OF LIQUOR OR DRUGS:
   A.   It is unlawful and punishable as provided in subsection E of this
section for any person who is under the influence of intoxicating beverages to
drive or be in actual physical control of any motor vehicle within this state.
   B.   In any criminal prosecution for a violation of subsection A of this
section relating to driving a motor vehicle while under the influence of
intoxicating beverages, the amount of alcohol in the defendant's blood at the
time of the alleged offense as shown by chemical analysis of the defendant's
blood, urine, breath, or other bodily substance shall give rise to the
following presumptions:
      1.   If there was at the time eight-hundredths percent (.08%) by weight
of alcohol in the defendant's blood, such fact shall not give rise to any
presumption that the defendant was or was not under the influence of
intoxicating liquor, but such fact may be considered with other competent
evidence in determining the guilt or innocence of the defendant;
      2.   If there was at that time more than eight-hundredths percent (.08%)
by weight of alcohol in the defendant's blood, it shall be presumed that the
defendant was under the influence of intoxicating beverages;
      3.   Percent by weight of alcohol in blood shall be based upon grams of
alcohol per one hundred (100) cubic centimeters of blood. Chemical analysis of
blood, urine or breath for the purpose of determining the blood alcohol level
shall be performed by a laboratory operated by the Idaho department of health
and welfare or by a laboratory approved by the Idaho department of health and
welfare under the provisions of approval and certification standards to be set
by that department;
      4.   The foregoing provisions of subsection B of this section shall not
be construed as limiting the introduction of any other competent evidence
bearing upon the question whether or not the defendant was under the influence
of intoxicating beverages.
   C.   It is unlawful and punishable as provided in subsection E of this
section for any person who is a habitual user of, or under the influence of any
narcotic drug, or who is under the influence of any other drug or any
combination of intoxicating liquor and any drug to a degree which renders him
incapable of safely driving a motor vehicle, to drive a motor vehicle within
this state. The fact that any person charged with a violation of this
subsection is or has been entitled to use such drug under the laws of this
state shall not constitute a defense against any charge of violating this
subsection.
   D.   It is unlawful and punishable as provided in subsection E of this
section for any person who is under the influence of any other intoxicating
substance or any combination of any intoxicating liquor, any drug and any other
intoxicating substance to a degree which renders him incapable of safely
driving a motor vehicle, to drive a motor vehicle within this state.
   E.   Every person who is convicted of a violation of this section shall be
punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. In addition, and upon conviction of driving while under the
influence of intoxicants, the court shall demand the delivery of and shall
receive the driver's license as provided by law. (1977 Code)
9-1-5: RECKLESS DRIVING:
   A.   Any person who drives any vehicle upon a highway or street carelessly
and heedlessly, or without due caution and circumspection and at a speed or in
a manner so as to endanger or be likely to endanger any person or property, or
who passes when there is a line in his lane indicating a sight distance
restriction, shall be guilty of reckless driving and upon conviction shall be
punished as provided in subsection B of this section. (1960 Code, Sec. 7-502)
   B.   Every person convicted of reckless driving under this section shall be
punished by a fine of not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than
three hundred dollars ($300.00) or by imprisonment in the city or county jail
for a period of not less than five (5) days nor more than ninety (90) days, or
by both such fine and imprisonment; and on a second or subsequent conviction
shall be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than three hundred
dollars ($300.00) or by imprisonment for not less than ten (10) days nor more
than six (6) months, or by both such fine and imprisonment; and provided
further, that the department of law enforcement shall suspend the license of
any such person. (1977 Code)
9-1-6: DRIVERS QUALIFIED UNDER STATE LAW:
No person shall drive a vehicle in the city who is not duly qualified for and
the holder of a driver's or chauffeur's license under the laws of the state of
Idaho. (1960 Code, Sec. 7-1401)
9-1-7: DRIVING THROUGH SAFETY ZONE:
No vehicle shall at any time be driven through or within a safety zone. (1960
Code, Sec. 7-1402)
9-1-8: UNATTENDED MOTOR VEHICLE:
No person in charge of or driving a motor vehicle shall permit it to stand
unattended without first stopping the engine, locking the ignition, removing
the key, and effectively setting the brake thereon and, when standing upon any
grade, turning the front wheels to the curb or side of the highway. (1960 Code,
Sec. 7-1403)
9-1-9: LIMITATIONS ON BACKING:
The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same unless such movement can be
made with reasonable safety and without interfering with other traffic. (1960
Code, Sec. 7-1404)
9-1-10: RIDING ON MOTORCYCLES:
A person operating a motorcycle shall ride only upon the permanent and regular
seat attached thereto, and such operator shall not carry any other person nor
shall any other person ride on a motorcycle unless such motorcycle is designed
to carry more than one person, in which event the passenger may ride upon the
permanent and regular seat designed for two (2) persons, or upon another seat
firmly attached to the rear or side of the operator. (1960 Code, Sec. 7-1405)
9-1-11: OBSTRUCTION TO DRIVER'S VIEW OR DRIVING MECHANISM:
   A.   No person shall drive a vehicle when it is so loaded, or when there is
in the front seat such number of persons, exceeding three (3), as to obstruct
the view of the driver to the front or sides of the vehicle or as to interfere
with the driver's control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   B.   No passenger in a vehicle shall ride in such position as to interfere
with the driver's view ahead or to the sides, or to interfere with his control
over the driving mechanism of the vehicle. (1960 Code, Sec. 1406)
9-1-12: FOLLOWING FIRE APPARATUS:
The driver of any motor vehicle other than one on official business shall not
follow any fire apparatus traveling in response to a fire alarm closer than
five hundred feet (500') or drive into or park such vehicle within the block
where fire apparatus has stopped in answer to a fire alarm 1 . (1960 Code, Sec.
7-1407)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 6-1-7D of this code.
9-1-13: CROSSING FIRE HOSE:
No vehicle shall be driven over any unprotected hose of a fire department when
laid down on any street, or private driveway, to be used in any fire or alarm
of fire, without the consent of the fire department official in command 1 .
(1960 Code, Sec. 7-1408)
 
Notes
1 2. See also subsection 6-1-7B of this code.
9-1-14: INJURIOUS MATERIALS ON THOROUGHFARES:
   A.   No person shall throw or deposit upon any highway any glass bottle,
glass, nails, tacks, wire, cans or any other substance likely to injure any
person, animal or vehicle upon such highway.
   B.   Any person who drops, or permits to be dropped or thrown upon any
highway or street any destructive or injurious material shall immediately
remove the same or cause it to be removed.
   C.   Any person removing a wrecked or damaged vehicle from a highway or
street shall remove any glass or other injurious substance dropped upon the
highway from such vehicle. (1960 Code, Sec. 7-1409)
9-1-15: PREVENTING SMOKE AND NOISE:
   A.   Every motor vehicle shall at all times be equipped with a muffler in
good working order and in constant operation to prevent excessive or unusual
noise and annoying smoke, and no person shall use a muffler cutout, bypass, or
similar device upon a motor vehicle on a highway. When any motor vehicle was
originally equipped with a noise suppressing system or when any motor vehicle
is required by law or regulation of this state or the federal government to
have a noise suppressing system, that system shall be maintained in good
working order, and no person shall disconnect any part of that system except
temporarily in order to make repairs, replacements or adjustments, and no
person shall modify or alter that system or its operation in any manner, except
to conform to the manufacturer's specifications. No person shall knowingly
operate and no owner shall knowingly cause or permit to be operated any motor
vehicle originally equipped or required by any law or regulation of this state
or the federal government to be equipped with a noise suppressing system while
any part of that system is disconnected or while that system or its operation
is modified or altered in any manner, except to conform to the manufacturer's
specifications.
"Excessive or unusual noise" as used in this section includes, but is not
limited to, any sound made by a passenger motor vehicle or a motorcycle at any
time under any condition of grade, speed, acceleration or deceleration, which
exceeds ninety two (92) decibels, or any lower decibel level than is fixed by
law or the rules and regulations regularly adopted by the board of health and
welfare, on the A scale of a general radio company no. 1551-B sound level
meter, or equivalent, stationed at a distance of not less than twenty feet
(20') to the side of such vehicle or motorcycle as such vehicle or motorcycle
passes the soundmeter or is stationed not less than twenty feet (20') from a
stationary motor or engine.
   B.   The engine and power mechanism of every motor vehicle shall be so
equipped and adjusted as to prevent the escape of excessive fumes or smoke.
   C.   No person shall modify the exhaust system of a motor vehicle or a
motorcycle in a manner which will amplify or increase the noise of such vehicle
or motorcycle above that emitted by the muffler originally installed on the
vehicle by the manufacturer.
   D.   A showing that the sound made by a passenger motor vehicle or
motorcycle exceeds the maximum allowable decibel level shall be prima facie
evidence of a violation of subsection A of this section.
   E.   No person shall sell, offer for sale, or install any noise suppressing
system or device which will produce "excessive or unusual noise" as defined in
subsection A of this section. (1977 Code)
9-1-16: REGULATION OF TRAFFIC BY COUNCIL:
The city council is hereby authorized to designate such through streets, stop
streets, one-way streets, safety zones, places where parking is prohibited, and
no U-turn intersections, in and upon the streets of the city as shall be deemed
necessary for the regulation and control of traffic, and shall cause
appropriate signs, signals or other traffic devices to be placed and maintained
upon such streets to give notice thereof, such to be done by duly adopting
resolutions at regular meetings of the council and marked upon a map to be kept
at the office of the city clerk for inspection by the public. (Ord. 537, 1-16-
1973)
CHAPTER 2
ENFORCEMENT, OBEDIENCE; TRAFFIC LAWS
SECTION:
9-2-1: Required Obedience To Traffic Regulations
9-2-2: Obedience To Police Officers
9-2-3: Public Officers And Employees, Obedience; Exceptions
9-2-4: Authorized Emergency Vehicles
9-2-5: Riding Animals, Driving Animal Drawn Vehicles
9-2-6: Rights Of Property Owners
9-2-7: Accidents
9-2-1: REQUIRED OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC REGULATIONS:
It is unlawful and a misdemeanor for any person to do any act forbidden or fail
to perform any act required in this title. Unless otherwise provided herein,
any person violating any provisions of this title shall, upon conviction
thereof, be punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 398, 6-6-1961; amd. 1977 Code)
9-2-2: OBEDIENCE TO POLICE OFFICERS:
No person shall wilfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of any police officer invested by law with authority to direct,
control or regulate traffic. (1960 Code, Sec. 7-202)
9-2-3: PUBLIC OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES, OBEDIENCE; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   The provisions of this title applicable to the drivers of vehicles upon
the highways and streets shall apply to the drivers of all vehicles owned or
operated by the United States, the state of Idaho or any county, city or any
other political subdivision of the state, except as provided in this section
and subject to such specific exceptions as are set forth in this title with
reference to authorized emergency vehicles.
   B.   Unless specifically made applicable, the provisions of this title shall
not apply to persons, teams, motor vehicles and other equipment while actually
engaged in work upon the surface of a highway or street but shall apply to such
persons and vehicles when traveling to and from such work. (1960 Code, Sec. 7-
203)
9-2-4: AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES:
   A.   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to an
emergency call or when in the pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the
law or when responding to, but not upon returning from, a fire alarm, may
exercise the privileges set forth in this section, but subject to the
conditions herein stated.
   B.   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle may:
      1.   Park or stand, irrespective of the provisions of this title;
      2.   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign but only after
slowing down as much as may be necessary for safe operation of the emergency
vehicle;
      3.   Exceed the prima facie speed limits so long as he does not endanger
life or property;
      4.   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement of traffic or
turning of traffic in specified directions.
   C.   The exemptions herein granted to an authorized emergency vehicle shall
apply only when the driver of any said vehicle while in motion sounds audible
signals by bell, siren or exhaust whistle as may be reasonably necessary, and
when the vehicle is equipped with at least one lighted lamp displaying a red
light visible under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of five
hundred feet (500') to the front of such vehicle, except that an authorized
emergency vehicle operated as a police vehicle need not be equipped with or
display a red light visible from in front of the vehicle.
   D.   The foregoing provisions shall not relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons, nor shall such provision protect the driver from the consequences of
his reckless disregard for the safety of others. (1960 Code, Sec. 7-204)
9-2-5: RIDING ANIMALS, DRIVING ANIMAL DRAWN VEHICLES:
Every person riding an animal or driving any animal drawn vehicle upon a
roadway shall be granted all the rights and shall be subject to all of the
duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle by this title, except those
provisions of this title which by their very nature can have no application.
(1960 Code, Sec. 7-205)
9-2-6: RIGHTS OF PROPERTY OWNERS:
Nothing in this title shall be construed to prevent the owner of real property
used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel by permission of the owner
and not as a matter of right from prohibiting such use, or from requiring other
or different or additional conditions than those specified in this title, or
otherwise regulating such use as may seem best to such owner. (1960 Code, Sec.
7-206)
9-2-7: ACCIDENTS:
   A.   Involving Death Or Personal Injuries: The driver of any vehicle
involved in an accident resulting in an injury to or death of any person shall
immediately stop such vehicle at the scene of such accident or as close thereto
as possible and shall then forthwith return to, and in every event shall remain
at, the scene of the accident until he has fulfilled the requirement of
subsection C of this section. Every such stop shall be made without obstructing
traffic more than is necessary. (1960 Code, Sec. 7-401)
   B.   Involving Damage To Vehicle:
      1.   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident resulting only in
damage to a vehicle which is driven or attended by any person shall immediately
stop such vehicle at the scene of such accident or as close thereto as possible
but shall forthwith return to and in every event shall remain at the scene of
such accident until he has fulfilled the requirements of subsection C of this
section. Every such stop shall be made without obstructing traffic more than is
necessary. (1960 Code, Sec. 7-402)
      2.   Any person failing to stop or comply with said requirements under
such circumstances shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. (1977 Code)
   C.   Duty To Give Information And Render Aid: The driver of any vehicle
involved in an accident resulting in injury to or death of any person or damage
to any vehicle which is driven or attended by any person shall give his name,
address and the registration number of the vehicle he is driving, and shall,
upon request and if available, exhibit his operator's or chauffeur's license to
the person struck or the driver or occupant of or person attending any vehicle
collided with and shall render to any person injured in such accident
reasonable assistance, including the carrying, or the making of arrangements
for the carrying of such person to a physician, surgeon or hospital for medical
or surgical treatment if it is apparent that such treatment is necessary or if
such carrying is requested by the injured person. (1960 Code, Sec. 7-403)
   D.   Duty Upon Striking Unattended Vehicle: The driver of any vehicle which
collides with any vehicle which is unattended shall immediately stop and shall
then and there either locate and notify the operator or owner of such vehicle
of the name and address of the driver and owner of the vehicle striking the
unattended vehicle, or shall leave in a conspicuous place in the vehicle struck
a written notice giving the name and address of the driver and of the owner of
the vehicle doing the striking and a statement of the circumstances thereof.
(1960 Code, Sec. 7-404)
   E.   Duty Upon Striking Fixtures Upon A Highway: The driver of any vehicle
involved in an accident resulting only in damage to fixtures or other property
legally upon or adjacent to a highway or street shall take reasonable steps to
locate and notify the owner or person in charge of such property of such fact
and of his name and address and of the registration number of the vehicle he is
driving, and shall, upon request and if available, exhibit his operator's or
chauffeur's license. (1977 Code)
   F.   Immediate Notice Of Accidents:
      1.   The driver of a vehicle involved in an accident resulting in injury
to or death of any person, or damage to the property of any one person in
excess of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) shall immediately by the quickest
means of communication give notice of such accident to the police department of
the city. (1960 Code, Sec. 7-406; amd. 1977 Code)
      2.   Whenever the driver of a vehicle is physically incapable of giving
immediate notice of an accident as required herein, and there was another
occupant in the vehicle at the time of the accident capable of doing so, such
occupant shall give or cause to be given the notice not given by the driver.
   G.   Written Reports Of Accidents:
      1.   Every police officer, who in the regular course of duty,
investigates a motor vehicle accident either at the time of and at the scene of
the accident or thereafter by interviewing participants or witnesses shall,
within twenty four (24) hours after completing such investigation, forward a
written report of such accident to the department.
      2.   Such written reports required to be forwarded by police officers and
the information contained therein shall not be privileged or held confidential.
   H.   Accident Report Forms:
      1.   The department of law enforcement shall prepare and upon request
supply to the police department, coroner, sheriff, garages, and other suitable
agencies or individuals, forms for written accident reports required hereunder,
appropriate with respect to the persons required to make such reports and the
purposes to be served. The written reports shall call for sufficiently detailed
information to disclose with reference to a traffic accident the cause,
conditions then existing, and the persons and vehicles involved.
      2.   Every accident report required to be made in writing shall be made
on the appropriate form approved by the department of law enforcement and shall
contain all of the information required therein unless not available.
   I.   Coroner To Report: The coroner or other official performing like
functions shall on or before the tenth day of each month report in writing to
the department of law enforcement the death of any person within his
jurisdiction during the preceding calendar month as the result of a traffic
accident, giving the time and place of the accident and the circumstances
relating thereto.
   J.   Garages To Report: The person in charge of any garage or repair shop to
which is brought any motor vehicle which shows evidence of having been involved
in an accident of which report must be made, as provided in subsection G of
this section, or struck by any bullet, shall report to the department within
forty eight (48) hours after such motor vehicle is received, giving the engine
number, registration number and the name and address of the owner or operator
of such vehicle.
   K.   Accident Reports Confidential, Exceptions: All accident reports made by
garages shall be without prejudice to the individual so reporting and shall be
for the confidential use of the department or other governmental agencies
having use for the records for accident prevention purposes, except that the
department may disclose the identity of a person involved in an accident when
such identity is not otherwise known or when such person denies his presence at
the scene of such accident. No such report shall be used as evidence in any
trial, civil or criminal, arising out of an accident.
   L.   Department To Tabulate And Analyze Accident Reports: The department
shall tabulate and may analyze all accident reports and shall publish annually,
or at more frequent intervals, statistical information based thereon as to the
number or circumstances of traffic accidents.
   M.   City May Require Accident Reports: The city may by ordinance require
that the driver of a vehicle involved in an accident shall also file with the
police department a report of such accident or a copy of any report herein
required to be filed with the department. All such reports shall be for the
confidential use of the police department and subject to the provisions of
subsection K of this section.
   N.   Testing Blood Of Persons Killed In Accidents: The director of the
department of health and welfare, jointly with the county coroner, shall
provide a system and procedure whereby all morticians in the city shall obtain
blood samples from all pedestrians and motor vehicle operators who have died as
a result of and contemporaneously with an accident involving a motor vehicle.
   O.   Report And Investigation Of Traffic Hazard Causing Accident: Whenever
any investigation or judicial action stemming from a traffic accident which
resulted in death or injury to any person or damage to any property in an
apparent extent of five hundred dollars ($500.00) or more results in a finding
that a physical traffic hazard caused or was responsible for a traffic
accident, the investigating traffic enforcement officer or presiding judicial
officer shall submit a written statement of such finding to the safety engineer
of the Idaho transportation department and to the board of county
commissioners. Within sixty (60) days, the Idaho transportation department
shall examine and report on the alleged traffic hazard. Copies of the report
shall be sent to the reporting traffic enforcement officer or presiding
judicial officer who originated the action and the board of county
commissioners. Such report by the Idaho transportation department shall contain
the engineer's explanation of the hazard and shall propose what can be done to
alleviate the hazard or what has been done to alleviate the hazard, or
information to fully explain why no action has been taken or is anticipated.
(1977 Code)
CHAPTER 3
RULES OF THE ROAD
SECTION:
9-3-1: Speed Restrictions
9-3-2: Driving On Right Side, Exceptions
9-3-3: Passing, Overtaking Vehicles
9-3-4: Driving To Left Of Center Of Roadway
9-3-5: One-Way Roadways And Traffic Islands
9-3-6: Driving On Roadways Laned For Traffic
9-3-7: Following Too Closely
9-3-8: Required Position, Method Of Turning At Intersections
9-3-9: Starting Parked Vehicle
9-3-10: Signals By Hand And Arm Or Signal Device
9-3-11: Turning Around On Street
9-3-12: Certain U-Turns Prohibited
9-3-1: SPEED RESTRICTIONS:
The speed restrictions for streets, highways, roads and alleys within the city
are hereby fixed and established as follows:
   A.   No person shall drive a vehicle on a highway, street, road or alley at
a speed greater than is reasonable and prudent under the conditions and having
regard to the actual and potential hazards then existing. In every event speed
shall be so controlled as may be necessary to avoid colliding with any person,
vehicle or other conveyance on or entering the highway, street, road or alley
in compliance with legal requirements and the duty of all persons to use due
care.
   B.   Where no special hazard exists that requires a lower speed for
compliance with subsection A of this section, the limits as hereinafter
authorized shall be maximum lawful speeds, and no person shall drive a vehicle
at a speed in excess of such maximum limits:
      1.   Thirty five (35) miles per hour on Highways 24 and 25 in the city,
or as otherwise fixed and posted by the state of Idaho.
      2.   Twenty five (25) miles per hour on streets and roads and alleys
within the city, unless otherwise posted as provided hereafter, and except when
passing schools as hereinafter provided.
      3.   Fifteen (15) miles per hour when passing schools between the hours
of seven thirty o'clock (7:30) A.M. and four o'clock (4:00) P.M. Mondays
through Fridays when the school zones are posted by the city with fifteen (15)
miles per hour speed limit signs.
The speeds in subsections B1, B2 and B3 of this section, may be altered by the
city through its mayor and council and the posting of different speeds by
appropriate and plainly visible signs.
   C.   The driver of every vehicle shall, consistent with the requirements of
subsection A of this section, drive at an appropriate reduced speed when
approaching and crossing an intersection or railway grade crossing, when
approaching and going around a curve, and when special hazards exist with
respect to pedestrians or other traffic or by reason of weather or highway or
street conditions.
In every charge of any speed violation in this section, the complaint, or
traffic citation, shall specify the speed at which the defendant is alleged to
have driven, and the prima facie speed applicable within the district or at the
location. (Ord. 679, 12-23-1986)
9-3-2: DRIVING ON RIGHT SIDE, EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Upon all roadways of sufficient width a vehicle shall be driven upon
the right half of the roadway, except as follows:
      1.   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction under the rules governing such movement.
      2.   When the right half of a roadway is closed to traffic while under
construction or repair.
      3.   Upon a roadway designated and signposted for one-way traffic.
   B.   Upon all roadways any vehicle proceeding at less than the normal speed
of traffic at the time and place and under the conditions then existing shall
be driven in the right hand lane then available for traffic, or as close as
practicable to the right hand curb or edge of the roadway, except when
overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same direction or when
preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a private road or
driveway. (1960 Code, Sec. 7-701)
9-3-3: PASSING, OVERTAKING VEHICLES:
   A.   Passing Vehicles Proceeding In Opposite Directions: Drivers of vehicles
proceeding in opposite directions shall pass each other to the right; and upon
roadways having width for not more than one line of traffic in each direction,
each driver shall give to the other at least one-half (1/2) of the main
traveled portion of the roadway as nearly as possible. (1960 Code, Sec. 7-702)
   B.   Overtaking A Vehicle On The Left: The following rules shall govern the
overtaking and passing of vehicles proceeding in the same direction, subject to
those limitations, exceptions and special rules hereinafter stated:
      1.   The driver of a vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction shall pass to the left thereof at a safe distance and shall not
again drive to the right side of the roadway until safely clear of the
overtaken vehicle.
      2.   Except when overtaking and passing on the right is permitted, the
driver of an overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in favor of the
overtaking vehicle on audible signal and shall not increase the speed of his
vehicle until completely passed by the overtaking vehicle. (1960 Code, Sec. 7-
703)
   C.   When Overtaking On The Right Is Permitted:
      1.   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass upon the right of
another vehicle only under the following conditions:
         a.   When the vehicle overtaken is making or about to make a left
turn.
         b.   Upon a street or highway with unobstructed pavement not occupied
by parked vehicles of sufficient width for two (2) or more lines of moving
vehicles in each direction.
         c.   Upon a one-way street, or upon any roadway on which traffic is
restricted to one direction of movement, where the roadway is free from
obstructions and of sufficient width for two (2) or more lines of moving
vehicles.
      2.   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass another vehicle upon
the right only under conditions permitting such movement in safety. In no event
shall such movement be made by driving off the pavement or main traveled
portion of the roadway. (1960 Code, Sec. 7-704)
   D.   Limitations On Overtaking On The Left: No vehicle shall be driven to
the left side of the center of the roadway in overtaking and passing another
vehicle proceeding in the same direction unless such left side is clearly
visible and is free of oncoming traffic for a sufficient distance ahead to
permit such overtaking and passing to be completely made without interfering
with the safe operation of any vehicle approaching from the opposite direction
of any vehicle overtaken. In every event the overtaking vehicle must return to
the right hand side of the roadway before coming within one hundred feet (100')
of any vehicle approaching from the opposite direction. (1960 Code, Sec. 7-705)
9-3-4: DRIVING TO LEFT OF CENTER OF ROADWAY:
   A.   No vehicle shall at any time be driven to the left side of the roadway
under the following conditions:
      1.   When approaching the crest of a grade or upon a curve in the highway
or street where the driver's view is obstructed within such distance as to
create a hazard in the event another vehicle might approach from the opposite
direction.
      2.   When approaching within one hundred feet (100') of or traversing any
intersection or railroad grade crossing.
      3.   When the view is obstructed upon approaching within one hundred feet
(100') of any bridge.
      4.   No vehicle shall be driven across the centerline of F Street between
6th Street and 8th Street nor across the centerline of G Street between 7th
Street and 8th Street in the city, except to enter an established driveway or
intersecting roadway. Crossing the centerline to enter a parking space at the
opposite side of the road in the restricted area or to make a turn to reverse
the direction of travel is prohibited by this section.
   B.   The foregoing limitations shall not apply upon a one-way roadway.
   C.   The street department of the city is directed to post at least one sign
near the right hand side of the road right of way and facing the oncoming
traffic for each lane of travel in the first one hundred feet (100') of each
block in the restricted area advising motorists of the restriction set forth in
subsection A4 of this section. (Ord. 698, 7-17-1990)
9-3-5: ONE-WAY ROADWAYS AND TRAFFIC ISLANDS:
   A.   The city may designate any highway or street under its jurisdiction for
one-way traffic and shall erect appropriate signs giving notice thereof.
   B.   Upon a roadway designated and signposted for one-way traffic, a vehicle
shall be driven only in the direction indicated.
   C.   A vehicle passing around a rotary traffic island shall be driven only
to the right of such island. (1960 Code, Sec. 7-707)
9-3-6: DRIVING ON ROADWAYS LANED FOR TRAFFIC:
Whenever any roadway has been divided into clearly marked lanes for traffic,
the following rules, in addition to all others consistent herewith, shall
apply:
   A.   A vehicle shall be driven as nearly as practicable entirely within a
single lane and shall not be moved from such lane until the driver has first
ascertained that such movement can be made with safety.
   B.   Official signs may be erected directing slow moving traffic to use a
designated lane or designating those lanes to be used by traffic moving in a
particular direction regardless of the center of the roadway, and drivers of
vehicles shall obey the directions of every such sign. (1960 Code, Sec. 7-708)
9-3-7: FOLLOWING TOO CLOSELY:
The driver of a motor vehicle shall not follow another vehicle more closely
than is reasonable and prudent, having due regard for the speed of such
vehicles and the traffic upon and the condition of the street or highway. (1960
Code, Sec. 7-709)
9-3-8: REQUIRED POSITION, METHOD OF TURNING AT INTERSECTIONS:
   A.   Turns And Approaches: The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an
intersection shall do so as follows:
      1.   Right Turns: Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn
shall be made as close as practicable to the right hand curb or edge of the
roadway.
      2.   Left Turns On Two-Way Roadways: At any intersection where traffic is
permitted to move in both directions on each roadway entering the intersection,
an approach for a left turn shall be made in that portion of the right half of
the roadway nearest the centerline thereof and by passing to the right of such
centerline where it enters the intersection, and after entering the
intersection the left turn shall be made so as to leave the intersection to the
right of the centerline of the roadway being entered. Whenever practicable, the
left turn shall be made in that portion of the intersection to the left of the
center of the intersection.
      3.   Left Turns On Other Than Two-Way Roadways: At any intersection where
traffic is restricted to one direction on one or more of the roadways, the
driver of a vehicle intending to turn left at any such intersection shall
approach the intersection in the extreme left hand lane lawfully available to
traffic moving in the direction of travel of such vehicle, and after entering
the intersection the left turn shall be made so as to leave the intersection,
as nearly as practicable, in the left hand lane lawfully available to traffic
moving in such direction upon the roadway being entered.
      4.   Markers; Signs: The city may cause markers, buttons or signs to be
placed within or adjacent to intersections and thereby require and direct that
a different course from that specified in this section be traveled by vehicles
turning at an intersection, and when markers, buttons or signs are so placed no
driver of a vehicle shall turn a vehicle at an intersection other than as
directed and required by such markers, buttons or signs. (1960 Code, Sec. 7-
801)
   B.   Turning Movements And Required Signals:
      1.   No person shall turn a vehicle at an intersection unless the vehicle
is in proper position upon the roadway as required in subsection A of this
section, or turn a vehicle to enter a private road or driveway or otherwise
turn a vehicle from a direct course or move right or left upon a roadway unless
and until such movement can be made with reasonable safety. No person shall so
turn any vehicle without giving an appropriate signal in the manner hereinafter
provided in the event any other traffic may be affected by such movement.
      2.   A signal of intention to turn right or left when required shall be
given continuously during not less than the last one hundred feet (100')
traveled by the vehicle before turning.
      3.   No person shall stop or suddenly decrease the speed of a vehicle
without first giving an appropriate signal in the manner provided herein to the
driver of any vehicle immediately to the rear when there is opportunity to give
such signal. (1960 Code, Sec. 7-803)
9-3-9: STARTING PARKED VEHICLE:
No person shall start a vehicle which is stopped, standing or parked unless and
until such movement can be made with reasonable safety. (1960 Code, Sec. 7-802)
9-3-10: SIGNALS BY HAND AND ARM OR SIGNAL DEVICE:
   A.   Stop Or Turn Signals: Any stop or turn signal when required herein
shall be given either by means of the hand and arm or by a signal lamp or lamps
or mechanical signal device, but when a vehicle is so constructed or loaded
that a hand and arm signal would not be visible both to the front and rear of
such vehicle, then said signals must be given by such a lamp or lamps or signal
device. (1960 Code, Sec. 7-804)
   B.   Method Of Giving Hand And Arm Signals: All signals herein required
given by hand and arm shall be given from the left side of the vehicle in the
following manner and such signals shall indicate as follows:
      1.   Left turn: Hand and arm extended horizontally.
      2.   Right turn: Hand and arm extended upward.
      3.   Stop or decrease speed: Hand and arm extended downward. (1960 Code,
Sec. 7-805)
9-3-11: TURNING AROUND ON STREET:
No vehicle shall be turned around upon any street unless said vehicle shall
first proceed to the next intersection and shall then make the turn, unless
prohibited as provided in section
9-3-12 of this chapter. (1960 Code, Sec. 7-806)
9-3-12: CERTAIN U-TURNS PROHIBITED:
   A.   A U-turn is a reversing and turning around so as to go in the opposite
direction. No vehicle shall make a U-turn at any of the following street
intersections:
      5th and E
      5th and F
      6th and E
      6th and F
   B.   The city may prohibit U-turns at other street intersections by the
posting of appropriate signs, visible to affected drivers. When such signs are
posted, drivers of vehicles shall obey the same. (1960 Code, Sec. 7-807)
CHAPTER 4
RIGHT OF WAY, INTERSECTIONS
SECTION:
9-4-1: Starting Or Moving Vehicle
9-4-2: Approaching Or Entering Intersection
9-4-3: Turning Left At Intersection
9-4-4: Entering Stop Or Yield Intersection
9-4-5: Entering Street From Private Road, Driveway
9-4-6: Approach Of Authorized Emergency Vehicles
9-4-7: Approach Of Train
9-4-8: Designated Through Streets
9-4-9: Stop Signs And Yield Signs
9-4-10: Emerging From Alley Or Private Driveway
9-4-11: Overtaking And Passing School Bus
9-4-1: STARTING OR MOVING VEHICLE:
Any person starting or moving a stopped, standing or parked vehicle shall yield
the right of way to all other vehicles, traffic and persons. (1960 Code, Sec.
7-901)
9-4-2: APPROACHING OR ENTERING INTERSECTION:
   A.   The driver of a vehicle approaching an intersection shall yield the
right of way to a vehicle which has entered the intersection from a different
street or highway.
   B.   When two (2) vehicles enter an intersection from different highways or
streets at approximately the same time the driver of the vehicle on the left
shall yield the right of way to the vehicle on the right.
   C.   The right of way rules declared in subsections A and B of this section
are modified at through streets and highways and otherwise as hereinafter
stated in this chapter. (1960 Code, Sec. 7-902)
9-4-3: TURNING LEFT AT INTERSECTION:
The driver of a vehicle within an intersection intending to turn to the left
shall yield the right of way to any vehicle approaching from the opposite
direction which is within the intersection or so close thereto as to constitute
an immediate hazard, but said driver, having so yielded and having given a
signal when and as required by this title may make such left turn and the
drivers of all other vehicles approaching the intersection from said opposite
direction shall yield the right of way to the vehicle making the left turn.
(1960 Code, Sec. 7-903)
9-4-4: ENTERING STOP OR YIELD INTERSECTION:
   A.   Preferential right of way at an intersection may be indicated by stop
signs or yield signs as authorized in section
9-4-9 of this chapter.
   B.   Except when directed to proceed by a police officer or traffic control
signal, every driver of a vehicle approaching a stop intersection indicated by
a stop sign shall stop as required by section
9-4-9 of this chapter and after having stopped shall yield the right of way to
any vehicle which has entered the intersection from another roadway or which is
approaching so closely on said roadway as to constitute an immediate hazard,
but said driver having so yielded may proceed and the drivers of all other
vehicles approaching the intersection shall yield the right of way to the
vehicle so proceeding.
   C.   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign shall, in obedience to
such sign, slow down to a speed reasonable for the existing conditions, or
shall stop if necessary as provided in section
9-4-9 of this chapter, and shall yield the right of way to any pedestrian
legally crossing the roadway on which he is driving, and to any vehicle in the
intersection or approaching on another roadway so closely as to constitute an
immediate hazard. Said driver having so yielded may proceed and the drivers of
all other vehicles approaching the intersection shall yield to the vehicle so
proceeding; provided, however, that if such driver is involved in a collision
with a pedestrian in a crosswalk or a vehicle in the intersection after driving
past a yield sign without stopping, such collision shall be deemed prima facie
evidence of his failure to yield the right of way. (1960 Code, Sec. 7-904)
9-4-5: ENTERING STREET FROM PRIVATE ROAD, DRIVEWAY:
The driver of a vehicle about to enter or cross a highway from a private road
or driveway shall yield the right of way to all vehicles approaching on said
highway. (1960 Code, Sec. 7-905)
9-4-6: APPROACH OF AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES:
   A.   Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle equipped
with at least one lighted lamp exhibiting a red light visible under normal
atmospheric conditions from a distance of five hundred feet (500') to the front
of such vehicle other than a police vehicle when operated as an authorized
emergency vehicle and when the driver is giving audible signal by siren,
exhaust whistle or bell:
The driver of every other vehicle shall yield the right of way and shall
immediately drive to a position parallel to, and as close as possible to, the
right hand edge or curve of the roadway clear of any intersection and shall
stop and remain in such position until the authorized emergency vehicle has
passed, except when otherwise directed by a police officer.
   B.   This section shall not operate to relieve the driver of any authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons using the highway or street. (1960 Code, Sec. 7-906)
9-4-7: APPROACH OF TRAIN:
   A.   Whenever any person driving a vehicle approaches a railroad crossing
under any of the circumstances stated in this section, the driver of such
vehicle shall stop within fifty feet (50') but not less than fifteen feet (15')
from the nearest rails of such railroad, and shall not proceed until he can do
so safely. The foregoing requirements shall apply when:
      1.   A clearly visible electric or mechanical signal device gives warning
of the immediate approach of a railroad train.
      2.   A crossing gate is lowered or a human flagman gives or continues to
give a signal of the approach or passage of a railroad train.
      3.   A railroad train approaching within approximately one thousand five
hundred feet (1,500') of the highway crossing emits a signal audible from such
distance and such railroad train by reason of its speed or nearness to such
crossing, is an immediate hazard.
      4.   An approaching railroad train is plainly visible and is in hazardous
proximity to such crossing.
   B.   No person shall drive any vehicle through, around or under any crossing
gate or barrier at a railroad crossing while such gate or barrier is closed or
is being opened or closed. (1960 Code, Sec, 7-1201)
9-4-8: DESIGNATED THROUGH STREETS:
The following streets in the city are hereby designated as through streets:
   8th Street
   All that portion of H Street north of 8th Street
   Scott Avenue
   1st Street
   A Street
The city may designate any other streets within the city as through streets by
erecting stop or yield signs at the entrances thereto, and may designate any
intersection as a stop or yield intersection by erecting like signs at one or
more entrances to such intersection. (1960 Code, Sec. 7-1202)
9-4-9: STOP SIGNS AND YIELD SIGNS:
   A.   Except when directed to proceed by a police officer or traffic control
signal, every driver of a vehicle approaching a stop intersection indicated by
a stop sign shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection or, in the event there is no crosswalk, shall stop at a clearly
marked stop line, but if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting
roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting
roadway before entering the intersection.
   B.   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign if required for safety
to stop shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection or, in the event there is no crosswalk, at a clearly marked stop
line, but if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway where the
driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway. (1960
Code, Sec. 7-1203)
9-4-10: EMERGING FROM ALLEY OR PRIVATE DRIVEWAY:
The driver of a vehicle within a business or residence district emerging from
an alley, driveway or building shall stop such vehicle immediately prior to
driving onto a sidewalk or onto the sidewalk area extending across any alleyway
or driveway, and shall yield the right of way to any pedestrian as may be
necessary to avoid collision, and upon entering the roadway shall yield the
right of way to all vehicles approaching on said roadway. (1960 Code, Sec. 7-
1204)
9-4-11: OVERTAKING AND PASSING SCHOOL BUS:
The driver of a vehicle upon meeting or overtaking from either direction any
school bus which has stopped for the purpose of receiving or discharging any
school children shall stop the vehicle before reaching said school bus and
shall not proceed until such school bus resumes motion, or until signaled by
the driver to proceed. (1960 Code, Sec. 7-1205)
CHAPTER 5
STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING
SECTION:
9-5-1: Parking Prohibited In Specified Places
9-5-2: Parallel, Angle Parking
9-5-3: Parking Spaces Designated By Painting
9-5-4: Truck, Truck-Tractor, Semitrailer, And Implement Parking Restrictions
9-5-5: Loading And Unloading
9-5-1: PARKING PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIED PLACES:
   A.   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle, except when necessary to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with law or the directions
of a police officer or traffic control device, in any of the following places:
      1.   On a sidewalk.
      2.   In front of a public or private driveway.
      3.   Within an intersection.
      4.   Within fifteen feet (15') of a fire hydrant.
      5.   On a crosswalk.
      6.   Within twenty feet (20') of a crosswalk at an intersection.
      7.   Within thirty feet (30') upon the approach to any flashing beacon,
stop sign or traffic control signal located at the side of a roadway.
      8.   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within thirty feet
(30') of points on the curb and immediately opposite the ends of the safety
zone, unless the traffic authority indicates a different length by signs or
markings.
      9.   Within fifty feet (50') of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing.
      10.   Within twenty feet (20') of the driveway entrance to any fire
station and on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station
within seventy five feet (75') of said entrance when properly signposted.
      11.   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic.
      12.   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or
curb of a street.
      13.   Upon a bridge or any other elevated structure upon a highway or
street.
      14.   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping.
   B.   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his control into any
such prohibited area or away from a curb such distance as is unlawful. (1960
Code, Sec. 7-1301)
9-5-2: PARALLEL, ANGLE PARKING:
   A.   Except as otherwise provided in this section, every vehicle stopped or
parked upon a roadway where there are adjacent curbs shall be so stopped or
parked with the right hand wheels of such vehicle parallel to and within
eighteen inches (18") of the right hand curb.
   B.   Every vehicle stopped or parked upon a one-way roadway where there are
adjacent curbs may be stopped or parked with the left hand wheels adjacent to
and within eighteen inches (18") of the left hand curb of the one-way roadway;
except as otherwise provided in this section.
   C.   Except on federal aid or state highways within the city, vehicles shall
be parked at any angle to the curb or curb line where the city indicates the
same by appropriate signs or striping. All vehicles shall be parked within the
space indicated by the parking stripes on any street. (Ord. 537, 1-16-1973)
9-5-3: PARKING SPACES DESIGNATED BY PAINTING:
The chief of police is hereby authorized to cause lanes or markings to be
painted or placed upon the curbs and/or upon said lanes or markings shall be so
painted or placed as to show either parallel or diagonal parking at such
places. It shall be unlawful, where such spaces are designated, to park any
vehicle on or across any such lane or markings. (Ord. 537, 1-16-1973; amd. Ord.
752, 1-7-1997)
9-5-4: TRUCK, TRUCK-TRACTOR, SEMITRAILER, AND IMPLEMENT PARKING RESTRICTIONS:
It shall be unlawful to park any of the following trucks, truck- tractor, or
semitrailer or combination thereof, or implements on any street, easement, or
alley located inside or bordering all RL, RM, RH, CL, or CG residential and
commercial zones of the city including areas in designated truck routes:
   A.   Two (2) axle single unit trucks.
   B.   Three (3) axle single unit trucks.
   C.   Two (2) axle truck-tractor with one or two (2) axle semitrailer.
   D.   Three (3) axle truck-tractor with two (2) or three (3) axle
semitrailer.
   E.   Implements of any kind, including, but not limited to, backhoes,
tractors, construction implements, or “implements of husbandry” (as defined by
Idaho Code section 49-110(2)).
The registered owner of the truck, truck-tractor, or semitrailer shall be
presumed to be the owner at the time the offense is committed and subject to
the penalty thereof, except where the use thereof was secured without the
consent of the owner. The meaning of the words “truck”, “truck-tractor” and
“semitrailer” are as defined in Idaho Code section 49-120(10) and sections 49-
121(6) and (9); For the purposes of this section, “truck” shall additionally be
defined as any vehicle designed or operated for the purpose of transportation
of property with a licensed vehicle weight that exceeds twenty-six thousand
pounds (26,000 lbs.). (Ord. 752, 1-7-1997, eff. 7-1-1997; amd. Ord. 22-505, 5-
24-2022; Ord. 23-502, 7-11-2023)
9-5-5: LOADING AND UNLOADING:
It shall not be a violation of this section for any of the vehicles described
in section
9-5-4 of this chapter to be engaged in the loading or unloading of any freight
and cargo, provided, however, that such loading and unloading occur as a
continuous activity and for a reasonable amount of time. (Ord. 752, 1-7-1997,
eff. 7-1-1997)
CHAPTER 6
VEHICLE EQUIPMENT, INSPECTION
SECTION:
9-6-1: Vehicle Equipment
9-6-2: Driving Vehicle In Unsafe Condition
9-6-3: Enforcement By Police Officer
9-6-1: VEHICLE EQUIPMENT:
No person shall drive or move, nor shall any owner cause or knowingly permit to
be driven or moved on any highway or street, any vehicle or combination of
vehicles which is in such unsafe condition as to endanger any person, or which
does not contain those parts or is not at all times equipped with such lamps
and other requirements in proper condition and adjustment as required in
sections 49-801 to 49-849, inclusive, Idaho Code, or which is equipped in any
manner in violation of said sections, and no person shall do any act forbidden
or fail to perform any act required in said sections. Nothing contained in this
chapter shall be construed to prohibit the use of additional parts and
accessories on any vehicle not inconsistent with the provisions of said
sections. (1960 Code, Sec. 7-1501)
9-6-2: DRIVING VEHICLE IN UNSAFE CONDITION:
No person shall drive or move on any highway or street any motor vehicle,
trailer, semitrailer or pole trailer, or any combination thereof unless the
equipment upon any and every said vehicle is in good working order and
adjustment as required in this chapter and said vehicle is in such safe
mechanical condition as not to endanger the driver or other occupant or any
person upon the highway or street. (1960 Code, Sec. 7-1601)
9-6-3: ENFORCEMENT BY POLICE OFFICER:
   A.   A police officer may, upon reasonable cause, require the driver of a
vehicle to stop and submit such vehicle and its equipment to an inspection and
such test with reference thereto as may be appropriate.
   B.   In the event such vehicle is found to be in an unsafe condition or the
required equipment is not present or is not in proper repair and adjustment,
the officer shall give a written notice to the driver and shall send a copy
thereof to the department of law enforcement. Said notice shall require that
such vehicle be placed in safe condition and its equipment in proper repair and
adjustment, and a certificate of inspection and approval for such vehicle be
obtained within five (5) days. Every owner or driver upon receiving any such
notice shall comply therewith and shall, within said five (5) days, secure an
endorsement upon such notice by the person making such repair or adjustment
that such vehicle is in safe condition and its equipment in proper repair and
adjustment, and shall then forward said notice to the department of law
enforcement.
   C.   No person shall operate any vehicle after receiving a notice with
reference thereto and as above provided, except as may be necessary to return
such vehicle to the residence or the place of business of the owner or driver,
if within a distance of twenty (20) miles, or to a garage, until said vehicle
and its equipment have been placed in proper repair and adjustment and
otherwise made to conform to the requirements of the law. (1960 Code, Sec. 7-
1602)
CHAPTER 7
PEDESTRIANS
SECTION:
9-7-1: Subject To Traffic Regulations
9-7-2: Right Of Way In Crosswalks
9-7-3: Crossing At Other Than Crosswalks
9-7-4: Drivers To Exercise Due Care
9-7-5: Pedestrians On Roadways
9-7-1: SUBJECT TO TRAFFIC REGULATIONS:
Pedestrians shall be subject to traffic control signals at intersections as
provided in section
9-1-3 of this title. At all other places pedestrians shall be accorded
privileges and shall be subject to the restrictions stated in this chapter and
in chapter 4 of this title. (1960 Code, Sec. 7-1001)
9-7-2: RIGHT OF WAY IN CROSSWALKS:
   A.   When traffic control signals are not in place or not in operation, the
driver of a vehicle shall yield the right of way, slowing down or stopping if
need be to so yield, to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within a crosswalk
when the pedestrian is upon the half of the roadway which the vehicle is
traveling upon, or when the pedestrian is approaching so closely from the
opposite half of the roadway as to be in danger, but no pedestrian shall
suddenly leave a curb or other place of safety and walk or run into the path of
a vehicle which is so close that it is impossible for the driver to yield.
   B.   Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any
unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the
roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not
overtake and pass such stopped vehicle. (1960 Code, Sec. 7-1002)
9-7-3: CROSSING AT OTHER THAN CROSSWALKS:
Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a marked
crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection shall yield the
right of way to all vehicles on the roadway, except as provided in chapter 4 of
this title. Between adjacent intersections at which traffic control signals are
in operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any place except in a marked
crosswalk. (1960 Code, Sec. 7-1003)
9-7-4: DRIVERS TO EXERCISE DUE CARE:
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this chapter, every driver of a
vehicle shall exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian upon any
roadway and shall give warning by sounding the horn when necessary and shall
exercise proper precaution upon observing any child or any confused or
incapacitated person upon a roadway. (1960 Code, Sec. 7-1004)
9-7-5: PEDESTRIANS ON ROADWAYS:
   A.   Where sidewalks are provided, it shall be unlawful for any pedestrian
to walk along or upon an adjacent roadway.
   B.   Where sidewalks are not provided, any pedestrian walking along and upon
a highway shall, when practicable, walk only on the left side of the roadway or
its shoulder facing traffic which may approach from the opposite direction.
(1960 Code, Sec. 7-1005)
   C.   No person shall stand in a roadway for the purpose of soliciting a ride
from or for the purpose of soliciting employment or business from the driver of
any vehicle. (1960 Code, Sec. 7-1005; amd. 1977 Code)
CHAPTER 8
BICYCLES
SECTION:
9-8-1: Traffic Laws Apply
9-8-2: Riding On Bicycles
9-8-3: Clinging To Vehicles
9-8-4: Riding On Roadways And Bicycle Paths
9-8-5: Carrying Articles
9-8-6: Lamps, Other Equipment On Bicycles
9-8-7: License Required; Fee
9-8-8: Chief Of Police To Issue Licenses
9-8-9: Bicycle License Attached To Frame
9-8-10: Transfer Of Ownership
9-8-11: Mutilation Or Removal Of Tag Unlawful
9-8-1: TRAFFIC LAWS APPLY:
Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all of the rights
and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle
by this title, except as to special regulations in this chapter and except as
to those provisions of this title which by their nature can have no
application. (1960 Code, Sec. 7-1101)
9-8-2: RIDING ON BICYCLES:
   A.   A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than upon or astride
a permanent and regular seat attached thereto.
   B.   No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at one time than the
number for which it is designed and equipped. (1960 Code, Sec. 7-1102)
9-8-3: CLINGING TO VEHICLES:
No person riding upon any bicycle, coaster, roller skates, sled or toy vehicle
shall attach the same or himself to any vehicle upon a roadway. (1960 Code,
Sec. 7-1103)
9-8-4: RIDING ON ROADWAYS AND BICYCLE PATHS:
   A.   Every person operating a bicycle upon a roadway shall ride as near to
the right side of the roadway as practicable, exercising due care when passing
a standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction.
   B.   Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway shall not ride more than two (2)
abreast except on paths or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of
bicycles.
   C.   Whenever a useful path for bicycles has been provided adjacent to a
roadway, bicycle riders shall use such path and shall not use the roadway.
   D.   No persons shall ride or propel a bicycle on any sidewalk in the city.
(1960 Code, Sec. 7-1104)
9-8-5: CARRYING ARTICLES:
No person operating a bicycle shall carry any package, bundle or article which
prevents the driver from keeping at least one hand upon the handlebars. (1960
Code, Sec. 7-1105)
9-8-6: LAMPS, OTHER EQUIPMENT ON BICYCLES:
   A.   Every bicycle, when used at nighttime shall be equipped with a lamp on
the front which shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at least
five hundred feet (500') to the front and with a red reflector on the rear of a
type approved by the police department which shall be visible from all
distances from fifty feet (50') to three hundred feet (300') to the rear when
directly in front of lawful upper beams of headlamps on a motor vehicle. A lamp
emitting a red light visible from a distance of five hundred feet (500') to the
rear may be used in addition to the red reflector.
   B.   No person shall operate a bicycle unless it is equipped with a bell or
other device capable of giving a signal audible for a distance of at least one
hundred feet (100'), except that a bicycle shall not be equipped with nor shall
any person use upon a bicycle any siren or whistle.
   C.   Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake which will enable the
operator to make the braked wheels skid on dry, level, clean pavement. (1960
Code, Sec. 7-1106)
9-8-7: LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or use a bicycle propelled
wholly or in part by muscular power upon any of the streets, alleys or public
highways of the city, without first obtaining from the chief of police a
license therefor, and having said license tag, hereinafter provided, attached
to the frame of the bicycle.
A onetime license fee to be paid for each bicycle shall be fifty cents ($0.50)
and shall be paid in advance. No fee shall be charged for transfer of a license
when ownership is transferred as provided under section
9-8-10 of this chapter. (Ord. 08-503, 6-3-2008)
9-8-8: CHIEF OF POLICE TO ISSUE LICENSES:
The chief of police of the city is hereby authorized and directed to issue upon
written application bicycle licenses. Said licenses when issued shall entitle
the licensee to operate the bicycle for which said license was issued within
the city. (Ord. 08-503, 6-3-2008)
9-8-9: BICYCLE LICENSE ATTACHED TO FRAME:
The city shall provide bicycle licenses, together with registration cards; said
licenses and registration cards having numbers imprinted or otherwise affixed
thereon in numerical order, with the name "Rupert" thereon; such licenses shall
be suitable for attachment upon the frames of bicycles; and it shall be the
duty of the police department to attach one such license to the frame of each
bicycle and to issue a corresponding registration card to the licensee upon the
payment of the license fee herein provided for. Such license shall remain
attached during the existence of such license. The chief of police shall also
keep a record of the date of issue of each license, to whom issued, and number
thereof. In the event a license attached to a bicycle is destroyed or otherwise
becomes illegible, the licensee shall be required to pay another license fee
and obtain a new license. (Ord. 08-503, 6-3-2008)
9-8-10: TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP:
It shall be the duty of every person who sells or transfers ownership of any
bicycle, to report such sale or transfer by returning to the chief of police
the registration card issued to such person as licensee thereof, together with
the name and address of the person to whom said bicycle was sold or
transferred, and such report shall be made within five (5) days of the date of
said sale or transfer. It shall be the duty of the purchaser or transferee of
such bicycle to apply for a transfer of registration therefor within five (5)
days of said sale or transfer. (1960 Code, Sec. 7-1110)
9-8-11: MUTILATION OR REMOVAL OF TAG UNLAWFUL:
It shall be unlawful for any person to wilfully or maliciously remove, destroy,
mutilate or alter the number on any bicycle frame licensed pursuant to this
chapter. It shall also be unlawful for any person to remove, destroy, mutilate
or alter any license plate or registration card during the time in which such
license plate or registration card is operative. Provided, however, that
nothing in this chapter shall prohibit the police department from stamping
numbers on the frames of bicycles on which no serial number can be found, or on
which said numbers are illegible or insufficient for identification purposes.
(1960 Code, Sec. 7-1111; amd. Ord. 08-503, 6-3-2008)
CHAPTER 9
VIOLATIONS; ARRESTS
SECTION:
9-9-1: Parties To A Crime
9-9-2: Offenses By Owner Or Person Controlling Vehicle
9-9-3: Appearance Before Magistrate
9-9-4: Option Of Officers
9-9-5: Notice To Appear In Court
9-9-6: Failure To Obey Citation
9-9-7: Procedure Not Exclusive
9-9-8: Form For Traffic Citations
9-9-9: Disposition, Records Of Traffic Citations
9-9-10: Illegal Cancellation Of Citation; Audit
9-9-11: Record Of Traffic Cases; Report Of Convictions
9-9-1: PARTIES TO A CRIME:
Every person who commits, attempts to commit, conspires to commit, or aids or
abets in the commission of any act declared herein to be a crime, whether
individually or in connection with one or more other persons or as a principal,
agent or accessory shall be guilty of such offense, and every person who
falsely, fraudulently, forcibly or wilfully induces, causes, coerces, requires,
permits or directs another to violate any provision of this title is likewise
guilty of such offense. (1960 Code, Sec. 7-1701)
9-9-2: OFFENSES BY OWNER OR PERSON CONTROLLING VEHICLE:
It is unlawful for the owner, or any other person, employing or otherwise
directing the driver of any vehicle to require or knowingly to permit the
operation of such vehicle upon a highway or street in any manner contrary to
law. (1960 Code, Sec. 7-1702)
9-9-3: APPEARANCE BEFORE MAGISTRATE:
Whenever any person is halted by a police officer for any violation of this
title, he shall be taken without unnecessary delay before a magistrate within
the city in any of the following cases:
   A.   When the person demands an immediate appearance before a magistrate.
   B.   In any other event when the person is issued a traffic citation by an
authorized person and refuses to give his written promise to appear in court as
hereinafter provided. (1960 Code, Sec. 7-1703)
9-9-4: OPTION OF OFFICERS:
Whenever any person is halted by a police officer for any violation of this
title and is not required to be taken before a magistrate as hereinbefore
provided, the person shall, in the discretion of the officer, either be given a
traffic citation as hereinafter provided, or be taken without unnecessary delay
before the proper magistrate in any of the following cases:
   A.   When the person does not furnish satisfactory evidence of identity or
when the officer has reasonable and probable grounds to believe the person will
disregard a written promise to appear in court.
   B.   When the person is charged with a violation of sections relating to the
refusal of a driver of a vehicle to submit such vehicle to an inspection and
test. (1960 Code, Sec. 7-1704)
9-9-5: NOTICE TO APPEAR IN COURT:
   A.   Whenever a person is arrested for any violation of this title and such
person is not immediately taken before a magistrate as required in section
9-9-3 or
9-9-4 of this chapter, the arresting officer shall prepare in quadruplicate
written notice to appear in court containing the name and address of such
person, the license number of his vehicle, if any, the offense charged, and the
time and place, when and where such person shall appear in court.
   B.   The time specified in said notice to appear must be at least five (5)
days after such arrest unless the person arrested shall demand an earlier
hearing; provided, however, in the event of violation of time limit parking
regulations, said notice to appear may specify a time for appearance of not
less than twenty four (24) hours.
   C.   The place specified in said notice to appear must be before a
magistrate within the city who has jurisdiction of such offense, to-wit: the
court of the city.
   D.   The arrested person in order to secure release must give his written
promise so to appear in court by signing at least one copy of the written
notice prepared by the arresting officer. The officer shall deliver a copy of
this notice to the person promising to appear, thereupon said officer shall
forthwith release the person arrested from custody. (1960 Code, Sec. 7-1705)
9-9-6: FAILURE TO OBEY CITATION:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate his written promise to
appear in court given to an officer upon issuance of a traffic citation
regardless of the disposition of the charge upon which such citation was
originally issued.
   B.   A written promise to appear in court may be complied with by an
appearance by counsel. (1960 Code, Sec. 7-1706)
9-9-7: PROCEDURE NOT EXCLUSIVE:
The foregoing provisions of this chapter shall govern all police officers in
making arrests without a warrant for violation of this title, but the procedure
prescribed herein shall not otherwise be exclusive of any other method
prescribed by law for the arrest and prosecution of a person for an offense of
like grade. (1960 Code, Sec. 7-1707)
9-9-8: FORM FOR TRAFFIC CITATIONS:
   A.   The police department of the city shall provide in appropriate form
traffic citations containing notices to appear which shall be issued in books
with citations in quadruplicate and meeting the requirements of this chapter.
   B.   The chief of police shall be responsible for the issuance of such books
and shall maintain a record of every such book and each citation contained
therein issued to individual members of the police department and shall require
and retain a receipt for every book so issued. (1960 Code, Sec. 7-1708)
9-9-9: DISPOSITION, RECORDS OF TRAFFIC CITATIONS:
   A.   Every police officer, upon issuing a traffic citation to an alleged
violator of any provision of this title, shall deposit the original or a copy
of such traffic citation with the court.
   B.   Upon the deposit of the original or a copy of such traffic citation
with the court said original or copy of such traffic citation may be disposed
of only by trial in said court or other official action by the judge of said
court, including a forfeiture of bail or by the deposit of sufficient bail
with, or payment of a fine to, said court by the person to whom such traffic
citation has been issued by the police officer.
   C.   It shall be unlawful and official misconduct for any police officer or
other officer or public employee to dispose of a traffic citation or copies
thereof or of the record of the issuance of the same in a manner other than as
required herein.
   D.   The chief of police shall require the return to him of a copy of every
traffic citation issued by an officer under his supervision to an alleged
violator of any provision of this title and of all copies of every traffic
citation which has been spoiled or upon which any entry has been made and not
issued to an alleged violator.
   E.   The chief of police shall also maintain or cause to be maintained in
connection with every traffic citation issued by an officer under his
supervision a record of the disposition of the charge by the court in which the
original or copy of the traffic citation was deposited. (1960 Code, Sec. 7-
1709)
9-9-10: ILLEGAL CANCELLATION OF CITATION; AUDIT:
   A.   Any person who cancels or solicits the cancellation of any traffic
citation, in any manner other than is provided in this chapter shall be guilty
of an offense under this title.
   B.   Every record of traffic citations required in this chapter shall be
audited at least biannually by the appropriate fiscal officer of the city.
   C.   Such fiscal officer shall publish or cause to be published at least
biannually a summary of all traffic violation notices issued by the police
department and the disposition thereof in at least one local newspaper of
general circulation. (1960 Code, Sec. 7-1710)
9-9-11: RECORD OF TRAFFIC CASES; REPORT OF CONVICTIONS:
   A.   The proper judge shall keep or cause to be kept a record of every
traffic complaint, traffic citation or other legal form of traffic charge
deposited with or presented to the court and shall keep a record of every
official action by said court in reference thereto, including, but not limited
to, a record of every conviction, forfeiture resulting from every said traffic
complaint or citation deposited with or presented to said court.
   B.   Within ten (10) days after the conviction or forfeiture of bail of a
person upon a charge of violating any provision of this title, the judge in
which such conviction was had or bail was forfeited shall prepare and
immediately forward to the department of law enforcement of the state of Idaho
an abstract of the record of said court covering the case in which said person
was so convicted or forfeited bail, which abstract must be certified by the
judge to be true and correct. Report need not be made of any conviction
involving the illegal parking or standing of a vehicle.
   C.   Said abstract must be made upon a form furnished by the department of
law enforcement of the state of Idaho and shall include the name and address of
the party charged, the number, if any, of his operator's or chauffeur's
license, the registration number of the vehicle involved, the nature of the
offense, the date of hearing, the plea, the judgment or whether bail forfeited,
and the amount of the fine or forfeiture as the case may be.
   D.   The failure, refusal or neglect of any such officer to comply with any
of the requirements of this section shall constitute misconduct of office and
shall be grounds for removal therefrom. (1960 Code, Sec. 7-1711)
CHAPTER 10
TRUCK ROUTES AND RESTRICTIONS
SECTION:
9-10-1: Definitions
9-10-2: Application Of Regulation
9-10-3: Truck Routes Established
9-10-4: Truck Traffic Within The City
9-10-5: Maximum Truck Weights
9-10-6: Enforcement And Penalties
9-10-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, and their
derivations shall have the meanings given in this section:
DESTINATION POINT: Any lawful business premises for the loading or unloading of
cargo or the final lawful parking place.
DEVIATING TRUCK: A truck which leaves and departs from a truck route while
traveling within the city.
OVERSIZED TRUCK OR LOAD: Any truck or load on a truck which would be prohibited
on the roads of the state by Idaho Code section 49-1010, or which may only
travel on state roads by permit, pursuant to Idaho Code section 49-1004 (or any
successor or amendment to said statutes).
PERSON: A person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
TRUCK: Any vehicle designed or operated for the purpose of transportation of
property, and whose licensed vehicle weight exceeds twenty six thousand
(26,000) pounds but does not include a semitractor which weighs less than
twenty six thousand (26,000) pounds and is separated at the time of operation
from the trailer.
TRUCK ROUTE: A way over certain streets as designated in this chapter, over and
along which trucks coming into and going out of the city must operate. (Ord.
13-504, 12-17-2013)
9-10-2: APPLICATION OF REGULATION:
   A.   Trucks: All trucks within the city shall be operated in accordance with
the regulations set forth in this chapter.
   B.   Exceptions: This chapter shall not prohibit:
      1.   Emergency Vehicles: The operation of emergency vehicles upon any
street in the city;
      2.   Public Utility Trucks: The operation of trucks owned or operated by
the city, public utilities, any contractor or materialman, while engaged in the
repair, maintenance or construction of streets, street improvements or other
utilities within the city;
      3.   Detoured Trucks: The operation of trucks upon any officially
established detour; and
      4.   Residentially Parked Semitractors: The operation of semitractors on
residential streets solely for the purpose of temporarily parking the tractor
portion on private residential property with the permission of the property
owner, in compliance with other laws and ordinances. The engine of such
tractors cannot be left running while the tractor is parked. (Ord. 13-504, 12-
17-2013)
9-10-3: TRUCK ROUTES ESTABLISHED:
There is established within the city the following truck routes:
 
A Street                  All portions of A Street inside the city's corporate
                          boundaries
Oneida Street             All portions of Oneida Street inside the city's
                          corporate boundaries
Read Avenue               From North A Street northeasterly to the city's
                          northern corporate boundary
Designated state highways All portions of state highways not otherwise
                          designated herein
 
(Ord. 13-504, 12-17-2013)
9-10-4: TRUCK TRAFFIC WITHIN THE CITY:
   A.   Outside Origin:
      1.   Outside Destination Point: All trucks entering the city for
destination points outside the city shall operate over and only drive upon a
designated truck route.
      2.   Inside Destination Point: All trucks entering the city for a
destination point in the city shall proceed only over an established truck
route and shall deviate only at the intersection nearest to the destination
point. Upon leaving the destination point, the deviating truck shall return to
the truck route by the shortest permissible route.
      3.   Multiple Inside Destination Points: All trucks entering the city for
multiple destination points shall proceed only over the established truck
routes and shall deviate only at the intersection with the street nearest to
the first destination point. Upon leaving the first destination point, the
deviating truck shall proceed to other destination points by the shortest
route. Upon leaving the last destination point, a deviating truck shall return
to the truck route by the shortest route possible.
   B.   Inside Origin:
      1.   Outside Destination Point: All trucks on a trip originating in the
city and traveling in the city for a destination point outside the city, shall
proceed by the shortest route to a truck route as established in this chapter.
      2.   Inside Destination Points: All trucks on a trip originating in the
city and traveling in the city for destination points within the city shall
proceed to their destination points by the shortest route possible, using truck
routes established in this chapter wherever possible.
   C.   Oversized Trucks Or Loads: Any truck or load which meets the definition
of "oversized truck or load" as set forth in this chapter, regardless of point
of origin or destination, shall be limited to travel on a route specified by
the police department upon application for a moving permit. (Ord. 13-504, 12-
17-2013)
9-10-5: MAXIMUM TRUCK WEIGHTS:
Trucks weighing more than one hundred twenty nine thousand (129,000) pounds
shall not be allowed on any city street or on designated truck routes. (Ord.
13-504, 12-17-2013)
9-10-6: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Clerk Maintains Maps: Accurate maps setting out truck routes defined in
this chapter or hereafter amended shall be kept on file in the office of the
city clerk and shall be available to the public.
   B.   Street Department To Maintain Signs: The street department shall cause
all truck routes upon which truck traffic is required to travel to be clearly
signposted.
   C.   Weigh In: The chief of police shall have the authority to require any
person driving or in control of any commercial vehicle not proceeding in
accordance with the regulations in this chapter to proceed to any public or
private scale available for the purpose of weighing and determining whether
this chapter has been complied with.
   D.   Penalties: Any violation of this chapter shall be a criminal
misdemeanor punishable by the maximum fine and incarceration allowed by state
statute. (Ord. 13-504, 12-17-2013)
TITLE 10
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
SIDEWALKS AND CURBS
SECTION:
10-1-1: Property Owner's Responsibility
10-1-2: Order Sidewalks Repaired Or Constructed
10-1-3: Notice Of Order
10-1-4: Overseer Of Streets To Certify Costs
10-1-5: Costs Assessed Against Property
10-1-6: Concrete Sidewalks
10-1-7: Supervision Of Construction
10-1-8: Nonconformity To Provisions
10-1-9: Standard Specifications
10-1-10: Removal Of Snow, Ice, Rubbish And Weeds
10-1-1: PROPERTY OWNER'S RESPONSIBILITY:
The property owners of the city shall be responsible for the construction and
repair of all sidewalks, curbs and parking between sidewalks and curbs abutting
upon their respective properties and on corner lots such responsibility shall
include the sidewalks, curbs and parkings to the intersection of the curb lines
extended.
All sidewalks and curbs shall be built in the city and all parkings between
such sidewalks and curbs, which shall be filled and graded under the provisions
of any ordinance or order of the city, shall be built and repaired or filled
and graded to conform to the grade designated by the city engineer at the
expense of the property owner. The city council may direct such sidewalks and
curbs or such parking to be built or repaired or filled or graded as provided
by this chapter. The city engineer shall designate the grade upon which such
sidewalks or curbs shall be built or repaired and such parking shall be filled
and graded and shall issue a permit and instructions therefor whenever
application shall be made in due form, setting forth specifically the location
of the property in front of which said work is proposed to be done, the nature
of the sidewalk or curb to be built or repaired and the parking to be filled or
graded, accompanied by the proper charge for furnishing such grade and the
inspection of such sidewalk or curbing or parking; provided, however, the city
council may, if they deem necessary and proper, dispense with the services of
the city engineer in the furnishing of such grades. (1960 Code, Sec. 6-101)
10-1-2: ORDER SIDEWALKS REPAIRED OR CONSTRUCTED:
The city council may, from time to time by order or resolution entered upon its
minutes, order and direct the construction or repair of any sidewalk or curb
and the filling and grading of parking between sidewalks and curbs or any part
thereof in the manner designated in the order; and when any sidewalk or curb
shall be so ordered built or repaired or any such parking shall be ordered
filled or graded and the owner shall fail or neglect to build or repair the
said sidewalk or curb or to fill or grade the said parking, the same may be
done by the overseer of streets of the city by order of the council or by the
contractor to whom shall be awarded the contract for doing such work as
hereinafter provided. (1960 Code, Sec. 6-102)
10-1-3: NOTICE OF ORDER:
   A.   Written Notice: The city clerk shall, upon the passage of any such
order or resolution of the city council, cause a written notice to be served on
the owner or owners of the property abutting, fronting on or adjacent to the
sidewalk or curb to be built or repaired, or the parking to be graded or
filled, notifying such owner or owners to build or repair the said sidewalk or
curb or grade or fill the said parking, in accordance with the provisions of
the ordinances of the city, and the order or resolution directing the said work
to be done, within fifteen (15) days from the date of the service of said
notice. The said notice must be served by delivering a copy thereof to the
owner or his agent, or in case such owner is a nonresident, or his place of
abode cannot be found, then the clerk shall cause the said notice to be
published at least once a week for four (4) weeks in the official newspaper of
the city. (1960 Code, Sec. 6-103)
   B.   Authority Of City After Notice: If, at the expiration of the time for
which said notice is given, the said sidewalk or curb shall not be built or
repaired or the said parking shall not be filled or graded by the said owner,
then the overseer of streets or the contractor to whom may be awarded the
contract for doing the said work as hereinafter provided shall proceed as soon
as practicable to build or repair the said sidewalk or curb, and fill or grade
the said parking as may have been required by said notice and in accordance
with the order or resolution directing the said work to be done. (1960 Code,
Sec. 6-104)
   C.   Procedure Of Council After Notice: Whenever it shall appear to the
satisfaction of the council that due notice has been given the owner of any
property requiring them to build or repair sidewalks or curbs or grade or fill
parking as provided in this chapter, and that such owner has failed, refused or
neglected, within the time required by such notice to do the said work, then
the council, at its option, may by resolution direct the overseer of streets to
proceed to build or repair such sidewalk or curb or to grade or fill such
parking as required by the said order, or the council may direct the clerk to
advertise in one newspaper in the city once a week for at least two (2) weeks,
for bids for the building and repairing of such sidewalks and curbs, or the
filling or grading of such parking and the contract shall be let to the lowest
and best responsible bidder therefor; provided, however, that the council may
reserve the right to reject any or all bids made under the provisions of this
chapter. (1960 Code, Sec. 6-105; amd. 1977 Code)
10-1-4: OVERSEER OF STREETS TO CERTIFY COSTS:
As soon as the building or repairing of any sidewalk or curb or the filling or
grading of any parking shall be completed, the work shall be inspected by the
city engineer, and if the work shall have been done in conformity with the
ordinances of the city, and with the order or resolution ordering the same, and
the agreement with the contractor, if one has been made, a certificate shall be
issued to the overseer of streets or contractor, as the case may be, which
shall state the number of feet of sidewalk or curb, line measurement, built or
repaired by the said overseer of streets or contractor, and the number of yards
of parking filled or graded by the said overseer of streets or contractor, the
street or avenue where constructed, and a description of the lots and blocks in
front of, abutting on, or adjacent to which said sidewalk or curb has been
built or repaired, or such parking has been graded or filled, which are
chargeable with the cost thereof, and the amount due for the said work from
each particular lot fronting on, abutting or adjacent to the said work so
performed; and there shall be added to such amount ten percent (10%) thereof as
compensation to the city for the cost of inspection by the city engineer and
the cost of service of notices and publication of the same, and the said ten
percent (10%) shall be assessed as a part of the cost of doing the said work,
as the assessment for the same may be collected. (1960 Code, Sec. 6-106)
10-1-5: COSTS ASSESSED AGAINST PROPERTY:
Upon the presentation of one or more of such certificates, the city clerk shall
assess the amount of such certificates separately against the lots fronting on,
abutting or adjacent to the sidewalk or curb which may have been built or
repaired or to the parking which may have been filled or graded, and file such
assessment roll in his office. At the next regular meeting of the city council
the clerk shall notify the council of the fact that he has made such assessment
in accordance with the certificate furnished by the overseer of streets or
contractor, as the case may be.
The city clerk shall immediately upon the making and filing of such assessment
roll give notice to the owner of the property so assessed, by publication once
a week for two (2) successive weeks in the official newspaper of the city,
notifying such owner to appear before the city council at the next regular
meeting after such publication, giving the time and place of such meeting, and
show cause, if any he has, why the said assessment should not be made. In case
such owner shall fail to appear and make objections, or shall fail to have his
objections to such assessment sustained by the city council, or in case such
owner shall fail to pay such assessment within ten (10) days after such
hearing, then such assessment shall be certified by the city clerk to the
proper officer of the county of Minidoka, state of Idaho, having the custody of
the tax lists of the county, at the time such certificate is made and in the
same manner as other city taxes are certified for collection. All such,
assessments shall be known as special assessments for sidewalks, curbs and
parking, and shall be levied and collected as a separate tax in addition to the
taxes for general revenue purposes, and shall be subject to the same penalties
and collected in the same manner as are other city taxes. (1960 Code, Sec. 6-
107)
10-1-6: CONCRETE SIDEWALKS:
From and after the effective date hereof, all sidewalks constructed within the
corporate limits of the city shall be constructed of cement. (1960 Code, Sec.
6-108)
10-1-7: SUPERVISION OF CONSTRUCTION:
All sidewalks and curbs constructed within the corporate limits of the city
shall be constructed under the supervision of and subject to the inspection of
the city engineer and in conformity with the standard specifications herewith
outlined in this chapter and the lines and grades laid out on the ground by
said engineer. Stakes set by the city engineer shall be preserved by the owner
and the contractor doing the work. (1960 Code, Sec. 6-109)
10-1-8: NONCONFORMITY TO PROVISIONS:
Where sidewalks or curbs have been constructed or repaired without first having
obtained a grade and line therefor from the city engineer, or where the same
have not been constructed in conformity with the established grade and line or
not in conformity with the standard specifications of the city relative to
concrete sidewalks and curbs, said sidewalks and curbs shall be rebuilt or
repaired at the owner's expense to so conform as provided in this chapter.
(1960 Code, Sec. 6-110)
10-1-9: STANDARD SPECIFICATIONS:
There is hereby adopted the standard specifications governing the construction
of concrete sidewalks and curbs in the city. Said standards and specifications
shall be and remain on file in the office of the city engineering department,
the same being adopted by reference as if fully set out at length herein. (1977
Code)
10-1-10: REMOVAL OF SNOW, ICE, RUBBISH AND WEEDS:
The property owners of the city who shall have constructed sidewalks, curbs and
parkings abutting and adjoining their property shall be responsible for the
removal of all snow and ice from the sidewalks upon which their property abuts
or adjoins and all rubbish and weeds from the parkings adjoining the same, as a
part of the responsibility for the maintenance specified in section
10-1-1 of this chapter. (Ord. 477, 3-4-1969)
CHAPTER 2
EXCAVATIONS
SECTION:
10-2-1: Definitions
10-2-2: Permit Required; Fee
10-2-3: Application For Permit
10-2-4: Bonds Required
10-2-5: Standards For Issuance Of Permit
10-2-6: Superintendent Of Public Services
10-2-7: Penalty
10-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter the following terms, phrases, words and their
derivations shall have the meaning given herein. When not inconsistent with the
context, words used in the present tense include the future, words in the
plural number include the singular number, and words in the singular number
include the plural number. The word "shall" is always mandatory and not merely
directory.
CITY ENGINEER: The assistant city engineer of the city.
PROJECT: The cost of excavation and repair or replacement of the city public
streets or rights of way.
SUPERINTENDENT OF PUBLIC SERVICES: The superintendent of public services of the
city. (Ord. 584, 10-21-1975)
10-2-2: PERMIT REQUIRED; FEE:
No person shall begin to construct, reconstruct, repair, alter or grade any
sidewalk, right of way, curb, curb cut, driveway, alley or street, or excavate,
dig, tunnel on, in or under any driveway, alley or street on the public streets
without first obtaining a permit from the city engineering department as
provided by this chapter.
The filing fee shall be three dollars ($3.00), except no such permit fee shall
be charged any utility holding a franchise from the city.
   A.   Combining Operations: When sidewalks, curbs, curb cuts, driveways or
streets are to be altered simultaneously, or when excavation at the same
location for more than one purpose is to be done simultaneously, only one
permit and fee shall be required.
   B.   Inspection And Engineering Fee: The city engineering department shall
charge a fee for all inspection and engineering services done in behalf of an
applicant or permittee hereunder. The inspection and engineering fee shall be
computed from a schedule of charges based upon actual costs. Such schedule
shall be posted for public inspection in the office of the city engineering
department. The exemption from the permit fee shall not be deemed to be an
exemption from the inspection and engineering fees. (Ord. 584, 10-21-1975)
10-2-3: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
An applicant for a permit hereunder shall file with the city engineering
department an application showing:
   A.   Name and address of the owner or agent in charge of the property
abutting the proposed work area.
   B.   Name and address of the party doing the work.
   C.   Location of the work area.
   D.   Attached plans showing details of the proposed alteration.
   E.   Estimated cost of the alteration.
   F.   The completion date, which shall then be contained in any permit issued
hereunder.
   G.   Such other information as the city engineering department shall find
reasonably necessary to the determination of whether a permit should issue
hereunder. (Ord. 584, 10-21-1975)
10-2-4: BONDS REQUIRED:
The following bonds shall accompany an application for a permit hereunder; or
in lieu thereof, an annual bond may be filed by any utility holding a franchise
from the city:
   A.   Construction And Maintenance: In cases where the estimated cost of the
project shall exceed two hundred dollars ($200.00) the city engineering
department shall require a maintenance and construction bond to be filed with
the application for a permit hereunder in an amount equal to the estimated cost
of the project repairs and conditioned that such work shall be done in
accordance with the city's standard specifications and guaranteeing the same
for a period of one year.
In any case where a permittee hereunder shall be in default or shall fail to
comply with the requirements of this chapter, the superintendent of public
services shall order the completion of the work by the city and shall recover
the cost from the permittee.
   B.   Indemnity: The city engineering department shall have the authority to
require an applicant hereunder to file a bond conditioned to protect and save
harmless the city from all claims for damages or injury to other persons by
reason of such excavation work. (Ord. 584, 10-21-1975)
10-2-5: STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE OF PERMIT:
The city engineering department shall issue a permit hereunder when it is
found:
   A.   That the plans for the proposed operation have been approved by the
assistant city engineer, to whom they shall be forwarded by the city
engineering department within a reasonable time after receipt thereof.
   B.   That the work shall be done according to the standard specifications of
the city for public work of like character.
   C.   That the operation will not unreasonably interfere with vehicular and
pedestrian traffic, the demand and necessity for parking spaces, and the means
of egress to and from the property affected and adjacent properties.
   D.   That the health, welfare and safety of the public will not be
unreasonably impaired. (Ord. 584, 10-21-1975)
10-2-6: SUPERINTENDENT OF PUBLIC SERVICES:
All operations for which a permit is granted hereunder shall be under the
direction and supervision of the superintendent of public services. (Ord. 584,
10-21-1975)
10-2-7: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in an
amount not exceeding three hundred dollars ($300.00) or be imprisoned in the
Minidoka County jail for a period of not exceeding six (6) months. Each day
such violation is committed or permitted to continue, shall constitute a
separate offense and shall be punishable as such hereunder. (Ord. 584, 10-21-
1975)
CHAPTER 3
TREES AND SHRUBBERY
SECTION:
10-3-1: Trimming Trees
10-3-2: Hedges And Shrubbery
10-3-3: Injury To Trees Or Shrubbery
10-3-4: Placement At Intersections On Corner Lots
10-3-5: Planting Permit
10-3-6: Duties Of Adjacent Property Owners
10-3-7: Cottonwoods; Willows; Poplars And Elms
10-3-8: Advisory Tree Committee
10-3-1: TRIMMING TREES:
Any owner or occupant of any real property shall trim all trees overhanging any
public thoroughfare, or public right of way so that the branches thereon will
not interfere with pedestrians, public travel, or utility placement within said
right of way. (Ord. 824, 5-21-2002)
10-3-2: HEDGES AND SHRUBBERY:
Any owner or occupant of any real property shall maintain all hedges and
shrubbery adjacent to the public sidewalk so that no part of said hedges or
shrubbery shall extend over any part of a public sidewalk in the city. (1960
Code, Sec. 9-902)
10-3-3: INJURY TO TREES OR SHRUBBERY:
It is hereby declared to be unlawful for any person, not the owner thereof, or
without lawful authority so to do, to injure wilfully, deface, disfigure or
destroy any tree or shrub or to injure, destroy, cut or pick any flower or
plant located either on private ground or on any public place or thoroughfare.
(1960 Code, Sec. 9-903)
10-3-4: PLACEMENT AT INTERSECTIONS ON CORNER LOTS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to plant or have on his property any trees,
shrubbery, vegetation or structure of any type or kind within the area of an
intersection which shall be located closer than sixteen feet (16') from the
nearest corner of said intersection, which exceeds two feet (2') in height, or
which shall have been determined by the chief of police to be a visual
obstruction at any intersection to the extent that the same shall constitute a
traffic hazard. (Ord. 756, 3-18-1997)
10-3-5: PLANTING PERMIT:
No tree shall be planted in the public right of way without a prior approved
permit which can be obtained from the city administrator for a fee of three
dollars ($3.00). (Ord. 824, 5-21-2002)
10-3-6: DUTIES OF ADJACENT PROPERTY OWNERS:
Owners of property adjacent to a public tree or shrub shall provide adequate
maintenance for that tree or shrub. Adequate maintenance shall include
sufficient water, mulching young trees, protection from compaction or injury by
vehicles or other causes, and proper pruning and removal of all parts of dead
or diseased limbs or limbs of trees or shrubs overhanging the sidewalk, street
or alley so that the branches thereof will not interfere with pedestrians,
public travel, utilities, or constitute a hazard. (Ord. 824, 5-21-2002)
10-3-7: COTTONWOODS; WILLOWS; POPLARS AND ELMS:
It shall be unlawful to plant, transplant or set out any cottonwood, willow,
poplar or elm tree on any street, alley, avenue, sidewalk, right of way, or
other public place or within fifty feet (50') of any sidewalk, paved street,
alley or avenue or on any private property within seventy five feet (75') of
any main or lateral sewer of the sewer system.
When the roots of any cottonwood, willow, poplar, or elm tree whether planted
or allowed to grow on private property or on public property by the adjoining
property owner have obstructed or are about to obstruct or damage any sewer
line, curb, gutter, sidewalk or street, it shall be the duty of the owner of
said private property to remove the encroachment within a specified time from
the service of the notice. (Ord. 824, 5-21-2002)
10-3-8: ADVISORY TREE COMMITTEE:
   A.   Authority And Power: That there shall be established an advisory tree
committee to be formed by appointment of the mayor and approval of the council
consisting of five (5) members appointed from the city. This committee will
assist the mayor and council in the planning, planting, maintenance,
preservation, and removal of trees on city owned public lands. An annual report
from the committee will be presented to the mayor and council.
   B.   Terms Of Office: The committee shall consist of five (5) people,
appointed by the mayor and approved by the council, the members of which shall
serve the following terms: one person to serve a term of one year; two (2)
persons to serve a term of two (2) years; and two (2) persons to serve a term
of three (3) years. In addition, there shall be one council member, the parks
supervisor, a person qualified on pesticide and spraying issues, and the city
grant administrator as ex officio members. The mayor will appoint the
chairperson. The committee will select a member as secretary to keep minutes.
Any person unable to fulfill their term shall be replaced by the mayor with
approval of the council. These members shall serve without monetary
compensation.
The committee shall meet once a month until a plan of work is completed and
thereafter meet not less than quarterly, or as frequently as requested by the
chairperson or mayor.
   C.   Definitions: As applied in this section, the following definitions
shall apply:
    DROP LINE: The area from the trunk of the tree and the outer edge of the
canopy of the top of the tree.
   HAZARDOUS TREES AND SHRUBS: Any tree or shrub on city property or private
land that creates any unsafe situation for persons adjacent to city property,
as determined by the committee.
   PEST INFESTED TREES: Any tree or shrub that, because of disease from pest or
pathogens, can affect the health of other trees and shrubs in the city.
   PRIVATE TREES AND SHRUBS: Any tree or shrub other than public trees and
shrubs.
   PUBLIC TREES AND SHRUBS: Any tree or shrub on city owned property or public
right of way.
   TRAFFIC TRIANGLE: See section
10-3-4 of this chapter.
   TREE TOPPING: The improper pruning or severe cutting back of limbs within a
tree's crown or removal of the top portion of the trunk of a tree.
   D.   Tree Topping: It shall be prohibited for any person, firm or city
department to top any tree on city owned property or public right of way.
   E.   Public Tree Care: Except as otherwise provided herein, the city
administrator shall have jurisdiction to maintain city owned public trees and
shrubs as the administrator deems appropriate, including the following:
      1.   All planting and removal of city owned trees and shrubs shall be
done in accordance with the expressed work plan prepared by the advisory tree
committee.
      2.   Trees and shrubs shall be trimmed or removed in accordance with the
vision or traffic triangle.
   F.   Disposal Of Toxic Waste Or Damage: It will be unlawful to dispose of
any toxic waste matter within the proximity of the root zone, or drip line of
any tree or shrub. It will also be unlawful to damage or deface any tree or
shrub on city property or right of way.
   G.   Inapplicability: The recitals of this section shall not be applicable
in any circumstance involving uninterrupted distribution of city utilities or
services, any circumstance determined by the city to be an emergency, or any
activities authorized by the city administrator or the committee.
   H.   Infraction: Any violation of this section shall be deemed an
infraction, with the following penalties:
      1.   First conviction: Fifty dollars ($50.00).
      2.   Second conviction: One hundred dollars ($100.00).
      3.   Subsequent conviction: Two hundred dollars ($200.00). (Ord. 803, 7-
18-2000; amd. Ord. 824, 5-21-2002)
CHAPTER 4
PUBLIC LIBRARY
SECTION:
10-4-1: Public Library Established
10-4-2: Library Use Free To Residents
10-4-3: Library Employees
10-4-1: PUBLIC LIBRARY ESTABLISHED:
A public library and reading room is hereby established in the city, under the
provisions of title 33, chapter 26, Idaho Code, and for such purpose the city
council shall annually levy and cause to be collected as other taxes are, a tax
not exceeding five (5) mills on the dollar of the taxable property of the city,
to constitute a library fund, which fund is hereby created, and shall be kept
by the city treasurer, separate and apart from other monies of the city, and be
used exclusively for the purchase of books, periodicals, necessary furniture
and fixtures and whatever is required for the maintenance of such library and
reading room. (1960 Code, Sec. 1-601; amd. 1977 Code)
10-4-2: LIBRARY USE FREE TO RESIDENTS:
The library and reading room established under this chapter shall be forever
free for the use of the residents of the city, subject to such reasonable rules
and regulations as the library board 1  may find necessary to adopt and publish
in order to render the use of the library and reading room of the greatest
benefit to the greatest number, and they may exclude and cut off from the use
of said library and reading room any and all persons who shall wilfully violate
such rules. (1960 Code, Sec. 1-604)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 2, chapter 1 of this code.
10-4-3: LIBRARY EMPLOYEES:
That the public library shall maintain necessary employees, which employees
shall be hired and supervised by the board of library directors, and paid from
the library budget. (Ord. 718, 9-21-1993)
CHAPTER 5
RAILROADS
SECTION:
10-5-1: Obstructing Street Crossings
10-5-2: Penalties
10-5-1: OBSTRUCTING STREET CROSSINGS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person or any railroad company to obstruct
or cause to be obstructed by cars, locomotive engines, train of cars or other
obstruction, any street crossing which crosses any railroad tracks within the
city.
   B.   Any person or railroad company who shall cause such crossings to be
blocked for a greater length of time than fifteen (15) minutes at one time
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. After any such fifteen (15) minute period
during which crossings are blocked, a reasonable amount of time will be allowed
to clear traffic which has accumulated during the said blockage. (Ord. 740, 1-
16-1996)
10-5-2: PENALTIES:
Upon conviction of a violation of this chapter, there shall be imposed a
penalty in the sum of not less than five dollars ($5.00) and no more than three
hundred dollars ($300.00) or imprisonment at the county jail of not more than
ten (10) days, or both such fine and imprisonment. (Ord. 740, 1-16-1996)
CHAPTER 6
ELECTRICAL SERVICE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-6-1: City Electric Department Manager
10-6-2: Rules And Regulations
10-6-3: Electric Service Application, Deposit
10-6-4: Electrical Rates
10-6-5: Charges Payable To Collector Of Water And Electrical Services
10-6-6: Current Measured By Meter
10-6-7: Unlawful Acts
10-6-8: Liability For Interruptions Of Service
10-6-9: Shutdown For Repairs
10-6-1: CITY ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT MANAGER:
   A.   Office Created: There is hereby created in the city the office of city
electric department manager. The mayor, with the approval of the council, shall
appoint a competent and responsible person to the office of city electric
department manager and such person shall hold office during the pleasure of the
mayor and council.
   B.   Powers And Duties: The city electric department manager shall have
general supervision of the electric department of the city, subject at all
times to the control of the mayor and council. He shall make such reports from
time to time and perform such other duties and services as the mayor and
council shall direct.
   C.   Compensation: The salary of the city electric department manager shall
be fixed by the mayor and council and shall be subject to change either by
raising or lowering, as the mayor and council shall, from time to time, by
motion or resolution provide. (Ord. 817, 9-4-2001)
10-6-2: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The mayor and council may, from time to time, by motion or resolution, adopt
rules and regulations for connecting and disconnecting service to customers and
providing for turning off or disconnecting electric services to customers for
failure to pay bills each month by stated times as fixed by such rules and
regulations adopted by the mayor and council. (1960 Code, Sec. 1-1005)
10-6-3: ELECTRIC SERVICE APPLICATION, DEPOSIT:
Application for connection for electric service must be made at the office of
the city clerk on such form as the clerk may prescribe. The application must be
made by the owner or tenant of the property to be benefited and state the lot
and block on which it is to be used. Said applicant must agree to conform to
the rules and regulations established from time to time, as a condition for
electric service. At the time of making application for service said applicant
shall make a deposit in an amount to be established by a resolution of the city
council. Said deposit shall be subject to the policies, rules, and provisions
of chapter 11 of this title. (Ord. 07-508, 12-4-2007)
10-6-4: ELECTRICAL RATES:
The monthly charges to be paid by electric service customers of the city shall
be established by resolution. The categories of service shall include the
following:
   City department rate
   Economic development rate
   Industrial rate (three-phase)
   Irrigation pumping rate
   Library/senior center rate
   Off peak electric service customer rate
   Renaissance Art Center rate
   Second meter points rate
   Single-family residential rate
   Single-phase commercial rate (small commercial)
   Three-phase commercial rate (large commercial)
(Ord. 06-501, 1-17-2006; amd. Res. 12-107, 11-13-2012; Res. 15-107, 9-8-2015,
eff. 10-1-2015; Res. 19-108, 9-24-2019, eff. 10-1-2019)
10-6-5: CHARGES PAYABLE TO COLLECTOR OF WATER AND ELECTRICAL SERVICES:
   A.   All charges for electric service will be due and payable at the office
of the city clerk to the collector of water and electrical services on the
first day of each month following the service, and if said bills or charges are
not paid on or before the tenth of said month, penalty in the amount of two
dollars ($2.00) and ten percent (10%) of said bill shall attach thereto and be
added to the amount of the billing. Utility bills will be considered delinquent
if not paid by the fifteenth (15th) of the month. When any charges are not paid
within the time established by the mayor and council, the electrical service
shall be shut off from the premises served and shall not be turned on again
until such charges and penalty are paid, together with the following additional
sums for the cost of turning on said electric service: thirty dollars ($30.00)
during seven o'clock (7:00) a.m. to five o'clock (5:00) p.m. on weekdays and
forty five dollars ($45.00) at other times or on holidays.
   B.   On the fifteenth (15th) of the month in which the payment is due,
subscribers shall receive a delinquent notice that will give indication of late
payment and provide an additional five (5) days for payment, or arrangement
therefor. A two dollar ($2.00) assessment and ten percent (10%) of the electric
charges shall be charged to subscribers for each delinquent notice.
   C.   If subscribers fail to respond by the delinquent date, the subscriber's
residence will be tagged to give notice of termination of said services by ten
o’clock (10:00) a.m. the following business day. Assessment for placement of
said tag shall be the amount of ten dollars ($10.00) per utility account.
   D.   If subscribers are not able to provide payment for utility services by
the due date provided, a payment arrangement may be made to extend the payment
due date out to the twenty fifth (25th) of said month. If the subscriber
requires a onetime special payment arrangement for additional time beyond the
twenty fifth (25th) of said month, approval of the Mayor or City Administrator
will be required. If the subscriber fails to keep said payment arrangement,
utility services will be disconnected without further notice and said utility
account may no longer be eligible for future payment arrangements.
   E.   Any electrical or water service customer having service terminated for
failure to pay for said service shall not be restored to service until any and
all sums owing to the city are fully paid, whether or not said charges are yet
due and payable and/or delinquent. Any such customers shall be required to pay
all past due services, together with current electrical and water charges and
any additional sums required for reconnection as provided by this code. (Res.
321, 10-24-1995; amd. Res. 331, 9-3-1996 3 ; Ord. 817, 9-4-2001; Res. 13-105,
9-24-2013; Ord. 20- 502, 9-8-2020)
 
Notes
3 3. Resolution 331 applies to all billings on or after October 1, 1996.
10-6-6: CURRENT MEASURED BY METER:
All electric current used shall be measured by means of a meter to be installed
by, and remain the property of, the city under the supervision of the city
electric department manager. (1960 Code, Sec. 1-1008; amd. Ord. 817, 9-4-2001)
10-6-7: UNLAWFUL ACTS:
   A.   Tampering With Service Equipment: It is hereby made a misdemeanor for
any person except the city electric department manager and employees under his
charge or direction, to tamper with or connect or disconnect any electric
service connection to consumers or in any way interfere or molest any part of
the electric distribution. (Ord. 717, 7-20-1993; amd. Ord. 817, 9-4-2001)
   B.   Tampering With System After Turnoff: It shall be a misdemeanor for any
person other than an authorized officer or employee of the city, after service
has been disconnected, to turn the same back on.
   C.   Building Permit Required: It shall be unlawful for any individual,
person, corporation or other entity to request or demand from any utility,
private or public, the connection of power to any structure, house, building or
installation, without first displaying to said utility or other company a valid
building permit or certificate of occupancy issued by the city.
      1.   It shall be a misdemeanor for any such individual, person,
corporation or entity to violate the provisions of this chapter and it shall be
a misdemeanor to mislead the utility or other company by showing a permit or
certificate which is not duly and regularly issued, or which does not cover the
structure or installation for which power is sought, or to represent falsely
that no such permit is required by the ordinances of the city.
      2.   Each utility, private or public, receiving such a request for
connection of power without compliance with the terms of this chapter shall
promptly notify the Rupert city zoning administrator. (Ord. 717, 7-20-1993)
10-6-8: LIABILITY FOR INTERRUPTIONS OF SERVICE:
The city shall not be liable for any loss, injury or damage of any kind
resulting from the interruption, reduction, loss or restoration of electric
service from any cause, including, without limitation, any such loss by fire,
flood, accident, casualty, sabotage, strike, litigation, act of God or the
public enemy or failure or inadequacy of distribution, transmission or
generation equipment. The city does acknowledge maintenance responsibility of
the electrical system up to the customer meter. Without limitation by the
preceding enumeration, in no event shall the city be liable for damage to or
destruction of any computer, computer software, photocopier or other electric
device which is sensitive to spikes, surges, sags, transients, noise, or other
electric interruptions, outages or fluctuations. Any customer owning or
operating such equipment shall take all reasonable precautions to protect such
equipment by installation of surge suppressors or other protective devices or
equipment. The city disclaims any express or implied warranty of
merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose, nor shall the delivery of
energy to any customer be construed as or deemed to be the delivery of goods
under the Idaho uniform commercial code. (Ord. 768, 3-3-1998)
10-6-9: SHUTDOWN FOR REPAIRS:
In the operation and maintenance of its system, the city, for the purpose of
making necessary repairs or changes in its transmission or distribution
facilities or to avoid the possibility of damage to the city's property or to
persons or to property of others, may suspend delivery of service for such
periods as may be necessary, and the city shall not be liable for any damage or
claim of damage attributable to any temporary discontinuance of service from
such causes. (Ord. 768, 3-3-1998)
CHAPTER 7
WATER SERVICE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-7-1: Superintendent Of Water
10-7-2: Application For Water Use
10-7-3: Water Rates
10-7-4: Connecting Charge
10-7-5: Charges Payable To Collector Of Water And Electrical Services
10-7-6: Water Meters
10-7-7: Charges For Water Turnon And Shutoff
10-7-8: Houses On Separate Meters
10-7-9: City Not Responsible For Damage
10-7-10: Leaky Faucet, Grounds For Shutoff
10-7-11: Tapping Of Mains
10-7-12: Pipes Protected From Freezing
10-7-13: Free Access For Inspection Of Water Lines
10-7-14: Unlawfully Turning On Water After Shutoff
10-7-15: Authority Of Mayor And Council
10-7-16: Interference With System
10-7-17: Noncompliance With Chapter
10-7-18: Backflow Prevention Devices Required
10-7-1: SUPERINTENDENT OF WATER:
   A.   Office Created: There is hereby created the office of superintendent of
water with duties and powers hereinafter prescribed. (1960 Code, Sec. 1-901)
   B.   Appointment: The mayor, by and with the approval of the council, shall
appoint a competent person as superintendent of water. The superintendent of
water shall hold office during the pleasure of the mayor and council. (1960
Code, Sec. 1-902)
   C.   Duties: It shall be the duty of the superintendent of water to keep the
entire waterworks system and plant of the city in good repair, and to pump all
water and keep the said system and all patrons thereof well supplied with
water. He shall have and exercise complete and entire control, charge and
superintendency of the system, subject to such orders, rules and regulations as
may from time to time be provided by the mayor and city council. (1960 Code,
Sec. 1-903)
10-7-2: APPLICATION FOR WATER USE:
Application for use of water must be made at the office of the city clerk on
such form as shall be prescribed by the city clerk. Said application must be
made by the tenant or owner of the property to be benefited and shall give
information indicating the lot and block on which it is to be used and he must
agree to conform to the rules and regulations established from time to time as
a condition for the use of the water. (1960 Code, Sec. 1-904)
10-7-3: WATER RATES:
   A.   Commercial, Residential, And Irrigation Water Rates: Water rates shall
be established by way of resolution.
   B.   Application Of Irrigation Water Rate: The irrigation water rates shall
apply only upon the following conditions, each one of which must be met:
      1.   An application must be presented to the city clerk, in such form as
the city clerk may prescribe to apply for the use of irrigation water, and
which application shall contain a space for the name of the person owning the
premises to be irrigated by city water; the legal description of the premises
upon which said water is to be used; a statement that said person is using said
water for irrigation purposes.
      2.   That the applicant not have low pressure irrigation water available
on the requested premises.
      3.   That such irrigation water rates shall apply only during the months
of April, May, June, July, August, September and October upon the conditions
existing as set forth in subsections B1 and B2 of this section.
      4.   Such irrigation water rates shall not apply to any premises until
such application as set forth in subsection B1 of this section shall have been
filed with the city clerk and approved by the city clerk, by endorsement upon
the application; provided, however, that any person aggrieved by the decision
of the city clerk may make request for review and final determination by the
city council by filing with the city clerk an application in writing directed
to the city council, and hearing shall be held on such application at the next
regular council meeting, with notice to the applicant. (Ord. 706, 10-22-1991;
amd. Ord. 748, 10-1-1996; Ord. 832, 9-17-2002; Res. 19-109, 9-24-2019)
10-7-4: CONNECTING CHARGE:
Connecting fees shall be established by way of resolution. (Ord. 832, 9-17-
2002)
10-7-5: CHARGES PAYABLE TO COLLECTOR OF WATER AND ELECTRICAL SERVICES:
   A.   All charges for water service will be due and payable at the office of
the city clerk to the collector of water and electrical services on the first
day of each month following the service, and if said bills or charges are not
paid on or before the tenth (10th) of said month, penalty in the amount of two
dollars ($2.00) shall attach thereto and be added to the amount of the billing.
Utility bills will be considered delinquent if not paid by the fifteenth (15th)
of the month. When any charges are not paid within the time established by the
mayor and council, the water service shall be shut off from the premises served
and shall not be turned on again until such charges and penalty are paid,
together with the following additional sums for the cost of turning on said
water service: ten dollars ($10.00) during seven o'clock (7:00) a.m. to five
o'clock (5:00) p.m. on weekdays and twenty dollars ($20.00) at other times or
on holidays.
   B.   On the fifteenth (15th) of the month in which the payment is due,
subscribers shall receive a delinquent notice that will give indication of late
payment and provide an additional five (5) days for payment, or arrangement
therefor. A two dollar ($2.00) assessment shall be charged to subscribers for
each delinquent notice.
   C.   If subscribers fail to respond by the delinquent date, the subscriber's
residence will be tagged to give notice of termination of said services by ten
o’clock (10:00) a.m. the following business day. Assessment for placement of
said tag shall be the amount of ten dollars ($10.00) per utility account.
   D.   If subscribers are not able to provide payment for utility services by
the due date provided, a payment arrangement may be made to extend the payment
due date out to the twenty fifth (25th) of said month. If the subscriber
requires a onetime special payment arrangement for additional time beyond the
twenty fifth (25th) of said month, approval of the Mayor or City Administrator
will be required. If the subscriber fails to keep said payment arrangement,
utility services will be disconnected without further notice and said utility
account may no longer be eligible for future payment arrangements.
   E.   Any electrical or water service customer having service terminated for
failure to pay for said service shall not be restored to service until any and
all sums owing to the city are fully paid, whether or not said charges are yet
due and payable and/or delinquent. Any such customers shall be required to pay
all past due services, together with current electrical and water charges and
any additional sums required for reconnection as provided by this code. (Ord.
20-502, 9-8-2020)
10-7-6: WATER METERS:
   A.   Water Measured: All water will be measured by means of a meter, the
same to be placed on a service pipe at a point between the mains and the house
bibbs or other openings, according to the directions of the superintendent. All
meters must be placed on a frost proof box or building. (1960 Code, Sec. 1-905)
   B.   Under City Control: All meters shall be and remain under the
supervision and control of the city. In the event of the meter getting out of
order and failing to register, the consumer shall be charged, and pay for such
water, at the minimum rate during such time. (1960 Code, Sec. 1-916)
10-7-7: CHARGES FOR WATER TURNON AND SHUTOFF:
   A.   Charges made to water service subscribers for services of the city
water department in turning on and shutting off domestic water sources shall be
established by resolution. (Ord. 832, 9-17-2002)
   B.   The city shall charge ten dollars ($10.00) for removal of a water meter
and ten dollars ($10.00) for reinstallation of a meter if removal is necessary
to enforce payment of a bill for water charges or other services of the water
department.
   C.   The service charges for turning on water after shutoff for a
delinquency and the charges for removal and reinstallation of a meter due to
delinquency shall be paid by the offending subscriber prior to reinstallation
and turnon of the water service to that subscriber. All other charges provided
for in this section shall be billed and paid with the regular water bill for
the period in which said services were rendered.
   D.   Subscribers requesting temporary shutoff of water shall make
application at the office of the city clerk on forms provided by the clerk. A
temporary shutoff shall be one for a period of thirty (30) days or less. There
shall be no charge for shutoffs at the request of the subscriber if the water
remains shut off for more than thirty (30) days. (Ord. 628, 2-19-1980)
10-7-8: HOUSES ON SEPARATE METERS:
The service pipes must be so arranged that the supply of water for each
separate house or premises shall be controlled by a separate stopcock placed
within or near the property line, and the water supply shall be measured by a
meter, and the owner of the house or of the business must pay for all water
used through such meter connection or connections for his use or the use of
others to whom it may be accessible. In the event more than one residence or
business establishment is currently being serviced through a single meter, each
residence or business so serviced shall pay the prevailing monthly minimum
water charge, which monthly fee shall be in addition to charges for all water
used through such meter. (Ord. 648, 2-23-1982)
10-7-9: CITY NOT RESPONSIBLE FOR DAMAGE:
The water may at any time be shut off from the mains without notice for the
purpose of making repairs, extensions or other necessary purposes, and persons
having boilers supplied by direct pressure from the mains are cautioned against
danger of explosion or collapse and the city shall not be responsible for the
safety of boilers on the premises of any water consumers. (1960 Code, Sec. 1-
908)
10-7-10: LEAKY FAUCET, GROUNDS FOR SHUTOFF:
Water will not be furnished where there are defective or leaking faucets,
closets or other fixtures, and when such may be discovered the supply will be
withdrawn until the proper repairs are made by the property owner. (1960 Code,
Sec. 1-909)
10-7-11: TAPPING OF MAINS:
All tapping of mains must be done by the superintendent of water, or under his
direct supervision. Any person violating the provisions of this section shall
be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be fined in
a sum not exceeding one hundred dollars ($100.00). (1960 Code, Sec. 1-910)
10-7-12: PIPES PROTECTED FROM FREEZING:
The service pipes within the premises not owned by the city must be kept in
repair and protected from freezing at the expense of the owner thereof, who
will be responsible for all damages resulting from all leaks or breaks,
resulting from the negligence of the consumer. (1960 Code, Sec. 1-912)
10-7-13: FREE ACCESS FOR INSPECTION OF WATER LINES:
Officers and employees of the city water department shall have free access at
proper hours of the day to all parts of buildings on which water may be
delivered from the city mains, for the purpose of inspecting the conditions of
the pipes and fixtures, and the manner in which the water is used. (1960 Code,
Sec. 1-913)
10-7-14: UNLAWFULLY TURNING ON WATER AFTER SHUTOFF:
Should the owner or occupant of the premises turn on the water, or suffer or
cause it to be turned on, after it has been shut off at the property line, it
will be turned off at the main, and a charge of one hundred dollars ($100.00)
must be paid before the same shall be turned on again. (Ord. 731, 12-20-1994)
10-7-15: AUTHORITY OF MAYOR AND COUNCIL:
In all cases wherein by this chapter any discretion is invested in the
superintendent of water or the city clerk, such discretion shall be subject to
the control of the mayor and council. (1960 Code, Sec. 1-915)
10-7-16: INTERFERENCE WITH SYSTEM:
Any person who shall interfere with, molest or injure the waterworks system of
the city or any part thereof shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction thereof shall be fined in any amount not to exceed the sum of three
hundred dollars ($300.00) and costs of prosecution. (Ord. 731, 12-20-1994)
10-7-17: NONCOMPLIANCE WITH CHAPTER:
Any person failing to comply with any of the provisions of this chapter
relating to the waterworks or the water system of the city, and for a violation
of which no provision has hereinbefore been made, shall be subject to a civil
penalty of five hundred dollars ($500.00). (Ord. 731, 12-20-1994)
10-7-18: BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES REQUIRED:
   A.   Compliance With State: The city water department shall require that
backflow prevention devices be installed by water users connected to the city's
domestic water supply and distribution system as provided in this section and
the rules and regulations of the state department of health and welfare. This
section shall apply to existing connections as well as future connections to
the city's domestic water distribution system. Failure to comply with the
requirements of this section shall subject the subscriber to the penalties
provided in section
10-7-17 of this chapter. In addition, the city water department is authorized
to suspend delivery of water to any domestic water user until such user
complies with the requirements of this section; provided that the water user
shall be entitled to reasonable notice before such suspension of services of
not less than twenty four (24) hours, unless there is a clear and present
danger of contamination of the city's domestic water supply, in which event no
prior notice shall be required.
The installation or maintenance of a cross connection now existing or hereafter
installed is hereby declared a nuisance and shall be abated. The control and/or
elimination of cross connection within the distribution system of the city
shall lie with the water superintendent and the mayor and the council of the
city.
   B.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section the following definitions
are established:
   ADOPTION OF STATE DEFINITIONS BY REFERENCE: All definitions in the Idaho
regulation for public drinking water (November 1977) as the same may hereafter
be revised or amended, shall be considered as definitions within the meaning of
this section and are hereby adopted by reference.
    AIR GAP: The unobstructed vertical distance through the free atmosphere
between the lowest opening from any pipe or faucet supplying water to a tank,
plumbing fixture, or other device and the flood level rim of said vessel. An
approved air gap shall be at least double the diameter of the supply pipe,
measured vertically, above the top of the rim of the vessel, and in no case
less than two inches (2"). When air gap is used at the service connection to
prevent the contamination or pollution of the public potable water system, an
emergency bypass shall be installed in the bypass system. An approved air gap
device for a swing joint apparatus shall be at least four inches (4") above the
top of the rim of the vessel.
   BACKFLOW: The flow, other than the intended direction of flow, of any
foreign liquids, gases or substances into the city water supply and
distribution system.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE: A device capable of automatically preventing
backflow or backsiphonage.
   CONTAMINATION: An impairment of the quality of the potable water by sewage,
industrial fluids or waste liquids, compounds or other materials to a degree
which creates an actual hazard to the public health through poisoning or
through the spread of disease.
   CROSS CONNECTION: Any physical arrangement whereby a public water supply is
connected, directly or indirectly, with any other water supply system, sewer
drain, conduit, pool, storage reservoir, plumbing fixture or other device which
contains or may contain contaminated water, sewage or other waste or liquid of
unknown or unsafe quality which may be capable of importing contamination to
the public water supply system as a result of backflow.
   DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY: An assembly of two (2) independently operating
approved check valves with tightly closing shutoff valves on each side of the
check valves, plus properly located test locks for the testing of each check
valve. The entire assembly shall meet the design and performance specifications
and approval of a recognized and city approved testing agency for backflow
prevention devices. To be approved, these devices must be readily accessible
for inline maintenance and testing.
   REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE DEVICE: An assembly of two (2) independently
operating approved check valves with an automatically operating differential
relief valve between two (2) check valves, tightly closing shutoff valves on
either side of the check valves, plus properly located test locks for the
testing of the check and relief valves. The entire assembly shall meet the
design and performance specifications, and approval of a recognized and city
approved testing agency for backflow prevention assemblies. The device shall
operate to maintain the pressure in the zone between the two (2) check valves
at a level less than the pressure on the public water supply side of the
device. At cessation of normal flow the pressure between the two (2) check
valves shall be less than the pressure on the public water supply side of the
device. In case of the leakage of either of the check valves the differential
relief valves shall operate to maintain the reduced pressure in the zone
between the check valves by discharging to the atmosphere. When the inlet
pressure is two (2) pounds per square inch or less, the relief valve shall open
to the atmosphere. To be approved, these devices must be readily accessible for
inline maintenance and testing, and be installed in a location where no part of
the device will be submerged.
   C.   Inspection: Service to any property, landowner, or water user receiving
its water supply from the city should be open for inspection at all reasonable
times to authorized representatives of the water department to determine
whether cross connection or other structural or sanitary hazards, including
violations of these regulations exist. When such a condition becomes known, the
water superintendent shall deny or immediately discontinue service to the
premises by providing for a physical break in the service line until the
customer has corrected the condition in conformance with state statutes and
city ordinances relating to plumbing and water supplies and the regulations
adopted pursuant thereto.
   D.   Location: Backflow prevention devices shall be installed where in the
judgment of the city water department the nature and extent of activities and
of materials stored on the premises would present an immediate and dangerous
hazard to health or be deleterious to the quality of the water should a cross
connection occur, even though such cross connection does not exist at the time.
Backflow prevention devices shall be installed under circumstances including,
but not limited to, the following:
      1.   Premises having an auxiliary water supply, unless the quality of the
auxiliary supply is in compliance with the state of Idaho drinking water
regulations and is acceptable to the city.
      2.   Premises having internal cross connection that are not correctable,
or intricate plumbing arrangements which make it impracticable to ascertain
whether or not cross connection exists.
      3.   Premises where entry is restricted so that inspections for cross
connection cannot be made with sufficient frequency or at sufficiently short
notice to assure that cross connections do not exist.
      4.   Premises on which any substance is handled under pressure so as to
permit entry into the public water supply, or where a cross connection could
reasonably be expected to occur. This shall include the handling of process
waters and cooling waters.
      5.   Premises where materials of a toxic or hazardous nature are handled
in such a way that if back siphonage occurs, a serious health hazard might
result.
      6.   In the following types of facilities a backflow prevention device is
required to protect the water supply. A backflow prevention device shall be
installed at these facilities unless the city water department determines that
no hazard exists:
         Hospitals
         Laboratories
         Sewage treatment plants
         Food processing plants
         Petroleum processing or storage tanks
   E.   Type Of Device Required: The type of protective device required shall
be determined as follows:
      1.   An air gap separation or a reduced pressure principle backflow
prevention device shall be installed where the public water system may be
contaminated with sewage, industrial waste of a toxic nature, or other
contaminant which could cause a health or system hazard.
      2.   In the case of a substance which may be objectionable but not
hazardous to health, a double check valve assembly, air gap separation, or a
reduced principle backflow prevention device shall be installed.
      3.   Backflow prevention devices required by this section shall be
installed at the meter, which will be in a location designated by the Rupert
water department. The device shall be located so as to be readily accessible
for maintenance and testing, and no part of the device shall be submersed.
      4.   All backflow prevention devices required by this section shall be
installed under the supervision of and with the approval of the city. All
protective devices required by this section shall be from a list approved by
the city. A double check valve assembly or a reduced pressure principle
backflow prevention device will be approved if it has successfully passed
performance tests of the University of Southern California or other testing
laboratories satisfactory to the city. These devices shall be furnished and
installed by and at the expense of the water user. The owner of the real
property to which the water service is provided shall be the party responsible
for providing any required backflow device unless a written agreement between
the landlord and tenant requires the tenant to provide for such expense. Owners
of mobile homes who are direct subscribers to the city water service shall be
responsible for providing backflow prevention as required, even though they do
not own the real property to which the service is provided. Final approval of
backflow prevention devices will be issued by the city after installation has
been checked by a certified tester.
   F.   Inspection: Backflow prevention devices installed pursuant to this
section, except atmospheric vacuum breakers, shall be inspected and tested
annually, or more often if necessary. Inspections, tests and maintenance shall
be at the customer's expense. Whenever the devices are found to be defective,
they shall be repaired, overhauled or replaced at the customer's expense.
Inspections, tests, repairs and records thereof shall be accomplished under the
city's water department supervision by a certified tester.
   G.   Underground Sprinklers: No underground sprinkling system will be
installed without adequate backflow prevention device at a point from which the
water for irrigation is taken from the public domestic water supply.
   H.   Enforcement: For the purpose of carrying out this section the mayor and
city council or its authorized agent shall be authorized to inspect properties
receiving water from the potable water system of the city, as necessary, to
exercise effective cross connection control, and avoidance of backflow to the
domestic water system. (Ord. 635, 10-7-1980)
CHAPTER 8
IRRIGATION WATER REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-8-1: Distribution Of Water By City
10-8-2: Rules Of Distribution
10-8-3: Water Commissioner
10-8-4: Connection Charges
10-8-5: Irrigation Rates
10-8-6: Irrigation Fund Created
10-8-7: Water Use On Rotation Basis
10-8-8: Tampering With Water
10-8-1: DISTRIBUTION OF WATER BY CITY:
The city hereby takes over and assumes the regulation, control and supervision
of the distribution of all water used by the inhabitants of the city for
irrigation purposes. (1960 Code, Sec. 5-101)
10-8-2: RULES OF DISTRIBUTION:
The city does hereby assume the power and right to convey the water used by the
inhabitants of the city for irrigation purposes, by ditches, laterals, pipes,
aqueducts, flumes, culverts or other feasible means, through the public
streets, avenues and alleys, and to apportion such irrigation water among such
inhabitants, and designate the time or turn, and lengths of time when each
water user or landowner shall use same, and otherwise supervise, control and
distribute such irrigation water in such a way as to promote the general
welfare of the inhabitants of the city and to do any and all things authorized
by sections 50-1801 to 50-1810, Idaho Code, and such additional powers or
duties as may hereafter be provided by law. (1960 Code, Sec. 5-102)
10-8-3: WATER COMMISSIONER:
   A.   Superintendent Of Water: The superintendent of water shall be ex
officio water commissioner, to serve as such without added compensation. (1960
Code, Sec. 5-103)
   B.   Duties: It shall be the duty of the water commissioner to supervise the
conveying, control, apportioning and distribution of all irrigation water in
the city, designate the time when, the length of time, and from whom each water
user is to receive such water, under such rules and regulations as the mayor
and city council of the city may from time to time prescribe by ordinance or
resolution. (1960 Code, Sec. 5-104)
10-8-4: CONNECTION CHARGES:
Whenever any property owner or tenant desires to make a connection with the
irrigation pipeline maintained by the city he shall make application to the
city clerk and pay a connection charge as hereinafter set forth.
Irrigation Tap Fees:
   4 inch line connection   $180.00
   6 inch line connection   235.00
   8 inch line connection   275.00
The city shall make all connections to existing services requested by the
applicant, provided city low pressure irrigation water is available in existing
pipelines adjacent to the lot or parcel to be served. (Ord. 678, 10-21-1986)
10-8-5: IRRIGATION RATES:
The mayor and council of the city, each year at the time of making their annual
levy, shall fix the irrigation rate on property of the city and certify the
same to the city clerk who shall at the time of certifying the annual levy to
the county officer also certify the irrigation rates so fixed by the mayor and
council, the same to be collected by the county as other city taxes 1 . (1960
Code, Sec. 5-106)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection 10-7-3B of this title.
10-8-6: IRRIGATION FUND CREATED:
There is hereby created in the city an irrigation fund which fund shall be kept
separate and apart. All monies collected for use of irrigation water shall be
placed in such fund and used for maintenance or construction of the irrigation
system as ordered by the mayor and council. (1960 Code, Sec. 5-107)
10-8-7: WATER USE ON ROTATION BASIS:
All irrigation water users in the city shall use said irrigation water from the
facilities of the city on a rotation basis as follows:
   A.   All persons owning, renting, leasing or using or irrigating any lots,
pieces or parcels of land of and within the city having a lot or house number,
shall use the same only on dates to be established by resolution of the city
council from time to time adopted.
   B.   The city council by such resolution described in subsection A of this
section shall determine a proper rotation of irrigation water based upon
availability of such water and shall distribute annually on or before May 15 of
each year a schedule of permitted use established by resolution of the city
council. Copies shall be made available at the city office to all irrigation
water users. (Ord. 598, 5-17-1977)
   C.   These provisions shall not apply to nor be construed to include
irrigation water used from the domestic water lines of the property owner or
the city and are not made to so regulate the use of domestic water whether used
for irrigation or not.
   D.   The city and the county of Minidoka for its real property within the
city and for the parks and recreational areas within the city are excluded from
the provisions of this section.
   E.   The water commissioner shall be responsible to carry out the provisions
of these regulations.
The irrigation water use as above described is enacted by the city council
pursuant to the provisions of subsection
10-8-3B of this chapter, to enable the water commissioner to apportion
irrigation water use within the city. (Ord. 458, 5-2-1967)
10-8-8: TAMPERING WITH WATER:
Any person who shall, without authority of the water commissioner of the city,
meddle, dam, turn, interfere or in any manner tamper with the water used by the
inhabitants of the city for irrigation purposes, and disarrange the schedule of
the city as established by the water commissioner thereof, and thereby deprive
any user or landowner from the uninterrupted use and benefit of his turn of
said water, shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon conviction thereof in
the court of the city, shall be punished by a fine not exceeding one hundred
dollars ($100.00). (Ord. 458, 5-2-1967)
CHAPTER 9
USE OF PUBLIC AND PRIVATE SEWERS 1
SECTION:
10-9-1: Definitions
10-9-2: Use Of Public Sewers Required
10-9-3: Private Sewage Disposal
10-9-4: Building Sewers And Connections
10-9-5: Use Of Public Sewers
10-9-6: Prohibition Of Connection
10-9-7: Maintenance Of Sewer Service Lines
10-9-8: Powers And Authority Of Inspectors
10-9-9: User Fees And Charges
10-9-10: Criminal Acts And Penalties
10-9-11: Validity
10-9-12: Ordinance In Force
 
Notes
1 1. See also chapter 10 of this title.
10-9-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meaning of terms used
in this chapter shall be as follows:
BOD (Denoting Biochemical Oxygen Demand): The quantity of oxygen utilized in
the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure
in five (5) days at twenty degrees Celsius (20°C), expressed in milligrams per
liter.
BUILDING DRAIN: That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage system
which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes inside
the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer, beginning five
feet (5') (1.5 meters) outside the inner face of the building wall.
BUILDING SEWER: The conduit from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
COMBINED SEWER: A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
GARBAGE: Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
INDUSTRIAL WASTES: The liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing processes as
distinct from sanitary sewage.
NATURAL OUTLET: Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body
of surface or ground water.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group.
pH: The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams per
liter of solution.
PRESSURE TRANSMISSION SEWER: The fourteen inch (14") pressure pipe which
carries the sewage from the treatment plant to the sewage lagoons, unless the
context of the term is such as to refer to any pressure transmission sewer line
maintained or operated by the city.
PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE: The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1/2") (1.27 centimeters)
in any dimension.
PUBLIC SEWER: A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights, which is controlled by public authority.
SANITARY SEWER: A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface and
ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
SEWAGE: A combination of the water carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions and industrial establishments, together with such
ground, surface and storm waters as may be present.
SEWAGE LAGOON: The lagoons located in T8S, R24E, sec. 27 and 34.
SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT: The pretreatment facilities located on 50 West Road.
SEWAGE WORKS: All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing of
sewage.
SEWER: A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
SHALL; MAY: "Shall" is mandatory; "may" is permissive.
SLUG: Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which in concentration
of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds five (5) times the
average twenty four (24) hour concentration of flows during normal operation
for a continuous period of more than fifteen (15) minutes.
STORM DRAIN (Sometimes Termed "Storm Sewer"): A sewer which carries storm and
surface waters and drainage, but excludes sewage and industrial wastes, other
than unpolluted cooling water.
SUPERINTENDENT: The superintendent of sewage works and/or of water pollution
control of the city of Rupert or his authorized deputy, agent or
representative.
SUSPENDED SOLIDS: Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water, sewage or other liquids, and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
WATERCOURSE: A channel in which a flow of water occurs, whether continuously or
intermittently. (Ord. 603, 4-4-1978)
10-9-2: USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
city of Rupert, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said city, any human
or animal excrement, garbage or other waste material.
   B.   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet or watercourse
within the city of Rupert, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said city,
any sewage or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been
provided in accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter.
   C.   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
   D.   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation, or other purposes, situated within the city
and abutting on any street, alley or right of way in which there is now located
or may in the future be located a public sanitary or combined sewer of the
city, is hereby required at his expense to install suitable toilet facilities
therein, and to connect such facilities directly to the proper public sewer in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter, within ninety (90) days after
date of official notice to do so, provided that said public sewer is within one
hundred feet (100') (30.5 meters) of the property line. (Ord. 603, 4-4-1978)
10-9-3: PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL:
   A.   Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available under the
provisions of subsection
10-9-2D of this chapter, the building sewer shall be connected to a private
sewage disposal system complying with the provisions of this section.
   B.   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal system
the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the superintendent. The
application for such permit shall be made on a form furnished by the city,
which the applicant shall supplement by any plans, specifications and other
information as are deemed necessary by the superintendent. A permit and
inspection fee of ten dollars ($10.00) shall be paid to the city at the time
the application is filed.
   C.   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the
superintendent. He shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of
construction and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the
superintendent when the work is ready for final inspection and before any
underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made within twenty
four (24) hours of the receipt of notice by the superintendent.
   D.   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private sewage disposal
system shall comply with all recommendations of the department of health and
welfare of the state of Idaho and the district health office. No septic tank or
cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any natural outlet.
   E.   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private sewage disposal system, as provided in subsection
10-9-2D of this chapter, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer
in compliance with this chapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar
private sewage disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable
material within thirty (30) days.
   F.   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times at no expense to the city.
   G.   No statement contained in this section shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the health officer.
(Ord. 603, 4-4-1978)
10-9-4: BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS:
   A.   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the superintendent.
   B.   There shall be two (2) classes of building sewer permits: 1) for
residential and commercial service; and 2) for service to establishments
producing industrial wastes. In either case, the owner or his agent shall make
application on a special form furnished by the city. The permit application
shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications or other information
considered pertinent in the judgment of the superintendent. A permit and
inspection fee of ten dollars ($10.00) for a residential or commercial building
sewer permit and one hundred dollars ($100.00) for an industrial building sewer
permit shall be paid to the city at the time the application is filed. Said
permit fees shall be credited against the connection fees provided in section
10-10-5 of this title, if the connection is approved and the connection fee is
paid within six (6) months after connection is approved.
   C.   All costs and expense incident to the installation and connection of
the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the
city from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by
the installation of the building sewer.
   D.   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway, the building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered as one building sewer. Each building or residence shall pay
applicable service and connection fees even if joined to one sewer service
line.
   E.   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and test by the superintendent, to meet all
requirements of this chapter.
   F.   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing and backfilling the trench shall all conform to the requirements of the
building and plumbing code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
city. In the absence of code provisions, or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the ASTM
and WPCF manual of practice no. 9 shall apply.
   G.   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary
sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
   H.   All plumbing installations for sewer connections from buildings within
the city to the sewer service lines of the city which require openings into the
sewer service lines within the same elevation as the main sewer line, or which
are basement sewer line connections, or which are from single level buildings
which may be determined to be within a critical distance of any lift station on
said main sewer line of the city, such distance to be determined by the city
engineer, shall be required to have installed on said sewer connection line an
antiflow back valve on such effluent line prior to entry into the city main
sewer collection line, and such antiflow back valve shall be located in an
accessible location for cleaning and repair by the owner. The city shall
inspect all building permit applications to determine whether or not such
building sewer connection to the main sewer line is within a category above
specified, and if so, the owner of said premises shall be notified of the
requirements hereof, and prior to completion of such sewer line connection, the
said line shall be inspected and approved by the building inspector of the
city. No premises hereafter erected or to be hereafter connected to the sewer
collection system of the city shall be allowed to connect the sewer effluent
line to the main collection system prior to installation of the antiflow back
valve as herein provided and inspection by the proper official of the city. All
antiflow back valves to be installed as herein required shall be of sufficient
size and capacity to ensure operation and shall be maintained at all times in
operable condition by the owner of the premises.
   I.   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior foundation
drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or ground water to a
building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected directly or
indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   J.   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing code or other
applicable rules and regulations of the city, or the procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the ASTM and the WPCF manual of practice no. 9.
All such connections shall be made gastight and watertight. Any deviation from
the prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the superintendent
before installation.
   K.   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the
superintendent when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection
to the public sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the
superintendent or his representative, and the superintendent shall have the
authority to order that a contractor or owner, at the owner's expense, uncover
any connection of a building sewer to a public sewer if the connection was made
without inspection, and the costs shall be borne by the owner and contractor.
   L.   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city. (Ord. 603,
4-4-1978)
10-9-5: USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS:
   A.   No persons shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water,
surface water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated
cooling water or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer of
the city.
   B.   Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers,
or to a natural outlet approved by the superintendent. Industrial cooling water
or unpolluted process waters may be discharged, on approval of the
superintendent, to a storm sewer, combined sewer or natural outlet.
   C.   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
      1.   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas.
      2.   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, including, but not
limited to, cyanides in excess of two (2) mg/l as CN in the wastes as
discharged the public sewer.
      3.   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment
and personnel of the sewage works.
      4.   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails, paper, dishes, cups, milk containers, etc., either whole
or ground by garbage grinders.
   D.   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, waters or wastes if it appears likely in the
opinion of the superintendent that such wastes can harm either the sewers,
sewage treatment process or equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving
stream, or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property or constitute a
nuisance. In forming his opinion as to the acceptability of these wastes, the
superintendent will give consideration to such factors as to quantities of
subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of
construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment process, capacity of
the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of wastes in the sewage
treatment plant and other pertinent factors. The substances prohibited are:
      1.   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than one hundred
fifty degrees Fahrenheit (150°F) (65°C).
      2.   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of one hundred (100) mg/l or containing substances
which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures between thirty two degrees
(32°) and one hundred fifty degrees Fahrenheit (150°F) (0 and 65°C).
      3.   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths (3/
4) horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and
approval of the superintendent.
      4.   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid, iron pickling wastes,
or concentrated plating solutions whether neutralized or not.
      5.   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc and
similar objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the superintendent for such materials.
      6.   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor
producing substances in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the superintendent as necessary, after treatment of the
composite sewage, to meet the requirements of the state, federal or other
public agencies of jurisdiction.
      7.   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the superintendent in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations.
      8.   Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5.
      9.   Materials which exert or cause:
         a.   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, fullers earth, lime slurries and lime residues) or of dissolved
solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium sulfate).
         b.   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions).
         c.   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand, or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works.
         d.   Unusual volume of low or concentration of wastes constituting
slugs as defined herein.
      10.   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed.
   E.   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in subsection D of this section, and which in
the judgment of the superintendent may have a deleterious effect upon the
sewage works, processes, equipment, or which otherwise create a hazard to life
or constitute a public nuisance, the superintendent may:
      1.   Reject the wastes,
      2.   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to the
public sewers,
      3.   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge, and/or
      4.   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating the
wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions of
subsection J of this section.
If the superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste flows
the design and installation of the plans and equipment shall be subject to the
review and approval of the superintendent and subject to the requirements of
all applicable codes, ordinances and laws.
   F.   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of
liquid wastes containing grease in excess amounts, or any flammable wastes,
sand or other harmful ingredients; except that such interceptors shall not be
required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall
be of a type and capacity approved by the superintendent and shall be located
as to be readily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
   G.   Where preliminary treatment of flow equalizing facilities are provided
for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory
and effective operation by the owner at his expense.
   H.   When required by the superintendent, the owner of any property serviced
by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole together with such necessary meters, testing equipment and
appurtenances in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and
measurement of the wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and
safely located and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by
the superintendent. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his expense
and shall be maintained by him so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
   I.   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of "Standard Methods For The Examination Of
Water And Waste Water", published by the American Public Health Association,
and shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable
samples taken at said control manhole. In the event that no special manhole has
been required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest
downstream manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer
is connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb and property. (The particular analyses
involved will determine whether a 24 hour composite of all outfalls of a
premises is appropriate, or whether a grab sample or samples should be taken.
Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids analyses are obtained from
24 hour composites of all outfalls whereas pHs are determined from periodic
grab samples.)
   J.   No statement contained in this section shall be construed as preventing
any special agreement or arrangement between the city and any industrial
concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be
accepted by the city for treatment, subject to payment for the cost of handling
such industrial waste. (Ord. 603, 4-4-1978)
10-9-6: PROHIBITION OF CONNECTION:
No person shall be allowed to connect to or discharge into the pressure
transmission sewer except that the city may grant permission for connection to
that portion of the pressure transmission sewer within the boundaries of the
city corporate limits or the sewer service area designated in the environmental
protection agency grant by which the sewer lagoon facilities and pressure
transmission sewer were constructed, provided the following conditions are met:
   A.   The proposed connection does not violate the terms of the EPA grant;
   B.   The sewage to be admitted to the system by such connection is properly
pretreated, and adequate safeguards are provided in the connection agreement to
assure that the sewage admitted does not violate the volume and water quality
limitations of the agreement; and
   C.   The agreement provides for recovery by the city of the cost of
connection as well as all costs of operation, maintenance and replacement of
equipment and facilities incident to the handling of such sewage. (Ord. 603, 4-
4-1978)
10-9-7: MAINTENANCE OF SEWER SERVICE LINES:
   A.   The city shall maintain and repair all sewer main lines and collector
lines which are located on or within any city street, alley or dedicated
easement; such maintenance and repair shall include repair or replacement of
leaking lines and removal of any blockage therein.
   B.   The property owner shall maintain the individual sewer connection from
the building or buildings served thereby to the main sewer line where said
building is served. This maintenance shall include repair and replacement of
leaking lines, removal of blockage of any kind and rodding.
   C.   The superintendent shall have the responsibility to investigate
problems and determine the responsibility for maintenance, repair and rodding
of the sewer lines pursuant to this section. The location of the leak, roots,
breakage, blockage or cloggage shall determine the responsibility for such
maintenance or repair as the case may be. (Ord. 759, 9-16-1997)
   D.   City residents connected to the city wastewater facility can request a
sewer clean out provided that the area for clean out must be equipped with an
adequately plumbed clean out to allow for use of the existing city wastewater
department equipment.
The city will not be responsible for providing a regulation clean out on the
wastewater system of the service patron. Any such clean out will be the
responsibility of the patron and shall be provided by a licensed plumber.
   E.   City residents serviced by city wastewater may request from the city
wastewater department the services for eliminating wastewater blockage beyond
granted rights of way.
No such service will be provided on any private property beyond the existing
right of way. (Res. 348, 11-4-1997)
10-9-8: POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS:
   A.   The superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the city
bearing proper credentials and identifications shall be permitted to enter all
properties which are or may reasonably be believed to be contributing sewage,
storm and surface waters or unpolluted cooling waters to the sewer system of
the city for the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and
testing in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. The superintendent
or his representative shall have no authority to inquire into any processes
including metallurgical, chemical, oil, refining, ceramic, paper or other
industries not having a direct bearing on the kind and source of discharge to
the sewers or waterways or facilities for waste treatment.
   B.   While performing the necessary work on private properties, the
superintendent or duly authorized employees of the city shall observe all
safety rules applicable to the premises established by the company, and the
company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the city employees and
the city shall indemnify the company against loss or damage to its property by
city employees and against liability claims and demands for personal injury or
property damage asserted against the company and growing out of the inspection,
gauging and sampling operations, except as such may be caused by negligence or
failure of the company to maintain safe conditions on the premises.
   C.   The superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the city
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
private properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated easement for
the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved. (Ord. 603, 4-4-1978)
10-9-9: USER FEES AND CHARGES:
   A.   Sewer Connection Fees: Sewer connection fees shall be established by
ordinance of the city council. The fees so established shall be sufficient to
reimburse the city for all connection costs. Each fee shall be a fixed amount
representing the average cost incurred for performing the service for which
reimbursement is sought. The following fees shall be established:
      1.   General Permit Fee: Reimbursement for processing applications for a
general permit.
      2.   Industrial Permit Fee: Reimbursement for processing applications for
an industrial permit.
      3.   Municipal Permit Fee: Reimbursement for processing applications for
a municipal permit. This fee shall be established by the city council on an
individual basis based on the actual cost.
      4.   Standard Connection Fee: Reimbursement for constructing a standard
connection four inches (4") in diameter and fifty feet (50') or less in length.
      5.   Nonstandard Connection Fee: Reimbursement for a larger than standard
diameter building sewer or a longer than standard length.
All owners applying for a permit shall pay the appropriate permit fee. When
city forces are required, as provided herein, to construct any portion of a
connection to an existing public sewer the owner shall pay the standard
connection fee for a standard sewer connection or the standard connection fee,
plus any additional cost for extra length or extra size for a nonstandard
connection. If any rock excavation is required, the owner shall pay the cost of
such excavation in addition to any other fees or charges.
   B.   General User Charges: General user charges shall be established by
ordinance of the city council. Industrial user charges and municipal user
charges shall be established by separate agreement with the city council. All
charges so established shall be in proportion to the benefits derived by the
user from the sewage works and shall be in accordance with U.S. government
regulations. Reasonable minimum monthly charges may be established for each
category of user, and such rate may cover normal use, plus billing and
collection costs in the interest of administrative efficiency. The charges so
established shall generate sufficient revenue to repay all bonded indebtedness
and to cover all costs to operate and maintain the sewage works and to build a
reserve fund sufficient to pay for future capital improvements to the sewage
works. The total revenue required for the sewage works shall be collected from
all users by equitably proportioning the cost to each user based on the amount
of flow (Q) and biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) he is contributing to the total
system. Billing and collection costs shall also be reasonably apportioned by
ordinance. The city council shall establish classes of users having similar
characteristics. The average Q and BOD contributed by the class shall be used
to determine the proportionate share of the total cost that should be generated
by the class. The revenue to be generated by the class shall then be divided by
the total flow contributed by the class to establish a unit cost per thousand
(1,000) gallons of wastewater discharged or by the total number of users in a
class to establish a unit cost per user. The user charge paid by each user
shall reasonably approximate the proportional share he would pay if his
individual Q and BOD contribution were measured and his share were calculated
using the same unit charges for each characteristic that were used to determine
the proportionate share of the total cost that should be generated by each user
class; but minimum charges may be established for each class. The
superintendent shall place each user in a class so established and calculate
his charge for sewer services. The method of classifying users, calculating
user charges and distributing revenues received shall be based on the methods
used in the December 1977 wastewater system user rate evaluation as amended
prior to adoption of this chapter and the standard industrial user agreements
for industrial users, which are incorporated herein by reference, but the
council shall have authority to change the classes of users and user charges by
ordinance. (Ord. 603, 4-4-1978)
   C.   Sewer Clean Out:
      1.   Request for services described in subsection
10-9-7D of this chapter, if made during such time as it could be achieved
during business hours, shall be assessed a charge of sixty dollars ($60.00). If
the request is received at such a time as to not allow performance of the
service during business hours, the requesting party shall be assessed an amount
of one hundred twenty dollars ($120.00).
      2.   In the event trenching is necessary, for services described in
subsection
10-9-7E of this chapter, the said service shall be provided at the rate of
eight dollars ($8.00) per foot, if such service can be provided during working
hours. In the event the services required beyond granted rights of way must be
rendered after business hours, the service shall be provided at the rate of
twenty dollars ($20.00) per foot.
In addition to the aforesaid service charge for trenching, all said residents
shall be assessed material costs at the cost of the city.
      3.   Billing for the services listed in subsections
10-9-7D and E of this chapter shall be either at the time of service, or will
be assessed on the utility billing through the city.
      4.   City residents requiring such service can make application for
waiver of all or part of the said fees by applying directly through the city
council for consideration at a regular meeting. (Res. 348, 11-4-1997)
10-9-10: CRIMINAL ACTS AND PENALTIES:
   A.   No unauthorized person shall maliciously or wilfully break, damage,
destroy, uncover, deface, tamper with, remove, activate or deactivate any
structure, appurtenance, equipment, sign or other property of the city which is
part of the sewage works of the city or used in conjunction with the operation
or maintenance of any part of said works.
   B.   No unauthorized person shall enter upon real property upon which is
situated any part of the sewage works of the city if the superintendent has
posted conspicuous signs at the normal entrances thereto restricting the right
of entry.
   C.   No person shall knowingly make a false statement on any application for
permission to connect to or use the public sewer of the city if such statement
would affect any decision on the application relating to the granting or denial
of the permit or the connection fee or the user charge for service to the
applicant or the person on whose behalf the application is made.
   D.   No person shall knowingly make a false statement, whether oral or
written, to the superintendent or his authorized agent or deputy regarding the
volume or quality of sewage being admitted to the sewage works of the city if
such statement is made for the purpose of avoiding any restrictions of this
chapter or for the purpose of obtaining a more favorable rate for sewer
services than that which the person on whose behalf said statement is made
should be charged.
   E.   Violation of any of the provisions of subsections A through D of this
section shall be a misdemeanor, and said offense shall be punishable by a fine
not to exceed three hundred dollars ($300.00) or a six (6) month jail sentence,
or both.
   F.   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter, except
subsections A through D of this section, shall be served by the city with
written notice stating the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable
time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within
the period of time stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations.
   G.   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in subsection F of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in the amount not exceeding three
hundred dollars ($300.00) for each violation. Each day in which any violation
shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
   H.   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall become
liable to the city for any expense, loss or damage occasioned by the city by
reason of such violation. (Ord. 603, 4-4-1978)
10-9-11: VALIDITY:
   A.   All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are hereby
released including sections
10-9-1 through
10-9-12 of this chapter adopted March 7, 1978.
   B.   The invalidity of any section, clause, sentence or provisions of this
chapter shall not affect the validity of any other part of this chapter which
can be given effect without such invalid part or parts.
   C.   The provisions of sections
10-10-5 and
10-10-6 of this title relating to sewer connection fees and user charges shall
remain in full force and effect until amended. (Ord. 603, 4-4-1978)
10-9-12: ORDINANCE IN FORCE:
   A.   This chapter shall be in full force and effect from and after its
passage, approval, recording and publication as provided by law.
   B.   Passed and adopted by the council of the city of Rupert, state of
Idaho, on April 4, 1978. (Ord. 603, 4-4-1978)
CHAPTER 10
SEWER SERVICE RATES AND CHARGES 1
SECTION:
10-10-1: Sewer Funds And Accounts
10-10-2: Utility Accounts
10-10-3: Billing To Accounts; Payment
10-10-4: Charges Payable To Collector Of Wastewater Services
10-10-5: Application For Sewer Service Connection; Fees
10-10-6: Classification Of Users
10-10-7: Establishment Of Rates By Resolution
10-10-8: General Provisions
 
Notes
1 1. See also chapter 9 of this title.
10-10-1: SEWER FUNDS AND ACCOUNTS:
   A.   The treasurer of the city shall establish and maintain the following
separate bank accounts which shall be known and designated as follows:
      1.   General sewer fund.
      2.   Treatment facility improvement fund.
   B.   All fees and charges for connection to the city sewer system and for
the use thereof, shall initially be deposited to the general fund of Rupert.
Not less frequently than once each month the city treasurer shall make the
following transfers of funds from the general fund account. An amount not less
than one thousand four hundred twenty eight dollars fifty cents ($1,428.50) per
month shall be transferred to the treatment facility improvement fund. In the
event the industrial users of the city sewer system agree in writing to pay an
amount greater than one thousand four hundred twenty eight dollars fifty cents
($1,428.50) to said fund, the city treasurer shall transfer such greater amount
to the treatment facility improvement fund.
   C.   The funds deposited in the treatment facility improvement fund shall
not be expended for any purpose other than expansion and improvement of the
sewer facility. All other sewer revenues may be expended by the city for any
purpose to which the city general sewer fund may lawfully be applied. (Ord.
655, 10-26-1983)
10-10-2: UTILITY ACCOUNTS:
The city clerk shall establish a separate account for each parcel of property
or part thereof which receives or is entitled to receive garbage, sewer, water,
or electrical services of the city, and each such account shall bear the name
and address of the person responsible for the payment thereof. (Ord. 609, 6-6-
1978)
10-10-3: BILLING TO ACCOUNTS; PAYMENT:
There shall be assessed to each and every metered water connection a wastewater
(sewer) charge for wastewater disposal services. (Res. 366, 11-17-1998)
   A.   Billing To Individual Accounts: All water, sewer, garbage and
electrical and similar charges shall be billed monthly to itemize billing to
the individual account for the premises to which such service is rendered.
   B.   Charges Not Severable: The total monthly billing to each account shall
be considered as one bill and the clerk shall have authority to refuse payment
for any one service unless all utility services included on said bill are paid.
Any partial payment accepted by the clerk shall be applied to the entire
account.
   C.   Payments On Accounts: The clerk shall have authority to accept partial
payments to apply upon the balance due on the entire account and shall have
authority to accept prepayments to apply against all future billings to the
account.
   D.   Delinquency: Delinquency in the account shall be considered as
delinquency in payment for each of the services rendered, and all services
shall be discontinued as directed by section
10-10-4 of this chapter.
   E.   Sewer Service Accounts: Owners or occupants of all premises now served
by sanitary sewer of the city and all premises to be furnished sewer service
directly by the sewage collection system shall be billed for sewer service at
the rates established by resolution adopted pursuant to this chapter. Sewer
districts shall be charged the total of the monthly charges attributable to
each user in the district computed rates established by the city council by
resolution. (Ord. 609, 6-6-1978)
10-10-4: CHARGES PAYABLE TO COLLECTOR OF WASTEWATER SERVICES:
   A.   All charges for wastewater service will be due and payable at the
office of the city clerk to the collector of water and electrical services on
the first day of each month following the service, and if said bills or charges
are not paid on or before the tenth (10th) of said month, penalty in the amount
of two dollars ($2.00) shall attach thereto and be added to the amount of the
billing. Utility bills will be considered delinquent if not paid by the
fifteenth of the month. When any charges are not paid within the time
established by the mayor and council, the wastewater service shall be
disconnected from the premise served and shall not be reinstalled again until
any and all sums for utility services have been paid in full.
   B.   On the fifteenth (15th) of the month in which the payment is due,
subscribers shall receive a delinquent notice that will give indication of late
payment and provide an additional five (5) days for payment, or arrangement
therefor. A two dollar ($2.00) assessment shall be charged to subscribers for
each delinquent notice.
   C.   If subscribers fail to respond by the delinquent date, the subscriber's
residence will be tagged to give notice of termination of said services by ten
o’clock (10:00) a.m. the following business day. Assessment for placement of
said tag shall be the amount of ten dollars ($10.00) per utility account.
   D.   If subscribers are not able to provide payment for utility services by
the due date provided, a payment arrangement may be made to extend the payment
due date out to the twenty fifth (25th) of said month. If the subscriber
requires a onetime special payment arrangement for additional time beyond the
twenty fifth (25th) of said month, approval of the Mayor or City Administrator
will be required. If the subscriber fails to keep said payment arrangement,
utility services will be disconnected without further notice and said utility
account may no longer be eligible for future payment arrangements.
   E.   Any wastewater service customer having service terminated for failure
to pay for said service shall not be restored to service until any and all sums
owing to the city are fully paid, whether or not said charges are yet due and
payable and/or delinquent. Any such customers shall be required to pay all past
due services, together with current electrical and water charges and any
additional sums required for reconnection as provided by this code. (Ord. 20-
502, 9-8-2020)
10-10-5: APPLICATION FOR SEWER SERVICE CONNECTION; FEES:
   A.   Application: Application for connection to the city sewer system must
be made at the office of the city clerk on such form as the clerk may
prescribe. The application must be made by the owner or tenant of the property
to be benefited and state the lots and blocks on which it is to be used. Said
applicant must agree to conform to the rules and regulations established from
time to time as a condition for sewer service connection. At the time of making
the application, said applicant for sewer installation shall make payment of
the applicable permit fee set out in subsection 10-9-4B of this title. (Ord.
609, 6-6-1978)
   B.   Connection Fees: The appropriate connection fee designated below, less
any credit applicable from the permit fee as provided in subsection 10-9-4B of
this title shall be paid prior to connection to the city sewer:
      1.   Original town site, if no prior sewer connection or if sewer
connection is relocated, a connection fee of three hundred dollars ($300.00).
      2.   Subdivisions of the city wherein the subdivider of said subdivision
installed all sewer mains and lot connections, a fee of one thousand dollars
($1,000.00).
For additional connections within a subdivision not required under the initial
subdivision agreement, a connection fee of three hundred dollars ($300.00).
      3.   In all other additions to the city where the city has installed the
sewer mains, a connection fee of three hundred dollars ($300.00).
      4.   All additions to the city on North A Street where connection to
manhole and line costs shall be paid by the property owner, and in addition, a
connection fee of three hundred dollars ($300.00). (Ord. 655, 10-26-1983)
   C.   Connections, Fees Outside City:
      1.   Application, Fee: Any dwelling or business outside the city desiring
connection to the city sewer system may apply for permission to connect to the
city sewer system. The city shall not be required to accept any such
application unless approval of such application is a condition of a state or
federal grant. In the event approval for connection is granted by the city
council the applicant may connect to the sewer system at the cost of the
applicant upon payment to the city treasurer a connection fee of three hundred
dollars ($300.00) or the maximum fee assessable to such property as a condition
of a state or federal grant if the same shall be lower.
      2.   Disposition Of Fees For Sewer Connections Outside City: All fees
collected for sewer connections outside the city shall be paid by the city
clerk to the city treasurer for deposit in the sewer fund until such time as
the present bonds of the city for sewer construction are fully paid and
thereafter shall be deposited in the general fund of the city. Such funds while
so deposited in the sewer fund, shall be used only for the payment of the
present outstanding bonds of the city for sewer construction and the interest
on said bonds. (Ord. 609, 6-6-1978)
10-10-6: CLASSIFICATION OF USERS:
For purposes of determining the rates to be charged to sewer users, there are
hereby established the following classifications of users for which equitable
sewer rates shall be established in compliance with regulations of the
environmental protection agency of the United States of America:
   A.   Residential: This classification shall include single-family dwellings,
two-family dwellings, multiple-family dwellings and mobile homes. There shall
be a separate sewer charge for each family dwelling unit to which sewer service
is provided.
   B.   County Residential: A residential dwelling located outside the city
limits.
   C.   Commercial Users: This classification shall include the following
businesses under the user classifications listed below:
User Classification Typical User
User Classification Typical User
   A             Car wash, dry cleaner, laundromat
   B             Barber and beauty shops, taverns, car dealers, department
                    and retail stores, garages, service stations, offices
   C             Commercial laundries, institutions (hospitals, schools,
                    churches), mortuaries, theaters
   D             Food markets, sit down restaurants
   E             ----
   F             Bakery, dairies, fish and poultry, restaurants (drive-in)
   G             Food processing facilities, meatpacking
 
Commercial users shall also be categorized by commercial I through XXXI, based
upon the multiplier of projected flow in excess of an identified equivalent
residential unit for measurement of wastewater.
Any of the above categories of commercial users installing monitoring devices
to measure actual loading in a manner and unit of measure satisfactory to the
city shall be billed at their actual loading as determined by the monitoring at
its point of discharge.
   D.   Industrial And Other Municipalities: This classification shall include
minor or light industries, major or heavy industries and other municipalities
which apply for sewer service from the city of Rupert. The sewer rates for
users in these categories shall be determined by contractual agreement between
the industry or municipality pursuant to regulations of the environmental
protection agency. (Ord. 842, 8-19-2003)
10-10-7: ESTABLISHMENT OF RATES BY RESOLUTION:
   A.   The mayor and city council of the city of Rupert, by resolution duly
adopted and published, shall establish user rates for each class of sewer user
other than industrial and municipal users whose rates shall be determined by
contract with the city of Rupert pursuant to guidelines of the environmental
protection agency. Sewer user rates shall be uniform within each class, but may
be stated in terms of a fixed base rate and an additional charge determined by
the volume of flow or concentration contributed to the sewer system. The
initial rates for all users shall be established by council resolution and
shall conform to the "Wastewater System User Rate Evaluation", final edition,
February 1978, prepared by Hamilton and Voeller, Inc., consulting engineers to
the city of Rupert and transmitted under cover letter dated May 18, 1978. The
rate schedule established from time to time under this section shall allow the
wastewater collection, transmission and treatment systems of the city to be
self-supporting. The following costs shall be recovered by the rate system and
shall be prorated to system users, including industrial and municipal users, on
the basis of their load contributions: administration, operation and
maintenance, replacement of wearable components, debt service for past
improvements, and a sinking fund for financing major capital additions. Any
amendments to rates established pursuant to the aforementioned wastewater
system user rate evaluation shall conform to EPA regulations regarding the
equitable allocation of costs to users. The council shall periodically review
and annually update the user rate evaluation with realistic actual and
projected cost and load data and amend the sewer user rate schedule to conform.
(Ord. 609, 6-6-1978)
   B.   The city shall enter supplemental agreements with industrial users
establishing rates for those users in conformance with the wastewater user rate
evaluation. The agreements shall provide for monthly payment of sewer use
charges which shall be paid in addition to the obligations of the industrial
users to pay off existing bonded indebtedness of the system. The supplemental
agreements with industrial users establishing their use rates shall be subject
to modification by the city pursuant to EPA regulations relating to the
equitable allocation of costs to users. The rates established under the
wastewater system user rate evaluation shall not be modified unless
modification is justified after the council has reviewed and updated the user
rate evaluation with realistic actual and projected costs and load data. Rate
charges for industrial users shall not become effective until ten (10) days
after the affected user has been notified of the increase. Service to
industrial users may be discontinued for nonpayment of any fees or charges
payable under their industrial users agreement or supplemental agreements in
the same manner as for discontinuance of services to other classes of users. At
such time as other major or minor industrial users or municipal users apply for
sewer service by the city, equitable rates for them shall be determined
pursuant to EPA regulations, and agreements establishing their rates shall be
entered pursuant to the provision of this subsection. (Ord. 655, 10-26-1983)
   C.   Rates shall be established for residential users, public institutions
and commercial users by resolution of the council pursuant to the foregoing
provisions. The rates shall not become effective until the first day of the
month following publication of the resolution, and the rates established or
modified from time to time by resolution shall be billed at the end of the
month the rates first become effective. A copy of the resolution certified by
the clerk and bearing the date of publication shall be available for inspection
in the office of the city clerk.
   D.   Sewer user rates shall be established by way of resolution. (Ord. 609,
6-6-1978)
10-10-8: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   All commercial and industrial users shall supply adequate meters for
all private water sources used on their premises, or in lieu thereof, provide
an adequate meter for wastewater from their premises entering the city sewer
collection system. All commercial and industrial users shall cooperate with
city officials in monitoring sewer effluent as to flow and content.
   B.   Commercial rates shall apply not only to business houses and commercial
users in the commercial areas or industrial areas of the city, but shall also
apply to those dwellings used for commercial purposes located in any area of
the city.
   C.   Rates and charges for premises to which city water is not delivered,
except as above specified, or metered, or upon which sewer service has no
reasonable relationship with water delivered or used upon the premises shall be
fixed according to the rates and charges for the same or similar use and
occupancy in other cases. Where applicable, wastewater metered shall be used to
determine applicable rates for such uses.
   D.   No charge shall be made for the month or months in which the city water
service for a premises has been discontinued pursuant to section
10-7-7 of this title if the premises are vacant and unused and no sewage is
discharged from said premises; provided, that such period of time is not less
than one month and provided further that notice of such vacancy shall be given
to the city clerk prior to such vacancy. (Ord. 609, 6-6-1978)
CHAPTER 11
UTILITY DEPOSITS
SECTION:
10-11-1: Definitions
10-11-2: Initial Deposit
10-11-3: Waiver Of Initial Deposit
10-11-4: Deposit Treatment Upon Transfer
10-11-5: Utility Deposit Refund
10-11-6: Application Of Deposit Upon Default
10-11-7: Partial Utility Customers
10-11-1: DEFINITIONS:
BILL: The statement of account for municipal utility services rendered by the
city to a customer and due and payable to the city of Rupert by said customer.
CUSTOMER: Any person, firm, corporation, or entity to whom municipal utility
services are rendered. (Ord. 07-508, 12-4-2007)
10-11-2: INITIAL DEPOSIT:
Any customer who applies to establish electric, water, sewer, and/or sanitation
services shall be required to pay an initial utility deposit. Utility deposits
shall be maintained in a separate account and held as security for the payment
of municipal utility bills. Any utility deposit, once paid by the customer,
shall be considered a combined utility deposit for the benefit of any and all
municipal utilities received by the customer and may be applied to any utility
bill remaining upon the service termination regardless of its classification at
the time of paying the deposit. (Ord. 07-508, 12-4-2007)
10-11-3: WAIVER OF INITIAL DEPOSIT:
Any customer who, upon application for any electric, water, sewer, and/or
sanitation services, provides evidence of one year of regular, on time payment
with a utility provider with whom the applicant received services immediately
preceding application with the city of Rupert shall not be required to pay the
initial utility deposit. (Ord. 07-508, 12-4-2007)
10-11-4: DEPOSIT TREATMENT UPON TRANSFER:
Transfer of a utility deposit from one customer to another is permissible if
transferor's account is paid in full. The transferee receiving the transferor's
utility deposit shall be required to pay any additional amounts necessary to
bring the transferee's deposit amount to the present required rate set by the
city council. The transferee may not rely on the payment history of the
transferor in obtaining a refund under this chapter. (Ord. 07-508, 12-4-2007)
10-11-5: UTILITY DEPOSIT REFUND:
The municipal utility deposit will be refunded to the customer in accordance
with the following provisions:
   A.   Upon completion of twelve (12) consecutive months of good payment
history with the city of Rupert (i.e., no penalties, disconnections, or late
charges). Said refund may be made in the form of a cash refund or credit on the
customer's monthly bill within the next six (6) month period following the
completion of the said twelve (12) month period of good payment history. The
move of any customer to a new address within the utility service area during
the twelve (12) month period, so long as there are twelve (12) consecutive
months from a customer's application date of good payment history between the
separate addresses, shall not negate a refund or require an additional period
of good payment history.
   B.   Upon termination of all municipal utility services and payments of all
amounts owed. (Ord. 07-508, 12-4-2007)
10-11-6: APPLICATION OF DEPOSIT UPON DEFAULT:
In the case of default on the payment of any utility service bill from the city
of Rupert, the utility deposit shall be credited to any unpaid balance on such
bill. The total utility deposit shall be applied to each utility based on its
balance relative to the total bill. If a delinquent customer, whose services
have been disconnected, is reinstated prior to the account being closed, the
amount, if any, then on deposit must remain intact and the deposit may not be
used to pay the fees and costs associated with reconnection. (Ord. 07-508, 12-
4-2007)
10-11-7: PARTIAL UTILITY CUSTOMERS:
In the event that a customer only applies and/or utilizes limited or partial
utility services provided by the city (i.e., only water), the amount of the
initial deposit shall be adjusted to the amount required for the particular
services being provided. Said partial utility customer deposits shall be set by
a resolution of the council. However, all other provisions of the Rupert city
code pertaining to utility deposits shall be applicable to these customers.
(Ord. 07-508, 12-4-2007)
APPENDICES
ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Annexation Date
Ord. Annexation                                                                      Date
No.
1-   E. B. Smith's First Addition.                                                   1960 Code
102
1-   East View Addition.                                                             1960 Code
103
1-   Fremont Subdivision.                                                            1960 Code
104
1-   Tracts in Southeast Quarter Section 20.                                         1960 Code
105
1-   J. F. Read's Subdivision.                                                       1960 Code
106
1-   Tracts in Southwest Quarter of Section 21.                                      1960 Code
107
1-   Additional Tracts in Southwest Quarter of Section 21.                           1960 Code
108
1-   Additional Tracts in Southwest Quarter of Section 21.                           1960 Code
109
1-   Tracts of Kelly Acreage and Sunset Addition.                                    1960 Code
110
1-   Tracts in Sections 20 and 21, Township 9 South of Range 24.                     1960 Code
111
1-   Tract in Section 20, Township 9 South of Range 24.                              1960 Code
112
1-   Parts of Sections 29 and 32 and Highways 25 and 30N, Township 9 South of Range  1960 Code
113  24.
1-   Tract in Section 28, Township 9 South of Range 24.                              1960 Code
114
1-   Wright's Addition and parts of Idaho Realty Tracts and Third Supplement of      1960 Code
115  Idaho Realty Tracts.
1-   Day's First Addition.                                                           1960 Code
116
1-   Parkside Addition.                                                              1960 Code
117
1-   Johnson Subdivision.                                                            1960 Code
118
1-   McCool Addition.                                                                1960 Code
119
1-   Parkside Annex.                                                                 1960 Code
120
1-   Tract in Section 29, Township 9, South of Range 24.                             1960 Code
121
1-   Parts of Section 20 and 29, Township 9, South of Range 24.                      1960 Code
122
1-   Part of Kelly Acreage.                                                          1960 Code
123
1-   Part of Countryside Addition.                                                   1960 Code
124
1-   Tract in Section 32, Township 9 South of Range 24.                              1960 Code
125
1-   Tract in Section 20, Township 9 South of Range 24.                              1960 Code
126
1-   Tract in Section 20, Township 9 South of Range 24.                              1960 Code
127
1-   Tracts in Section 29, Township 9 South, Range 24.                               1960 Code
128
1-   Part of Section 29, Township 9 South of Range 24.                               1960 Code
129
395  Sunset Annex.                                                                   5-2-1961
397  Vista Village.                                                                  6-6-1961
404  Part of Johnson's Subdivision.                                                  10-17-
                                                                                     1961
409  Part of Section 29, Township 9 South of Range 24.                               3-20-1962
413  B-Cozy Villa Addition.                                                          8-7-1962
414  Part of Countryside, Inc., Addition.                                            11-20-
                                                                                     1962
430  Part of the West Half of the West Half of the Southeast Quarter of the          1-21-1964
     Southeast Quarter of Section 29, Township 9 South of Range 24.
431  Part of Southwest Quarter of the Southeast Quarter of Section 29, Township 9    2-18-1964
     South of Range 24.
435  Part of the Southeast Quarter of the Southwest Quarter of Section 29, Township  4-21-1964
     9 South of Range 24.
436  Part of the Southeast Quarter of the Southeast Quarter of Section 29, Township  4-20-1965
     9 South of Range 24.
446  Part of Countryside, Inc., Addition.                                            9-7-1965
     Part of Supplement to Johnson Addition, a Part of Big Valley Subdivision and a
462  Part of the Southeast Quarter of the Northwest Quarter and a Part of the        8-15-1967
     Southwest Quarter of the Northeast Quarter of Section 20, Township 9 South of
     Range 24.
468  Big Valley Subdivision.                                                         3-5-1968
     Part of the Northeast Quarter of the Southeast Quarter, and a Part of the
470  Southeast Quarter of the Northeast Quarter in Section 20, Township 9 South of   4-16-1968
     Range 24; and a Part of the Northwest Quarter of the Southwest Quarter of
     Section 21, Township 9 South of Range 24; and all of Grandview Addi tion.
471  Part of Supplement to Johnson Subdivision.                                      5-7-1968
472  Holly Subdivision.                                                              8-6-1968
487  Part of the Northeast Corner of the NE1/4NW1/4 of Section 20, Township 9 South  11-10-
     of Range 24.                                                                    1969
501  Part of Countryside, Inc., Addition.                                            7-7-1970
505  Part of the Southeast Quarter of the Southwest Quarter of Section 29, Township  1970
     9 South of Range 24.
513  Part of the Southeast Quarter of the Northwest Quarter of Section 20, Township  12-21-
     9 South of Range 24.                                                            1970
516  Part of the Southeast Quarter of the Northwest Quarter of Section 21, Township  7-29-1971
     9 South of Range 24.
517  Part of the Southeast Quarter of the Northwest Quarter of Section 21, Township  7-29-1971
     9 South of Range 24, being described as Sharron Heights Subdivi sion.
523  Jensen Subdivision.                                                             12-21-
                                                                                     1971
524  Part of Mountain View Addition.                                                 2-1-1972
526  Part of the Southwest Quarter of the Southwest Quarter of Section 29, Township  3-7-1972
     9 South Of Range 24.
538  Part of Mountain View Subdivision.                                              3-6-1973
540  Part of Mountain View Addition.                                                 4-3-1973
543  Pasherma Kay Plaza Subdivision.                                                 1-3-1974
547  Part of Countryside, Inc., Addition.                                            12-4-1973
560  Part Of Mountain View Addition.                                                 6-18-1974
561  Wheeler Subdivision.                                                            8-20-1974
566  Dean Subdivision.                                                               9-3-1974
569  Part of Chapman Addition.                                                       5-20-1975
574  Part of the NW1/4NW1/4 of Section 32, Township 9 South of Range 24.             3-4-1975
579  Part of the SE1/4SW1/4 and a Part of the NE1/4SE1/4 of Section 29, Township 9   6-10-1975
     South of Range 24.
580  Part of Chapman Addition.                                                       7-1-1975
581  Tract in Northeast Quarter of Northeast Quarter of Section 32, Township 9 South 8-5-1975
     of Range 24.
586  Part of the Northeast Quarter of the Northeast Quarter of Section 32, Township  10-7-1975
     9 South of Range 24.
590  Part of Countryside, Inc., Addition.                                            8-17-1976
     Part of Valley View Subdivision and adjacent prop erty; and also part of the
599  Northeast Quarter of Sec tion 20, Township 9 South, Range 24 East, Boise        7-5-1977
     Meridian; and also part of the Chapman Addition.
606  Lawson Subdivision and Cove Subdivision.                                        4-4-1978
607  Lawson Subdivision and Cove Subdivision.                                        4-18-1978
608  Lots 1 and 2 of the Wiley Craven Subdivision.                                   6-20-1978
     A part of the Southeast quarter (SE1/4) of the North west quarter (NW1/4) of
610  Section 21, Township 9 South, Range 24 East Boise Meridian, Minidoka County,    8-29-1978
     Idaho.
     Tract of land lying in the NW1/4SW1/4 of Section 28, Township 9 South, Range
618  24, E.B.M., a parcel of land lying in the SW1/4SW1/4 of Section 28, Town ship 9 1-18-1979
     South, Range 24 E.B.M., and a part of the NE1/4NW1/4 of Section 21, Township 9
     South, Range 24 E.B.M., all in Minidoka County, Idaho.
     Two parcels in Section 20, Township 9 South, Range 24, E.B.M., one parcel in
621  Section 21, Town ship 9 South, Range 24, E.B.M., two parcels in Section 28,     9-4-1979
     Township 9 South, Range 24, E.B.M., and five parcels in Section 29, Township 9
     South, Range 24 E.B.M., all in Minidoka County, Idaho.
     All of the property in the SW1/4SE1/4 of Section 29, Township 9 South, Range 24
     E.B.M., Minidoka County, Idaho, lying North of the centerline of 100 South Road
     to the existing South boundary of the city of Rupert between the centerline of
     50 West Road (South H Street) and the East boundary of the SW1/4SE1/4 of said
633  Section 29, all of the lots in the Countryside, Inc. Subdivision and amendments 7-1-1980
     thereto in the NW1/4NW1/4 of Section 29, Township 9 South, Range 24 E.B.M.,
     Minidoka County, Idah o, which have not been previously annexed, includ ing the
     adjoining streets and county roads to the centers thereof, and a tract of land
     in the N1/2NW1/4SW1/4 of Section 28, Township 9 South, Range 24 E.B.M.,
     Minidoka County, Idaho on which is situated the Southwood Apartments.
667  (Rep. by Ord. 668, 11-5-1985)                                                    
668  Two parcels in Section 20, Township 9 South, Range 24 E.B.M., and one parcel in 11-5-1985
     Section 29, Township 9 South, Range 24 E.B.M., all in Minidoka County, Idaho.
     A part of Tract 4 Kelly Acreage located in the NE1/4SE1/4 of Section 29,
670  Township 9 South, Range 24 E.B.M., and an "L" shaped parcel of land adja cent   12-17-
     thereto and a parcel of land in the NE1/4SE1/4 of Section 29, Township 9 South, 1985
     Range 24 E.B.M., all in Minidoka County, Idaho.
671  Amending Ordinance No. 668 by correcting the legal description for parcel 1     2-18-1986
     described in section 2 of said ordinance.
     Lots 1, 2, and 3 in block 3 of the Wheeler Subdivi sion of the city of Rupert,
674  Minidoka County, Idaho, together with all of Ruby Drive, lying adjacent to the  7-15-1986
     north of said lots 1, 2 and 3, which has not been previously annexed to the
     city of Rupert.
     Twenty five parcels in Section 20, Township 9 South, Range 24 E.B.M., and seven
     parcels in Section 29, Township 9 South, Range 24 E.B.M., four parcels in
     Section 21, Township 9 South, Range 24 E.B.M.; two lots in block 3 of the
     supple ment to Johnson Subdivision, as platted in the records of Minidoka
714  County; five lots in the Chap man Subdivision, as platted in the records of     4-6-1993
     Minidoka County; blocks 1, 2, 3 and 4 of Emerald Subdivision, as platted in the
     records of Minidoka County; and five lots in block 1 of the Wheeler Subdivision
     as platted in the records of Minidoka County; all in Minidoka County, Idaho;
     declaring the same to be a part of the city of Rupert.
721  Amending ordinance 714 by correcting certain property descriptions.             12-7-1993
723  All that part of the SE 1/4 SE 1/4, Section 19, Town ship 9 South, Range 24     2-15-1994
     East, Boise Meridian, Minidoka County, Idaho.
786  Part of the NE1/4NW1/4, Section 21, Township 9 South, Range 24 East, Boise      10-12-
     Meridian, Minidoka County, Idaho.                                               1999
     Parts of Sections 28 and 29 of Township 9 South, Range 24 East, Boise Meridian,
836  Minidoka County, Idaho; declaring the same to be a part of the city of Rupert,  3-4-2003
     Idaho.
     Parts of Section 20 of Township 9 South, Range 24 East, Boise Meridian,
838  Minidoka County, Idaho; declaring the same to be a part of the city of Rupert,  8-19-2003
     Idaho.
     Parts of Section 29 of Township 9 South, Range 24 East, Boise Meridian,
850  Minidoka County, Idaho; declaring the same to be a part of the city of Rupert,  8-17-2004
     Idaho.
                                                                                     8-1-
                                                                                     200612-
                                                                                     501R eal
                                                                                     property
                                                                                     con veyed
                                                                                     to C And
                                                                                     C Leasing
                                                                                     Company
                                                                                     by the
                                                                                     warranty
                                                                                     deed
                                                                                     recorded
                                                                                     November
06-  A parcel of land located in the NE1/4 of the NW1/4 of Section 20, Township 9    7, 2002
503  South, Range 24 East, Boise Meridian, Minidoka County, Idaho; declaring the     as instru
     same to be a part of the city of Rupert, Idaho.                                 ment no.
                                                                                     462010,
                                                                                     Minidoka
                                                                                     County
                                                                                     records;
                                                                                     declaring
                                                                                     the same
                                                                                     to be a
                                                                                     part of
                                                                                     the city
                                                                                     of
                                                                                     Rupert,
                                                                                     Idaho.4-
                                                                                     24-2012
     Real property conveyed to Daniel Duffin by the trustee's deed recorded July 14,
12-  2011 as instrument no. 513143, Minidoka County records and that real property
502  conveyed to the state of Idaho by the correction corporate warranty deed        4-24-2012
     recorded August 27, 1999 as instrument no. 443569, Minidoka County records;
     declaring the same to be a part of the city of Rupert, Idaho.
12-  Real property conveyed to Pioneer Farm Equip ment Company by the warranty deed
503  recorded December 17, 2007 as instrument no. 494392, Minidoka County records;   5-8-2012
     declaring the same to be a part of the city of Rupert, Idaho.
12-  A part of the NW1/4NW1/4, lying south and east of Idaho State Highway no. 24
504  (formerly U.S. Highway 30 North); declaring the same to be a part of the city   5-8-2012
     of Rupert, Idaho.
12-  Parts of Section 32 of Township 9 South, Range 24 East, Boise Meridian,
505  Minidoka County, Idaho; declaring the same to be a part of the city of Rupert,  5-8-2012
     Idaho.
     Township 9 South, Range 24 East of the Boise Meridian, Minidoka County, Idaho
     Section 29: NW1/4SW1/4, save and except the following described tract:
     Beginning at the Northwest corner of said NW1/4SW1/4; thence East along the
14-  quarter section line for a distance of 764.5 feet to a point, which point shall
501  be known as the true point of beginning;                                        2-11-2014
     Thence East along said North boundary line for 511.4 feet to a point;
     Thence South for a distance of 211.5 feet to a point;
     Thence West for a distance of 511.4 feet to a point;
     Thence North for a distance of 211.5 feet to the true point of beginning.
     Lots 1 through 13 of the Valley View Subdivision, Rupert, Idaho as platted in
14-  the official plat thereof now of record in the office of the recorder of
504  Minidoka County, Idaho recorded March 23, 1977 as document no. 268735 and       5-13-2014
     located in Section 20, Township 9 South, Range 24 East, Boise Meridian,
     Minidoka County, Idaho.
14-  Section 28, Township 9 South, Range 24 East, Boise Meridian, Minidoka County,   5-13-2014
505  Idaho.
14-  Township 9 South, Range 24 East, Boise Meridian, Minidoka County, Idaho.        8-26-2014
507
    Section 32: Part of the SW1/4NW1/4.                                              
14-  A portion of the lands of Larsen per warranty deeds recorded October 4, 2004 as 10-28-
508  instrument nos. 474677-474680, Minidoka County records.                         2014
    Township 9 South, Range 24 East, Boise Meridian, Minidoka County, Idaho.         
    Section 21: A portion of the northwest quarter of the southwest quarter.         
     A portion of the lands of Larsen per deed recorded March 31, 1998 as instrument
15-  no. 434521, Minidoka County records and the lands of the city of Rupert per     11-10-
504  warranty deed recorded July 28, 2014 as instrument no. 528143, Minidoka County  2015
     re cords.
    Township 9 South, Range 24 East, Boise Meridian, Minidoka County, Idaho.         
    Section 21: A portion of the southwest quarter.                                  
     The lands of Jentzsch-Kearl Farms per warranty deed recorded January 14, 2016
16-  as instrument no. 534753, and quitclaim deed recorded October 22, 2013 as
502  instrument no. 524823, Minidoka County records and the lands of John R. and     4-26-2016
     Shirley West per quitclaim deed recorded December 12, 2014 as instrument no.
     529781, Minidoka County records and tax 45.
    Township 9 South, Range 24 East, Boise Meridian, Minidoka County, Idaho.         
    Section 31: A portion of the south half of the north east quarter.               
18-  Township 9 South, Range 24 East, Boise Meridian, Minidoka County, Idaho.        12-11-
504                                                                                  2018
    Section 30: That part of the NE1/4SE1/4.                                         
19-  Transfer real property owned by the City and located generally on the corner of 3-26-2019
101  3rd Street & D Street to the City of Rupert Urban Renewal Agency
19-  Lot 6 of Block 73, Rupert Original Townsite in the NE4 of Section 29, Township  4-23-2019
502  9 South, Range 24 East, Boise Meridian, Minidoka County, Idaho 29-2-24
19-  Part of the SE1/4SE1/4 of Section 30 in Township 9 South, Range 24 East of the  9-24-2019
506  Boise Meridian, Minidoka County, State of Idaho
19-  Parcel No. 1 Township 9 South, Range 24 East of the Boise Meridian, Minidoka    11-12-
508  County, Idaho                                                                   2019
    Section 19: That part of the NE1/4SE1/4                                          
20-  Township 9 South, Range 24 East, Boise Meridian, Minidoka County, Idaho         9-22-2020
507
    Silvercrest Estates                                                              
    Section 20: A portion of southwest quarter                                       
     A portion of the lands of Rick and June Larsen per warranty deed recorded
21-  October 4, 2004 as instrument Mo. 474680 and Jesse and Kylie Larsen per         1-26-2021
501  warranty deed recordeded September 8, 2014 as Instrument No. 528636, Minidoka
     County Records.
    Township 9 South, Range 24 East, Boise Meridian, Minidoka County, Idaho.         
21-  119 South Highway 24, Rupert, Idaho, in Minidoka County, Idaho                  1-26-2021
502
21-  67 North Highway 24, Rupert, Idaho, in Minidoka County, Idaho                   3-23-2022
503
     That the land referred to in Section 1 hereof is located is located on the
22-  North side of West 13th Street in the 900 to 1200 Block area in Minidoka
502  County, Idaho and is more particularly described as follows:                    2-22-2022
     Lots 9 thru 16 of Mountain View Lockwood Addition in the NE¼SW¼ in Section 20
     in Township 9 South, Range 24 East, Boise Meridian, Minidoka County, Idaho.
22-  A portion of that real property conveyed to Common Stocks Holdings, LLC by the
503  warranty deed recorded as instrument No. 553365, Minidoka County Records.       2-22-2022
     Township 9 South, Range 24 East, Boise Meridian, Cassia County, Idaho.
     That the land to be annexed is located generally on the East side of 100 West
22-  Road and North of Wheeler Subdivision in Rupert, in Minidoka County, Idaho and  4-26-2022
504  more particularly described as follows:
     Township 9 South, Range 24 East, Boise Meridian, Minidoka County, Idaho.
     That the land to be annexed is located generally on East 15th Street,
22-  immediately South of the New Haven Subdivision, Phase I, in Rupert, in Minidoka 5-24-2022
507  County, Idaho and more particularly described as follows:
     Township 9 South, Range 24 East, Boise Meridian, Minidok County, Idaho
                                                                                    
 
RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Description Date
Res. No. Description                               Date
145      Resolution for election setting place and 1981
         time - biennial city election.
146      Resolution for election naming judges and 1981
         clerks for election.
147      Resolution canvassing and declaring       1981
         election results.
148      Resolution for destruction of 1975, 1977, 1981
         1979 election ballots.
         Resolution authorizing transfer
149      $50,000.00 EPA fund to sewer              1981
         construction.
150      Resolution setting sewer fees.            1982
151      Resolution setting garbage fees.          1982
152      Resolution urging acquisition of WPPSS 4/ 1982
         5.
153      Resolution for lease purchase of garbage  1982
         truck.
154      Resolution for transfer of funds LID No.  1982
         16.
155      Resolution for transfer of funds          1982
         Industrial Recovery Funds.
156      Resolution to set up trust fund for WPPSS 1982
         electrical revenues.
157      Resolution for destruction of records.    1982
158      Resolution for execution and conditional  1982
         delivery of BPA contract.
159      Resolution for certification of tax levy. 1982
160      Resolution for electric distribution of   1982
         WPPSS funds.
161      Resolution for reconstruction section of  1982
         Highway 24 and "B" Canal Bridge.   
162      Resolution 1990 Functional Classification 1983
         Map for city streets.
163      Resolution for interest bearing savings   1983
         accounts.
164      Resolution to transfer funds from         1983
         industrial accounts to sewer accounts.
165      Resolution to authorize purchase of state 1983
         of Idaho surplus property.
         Resolution to authorize refund of WPPSS
166      money col lected 1-1-1982 through 9-30-   1983
         1982.
167      Resolution to authorize lease purchase of 1983
         sprinkler irrigation system.
         Appointing election judges and clerks for
168      special city election override levy for   1983
         fire department, 9-19-1983 Monday.
169      Resolution for place and time for general 1983
         biennial city election.
170      Resolution for judges and clerks for      1983
         general city elec tion.
171      Resolution determining results of special 1983
         election.
172      Resolution setting sewer user rates.      1983
173      Resolution regarding Holt Nichols lease   1983
         to Edwin Brow n.
174      Resolution for credit or refund WPPSS     1983
         collections.
175      Resolution canvassing and declaring       1983
         election results.
176      Destruction of records.                   1983
177      Idaho transportation department - A       1984
         street project.
178      Resolution of special election - Fire     1984
         override $51,000.00.
179      Resolution of election - appointment of   1984
         clerks.
180      Resolution of canvass of vote for special 1984
         election.
181      Resolution establishing sewer user rates. 1984
182      Resolution establishing garbage fees.     1984
183      Resolution of the public power council -  1984
         preference use.
184      Resolution for records destruction.       1985
185      Resolution for funding for parks          1985
         improvement - Memo rial Field.
186      Resolution adopting general personnel     1985
         policy for city.
187      Resolution for lease-purchase of fire     1985
         truck.
188      Resolution accepting canvass of beer      1985
         vote.
189      Resolution of election.                   1985
190      Resolution authorizing law enforcement    1985
         agreement.
191      Resolution appointing election personnel. 1985
192      Resolution for canvass of city election   1985
         held November 5, 1985.
193      Resolution for records destruction.       1986
194      Resolution authorizing agreement for 1985 1986
         Pierce Arrow fire truck agreement.
195      Resolution for application for RV park    1986
         and dump grant.
196      Resolution for new sewer rates.           1986
         Resolution authorizing mayor, clerk and
197      public works to purchase from bureau of   1986
         surplus property.
198      Resolution authorizing mayor to sign      1986
         documents for sewage grant.
         Resolution creating LID no. 17 Sewer and
199      Water, Cra ven Subdivision and asking for 1986
         hearing with 2/3 approval needed to
         proceed.
         Resolution approving city's application
209      for land for recreational or public       1987
         purposes from the bureau of land
         management.
         Resolution establishing conditions under
216      which beer may be consumed at baseball    1988
         parks operated by the city.
         Resolution authorizing Mayor W.F. Bill
         Whittom to sign all applications, grant
217      agreements and amendments, and other      1988
         documents relating to wastewater
         facilities planning and construction
         grants.
         Resolution agreeing to assume the
         obligations of main tenance and repair of
         the exterior and interior of the Demary
         Memorial Library for fiscal year
219      beginning October 1, 1988, and ending     1988
         September 30, 1989, and to provide
         $5,500.00 from the general fund of the
         city to assist the Demary Memorial
         Library in balancing its budget for said
         budget year.
         Resolution authorizing the law firm of
         Riddell, Williams, Bullitt & Walkinshaw
         to execute on behalf of the city the
220      stipulation and agreement of compromise   1988
         and settle ment between plaintiffs and
         small utilities in MDL 551 for settlement
         of the WPPSS securities litigation.
221      Fair housing resolution.                  1988
         Resolution ratifying and confirming the
         sale of certain described real property
222      in the city of Rupert, Idaho, to Stanley  1988
         G. Sakai and Elizabeth A. Sakai pursuant
         to ordinance 687 of the city of Rupert,
         Idaho.
         Resolution ordering, pursuant to Idaho
         Code section 50-907, the destruction of
223      temporary records retained by the city,   1988
         to be disposed of pursuant to the laws in
         such cases.
         Resolution authorizing the mayor to sign
         and submit an application to the Idaho
224      department of commerce for partial        1988
         funding of sewer and water system improve
         ments.
         Resolution authorizing the mayor to sign
         all applica tions, grants, agreements,
225      amendments, and other documents, relating 1989
         to wastewater facilities planning and
         construction grants.
         Resolution authorizing the mayor to sign
         and submit an application to the Idaho
226      department of commerce for partial        1989
         funding of sewer and water system improve
         ments.
         Resolution establishing a minimum amount
         of $150.00 to be paid for each parcel of
227      property acquired on any federal aid      1989
         participation project of the federal
         highway administration.
         Resolution appointing representative to
         review just compensation appraisal
228      reports of the state of Idaho department  1989
         of highways for the "A" Street road
         project.
         Resolution proclaiming a general city
         election, to be held on Tuesday, November
229      7, 1989; designating the polling places,  1989
         designating the registrar and ordering
         the city clerk to give notice of such
         election.
         Resolution appointing election judges and
230      clerks for the general city election to   1989
         be held November 7, 1989.
         Resolution to acquire federal surplus
231      property from the Idaho state bureau of   1989
         surplus property.
         Resolution canvassing and declaring the
232      results of the general municipal election 1989
         held in the city of Rupert on Tuesday,
         November 7, 1989.
         Resolution ordering the destruction of
233      temporary re cords now retained by the    1989
         city, to be disposed of pursu ant to the
         laws in such cases.
234      Resolution authorizing board of directors 1989
         to open de posit account.
         Resolution establishing conditions under
         which beer may be consumed at baseball
235      parks operated by the city of Rupert.     1989
         (Provisions of this resolution are set
         out in section
         3-9-7 of this code.)
         Resolution authorizing entering into an
         equipment finance agreement for the
236      purpose of financing the acquisition of   1990
         vibrant roller and streetsweeper as equip
         ment needed for the city of Rupert.
         Resolution to accompany right of way
237      certificate for F.A. project no. M-7902   1990
         (001).
         Resolution authorizing and directing the
         mayor to sign the 1995 functional
         classification map establishing those
238      city streets within the urbanized area of 1990
         the city which are eligible for federal
         aid grant assistance from the federal
         highway administration; and providing
         effec tive date.
         Resolution approving agreement for
239      construction of "F" Street railroad       1990
         crossing; F.A. project no. RRP-7922
         (100).
         Resolution approving agreement for
240      construction of 6th Street railroad       1990
         crossing; F.A. project no. RRP-7942
         (100).
         Resolution directing the city treasurer
         to transfer funds from city sewer fund to
241      certain grant funds to defray the city's  1990
         responsibility for costs of sewer
         construction projects.
         Resolution declaring an emergency for the
         repair of the Hi-Ranger electric line
242      repair unit and declaring an emergency    1990
         exists to justify waiving competitive bid
         ding.
         Resolution ordering the destruction of
243      temporary re cords now retained by the    1990
         city, to be disposed of pursu ant to the
         laws in such cases.
         Resolution fixing schedule of fees for
244      garbage collec tion and providing an      1990
         effective date.
         Resolution authorizing execution of
245      agreement for federal aid highway project 1990
         M-7902(001).
246      Resolution confirming the sale of real    1990
         property in the city.
247      Resolution authorizing transfers of       1991
         funds.
         Resolution approving acquisition of
248      equipment and authorizing the execution   1991
         of a municipal financing agreement.
         Resolution approving the acquisition of a
         new 1991 Navistar International tandem
         axle dump truck for the city and
249      authorizing the execution of a municipal  1991
         fi nancing agreement between the city and
         D. L. Evans Bank for payment of said dump
         truck.
         Resolution approving the acquisition of a
         new garbage truck for the city and
250      authorizing the execution of a municipal  1991
         financing agreement between the city and
         First Security Bank of Idaho, N.A., for
         payment of said garbage truck.
         Resolution authorizing the mayor to
         execute a notice of acceptance and
         participation in the Minidoka County
251      Emergency Operational Plan and            1991
         designating the city of Rupert fire
         department as the local emergency re
         sponse authority for hazardous substance
         incidents.
         Resolution creating a local improvement
         district for construction and
         installation of a storm sewer, sanitary
         sewer, curb and gutter replacements with
         driveway approaches in full width in
         place paving throughout the Wheeler
252      subdivision along Ruby Drive in the city  1991
         and to install sanitary sewer service for
         lots 10 through 13 of block 2 and lots 13
         through 16 of block 3 of Mountain View
         addition to the city along 12th Street
         west of H Street in the city and to make
         said improvements and levy assessments to
         pay the cost of said construction.
         Resolution proclaiming a general city
         election, to be held on Tuesday, November
253      5, 1991, designating the polling places,  1991
         designating the registrar, and ordering
         the city clerk to give notice of such
         election.
         Resolution ordering destruction of
254      semipermanent records now retained by the 1991
         city, to be disposed of pursuant to the
         laws in such cases.
         Resolution appointing election judges and
255      clerks for the general city election to   1991
         be November 5, 1991.
         Resolution canvassing and declaring the
256      results of the general municipal election 1991
         held on Tuesday November 5, 1991.
         Resolution directing the city clerk to
         transfer the sum of twenty thousand two
         hundred seventy six dollars and eighteen
257      cents ($20,276.18) from general fund to   1991
         cer tain grant funds to defray the city's
         responsibility for costs of construction
         projects.
         Resolution directing the city clerk to
         transfer the sum of seventy thousand six
         hundred ninety two dollars and seventy
258      cents ($70,692.70) from the city sewer    1991
         fund to the EPA Grant Fund to defray the
         city's responsibility for costs of sewer
         construction for the EPA project.
         Resolution approving the acquisition of a
         new motor grader for the city and
259      authorizing the execution of a municipal  1992
         financing agreement between the city and
         D.L. Evans Bank for payment of said motor
         grader.
         Resolution between the Union Pacific
         Railroad Com pany and the city of Rupert
         creating and accepting a supplemental
         agreement covering the elimination of the
260      annual rental in an existing agreement    1992
         for an under ground 14-inch sewer
         pipeline encroachment at Rupert, Idaho
         identified in the railroad company's
         records as Agreement LD No. 23817, Audit
         No. A-102387.
261      Resolution approving easement agreement.  1992
262      Resolution approving policy on sexual     1992
         harassment.
263      Resolution approving contract for         1992
         provision of extrication services.
264      Resolution approving contract for         1992
         purchase of electrical equipment.
         Resolution establishing a rotation of
265      irrigation water based upon existing      1992
         emergency drought conditions.
         Resolution accepting a backhoe loader bid
266      and autho rizing the execution of         1992
         financing.
         Resolution approving sewer connection
267      agreement of G. Keith Parker family       1992
         trust.
268      Resolution ordering destruction of        1992
         semipermanent records.
         Resolution approving billing credit
269      customer system efficiency improvement    1992
         conservation agreement.
270      Resolution requesting property tax budget 1992
         increase over 5 percent or levy increase.
         Resolution approving Union Pacific
271      Railroad supple mental agreement to the   1992
         basic agreement of December 1, 1967.
         Resolution providing for apportionment of
272      costs for city administration and         1992
         building departments from the city water,
         sanitation and sewer departments.
         Resolution authorizing transfer of
         unexpended funds from the city sewer
273      department and sanitation depart ment to  1992
         defray general administrative expenses of
         the city.
         Resolution approving residential
274      conservation agree ment and amendatory    1992
         agreements no. 1 and no. 2 thereto.
         Resolution establishing transportation
275      committee for the Greater Mini-Cassia     1992
         Area.
         Resolution accepting supplemental
276      agreement ten dered by Union Pacific      1992
         Railroad.
         Resolution approving the residential
277      weatherization conservation acquisition   1992
         agreement.
         Resolution declaring and defining
278      redevelopment area meeting slum and       1992
         blight criteria.
         Resolution approving matching fund grant
279      for acquisi tion of emergency medical     1992
         services equipment.
         Resolution directing the city clerk to
280      transfer the sum of $7,087.79 from the    1993
         EPA grant fund to the city sewer fund.
281      Resolution ordering destruction of        1993
         semipermanent records.
         Resolution authorizing mayor to sign all
         applications, grant agreements and
282      amendments, and other docu ments relating 1993
         to wastewater facilities planning and
         construction grants.
         Resolution approving the dog impound
283      agreement by and between the city and the 1993
         city of Burley.
         Resolution authorizing the execution and
         filing of a petition for judicial
         confirmation with respect to certain
284      wastewater collection system              1993
         improvements; finding and declaring that
         a proposed loan agreement and evidence of
         indebtedness pursuant thereto constitute
         "ordinary and necessary expenses".
         Resolution extending the term
285      indefinitely for a power wireline         1993
         encroachment at or near the city.
         Resolution approving a joint ownership,
286      operation and maintenance agreement, by   1993
         and between the city of Rupert and East
         End Mutual Electric Company, Limited.
         Resolution of the mayor and city council
         of the city of Rupert, Idaho, providing
         for apportionment of costs for city
287      administration and building departments   1993
         from city of Rupert water department,
         city of Rupert sanitation department and
         city of Rupert sewer department.
         Resolution proclaiming a general city
         election, to be held on Tuesday, November
289      2, 1993; designating the polling places,  1993
         designating the registrar, and ordering
         the city clerk to give notice of such
         election.
         Resolution approving sewer connection
290      agreement between city of Rupert and      1993
         Juvenal Reyes.
         Resolution endorsing the Southeast Idaho
291      Policy Alter natives Project Study of     1993
         crucial problems facing rural
         communities.
         Resolution appointing election judges and
292      clerks for the general city election to   1993
         be held November 2, 1993.
         Resolution adopting and ratifying a
293      supplemental agreement between the city   1993
         of Rupert and Union Pa cific Railroad.
294      Resolution adopting a safety policy and   1993
         loss control program.
         Resolution canvassing and declaring
295      results of Novem ber 2, 1993, general     1993
         city election.
         Resolution approving easement of
297      waterline by and between the Minidoka     1993
         County school district and the city of
         Rupert.
         Resolution adopting a curtailment plan
298      for electric energy for the city of       1994
         Rupert.
         Resolution of the mayor and city council
         of the city of Rupert, Idaho, fixing a
299      schedule for termination of electrical    1994
         service and water service within the city
         of Rupert for nonpayment of service fees.
         Resolution authorizing entering into an
         equipment finance agreement dated April
         5, 1994 of the city of Rupert, State of
         Idaho, for the purpose of financing the
         acquisition of one new combination sewer
         cleaner mounted on one new 1994
         International Model 4900 as equipment
         needed by the issuer and creating the
         obli gations of the issuer strictly
300      according to the terms hereof;            1994
         authorizing entering into said equipment
         fi nance agreement and related documents;
         providing terms for the security of the
         holder of said equipment finance
         agreement and the remedies of the holder
         of said agreement, and otherwise
         approving such actions as may be
         necessary for due entering into,
         execution and lawful issuance of said
         agreement.
         Resolution of the city council of the
301      city of Rupert, Idaho, approving          1994
         equipment sale between city of Rupe rt
         and the city of Paul, Idaho.
         Resolution of the city council of the
         city of Rupert, Idaho, approving an
302      agreement for bond counsel ser vices and  1994
         authorizing the mayor or chairman of the
         city council and city clerk to execute
         the same.
         Resolution for decrease, no change, or an
303      increase of 5 percent or less in property 1994
         tax budget; and no levy increase.
         Resolution of the mayor and city council
         of the city of Rupert, Idaho, ratifying
304      an agreement for water ser vices by and   1994
         between Emerald Village Limited Liability
         Company, Ladell's Inc., and the city of
         Rupert.
305      Resolution of board of directors          1994
         (authority to open deposit account).
         Resolution of the city council of the
306      city of Rupert, Idaho, approving utility  1994
         deposits for services provided by the
         city of Rupert, Idaho.
         Resolution of the mayor and city council
307      of the city of Rupert, Idaho, to support  1994
         the expansion of Micron Technology, Inc.,
         to the Magic Valley.
         Resolution of the mayor and city council
308      of the city of Rupert, Idaho, altering    1995
         and amending existing city of Rupert
         personnel policy.
         Resolution of the mayor and city council
309      of the city of Rupert, Idaho, in support  1994
         of state general revenue sharing to
         cities, counties and school districts.
         Resolution by the city council of the
         city of Rupert, Minidoka County, Idaho,
         authorizing Dwinelle Allred, mayor, to
310      sign all applications, grant agreements   1995
         and amendments, and other documents
         relating to wastewater facilities
         planning and construction grants and
         loans.
         Resolution of the mayor and city council
         of the city of Rupert, Idaho, approving
         the transfer of funds from the city of
311      Rupert electrical department to the       1995
         general fund, which transfer shall
         constitute a loan for payment of local
         improvement district no. 17, and
         providing for repayment thereof.
         Resolution of the mayor and city council
         of the city of Rupert, Idaho, approving
312      settlement of the WPPSS cost-sharing case 1995
         and authorizing execution and deliv ery
         of settlement documents.
         Resolution of the mayor and city council
         of the city of Rupert, Idaho, pursuant to
         Idaho Code section 50-907, to order
313      destruction of certain semipermanent      1995
         records now retained by the city, to be
         disposed of pursuant to the laws in such
         cases.
         Resolution of the mayor and city council
         of the city of Rupert, Idaho, accepting
         and approving the sewer line and lift
         station agreement submitted by the Idaho
314      trans portation department, division of   1995
         highways, District 4. The mayor and city
         clerk are hereby authorized to exe cute
         the sewer line and lift station
         agreement.
         Resolution of the mayor and city council
         of the city of Rupert, Idaho, approving
         the acquisitions of four (4) 1995 Ford
315      Crown Victoria police cars for the city   1995
         and authorizing the execution of a
         municipal financing agreement between the
         city and D.L. Evans Bank for payment for
         said vehicles.
         Resolution of the mayor and city council
         of the city of Rupert, Idaho, authorizing
316      the mayor to enter into an agreement with 1995
         certain developers for a water and waste
         water system within the city of Rupert,
         Idaho.
         Resolution for the city of Rupert, Idaho,
         adopting waste water rate increases in
         fiscal year 1995 and 1996 for
         residential, commercial, and industrial
317      waste water users, including users        1995
         outside the city; and providing that new
         rates for all classes of wastewater
         customers shall become effective October
         1, 1995, with subse quent increases on
         October 1, 1996.
         Resolution of the mayor and city council
         of the city of Rupert, Idaho, proclaiming
         a general city election, to be held on
318      Tuesday, November 7, 1995; designating    1995
         the polling places, designating the
         registrar, and ordering the city clerk to
         give notice to such election.
         Resolution of the city of Rupert, Idaho,
319      appointing elec tion judges and clerks    1995
         for the general city election to be held
         November 7, 1995.
         Resolution of the mayor and city council
         of the city of Rupert, Idaho,
321      establishing the time for payment of      1995
         delinquent electrical and water services
         charges by customers with delinquent
         accounts.
         Resolution of the city council of the
322      city of Rupert de claring the results of  1995
         the general election for the city held
         November 7, 1995.
         Resolution of the city of Rupert, Idaho,
         authorizing the mayor to sign and submit
324      an application for an Idaho community     1996
         block grant to partially finance improve
         ments to the senior center.
         Resolution of the city of Rupert, Idaho,
325      adopting a policy prohibiting the use of  1996
         excessive force against nonviolent civil
         rights demonstrators.
326      Resolution of board of directors          1996
         (authority to open de posit account).
         Resolution of the city council of the
         city of Rupert, Idaho, authorizing
         execution and filing of a petition for
         judicial confirmation, pursuant to title
         7, chapter 13, Idaho Code, with respect
         to an obligation for payment of a certain
327      animal control facility improvement;      1996
         finding and declaring that a proposed
         promissory note and evidence of
         indebtedness pursuant thereto constitute
         "ordinary and necessary expenses" of the
         city within the meaning of article 8,
         section 3, Idaho constitution.
         Resolution of the mayor and city council
         of the city of Rupert, Idaho, adjusting
328      irrigation rates from frontage foot to    1996
         square footage charges within the city of
         Rupert; and providing an effective date.
         Resolution of the mayor and city council
329      of the city of Rupert, Idaho, fixing      1996
         schedule of fees for garbage col lection
         and providing an effective date.
         Resolution establishing rights, duties,
330      obligations, method of appointment and    1996
         discharge of the city ad ministrator.
         Resolution of the mayor and city council
         of the city of Rupert, Idaho, fixing a
331      schedule for termination of electrical    1996
         service and water service within the city
         of Rupert for nonpayment of service fees.
         Resolution of the mayor and city council
         of the city of Rupert, Idaho, creating a
332      residual equity transfer from the city of 1996
         Rupert water department and the city of
         Rupert waste water department to the
         general fund.
         Resolution of the mayor and city council
         of the city of Rupert, Idaho, discharging
333      a $300,000.00 indebtedness owing from the 1996
         sewer department to the electric depart
         ment for the sewer construction fund.
         Resolution of the mayor and city council
         of the city of Rupert, Idaho,
334      establishing a special revenue fund for   1996
         the Minidoka cities animal control
         facility.
         Resolution of the mayor and city council
         of the city of Rupert, Idaho, abandoning
335      use of 4th Street from the easterly most  1997
         portion of "F" Street to the westerly
         most portion of Scott Avenue.
         Resolution of the mayor and city council
336      of the city of Rupert, Idaho, to allow    1997
         for donation of an IBM 880 computer.
         Resolution of the mayor and city council
337      of the city of Rupert, Idaho, to allow    1997
         for the exchange of surplus guns.
         Resolution of the mayor and city council
         of the city of Rupert, Idaho, fixing a
339      schedule of fees for after hour garbage   1997
         collection and providing an effective
         date.
         Resolution of the mayor and city council
340      of the city of Rupert, Idaho, authorizing 1997
         the acquisition of a financial
         transaction card.
         Resolution of the mayor and city council
         of the city of Rupert, Idaho, approving
         the acquisition of a 1997 International
341      sanitation truck for the city and         1997
         authorizing the execution of a municipal
         financing agreement be tween the city and
         First Security Bank for payment for said
         sanitation truck.
         Resolution of the mayor and city council
         of the city of Rupert, Idaho,
342      establishing a special revenue account    1997
         for grant money received for the
         remodeling and ex pansion of the Rupert
         Senior Center.
         Resolution of the mayor and city council
         of the city of Rupert, Idaho, approving a
343      contribution to the Mini- Cassia          1997
         Community Chest, and acquisition of a com
         memorative brick in construction of the
         Community Chest Building.
         Resolution of the mayor and council of
         the city of Rupe rt proclaiming a general
         city election, to be held on Tuesday,
345      November 4, 1997; designating the polling 1997
         place, designating the registrar, and
         ordering the city clerk to give notice of
         such election.
         Resolution of the mayor and city council
346      of the city of Rupert, Idaho,             1997
         establishing fees to connect and discon
         nect utilities within the city of Rupert.
         Resolution of the mayor and city council
         of the city of Rupert, Idaho, giving
         notice of the intention of the city of
347      Rupert to create a local improvement      1997
         district to make certain improvements and
         to levy assessments, and establishing a
         public hearing.
         Resolution of the mayor and city council
         of the city of Rupert, Idaho, providing
348      for sewer clean out fee and imposing      1997
         certain conditions thereon, providing for
         appli cation process, waiver process, and
         effective date.
         Resolution of the council of the city of
         Rupert, Idaho, canvassing and declaring
349      the results of the general municipal      1997
         election held in the city of Rupert on
         Tues day, November 4, 1997.
         Resolution of the city of Rupert
350      appointing election judges and clerks for 1997
         the special city election to be held
         January 13, 1998.
         Resolution by the city council of the
         city of Rupert, Minidoka County, Idaho,
         authorizing the mayor to sign all
351      applications, grant agreements and        1997
         amendments, and other documents relating
         to wastewater facilities planning and
         construction grants and loans; and provid
         ing an effective date.
         Resolution of the city of Rupert,
         Minidoka County, Idaho, approving an
352      agreement for bond counsel ser vices and  1998
         authorizing the mayor and city clerk to
         exe cute the same.
         Resolution by the city council of the
         city of Rupert, Minidoka County, Idaho,
         authorizing the mayor to sign all
353      applications, grant agreements and        1998
         amendments, and other documents relating
         to culinary water facilities planning and
         construction grants and loans; and provid
         ing an effective date.
         Resolution of the city council of the
         city of Rupert, Minidoka County, Idaho,
         canvassing the returns and declaring the
         results of the special bond election held
354      on January 13, 1998, for the purpose of   1998
         submitting to the qualified electors of
         the city the question of the issuance of
         revenue bonds of the city in the amount
         of not to exceed $885,000.00; and
         providing an effective date.
         Resolution by the mayor and city council
356      of the city of Rupert, Idaho, awarding    1998
         component A of LID no. 18 to Kloepfer
         Concrete, Inc.
         Resolution approving the agreement for
357      federal aid highway project STP-7812      1998
         (101).
         Resolution by the mayor and city council
         of the city of Rupert, Minidoka County,
         Idaho, establishing an admin istrative
         appeals process pursuant to the 1997
358      uniform building code and uniform fire    1997
         code; establishing a board of appeals;
         establishing categories of appoint ment;
         establishing joint appointments with the
         board of appeals for Minidoka County; and
         establishing an effec tive date.
         Resolution by the mayor and city council
         of the city of Rupert, Minidoka County,
         Idaho, authorizing the issu ance of its
         registered warrants in the principal
         amount of up to $860,000.00 for the
         purpose of providing funds for its
         wastewater project fund as enacted for
359      the fiscal year 1998-1999; providing for  1998
         the manner of issuance and the form of
         said warrants; providing for the pay ment
         of the principal thereof and interest
         thereon; cov enanting as to the manner of
         payment; providing terms, covenants,
         conditions, and other matters properly
         relat ing thereto; and providing an
         effective date.
         Resolution of the city of Rupert,
         Minidoka County, Idaho, approving an
360      agreement for bond counsel ser vices,     1998
         authorizing the mayor and city clerk to
         execute the same, and providing an
         effective date.
         Resolution of the city of Rupert
361      appointing election judges and clerks for 1998
         a special water bond city election to be
         held August 4, 1998.
         Resolution of the mayor and city council
         of the city of Rupert, Idaho, adjusting
362      irrigation rates on square foot age       1998
         charges within the city of Rupert; and
         providing an effective date.
         Resolution of the city council of the
         city of Rupert, Minidoka County, Idaho,
         canvassing the returns and declaring the
         results of the special bond election held
364      on August 4, 1998, for the purpose of     1998
         submitting to the qualified electors of
         the city the question of the issu ance of
         revenue bonds of the city in the amount
         of $1,750,000; and providing an effective
         date.
         Resolution of the city of Rupert,
         Minidoka County, Idaho, authorizing the
         mayor to sign and submit an application
365      for an Idaho community development block  1998
         grant to partially finance the
         construction of improve ments to the
         city's municipal wastewater system.
         Resolution by the mayor and city council
         of the city of Rupert, Minidoka County,
         Idaho, codifying established policy for
         assessment of sanitation rates to each
366      com mercial and residential occupancy     1998
         with a metered elec trical connection and
         establishing sewer assessments to each
         residential and commercial user with a
         metered water connection; and providing
         an effective date.
         Resolution of the mayor and city council
367      of the city of Rupert, Idaho, to allow    1999
         for the exchange of surplus guns.
         Resolution of the city of Rupert,
         Minidoka County, Idaho, approving an
368      agreement for bond counsel ser vices;     1999
         authorizing the mayor and city clerk to
         execute the same; and providing an
         effective date.
         Resolution of the mayor and city council
         of the city of Rupert, Idaho, giving
         notice of the intention of the city of
369      Rupert to create a local improvement      1999
         district to make certain improvements and
         to levy assessments, and establishing a
         public hearing.
         Resolution of the mayor and city council
370      of the city of Rupert, Idaho, to allow    1999
         for the exchange of surplus guns and
         miscellaneous gun parts.
         Resolution of the city of Rupert, Idaho,
371      appointing elec tion judges and clerks    1999
         for a special wastewater bond city
         election to be held March 2, 1999.
         Resolution by the mayor and city council
         of the city of Rupert, Idaho, pursuant to
372      Idaho Code section 50-907, to order       1999
         destruction of semipermanent records
         retained by the city, to be disposed of
         pursuant to the laws in such cases.
         Resolution of the city of Rupert,
         Minidoka County, Idaho, authorizing the
         issuance of a bond and grant anticipation
         note pending the issuance of a water reve
         nue bond and receipt of federal grant
         funds; providing a form of the bond and
373      grant anticipation note; providing for    1999
         the manner of issuance of the note;
         providing for the payment of the
         principal thereof and the interest
         thereon; providing terms, covenants, and
         other matters relating thereto; and
         providing an effective date.
         Resolution of the mayor and city council
         of the city of Rupert, establishing rates
374      for animal licenses, impound dog reclaim  1999
         fees, and kennel licenses; and providing
         an effective date.
         Resolution of the city council of the
         city of Rupert, Minidoka County, Idaho,
         canvassing the returns and declaring the
         results of the special bond election held
375      on March 2, 1999, for the purpose of      1999
         submitting to the qualified electors of
         the city the question of the issu ance of
         revenue bonds of the city in the amount
         of not to exceed $1,500,000.00; and
         providing an effective date.
         Resolution of the mayor and city council
         of the city of Rupert, Idaho, giving
         notice of the intention of the city of
376      Rupert to create a local improvement      1999
         district to make certain improvements and
         to levy assessments, and establishing a
         public hearing.
         Resolution proclaiming a general city
         election to be held on November 2, 1999.
377      Designating the polling places,           1999
         designating the registrar and deputy
         registrars, and ordering the city clerk
         to give notice of such elec tion.
         Resolution of the city of Rupert
378      appointing election judges and clerks for 1999
         the general election to be held November
         2, 1999.
         Resolution of the mayor and city council
379      of the city of Rupert, Idaho, to allow    1999
         for the sale of surplus property.
         Resolution of the mayor and city council
         of the city of Rupert, Idaho, giving
         notice of the intention of the city of
380      Rupert to create a local improvement      1999
         district no. 21 to make certain
         improvements and to levy assess ments,
         and establishing a public hearing.
         Resolution of the council of the city of
         Rupert, Idaho, canvassing and declaring
382      the results of the general municipal      1999
         election held in the city of Rupert on
         Tues day, November 2, 1999.
         Resolution of the mayor and city council
         of the city of Rupert, Idaho, authorizing
383      required signatures on the extension of   1999
         interim finance documents by and between
         the city of Rupert and First Security
         Bank.
         Resolution of the mayor and city council
         of the city of Rupert, Idaho, authorizing
         the mayor to execute all necessary
         documents to include the city as a member
384      of the Idaho Energy Authority, Inc.;      2000
         authorizing pay ment of corporate dues;
         and providing the city adminis trator
         with authority to collectively purchase
         through the said corporation.
         Resolution of the city of Rupert,
         Minidoka County, Idaho, authorizing the
         issuance of a bond and grant anticipation
         refunding note pending the issuance of a
         water revenue bond and receipt of federal
         grant funds for the purpose of refunding
         the principal amount of the outstanding
386      bond and grant anticipation note of the   2000
         city; providing a form of the bond and
         grant anticipation refunding note;
         providing for the manner of issuance of
         the note; providing for the payment of
         the principal thereof and the interest
         thereon; providing terms, cove nants, and
         related matters; and providing an
         effective date.
         Resolution of the mayor and city council
         of the city of Rupert, Idaho, adopting a
387      deferred compensation plan through the    2000
         International City/County Management
         Association for the benefit of city
         employees.
         Resolution of the mayor and council of
         the city of Rupert, Idaho, authorizing
         the Rupert 4th Of July Cele bration
388      Committee, Inc., to regulate certain      2000
         activities in and around the city of
         Rupert during the annual fourth of July
         celebration, and providing an effective
         date.
         Resolution of the city of Rupert,
         Minidoka County, Idaho, authorizing the
         issuance of a bond anticipation note
         pending the issuance of its parity lien
         sewer reve nue bond; providing a form of
390      the bond anticipation note; providing for 2000
         the manner of issuance of the note;
         providing for the payment of the
         principal thereof and the interest
         thereon; providing terms, covenants, and
         other matters relating thereto; and
         providing an effec tive date.
         Resolution of the mayor and council of
         the city of Rupe rt rejecting all bids
         for materials and/or labor for con
         struction of a code compliant restroom
         facility in the area commonly known as
391      Renaissance Park, finding the single      2000
         submitted bid to be in excess of the
         budgeted amount for construction, and
         further finding that the construction can
         be more economically performed by day
         labor with materials acquired locally by
         the city on the open market.
         Resolution of the mayor and city council
         of the city of Rupert, Idaho, affirming
         support and encouragement of
         participation of the city of Rupert in
         the gem community action grant program of
392      the Idaho department of com merce and     2000
         authorizing the Rupert renaissance
         initiative as the organization to perform
         tasks necessary for application and
         implementation of gem community action
         grants.
         Resolution of the mayor and city council
         of the city of Rupert, Idaho, ordering
393      destruction of semipermanent records now  2000
         retained by the city pursuant to the
         recitals of Idaho Code section 50-907.
         Resolution of the mayor and council of
394      the city of Rupert, Idaho, approving the  2000
         transfer of the cable tele vision
         franchise.
         Resolution of the mayor and city council
396      of the city of Rupert, Idaho, to allow    2000
         for the sale of surplus property.
         Resolution of the city of Rupert,
         Minidoka County, Idaho, authorizing the
         issuance of bond and grant antic ipation
         refunding notes pending the issuance of a
         water revenue bond and receipt of federal
         grant funds for the purpose of currently
         refunding the principal amount of the
397      outstanding bond and grant anticipation   2000
         note of the city; providing for the
         manner of issuance of the notes;
         providing for the payment of the
         principal thereof and the interest
         thereon; providing terms, covenants, and
         related matters; and providing an
         effective date.
         Resolution of the mayor and city council
         of the city of Rupert, Idaho, giving
         notice of the intention of the city of
398      Rupert to create a local improvement      2001
         district to make certain improvements and
         to levy assessments, and establishing a
         public hearing.
         Resolution of the mayor and city council
         of the city of Rupert, Idaho, expressing
         support for creation of the Magic Sage
399      library district, committing the city     2001
         library tax levy to the district, and
         offering a long term lease for the
         existing Demary library facility to the
         district, when established.
         Resolution of the mayor and city council
         of the city of Rupert, Idaho, supporting
         the formation of a transporta tion plan
400      and pavement and sign management program  2001
         through the local highway technical
         assistance council, and committing
         certain matching funds from the city of
         Rupert for project completion.
         Resolution of the mayor and city council
         of the city of Rupert, Idaho, endorsing
         the formation of the "A" Street
401      construction grant through the local      2001
         highway technical assistance council and
         committing certain matching funds from
         the city of Rupert for project
         completion.
         Resolution of the mayor and city council
         of the city of Rupert, Idaho, endorsing
         the formation of the Lin coln/Neptune
402      enhancement project through the Idaho     2001
         department of parks and recreation (IDPR)
         and commit ting certain matching funds
         from the city of Rupert for project
         completion.
         Resolution of the mayor and city council
         of the city of Rupert, Idaho, giving
         notice of the intention of the city of
403      Rupert to create a local improvement      2001
         district no. 22 to make certain
         improvements and to levy assess ments,
         and establishing a public hearing.
         Resolution of the mayor and city council
         of the city of Rupert, Idaho, regarding
         assignment of the Idaho en ergy
         authority's attorney to provide certain
404      legal ser vices to the city of Rupert     2001
         pertaining to regulatory ap proval of
         service territory agreements, providing
         such services, and providing an effective
         date.
         Resolution of the mayor and city council
406      of the city of Rupert, Idaho, adopting    2001
         the Minidoka County/city of Rupert
         comprehensive plan.
         Resolution of the mayor and city council
         of the city of Rupert, Idaho,
         establishing an economic development
407      special revenue fund for enhancement of   2001
         prospective business opportunities and
         economic development within the city of
         Rupert.
         Resolution of the mayor and city council
         of the city of Rupert, Idaho,
408      establishing electrical rates for the     2001
         city of Rupert in defined categories
         pursuant to Rupert city ordinance 817.
         Resolution proclaiming a general city
         election to be held on November 6, 2001.
409      Designating the polling places,           2001
         designating the registrar and deputy
         registrars, and ordering the city clerk
         to give notice of such elec tion.
410      Resolution regarding gem community        2001
         support.
         Resolution of the council of the city of
         Rupert, Idaho, canvassing and declaring
411      the results of the general municipal      2001
         election held in the city of Rupert on
         Tues day, November 6, 2001.
         Resolution of the city of Rupert,
         Minidoka County, Idaho, authorizing the
         issuance of a bond and grant anticipation
         refunding note pending the issuance of a
         water revenue bond and receipt of federal
         grant funds for the purpose of currently
         refunding the principal amount of the
412      outstanding bond and grant anticipation   2001
         refunding notes of the city; providing
         for the manner of issuance of the note;
         providing for the payment of the
         principal thereof and the interest
         thereon; providing terms, covenants, and
         related matters; and providing an
         effective date.
         Resolution of the mayor and city council
         of the city of Rupert, Idaho, supporting
         the formation of a construc tion grant
414      for "H" Street through the local highway  2002
         tech nical assistance council and
         committing matching funds from the city
         of Rupert.
         Resolution of the mayor and city council
         of the city of Rupert, Idaho, amending
415      the deferred compensation plan through    2002
         the International City/County Management
         Association for the benefit of city
         employees.
         Resolution approving the agreement for
416      federal aid highway project STP-0004      2002
         (123).
         Resolution of the mayor and city council
         of the city of Rupert, Idaho, ordering
417      destruction of semipermanent records now  2002
         retained by the city pursuant to the
         recitals of Idaho Code section 50-907.
         Resolution of the city council of the
         city of Rupert here by supports and
419      endorses the participation of the city of 2002
         Rupert in the gem community
         implementation grant program of Idaho
         department of commerce.
         Resolution of the city of Rupert, Idaho,
         authorizing the mayor to appoint
         qualified high school students to func
420      tion as ex officio members of established 2002
         city of Rupert committees, directing
         publication of this resolution and
         providing an effective date.
         Resolution of the city council of the
         city of Rupert, Idaho, recognizing its
423      responsibility to help in creating and    2002
         maintaining a civic environment in our
         community; and providing an effective
         date.
         Resolution of the mayor and city council
         of the city of Rupert, Idaho, ratifying
         the acquisition agreement by and between
         the city of Rupert, United Electric
         Cooper ative, East End Electric
424      Cooperative, and Riverside Electric       2002
         Cooperative for purchase of the Roe's
         Corner Substation from the Bonneville
         Power Administration, and authorizing the
         mayor to execute all necessary agreements
         by and between the parties.
         Resolution of the council, city of
         Rupert, Idaho, autho rizing the mayor to
425      sign and submit an application for an     2002
         Idaho community development block grant
         to par tially finance the construction of
         industrial infrastructure improvements.
         Resolution of the council, city of
         Rupert, Idaho, autho rizing the mayor to
426      sign and submit an application for a      2002
         rural community block grant to partially
         finance the construction of public
         infrastructure improvements.
         Resolution of the mayor and city council
427      for the city of Rupert, Idaho, fixing     2002
         schedule of fees for garbage col lection
         and providing an effective date.
         Resolution of the city of Rupert, Idaho,
         adopting re vised wastewater rates with
         adjusted user rates for residential,
         commercial and industrial wastewater cus
         tomers, including customers outside the
         city; requiring industrial customers to
428      execute supplemental industrial user      2002
         agreements with the city of Rupert
         incorporating the rates recommended in
         the sewer rate study; provid ing that new
         rates for all classes of customers shall
         become effective November 1, 2002,
         directing publica tion of this resolution
         and providing an effective date.
         Resolution of the city of Rupert, Idaho,
         providing for water utility rates,
         connection fees, and reconnect fees for
429      the city of Rupert, providing that new    2002
         rates shall become effective November 1,
         2002, directing publica tion of this
         resolution and providing an effective
         date.
         Resolution of the mayor and council for
         the city of Rupert, Idaho, authorizing
         assistance of the city for property
         owners in cleanup of demolition in and
         around the historic district of the city
         of Rupert for site prepara tion for
430      remodeling, alteration, new construction, 2002
         and property enhancement, provided that
         the requested cleanup be authorized by
         city administrator, and that time for
         said enhancements shall be from approval
         and passage of this resolution through
         and until March 1, 2003.
         Resolution of the mayor and city council
         of the city of Rupert, Idaho, giving
         notice of the intention of the city of
431      Rupert to create a local improvement      2002
         district no. 23 to make certain
         electrical improvements and to levy
         assessments, and establishing a public
         hearing.
         A resolution for the city of Rupert,
         Idaho, amending resolution no. 428
         providing wastewater rates for Mini co
         High School; Dr. David Hill; R&J R.V.;
432      B.P.O.E; Grease Monkey; and Jensen Meats; 2002
         providing that rates shall become
         effective January 1, 2003; directing
         publication of this resolution and
         providing an effective date.
         A resolution of the mayor and city
         council of the city of Rupert, Idaho,
         supporting the formation of a construc
433      tion grant for "H" Street through the     2003
         local highway tech nical assistance
         council and committing matching funds
         from the city of Rupert.
         A resolution for the city of Rupert,
         Idaho, in support of revenue sharing for
434      Idaho cities, directing publication of    2003
         this resolution and providing an
         effective date.
         A resolution of the mayor and council for
435      the city of Rupert, Idaho, declaring city 2003
         support for the renovation of the Rupert
         area aquatic center.
         A resolution for the city of Rupert,
         Idaho, adopting revised wastewater rates
         for industrial wastewaters customers,
436      providing that new rates for all classes  2003
         of customers shall become effective
         September 1, 2003; directing publication
         of this resolution and providing an
         effective date.
         A resolution for the city of Rupert,
         Idaho, adopting revised wastewater rates
         with adjusted user rates for residential,
         commercial and industrial wastewaters
         customers, including customers outside
438      the city pursu ant to the user            2003
         classifications established in Rupert
         city ordinance 842; providing that new
         rates for all classes of customers shall
         become effective September 1, 2003;
         directing publication of this resolution
         and provid ing an effective date.
439      A resolution regarding gem community      2003
         support.
         A resolution of the mayor and council for
         the city of Rupert, Idaho, ordering
440      destruction of records now retained by    2003
         the city pursuant to the recitals of
         Idaho Code section 50-907.
         A resolution of the council of the city
         of Rupert, can vassing and declaring the
442      results of the general munici pal         2003
         election held in the city of Rupert on
         Tuesday, November 4, 2003.
444      A resolution for construction of a street 2003
         reconstructure.
         A resolution of the council, city of
         Rupert, Idaho, autho rizing the mayor to
445      sign and submit an application for an     2003
         Idaho community development block grant
         to par tially finance the construction of
         industrial infrastructure improvements.
         A resolution of the mayor and city
         council of the city of Rupert, Idaho, to
         authorize the mayor, in connection to
         litigation with the BPA and investor
         owned utilities, to sign a settlement
         stipulation and a covenant not to sue, to
         direct the attorney of record in any
446      pending court cases related to the        2003
         settlement where the city of Rupert is a
         named party to sign motions to dismiss
         such litiga tion, contingent upon the
         settlement being adopted by all parties
         thereto, to assure that such documents
         are conveyed to BPA, and to take any
         other actions that may be required now or
         subsequently to implement the settlement.
         A resolution of the city of Rupert,
447      Idaho, providing for an increase in       2004
         building permit fees and providing for an
         effective date.
         A resolution of the city council of
         Rupert, Idaho, adopt ing a policy
448      prohibiting the use of excessive force    2004
         against nonviolent civil rights
         demonstrators.
         A resolution of the mayor and city
449      council of the city of Rupert, Idaho,     2004
         concerning the combined fair housing and
         comprehensive plan policy.
         A resolution to publicly support the
         mission and objec tives of south central
         community action partnership's
         transitional housing program and to allow
         this declara tion of public support to be
         used by the south central community
450      action partnership to satisfy an          2004
         application requirement for federal
         funding and to support housing for low
         income homeless persons in the city of
         Rupert; authorizing the mayor and city
         clerk to make such dec laration for, and
         on behalf of, the city of Rupert and its
         officers.
         A resolution of the mayor and city
         council of the city of Rupert, Idaho,
451      ordering destruction of semipermanent     2004
         records now retained by the city pursuant
         to the recitals of Idaho Code section 50-
         907.
         A resolution regarding the Idaho
         transportation department's submission of
         an addendum to the agree ment stating
452      obligations of the state and the city of  2004
         Rupert for design and construction of a
         traffic signal at the SH24/F Street
         intersection within the city's corpo rate
         limits.
         A resolution of the city of Rupert,
         Minidoka County, Idaho, approving an
453      agreement for bond counsel ser vices;     2004
         authorizing the mayor and city clerk to
         execute the same; and providing an
         effective date.
         A resolution of the mayor and city
454      council of the city of Rupert, Idaho, to  2004
         allow for the exchange of real prop erty.
         A resolution of the city council for the
         city of Rupert, Idaho, authorizing the
         mayor or city administrator of the city
455      of Rupert to sign all applications, loan  2004
         agreements and amendments, and other
         documents relating to wastewater
         facilities state revolving loan fund
         construc tion loans.
         A resolution of the mayor and city
         council of the city of Rupert, Idaho,
         providing for an irrigation water
456      rotation schedule for the city of Rupert, 2004
         directing publication of the city's
         irrigation water rotation schedule of
         permitted use and providing an effective
         date.
         A resolution of the city council of the
         city of Rupert, Minidoka County, Idaho,
         canvassing the returns and declaring the
         results of the special revenue bond elec
457      tion held on May 25, 2004, for the        2004
         purpose of submit ting to the qualified
         electors of the city the question of the
         issuance of sewer revenue bonds of the
         city in the amount of $14,200,000.00; and
         providing an effective date.
         A resolution of the mayor and city
         council of the city of Rupert, Idaho,
         adopting revised animal control fees for
         animal control services provided for the
458      citizens of the city, providing that      2004
         increased rates shall become effec tive
         October 1, 2004, directing the
         publication of this resolution, and
         providing an effective date.
         A resolution of the mayor and city
         council of the city of Rupert, Idaho,
         publicly declaring portions of title VIII
         of the 1968 civil rights act, reaffirming
459      the city's policy on equal opportunity in 2004
         housing, requiring the publicizing,
         distributing and analysis of issues
         regarding equal opportunity in housing in
         the city of Rupert and provid ing for
         publishing of the resolution.
         A resolution of the mayor and city
         council of the city of Rupert, Idaho,
         adopting revised water rates for water
         provided for the citizens of the city
460      providing that in creased water rates     2004
         shall become effective October 1, 2004,
         directing the publication of this
         resolution and providing an effective
         date.
         A resolution of the mayor and city
461      council for the city of Rupert, Idaho,    2004
         fixing schedule of fees for garbage col
         lection and providing an effective date.
         A resolution for the city of Rupert,
         Idaho, adopting revised wastewater rates
         with adjusted user rates for residential
         wastewaters customers pursuant to the
462      user classifications established in       2004
         Rupert city ordinance 842; providing that
         new rates for residential customers shall
         become effective October 1, 2004;
         directing publication of this resolution,
         and providing an effective date.
465      A resolution regarding gem community      2004
         support.
         A resolution of the mayor and city
         council of the city of Rupert, Idaho,
466      establishing electrical rates for the     2005
         city of Rupert in the following defined
         categories pursuant to Rupert city code
         section 10-6-4.
467      A resolution regarding gem community      2005
         support.
         A resolution of the mayor and council for
         the city of Rupert, Idaho, approving the
         agreement for federal aid project BR-7842
469      (101), authorizing the mayor to execute   2005
         said agreement and providing that copies
         shall be fur nished to the Idaho
         transportation department.
         A resolution of the mayor and city
         council of the city of Rupert, Idaho,
         establishing an economic development
470      electrical rate for the city of Rupert,   2005
         establishing said rate amount pursuant to
         Rupert city code section
         10-6-4, and providing an effective date
         and an expiration date.
         A resolution for the city of Rupert,
         Idaho, providing a standard method for
         testing of wastewater concentra tion
         levels following any objection by a
         commercial wastewater user as permitted
471      under city resolution 438, providing that 2005
         all costs associated with the objection
         and/or appeal of any wastewater user
         classification shall be paid by the user,
         directing publication of this resolution
         and providing an effective date.
         A resolution of the mayor and city
472      council of the city of Rupert, Idaho, to  2005
         allow for the sale of surplus property.
         A resolution for the city of Rupert,
         Idaho, adopting revised wastewater rates
         with adjusted user rates for residential
         wastewater customers pursuant to the user
         classifications established in Rupert
473      city code 10-10-6; providing that new     2005
         incremental rate increases for resi
         dential customers shall become effective
         October 1, 2005 and on March 1, 2006;
         directing publication of this resolution,
         and providing an effective date.
         A resolution of the mayor and city
         council of the city of Rupert, Idaho,
         declaring the joint effort and
474      cooperation with Square Events, Inc., a   2005
         not for profit corporation, to seek out
         and acquire donations, grants and/or
         other resources for the construction of
         the Rupert aquatic center.
         A resolution of the council of the city
         of Rupert, can vassing and declaring the
475      results of the general munici pal         2005
         election held in the city of Rupert on
         Tuesday, No vember 8, 2005.
         A resolution of the mayor and city
         council of the city of Rupert, Idaho,
         establishing a city council policy and
476      authorizing the city to enter into        2005
         municipal marketing agreements and to
         sell naming rights to certain city owned
         or operated facilities as a source of
         revenue.
         A resolution of the mayor and city
         council of the city of Rupert, Idaho,
06-101   establishing electrical rates for the     2006
         city of Rupert in the defined categories
         pursuant to Rupert city code section
         10-6-4.
         A resolution of the city of Rupert,
         Idaho, authorizing and providing for the
         incurrence of indebtedness for the
06-102   purpose of providing a portion of the     2006
         cost of acquiring, constructing,
         enlarging, improving, and/or extending
         its wastewater treatment plant.
         A resolution of the city of Rupert,
         Idaho, authorizing and providing for the
         incurrence of indebtedness for the
06-103   purpose of providing a portion of the     2006
         cost of acquiring, constructing,
         enlarging, improving, and/or extending
         its wastewater treatment II.
         A resolution of the city of Rupert,
         Idaho, adopting re vised wastewater rates
         with adjusted user rates for residential,
         commercial and industrial wastewaters
         customers, including customers outside
06-104   the city pursu ant to the user            2006
         classifications established in Rupert
         city ordinance 842; providing that new
         rates for all classes of customers shall
         become effective March 1, 2006; directing
         publication of this resolution and
         providing an effective date.
         A resolution of the city of Rupert,
         Idaho, creating the Rupert youth action
         council as an advisory board to the mayor
         and council on matters pertaining to
         programs, facilities and concerns of
         local young people, providing a process
06-105   for appointment of qualified high school  2006
         students to function as members of the
         Rupert youth action council and altering
         the criteria for appointment of high
         school students as ex officio members of
         estab lished city of Rupert committees,
         directing publication of this resolution,
         and providing an effective date.
         A resolution to publicly support the
         mission and objec tives of the Mini-
         Cassia shelter for women and children and
         to allow this declaration of public
         support to be used by the Mini-Cassia
         shelter for women and children to satisfy
06-106   an application requirement for federal    2006
         funding and to support housing for low
         income homeless per sons in the city of
         Rupert; authorizing the mayor and city
         clerk to make such declaration for, and
         on behalf of, the city of Rupert and its
         officers.
         A resolution of the city authorizing and
         providing for the incurrence of
         indebtedness for the purpose of providing
06-107   a portion of the cost of acquiring,       2006
         constructing, enlarg ing, improving, and/
         or extending its wastewater treat ment
         plant.
         A resolution of the mayor and city
         council of the city of Rupert, Idaho,
         providing policy and regulations for the
         city of Rupert electrical department and
         customers regarding new service
06-108   connections, line extensions, and         2006
         alterations, establishing procedure for
         evaluating and distributing the cost of
         electrical line extension, connection,
         and/or alterations, and providing an
         effec tive date.
         A resolution of the mayor and council of
06-109   the city of Rupert, Idaho, establishing a 2006
         Rupert city centennial fund.
         A resolution of the mayor and city
         council of the city of Rupert, Idaho,
06-110   providing policy and regulations for use  2006
         of the city's leased electric reader
         board sign and pro viding an effective
         date.
         A resolution of the mayor and city
         council of the city of Rupert, Idaho,
         adopting revised water rates for water
         provided for the citizens of the city,
06-111   providing that in creased water rates     2006
         shall become effective October 1, 2006,
         directing the publication of this
         resolution and providing an effective
         date.
         A resolution of the mayor and city
06-112   council for the city of Rupert, Idaho,    2006
         fixing schedule of fees for garbage col
         lection and providing an effective date.
         A resolution canvassing the results of an
         election held in the city of Rupert,
         Minidoka County, state of Idaho, on
         November 7, 2006, on the question of
         entering into the Intermountain Unit 3
06-113   project power sales contract with Utah    2006
         Associated Municipal Power Systems for
         the acquisition of a long term
         entitlement share in the Intermountain
         Unit 3 project and determining the result
         of said election.
         A resolution of the mayor and city
06-114   council of the city of Rupert, Idaho,     2006
         establishing a city urban renewal agenc
         y.
         A resolution of the city of Rupert
06-115   adopting a policy for the classification, 2006
         maintenance, and destruction of public
         records and providing an effective date.
         A resolution of the city of Rupert,
         Minidoka County, Idaho, authorizing the
         issuance of a bond anticipation note
         pending the issuance of sewer revenue
         bonds; providing a form of the bond
07-102   anticipation note; provid ing for the     2007
         manner of issuance of the note; providing
         for the use of note proceeds; providing
         for the payment of the principal of and
         interest on the note; providing terms,
         covenants, and related matters; and
         providing an effective date.
         A resolution of the mayor and city
         council of the city of Rupert, Idaho,
07-104   revising electrical rates for the city of 2007
         Rupert's previously established rate
         categories and providing an effective
         date.
         A resolution of the mayor and city
07-105   council for the city of Rupert, Idaho,     
         fixing schedule of fees for garbage col
         lection and providing an effective date.
                                                   200707-107A resolution for
                                                   the city of Rupert, Idah o,
                                                   adopting revised wastewater
                                                   charge rates with adjusted
                                                   user rates for residential
         A resolution of the mayor and city        and commer cial wastewater
         council of the city of Rupert, Idaho,     customers, including
         adopting revised water rates for water    customers outside the city
         provided for the citizens of the city     pursuant to the user
07-106   providing that in creased water rates     classifica tions estab
         shall become effective October 1, 2007,   lished in Rupert city
         directing the publication of this         ordinance 842; provid ing
         resolution and providing an effective     that new rates for all
         date.                                     classes of customers shall
                                                   become effective Oc tober 1,
                                                   2007; direct ing publica
                                                   tion of this resolution and
                                                   providing an effective
                                                   date.2007
         A resolution for the city of Rupert,
08-101   Idaho, renaming a street within the       2008
         Belmont subdivision located within the
         boundaries of the city of Rupert.
         A resolution of the mayor and council for
         the city of Rupert, Idaho, ordering
08-102   destruction of temporary and              2008
         semipermanent records now retained by the
         city pursu ant to Idaho Code section 50-
         907.
         A resolution of the mayor and council for
         the city of Rupert, Idaho, declaring that
         the current maximum speed limit on
08-103   Pasherma Kay Ct. presents a special       2008
         hazard on said street, reducing the speed
         limit on Pasherma Kay Ct. to 15 miles per
         hour, and providing an effective date.
         A resolution of the city of Rupert
         declaring a temporary moratorium on
08-104   ordinance 08-505 dealing with the per     2008
         mitting and regulating of parades and
         motorcades in the city.
         A resolution for the city of Rupert,
         Idaho, providing for water utility rates,
         connection fees, and reconnect fees for
08-106   the city of Rupert, providing that new    2008
         rates for shall become effective October
         1, 2008, directing publication of this
         resolution and providing an effective
         date.
         A resolution of the mayor and city
08-107   council for the city of Rupert, Idaho,    2008
         fixing schedule of fees for garbage col
         lection and providing an effective date.
         A resolution for the city of Rupert,
         Idaho, adopting revised wastewater charge
         rates with adjusted user rates for
         residential and commercial wastewater cus
         tomers, including customers outside the
08-108   city pursuant to the user classifications 2008
         established in Rupert city ordi nance
         842; providing that new rates for all
         classes of customers shall become
         effective November 1, 2008; directing
         publication of this resolution and
         providing an effective date.
         A resolution for the city of Rupert,
         Idaho, renumbering an ordinance
09-101   previously approved by the city council   2009
         and executed by the mayor for purposes of
         clarifying the 2008 ordinance sequence of
         the records of the city of Rupert.
         A resolution of the city of Rupert, Idaho
09-102   adopting a policy of nondiscrimination on 2009
         the basis of disability.
         A resolution for the city of Rupert,
09-103   Idaho, adopting an identity theft         2009
         prevention program.
         A resolution of the city of Rupert
         lifting and ending a temporary moratorium
09-104   on enforcement of Rupert city code title  2009
         8 chapter 10 requiring the permitting and
         regulating of parades and motorcades in
         the city and providing an effective date.
         A resolution of the mayor and city
09-105   council of the city of Rupert, Idaho, to  2009
         allow for the disposal of the "Old Les
         Schwab Building" as surplus property.
         A resolution for the city of Rupert,
         Idaho, providing for water utility rates,
         connection fees, and reconnect fees for
09-107   the city of Rupert, providing that new    2009
         rates shall become effective November 1,
         2009, directing publica tion of this
         resolution and providing an effective
         date.
         A resolution of the city of Rupert, Idaho
         to publicly support the mission and
         objectives of the Mini-Cassia shelter for
         women and children and to allow this
         decla ration of public support to be used
         by the Mini-Cassia shelter to satisfy an
10-101   application requirement for federal       2010
         funding and to support housing for low
         income home less persons in the city of
         Rupert; authorizing the mayor and city
         clerk to make such declaration for, and
         on behalf of, the city of Rupert and its
         officers.
         A resolution of the mayor and city
         council of the city of Rupert, Idaho,
         directed to the secretary of the air
         force, the senate and house of
10-102   representatives of the United States in   2010
         congress assembled, and to the
         congressional delegation representing the
         state of Idaho in the con gress of the
         United States in support of locating the
         new F-35 mission in Idaho.
         A resolution of the mayor and council for
         the city of Rupert, Idaho, declaring that
         the school zone designa tion in the
         vicinity of the old Pershing School be re
10-103   moved, repealing current school zone      2010
         maximum speed limits in and around the
         old Pershing School, returning the
         maximum speed limit to 25 miles per hour,
         and providing an effective date.
         A resolution of the city council of the
         city of Rupert authorizing and providing
         for the incurrence of indebtedness for
10-104   the purpose of providing a portion of the 2010
         cost of acquiring, constructing,
         enlarging, improv ing, and/or extending
         its sewer improvements facility to serve
         an area lawfully within its jurisdiction.
         A resolution of the mayor and city
         council of the city of Rupert, Idaho,
         adopting revised animal control fees for
         animal control services provided for the
10-105   citizens of the city, providing that      2010
         increased rates shall become effec tive
         October 1, 2010, directing the
         publication of this resolution, and
         providing an effective date.
         A resolution for the city of Rupert,
         Idaho, adopting revised wastewater charge
         rates with adjusted user rates for
         residential and commercial wastewater cus
         tomers, including customers outside the
10-106   city pursuant to the user classifications 2010
         established in Rupert city ordi nance
         842; providing that new rates for all
         classes of customers shall become
         effective October 1, 2010; directing
         publication of this resolution and
         providing an effective date.
         A resolution of the mayor and city
10-107   council for the city of Rupert, Idaho,    2010
         fixing schedule of fees for garbage col
         lection and providing an effective date.
         A resolution for the city of Rupert,
         Idaho, providing for water utility rates,
         connection fees, and reconnect fees for
10-108   the city of Rupert, providing that new    2010
         rates shall become effective October 1,
         2010, directing publication of this
         resolution and providing an effective
         date.
         A resolution of the mayor and city
         council of the city of Rupert, Idaho,
10-109   revising electrical rates for the city of 2010
         Rupert's rate categories previously
         established in Rupert city code 10-6-
         4 and providing an effective date.
         A resolution authorizing execution of
10-110   amended and restated load commitment      2010
         agreement.
         A resolution of the city council of
         Rupert, Idaho autho rizing the mayor to
         sign and submit an application to the
11-102   Idaho department of commerce for an Idaho 2011
         com munity development block grant to
         partially finance improvements at the
         Minidoka County, senior center.
                                                   201111-104A resolution
                                                   declaring the intent of the
                                                   city of Ruper t, Idaho to
         A resolution to let it be known to all    transfer real property owned
         persons of the city of Rupert that        by the city and lo cated
         discrimination on the basis of race,      gener ally on the east side
         color, religion, gender or national       of Scott Avenue between 6th
         origin in the sale, rental, leasing or    and 8th Streets, Rupert,
11-103   financing of housing or land to be used   Minidoka County, Idah o, to
         for construction of housing or in the     the city of Rupert Urban Re
         provision of brokerage services is        newal Agenc y; instructing
         prohibited by title VIII of the 1968      the city clerk to establish
         civil rights act (federal fair housing    and publish notice of a
         law).                                     hearing date to review the
                                                   proposed conveyance; and
                                                   providing an effective
                                                   date.2011
         A resolution of the city council of
         Rupert, Idaho, adopt ing a policy
11-104A  prohibiting the use of excessive force    2011
         against nonviolent civil rights
         demonstrators.
         A resolution for the city of Rupert,
         Idaho, renumbering a resolution
         previously approved by the city council
11-105   and executed by the mayor for purposes of 2011
         clarifying the 2011 resolution numbering
         sequence of the records of the city of
         Rupert.
         A resolution of the city of Rupert,
         Minidoka County, Idaho, authorizing the
         issuance of bond anticipation notes
         pending the issuance of a sewer revenue
         bond; providing a form of the bond
11-106   anticipation notes; provid ing for the    2011
         manner of issuance of the notes;
         providing for the use of note proceeds;
         providing for the payment of the
         principal of and interest on the notes;
         providing terms, covenants, and related
         matters; and providing an effective date.
         A resolution of the mayor and city
11-107   council for the city of Rupert, Idaho,    2011
         fixing schedule of fees for garbage col
         lection and providing an effective date.
         A resolution for the city of Rupert,
         Idaho, adopting revised wastewater charge
         rates with adjusted user rates for
         residential and commercial wastewater cus
         tomers, including customers outside the
11-108   city pursuant to the user classifications 2011
         established in Rupert city ordi nance
         842; providing that new rates for all
         classes of customers shall become
         effective October 1, 2011; directing
         publication of this resolution and
         providing an effective date.
         A resolution for the city of Rupert,
         Idaho, providing for water utility rates,
         connection fees, and reconnect fees for
11-109   the city of Rupert, providing that new    2011
         rates shall become effective October 1,
         2011, directing publication of this
         resolution and providing an effective
         date.
         A resolution for the city of Rupert,
         Idaho, authorizing the city of Rupert to
12-101   sign all applications, grant agreements   2012
         and other documents relating to drinking
         water planning grants.
         A resolution of the city of Rupert, Idaho
12-102   adopting a policy of nondiscrimination of 2012
         the basis of disability.
         A resolution of the mayor and city
         council of the city of Rupert, Idaho,
12-104   extending the period for safe and sane    2012
         fireworks sales for 2012 in the city and
         providing an effective date.
         A resolution for the city of Rupert,
         Idaho, adopting revised utility rates
         with adjusted user rates and associ ated
12-105   policies for city of Rupert water,        2012
         wastewater, sani tation, and electric
         power users; providing that all rate
         adjustments be effective October 1, 2012
         and providing an effective date.
         A resolution of the mayor and city
         council of the city of Rupert, Idaho,
         establishing fees for application and
12-106   costs of preliminary investigation        2012
         associated with sale and use of fireworks
         in the city, and providing an effec tive
         date.
         A resolution of the mayor and city
         council of the city of Rupert, Idaho,
         establishing an economic development
12-107   electrical rate for the city of Rupert,   2012
         establishing said rate amount pursuant to
         Rupert city code section 10-6- 4, and
         providing an effective date and an
         expiration date.
                                                   201313-102A resolution of
                                                   the mayor and city council
                                                   of the city of Ruper t,
         A resolution of the city of Rupert, Idaho Idaho, es tablishing an
         declaring a temporary moratorium on the   economic development water
13-101   placement of memorial monuments on city   rate for the city of Rupert,
         real property pending adoption of the     es tablishing said rate
         council of a policy regarding the same    amount pur suant to Rupert
         and provid ing an effective date.         city code section 10-7-3,
                                                   and providing an effective
                                                   date and an expiration
                                                   date.2013
         A resolution of the mayor and city
         council of the city of Rupert, Idaho,
13-103   adopting the city of Rupert's policy on   2013
         the placement of memorials on city owned
         property and providing an effective date.
         A resolution of the mayor and city
         council of the city of Rupert, Idaho,
13-104   adopting the city of Rupert's policies    2013
         regarding use of the city's outdoor
         shooting complex and providing an
         effective date.
         A resolution for the city of Rupert,
         Idaho, establishing rates, fees and
13-105   associated policies for the city of Ruper 2013
         t; providing that all rates, fees and
         associated policies be effective October
         1, 2013 and providing an effective date.
         A resolution of the council, city of
         Rupert, Idaho, autho rizing the mayor to
         sign and submit an application for an
13-106   Idaho community development block grant   2013
         to par tially finance the construction of
         public infrastructure and utilities in
         Rupert, Idaho.
13-107   Fair housing resolution.                  2013
         A resolution of the city of Rupert,
         Idaho, appointing additional legal
14-102   counsel, defining the limited scope of    2014
         representation of additional counsel and
         determining the method of compensation of
         additional counsel.
         A resolution of the mayor and city
         council of the city of Rupert, Idaho,
         consenting to the disposal of real prop
         erty owned by the city of Rupert urban
14-103   renewal agency, reaffirming previous      2014
         findings that said real property is
         qualified for urban renewal project
         participation, and providing an effective
         date and an expiration date.
         A resolution of the mayor and city
         council of the city of Rupert, Idaho,
14-104   consenting to extension of the city of    2014
         Rupert urban renewal agency boundaries
         and providing an effective date.
         A resolution of the mayor and city
         council of the city of Rupert, Idaho,
         adopting revised water rates for water
         provided for the water users of the city
14-105   providing that adjusted water rates shall 2014
         become effective October 1, 2014,
         directing the publication of this
         resolution and providing an effective
         date.
         A resolution of the mayor and city
         council of the city of Rupert, Idaho,
14-106   revising electrical rates for the city of 2014
         Rupert's rate categories previously
         established in Rupert city code 10-6-
         4 and providing an effective date.
         A resolution of the mayor and city
         council for the city of Rupert, Idaho,
14-107   fixing a schedule of fees for garbage     2014
         collection and providing an effective
         date.
         A resolution of the mayor and city
         council of the city of Rupert, Idaho,
         adopting revised irrigation water assess
         ment rates for property owners in the
14-108   city of Rupert, providing that increased  2014
         irrigation assessments shall become
         effective November 1, 2014, directing the
         publication of the revised rates and
         providing an effec tive date.
         A resolution of the mayor and city
         council of the city of Rupert, Idaho,
         adopting revised recreation program
         participant rates for the city providing
14-109   that increased recreation rates shall     2014
         become effective October 15, 2014,
         directing the publication of this
         resolution and providing an effective
         date.
         A resolution of the city council for the
         city of Rupert, Idaho, authorizing the
         mayor to sign and submit an application
15-102   for grant assistance from the Idaho       2015
         depart ment of commerce to partially
         finance the development of a roadway to
         support economic development.
         A resolution of the Mayor and City
         Council of the City of Rupert, Idaho,
         establishing an economic development
15-103   electrical rate for the City of Rupert,   2015
         establishing said rate amount pursuant to
         Rupert City Code section 10-6-4, and
         providing an effective date and an expira
         tion date.
         A resolution of the Mayor and City
         Council of the City of Rupert, Idaho,
         establishing an economic development
15-104   water rate for the City of Rupert,        2015
         establishing said rate amount pursuant to
         Rupert City Code section 10-7-3, and
         providing an effective date and an
         expiration date.
         A resolution of the Mayor and City
         Council of the City of Rupert, Idaho,
         adopting revised water rates for water
         provided for the water users of the City
15-105   providing that adjusted water rates shall 2015
         become effective October 1, 2015,
         directing the publication of this
         resolution and providing an effective
         date.
         A resolution of the Mayor and City
         Council for the City of Rupert, Idaho,
15-106   fixing a schedule of fees for garbage     2015
         collection and providing an effective
         date.
         A resolution of the Mayor and City
         Council of the City of Rupert, Idaho,
15-107   revising electrical rates for the City of 2015
         Rupert's rate categories previously
         established in Rupert City Code 10-6-
         4 and providing an effective date.
         A resolution for the City of Rupert,
16-101   Idaho, establishing rates, fees and       2016
         associated policies for the City of
         Rupert; and providing an effective date.
         A resolution of the Mayor and City
         Council of the City of Rupert, Idaho,
16-102   adopting the "Rupert Square Master Plan   2016
         2015" and instructing the Rupert Square
         Action Committee to implement said plan.
         A resolution for the City of Rupert,
         Idaho, providing for water utility rates,
         connection fees, and reconnect fees for
16-104   the City of Rupert, providing that new    2016
         rates shall become effective October 1,
         2016; directing publication of this
         resolution and providing an effective
         date.
         A resolution for the City of Rupert,
         Idaho, adopting revised wastewater charge
         rates with adjusted user rates for
         residential and commercial wastewater cus
         tomers, including customers outside the
16-105   City pursuant to the user classifications 2016
         established in Rupert City ordinance 842;
         providing that new rates for all classes
         of customers shall become effective
         October 1, 2016; directing publication of
         this resolution and providing an
         effective date.
         A resolution by the Mayor and Council of
16-107   the City of Rupert, Idaho establishing    2016
         the City of Rupert Employee Wellness
         Program.
         A resolution of the City Council of the
         City of Rupert, Idaho, expressing
         official intent, pursuant to section
         1.150-2 of the Federal Income Tax
17-102   Regulations, to reimburse the City, from  2017
         the proceeds of the City's general
         obligation bonds, certain expenses to be
         paid from funds of the City; and
         providing an effective date.
17-103   Appointment of Applicant Agent for the    2017
         Hazard Mitiga tion Grant Program (HMGP).
         A resolution of the Mayor and City
         Council of the City of Rupert, Idaho,
17-104   revising electrical rates for the City of 2017
         Rupert's rate categories previously
         established in Rupert City Code
         10-6-4 and providing an effective date.
17-105   Resolution to establish a redevelopment   2017
         area.
         A resolution of the City of Rupert, Idaho
         authorizing the negotiation of a
         settlement agreement term sheet in
18-101   response to the Surface Water Coalition   2018
         water delivery call and the designation
         of the Eastern Snake Plain Aquifer Ground
         Water Management Area.
         A resolution of the City Council for the
         City of Rupert, Idaho, authorizing the
         Mayor to sign and submit an application
         to the Idaho Department of Commerce for
18-102   grant assistance through the Rural        2018
         Community Block Grant Program to
         partially finance the construction of
         public infrastructure and utilities in
         Rupert, Idaho.
18-103   Idaho Gem Grant - application resolution. 2018
         A resolution of the Mayor and City
         Council of the City of Rupert, Idaho,
         establishing an economic development
18-104   electrical rate for the City of Rupert,   2018
         establishing said rate amount pursuant to
         Rupert City Code section
         10-6-4, and providing an effective date.
         A resolution of the Mayor and City
         Council of the City of Rupert, Idaho,
         establishing an economic development
18-105   water rate for the City of Rupert,        2018
         establishing said rate amount pursuant to
         Rupert City Code section
         10-7-3, and providing and effective date.
18-106   Resolution designating Records Custodian  2018
         and alter nate for the City of Rupert.
         A resolution for the City of Rupert,
18-107   Idaho, establishing rates, fees and       2018
         associated policies for the City of
         Rupert and providing an effective date.
         A resolution for the City of Rupert,
18-108   Idaho, establishing rates, fees and       2018
         associated policies for the City of
         Rupert and providing an effective date.
         Resolution of the City of Rupert, Idaho,
         adopting a schedule of revised animal
19-102   control rates and fees for services       2019
         provided and regularly charged as
         specified by city code; providing an
         effective date.
         A resolution of the Mayor and City
         Council of the City of Rupert, Idaho,
19-103   providing policy and regulations for the  2019
         use of the City of Rupert police
         department training facility and
         providing an effective date.
         A resolution of the City Council for the
         City of Rupert, Idaho, authorizing the
         Mayor to sign and submit an application
         to the Idaho Department of Commerce for
19-104   grant assistance through the Idaho        2019
         community development block grant program
         to partially finance the construction of
         a pickleball court complex at Neptune
         Park.
         A resolution of the City Council for the
         City of Rupert, Idaho, authorizing the
         Mayor to sign and submit an application
19-105   to the Idaho Department of Commerce for   2019
         grant assistance through the Idaho
         community development block grant program
         to partially finance the construction of
         public infrastructure and utilities.
         A resolution of the Mayor and City
         Council of the City of Rupert, Idaho,
19-106   adopting revised recreation program       2019
         participant rates for the city and
         providing an effective date.
         A resolution for the City of Rupert,
         Idaho, establishing service fees and
19-107   associated policies for the City of       2019
         Rupert Demary Memorial Library and
         providing an effective date.
         A resolution of the Mayor and City
         Council of the City of Rupert, Idaho,
19-108   revising electrical rates for the City of 2019
         Rupert's rate categories previously
         established in Rupert City Code 10-6-
         4 and providing an effective date.
         A resolution for the City of Rupert,
         Idaho, providing for water utility rates,
19-109   connection fees, and reconnect fees for   2019
         the City of Rupert, providing that new
         rates shall become effective October 1,
         2019.
         A resolution of the Mayor and City
         Council for the City of Rupert, Idaho,
19-110   fixing a schedule of fees for garbage     2019
         collection and providing an effective
         date.
         A resolution of the City of Rupert Urban
         Renewal Agency, Idaho, consenting to
19-112   extension of the City of Rupert Urban     2019
         Renewal Agency boundaries and providing
         an effective date.
         A resolution of the City of Rupert,
         Idaho, creating a temporary Rupert
19-113   Pickleball Project Committee;             2019
         establishing membership, terms, officers,
         & duties of the committee and providing
         an effective date.
         A resolution of the City of Rupert,
         Idaho, providing notice under the
19-114   Americans With Disabilities Act, and      2019
         authorizing the City Clerk to publish
         said notice.
         A resolution of the Mayor and the City
         Council of the City of Rupert, Idaho,
19-115   providing policy and regulations for the  2019
         use of the Fremont Plaza and providing an
         effective date.
         An ordinance of the City of Rupert, Idaho
         amending Ordinance No. 18-503, the
         appropriations ordinance for the fiscal
         year beginning October 1, 2018,
         appropriating additional monies that are
         to be received by the City of Rupert,
19-504   Idaho in the sum of $1,199,000; providing 2019
         for repeal of conflicting provisions,
         directing the City Clerk to file
         certified copies of this ordinance with
         the County Commissioners and Idaho
         Secretary of State, and providing an
         effective date.
         An ordinance of the City of Rupert, Idaho
         entitled the annual appropriation
         ordinance for the fiscal year beginning
         October 1, 2019 and ending on September
         30, 2020, appropriating the sum of
         $18,469,000 to defray the expenses and
         liabilities of the City of Rupert for
         said fiscal year, specifying the objects
19-505   and purposes for which said appropriation 2019
         is made, authorizing a levy of a
         sufficient tax upon the taxable property,
         providing for repeal of conflicting
         ordinances, directing the City Clerk to
         file certified copies of this ordinance
         with the County Commissioners and Idaho
         Secretary of State, and providing an
         effective date.
         An ordinance vacating and abandoning a
         portion of platted property in the City
         of Rupert, identified as the Valley View
         Subdivision in the City of Rupert, Idaho,
19-507   retaining all utility and irrigation      2019
         easements and rights of way, and
         directing that the vacated property and
         connected abandoned city streets, not
         otherwise retained hereby, be conveyed to
         the adjoining property owners.
         An ordinance of the City Council of the
         City of Rupert, Idaho, creating urban
         renewal area no. 2 of the City of Rupert
         Urban Renewal Agency, approving the urban
         renewal plan for revenue allocation area
         no. 2 and its urban renewal project,
         which plan includes revenue allocation
         financing provisions; providing findings;
19-509   allowing for technical corrections;       2019
         limiting challenges after thirty days
         following the effective date of this
         ordinance; authorizing the City Clerk to
         transmit a copy of this ordinance and
         other required information to county and
         state officials; providing a severability
         clause; providing for a repealer clause;
         providing for a savings clause; and,
         providing an effective date.
         Resolution of the City of Rupert,
         adopting a schedule of revised animal
20-101   control rates and fees for services       2020
         provided and regularly charged as
         specified by City Code; providing an
         effective date.
         A Resolution of the City Council of
         Rupert, Idaho, Authorizing the execution
         and delivery of a municipal equipment
         lease agreement with D.L. Evans Bank, as
         lessor, for the acquisition, purchase,
         financing and leasing of certain
20-104   equipment within the terms herein         2020
         provided; authorizing the execution and
         delivery of other documents required in
         connection therewith; and authorizing all
         other actions necessary to the
         consummation of the transactions
         contemplated by this resolution.
         Resolution no. 20-105 of the City of
         Rupert, Idaho, supporting the project
         identification submittal for the
         construction of 100 west road
20-105   rehabilitation. To the local Highway      2020
         Technical Assistance Council, (LHTAC).
         Total project cost estimate is
         $3,605,000, which will require $264,607
         of local matching funds available from
         the City of Rupert.
         A Resolution of the Mayor and City
         Council of the City of Rupert, Idaho,
         establishing an updated economic
21-101   development water rate for the City of    2021
         Rupert, establishing said rate amount
         pursuant to Rupert City Code Section 10-
         7-3, and providing an effective date.
         A resolution of the Mayor and City
         Council of the City of Rupert, Idaho,
         amending the economic development
21-102   electrical rate for the City of Rupert,   2021
         establishing said rate amount pursuant to
         Rupert City Code section 10-6-4, and
         providing an effective date.
         A resolution for the City of Rupert,
21-103   Idaho, establishing rates, fees and       2021
         associated policies for the City of
         Rupert and providing an effective date.
         A resolution of the City Council for the
         City of Rupert, Idaho, authorizing the
         Mayor to sign and submit an application
         to the Department of Interior, Bureau of
21-104   Reclamation for grant assistance through  2021
         the watersmart small scale water
         efficiency project grant, to partially
         finance improvements to the irrigation
         system in Rupert, Idaho.
         A resolution for the City of Rupert,
21-106   Idaho, officially naming the Rupert       2021
         Shooting Complex Training Facility
         Building.
         A resolution of the City Council for the
         City of Rupert, Idaho, authorizing the
21-107   Mayor and the City Administrator to sign  2021
         all applications, grant agreements, and
         other documents relating to wastewater
         planning grants.
         A resolution of the City Council for the
         City of Rupert, Idaho, designating a
21-108   Director and Alternate Director to        2021
         represent the City of Rupert on the
         northwest requirements utilities board of
         directors.
         A resolution for the City of Rupert,
         Idaho, establishing rates, fees and
21-109   associated policies for the City of       2021
         Rupert recreation department and
         providing an effective date.
         A resolution of the Mayor and City
         Council of the City of Rupert, Idaho,
         authorizing the purchase of real property
         located at 613 Fremont Avenue Rupert,
21-110   Idaho; authorizing the Mayor to execute   2021
         the purchase and sales agreement; and to
         execute all necessary documents to close
         the sale; and providing an effective
         date.
         Resolution of the City of Rupert,
         adopting a schedule of revised animal
21-111   control rates and fees for services       2021
         provided and regularly charged as
         specified by city code; providing an
         effective date.
         A resolution of the City Council of the
         City of Rupert, Idaho, authorizing the
21-112   Mayor to sign all applications, grant     2021
         agreements, and other documents relating
         to wastewater planning grants.
         A resolution for the City of Rupert,
         Idaho, providing for water utility rates,
22-101   connection fees, and reconnect fees for   2022
         the City of Rupert, providing that new
         rates shall become effective January 1st,
         2022.
         A resolution for the City of Rupert,
         Idaho, adopting revised wastewater charge
         rates with adjusted user rates for
         residential and commercial wastewater
         customers, including customers outside
22-102   the city pursuant to the user             2022
         classifications established in Rupert
         City Ordinance 842; providing that new
         rates for all classes of customers shall
         become effective January 1, 2022;
         directing publication of this resolution
         and providing an effective date.
         A resolution of the Mayor and City
         Council for the City of Rupert, Idaho,
22-103   fixing a schedule of fees for garbage     2022
         collection and providing an effective
         date.
         A resolution of the Mayor and City
         Council of the City of Rupert, Idaho,
22-104   revising electrical rates for the City of 2022
         Rupert's rate categories previously
         established in Rupert City Code 10-6-
         4 and providing an effective date.
         Extract from the minutes of a regular or
22-105   special meeting of the Council of the     2022
         City of Rupert, Idaho.
         A resolution for the City of Rupert,
22-106   Idaho, officially naming and dedicating   2022
         the city park located at 223 7th Street,
         Rupert, Idaho.
         A resolution for the City of Rupert,
         Idaho, establishing rates, fees and
22-107   associated policies for the City of       2022
         Rupert pickleball courts and providing an
         effective date.
         A resolution declaring the intent of the
         City of Rupert, Idaho to sell real
         property owned by the city known as
         "Building L" located at 100 South Locust
         Grove Road, City of Meridian, County of
22-108   Ada, State of Idaho; instructing the City 2022
         Clerk to establish and publish notice of
         a hearing date to review the proposed
         sale and conveyance as provided by law
         and an auction date if approved; and
         providing an effective date.
22-109   Notice under the Americans With           2022
         Disabilities Act.
         A resolution for the City of Rupert,
         Idaho, establishing rates, fees and
22-110   associated policies for the City of       2022
         Rupert Parks Department and providing an
         effective date.
         A resolution for the City of Rupert,
         Idaho, providing for water utility rates,
22-111   connection fees, and reconnect fees for   2022
         the City of Rupert, providing that new
         rates shall become effective October 1st,
         2022.
         A resolution of the Mayor and City
         Council for the City of Rupert, Idaho,
22-112   fixing a schedule of fees for garbage     2022
         collection and providing an effective
         date.
         A resolution by the City Council for the
         City of Rupert, Minidoka County, Idaho,
         making findings and declarations with
         respect to financing improvements to the
         City's public wastewater system
         facilities; approving and authorizing,
         subject to judicial confirmation, the
22-113   execution of a loan agreement for the     2022
         financing of the improvements or, in the
         alternative, the sale of revenue bonds;
         authorizing the filing of a petition for
         judicial confirmation in the District
         Court of the Fifth Judicial District of
         the State of Idaho, in and for Minidoka
         County; providing for related matters;
         and providing an effective date.
         A resolution of the Council of the City
         of Rupert authorizing the mayor to sign
22-114   all applications, funding agreements, and 2022
         other documents relating to drinking
         water project.
         A resolution of the City of Rupert,
         adopting a schedule of revised animal
23-101   control rates and fees for services       2023
         provided and regularly charged as
         specified by city code; providing an
         effective date.
         A resolution for the City of Rupert,
         Idaho, establishing rates, fees and
23-102   associated policies for the City of       2023
         Rupert Recreation Department and
         providing an effective date.
         Resolution of the City of Rupert
23-104   regarding the semiquincentennial          2023
         commemoration of the United States of
         America.
         A resolution for the City of Rupert,
         Idaho, establishing rates, fees and
23-102   associated policies for the City of       2023
         Rupert Recreation Department and
         providing an effective date.
         Resolution of the City of Rupert
23-104   regarding the semiquincentennial          2023
         commemoration of the United States of
         America.
                                                  
 
