CITY CODE
of
ST. MARIES, IDAHO
2004
Code current through:
Ord. 2025-784, passed March 24, 2025
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
   This code of the City of St. Maries, as supplemented, contains ordinances up
to and including ordinance 2025-784, passed March 24, 2025. Ordinances of the
City adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the
extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the City
office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has
been amended, superseded or repealed.
American Legal Publishing
Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not amend the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
 
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
ST. MARIES CITY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Authority
1-1-3: Acceptance
1-1-4: Amendments
1-1-5: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon adoption by the city council, this city code is hereby declared to be and
shall hereafter constitute the official city code of St. Maries. This city code
of ordinances shall be known and cited as the ST. MARIES CITY CODE and is
hereby published by authority of the city council and shall be supplemented to
incorporate the most recent legislation of the city as provided in section
1-1-4 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this city code by title in any legal documents. (2004 Code)
1-1-2: AUTHORITY:
This code consists of all the regulatory and penal ordinances and certain of
the administrative ordinances of the city codified pursuant to the provisions
of Idaho Code 50-903 through 50-906. (1977 Code § 1.01.060; amd. 2004 Code)
1-1-3: ACCEPTANCE:
The city code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of this
state as the ordinances of the city of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (2004 Code)
1-1-4: AMENDMENTS:
   A.   Ordinance: Any ordinance amending the city code shall set forth the
title, chapter and section number of the section or sections to be amended, and
this shall constitute sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement
pertaining to the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this city
code.
   B.   Codification: All such amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be
immediately forwarded to the codifiers, and the ordinance material shall be
prepared for insertion in its proper place in each copy of this city code. Each
such replacement page shall be properly identified and shall be inserted in
each individual copy of the city code. (2004 Code)
   C.   Reference: Whenever a reference is made to this code or to any portion
thereof, or to any ordinances of the city, the reference shall apply to all
amendments, corrections and additions heretofore, now or hereafter made. (1977
Code § 1.01.070; amd. 2004 Code)
1-1-5: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this city code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages may
be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by the
city council. The city clerk shall see that the replacement pages are properly
inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of the city clerk. Any
person having custody of a copy of the city code shall make every effort to
maintain said code current as to the most recent ordinances passed. Such person
shall see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement pages when such are
delivered or made available to such person through the office of the city
clerk. Said code books, while in actual possession of officials and other
interested persons, shall be and remain the property of the city and shall be
returned to the office of the city clerk when directed so to do by order of the
city council. (2004 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Ways And Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Reference To Specific Ordinances
1-2-4: Court Proceedings
1-2-5: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
   A.   Prior Ordinances: All general ordinances of the city passed prior to
the adoption of this code are hereby repealed, except such as are included in
this code or are by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject
to the saving clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the
following ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances;
appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations;
franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances
establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public places;
improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to elections;
ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the
city; and all special ordinances. (2004 Code)
   B.   Continuations; Conflicting Ordinances: The ordinances in this code, so
far as their provisions are substantially the same as those of previously
existing ordinances, must be construed as continuations thereof, and not as new
enactments; any ordinances previously adopted in conflict with the ordinances
set out herein are repealed, subject to the provisions of Idaho Code 50-905.
(1977 Code § 1.01.010)
   C.   Effect Of Repeal: The repeal of ordinances as provided in subsection B
of this section shall not affect any right which has accrued, any duty imposed,
any penalty incurred, nor any action or proceeding commenced under or by virtue
of the ordinances repealed, nor the tenure of office of any person holding
office at the time when they take effect; nor shall the repeal of any ordinance
thereby have the effect of reviving any ordinance heretofore repealed or
superseded. (1977 Code § 1.01.020; amd. 2004 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this code or by virtue of the
preceding section, excepting as this code may contain provisions for such
matters, in which case, this code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (2004 Code)
1-2-3: REFERENCE TO SPECIFIC ORDINANCES:
The provisions of this code shall not in any manner affect matters of record
which refer to, or are otherwise connected with ordinances which are therein
specifically designated by number or otherwise and which are included within
this code, but such reference shall be construed to apply to the corresponding
provisions contained within this code. (1977 Code § 1.01.090)
1-2-4: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Prior Acts: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as
to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done,
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or
claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any
such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   Extend To All Repeals: This section shall extend to all repeals, either
by express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making
any new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Current Pending Actions: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the city herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the city under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this code. (2004 Code)
1-2-5: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this code or any part thereof or any portion adopted by reference therein is
for any reason held to be unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any
court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or
effectiveness of the remaining portions of this code, or any part thereof or
any portion adopted by reference therein. The city council hereby declares that
it would have passed each section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph,
sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the fact that any one or
more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or
phrases be declared unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective. (2004 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Rules Of Construction
1-3-2: Definitions
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   Title Of Office: Use of the title of any officer, employee, department,
board or commission means that officer, employee, department, board or
commission of the city. (1977 Code § 1.04.020)
   B.   Interpretation Of Language: All words and phrases shall be construed
according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words
and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in the law shall be construed and understood according to such peculiar
and appropriate meaning. (1977 Code § 1.04.030)
   C.   Grammatical Interpretation: The following grammatical rules shall apply
unless it is apparent from the context that a different construction is
intended:
      1.   Gender: A word importing either the masculine or feminine gender
only shall extend and be applied to the other gender and to persons.
      2.   Singular And Plural: The singular number includes the plural and the
plural includes the singular.
      3.   Tenses: Words used in the present tense include the past and the
future tenses and vice versa, unless manifestly inapplicable. (1977 Code §
1.04.040; amd. 2004 Code)
   D.   Acts By Agents: When an act is required by this code, the same being
such that it may be done as well by an agent as by the principal, such
requirement shall be construed to include all such acts performed by an
authorized agent. (1977 Code § 1.04.050; amd. 2004 Code)
   E.   Prohibited Acts Include Causing And Permitting: Whenever in this code
any act or omission is made unlawful, it shall include causing, allowing,
permitting, aiding, abetting, suffering or concealing the fact of such act or
omission. (1977 Code § 1.04.060; amd. 2004 Code)
   F.   Computation Of Time: Except when otherwise provided, the time within
which an act is required to be done shall be computed by excluding the first
day and including the last day, unless the last day is Sunday or a holiday, in
which case it shall also be excluded. (1977 Code § 1.04.070)
   G.   Construction: The provisions of this code and all proceedings under
them are to be construed with a view to effect their objects and to promote
justice. (1977 Code § 1.04.080; amd. 2004 Code)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases, whenever used in this code, shall be construed
as defined in this section unless from the context a different meaning is
intended or unless a different meaning is specifically defined and more
particularly directed to the use of such words or phrases:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
CITY: The city of St. Maries, Idaho, or the area within the territorial limits
of the city of St. Maries, Idaho, and such territory outside the city over
which the city of St. Maries has jurisdiction or control by virtue of any
constitutional or statutory provision.
CITY COUNCIL: The city council of the city. "All its members" or "all
councilmen" means the total number of council members holding office.
CODE: The city code of the city of St. Maries.
COUNTY: The county of Benewah.
EMPLOYEE: Whenever reference is made in this code to a city employee by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the city of
St. Maries".
FISCAL YEAR: The financial year of the city beginning on October 1 of each year
and ending on September 30 of the following year.
INFRACTION: A civil public offense, not constituting a crime, punishable by a
penalty not exceeding one hundred dollars ($100.00) and for which no
incarceration may be imposed 1 .
LAW: Denotes applicable federal law, the constitution and statutes of the state
of Idaho, the ordinances of the city of St. Maries and, when appropriate, any
and all rules and regulations which may be promulgated thereunder.
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
MAY: May is permissive.
MISDEMEANOR: Any offense not defined as a felony or infraction under state law
2 .
MONTH: The calendar month.
MUST, SHALL: "Must" and "shall" are each mandatory.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive to the sensibilities of reasonable persons, or any
act or activity creating a hazard which threatens the health and welfare of
inhabitants of the city, or any activity which, by its perpetuation, can
reasonably be said to have a detrimental effect on the property of a person or
persons within the community.
OATH: Includes an affirmation or declaration in all cases in which, by law, an
affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words "swear"
and "sworn" shall be equivalent to the words "affirm" and "affirmed".
OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with
others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this code.
OFFICERS: Whenever reference is made in this code to a city officer by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the city of
St. Maries".
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, includes any part owner, joint owner,
tenant in common, joint tenant, tenant by the entirety, or lessee of the whole
or a part of such building or land.
PERSON: A natural person, joint venture, joint stock company, partnership,
association, club, company, corporation, business, trust, organization, or the
manager, lessee, agent, servant, officer or employee of any of them.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Includes every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
PRECEDING AND FOLLOWING: Next before and next after, respectively.
PROPERTY: Includes real and personal property.
REAL PROPERTY: Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things direct to the customer.
RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
SIDEWALK: That portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
STATE: The state of Idaho.
STREET: Includes all streets, highways, avenues, lanes, alleys, courts, places,
squares, curbs, or other public ways in the city which have been or may
hereafter be dedicated and open to public use, or such other public property so
designated in any law of this state.
TENANT AND OCCUPANTS: Applied to a building or land, include any person who
occupies the whole or a part of such building or land, whether alone or with
others.
WHOLESALER: The terms "wholesaler" and "wholesale dealer" as used in this code,
unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate to the
sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things to persons who purchase for the
purpose of resale.
WRITTEN; IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in proper
handwriting of such person, or in case such person is unable to write, by such
person's proper mark.
YEAR: The fiscal year of the city, October 1 through September 30 of the
following year. (1977 Code § 1.04.010; amd. 2004 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. IC §§ 18-111 and 18-113A; see subsection 1-4-1B of this title.
2 1. IC §§ 18-111 and 18-113; see subsection 1-4-1A of this title.
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of this code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when
any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted. (2004
Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Application Of Provisions
1-4-3: Liability Of Officers
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY 1 :
   A.   Misdemeanor: Unless specifically provided elsewhere, any person
convicted of a violation of any section or provision of this code deemed a
misdemeanor may be fined in a sum not to exceed one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) for any offense and may be confined in the county jail for a period
of not more than six (6) months. Either or both such fine and imprisonment may
be imposed; and in addition thereto, any person so convicted shall pay such
costs as the court may assess.
   B.   Infraction: When the offense is designated as an infraction by any
section or provision of this code or by state law, it is punishable only by a
penalty not exceeding one hundred dollars ($100.00) and no incarceration may be
imposed 2 .
   C.   Federally Mandated Programs: Any city which is participating in a
federally mandated program, wherein penalties or enforcement remedies are
required by the terms of participation in the program, may enforce such
requirements by ordinance, to include a criminal or civil monetary penalty not
to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), or imprisonment for criminal
offenses not to exceed six (6) months or to include both a fine and
imprisonment for criminal offenses. (2004 Code; amd. Ord. 2023-766, 3-27-2023)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 50-302.
2 2. IC § 18-113A.
1-4-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Application Of Penalty Provisions:
      1.   The penalty provided in this chapter shall be applicable to every
section of this code the same as though it were a part of each and every
separate section. Any person convicted of a violation of any section of this
code where any duty is prescribed or obligation imposed or where any action
which is of a continuing nature is forbidden or is declared to be unlawful
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor unless otherwise provided. A separate
offense shall be deemed committed upon each day such duty or obligation remains
unperformed or such act continues unless otherwise specifically provided in
this code.
      2.   Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act
constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this code, and there shall
be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the provisions of
this chapter shall apply.
   B.   One Recovery For Same Offense: In all cases where the same offense is
made punishable or is created by different clauses or sections of this code,
the prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed, but not more than one
recovery shall be had against the same person for the same offense; provided,
that the revocation of a license or permit shall not be considered a recovery
or penalty so as to bar any other penalty being enforced. (2004 Code)
1-4-3: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty unless the intention of
the city council to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or employee is
specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the duty. (2004
Code)
CHAPTER 5
CORPORATE AND OFFICIAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
1-5-1: City Boundaries
1-5-2: Corporate Seal
1-5-3: City Elections
1-5-4: Official Newspaper
1-5-1: CITY BOUNDARIES:
   A.   Legal Description On File: The boundaries and corporate limits of the
city, including all annexed territory, whether heretofore or hereafter annexed,
shall be kept on file in the office of the city clerk at city hall, the same to
constitute the official boundaries and corporate limits of the city. (1977 Code
§ 1.12.010)
   B.   Territory Subject To Jurisdiction: All of the territory bounded and
described and included within the legal description of the city kept on file at
the office of the city clerk is declared and ordained to be within the
corporate limits of the city, and to be constituted the territory subject to
the jurisdiction of the city. (1977 Code § 1.12.020; amd. 2004 Code)
1-5-2: CORPORATE SEAL 1 :
   A.   Design: The corporate seal of the city shall be circular in form with
inner and outer circles. It shall bear upon the space between the two (2)
circles the words "City of St. Maries, Benewah Co., Idaho," and upon the space
within the inner circle the words, "Corporate Seal". (1977 Code § 1.16.010;
amd. 2004 Code)
   B.   Adopted: The seal described in subsection A of this section is adopted
as the seal of the city. (1977 Code § 1.16.020; amd. 2004 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 50-301.
1-5-3: CITY ELECTIONS:
   A.   Hours Of Polling Places: The polls for all general and special city
elections shall be open from twelve o'clock (12:00) noon, Pacific time, and
remain open until eight o'clock (8:00) P.M., Pacific time. (Ord. 637, 9-8-2003)
1-5-4: OFFICIAL NEWSPAPER:
The St. Maries Gazette Record, a newspaper in and of general circulation in the
city, is hereby established as the official newspaper of the city. (2004 Code)
CHAPTER 6
MAYOR
SECTION:
1-6-1: Qualifications And Election
1-6-2: General Powers And Duties
1-6-1: QUALIFICATIONS AND ELECTION:
The mayor shall be a qualified elector of the city, and shall be elected for a
term of four (4) years. (2004 Code)
1-6-2: GENERAL POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   Preside At Meetings: It shall be the duty of the mayor to preside at
all meetings of the city council.
   B.   Voting: The mayor shall have a casting vote when the city council is
equally divided.
   C.   Supervisory Control: The mayor shall have a supervisory control over
all other officers and over the affairs of the city.
   D.   Ordinances: The mayor shall have power to veto or sign any ordinance
passed by the city council.
   E.   Communication With City Council: The mayor shall, from time to time,
communicate to the city council such information or recommend such measure as,
in his opinion, may improve, ornament or promote the general prosperity of the
city. (1977 Code § 2.08.020)
CHAPTER 7
CITY COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-7-1: City Council Members; Election
1-7-2: City Council Meetings
1-7-3: President Of The City Council
1-7-4: Order Of Business
1-7-5: Rules Of Procedure
1-7-6: Ordinances
1-7-7: Committees
1-7-1: CITY COUNCIL MEMBERS; ELECTION:
There shall be six (6) city council members, elected at large for four (4) year
terms, said terms to be staggered. (2004 Code)
1-7-2: CITY COUNCIL MEETINGS:
   A.   Regular Meetings: The official meetings of the city council are hereby
established as the second and fourth Mondays of each month beginning at the
hour of five thirty o'clock (5:30) P.M. (Ord. 2008-666, 9-22-2008)
   B.   Special Meetings: Special meetings of the city council may be called by
the mayor, or by one-half (1/2) plus one of the members of the full city
council, the object of which shall be submitted to the city council in writing
and the call and object, as well as the disposition thereof, shall be entered
upon the journal by the city clerk. (1977 Code § 2.04.020; amd. 2004 Code)
   C.   Presiding Officer:
      1.   Mayor: The mayor shall be the presiding officer of the city council
but he shall have no vote unless the city council is otherwise equally divided,
in which event he shall cast the deciding vote.
      2.   President: In the event of absence of the mayor, the president of
the city council shall be the presiding officer.
      3.   Temporary Presiding Officer: In the event of the absence of both the
mayor and the president of the city council, the city council shall appoint one
of their members as the temporary presiding officer. (1977 Code § 2.04.030)
   D.   Quorum: A quorum shall consist of a majority of the members of the city
council, and the city council shall be empowered to act if a quorum is present.
(1977 Code § 2.04.050)
1-7-3: PRESIDENT OF THE CITY COUNCIL:
   A.   Election: The president of the city council shall be elected by the
members of the city council at the first meeting after such election at which
members of the city council are elected. (1977 Code § 2.04.040)
   B.   Powers And Duties: The president of the city council shall have the
powers and perform the duties of the mayor in case of his absence or
disability; and, in case of vacancy in the office of mayor, until such vacancy
is filled. (1977 Code § 2.08.030; amd. 2004 Code)
1-7-4: ORDER OF BUSINESS:
When the city council shall have convened, the roll shall be called and all
absentees noted in the minutes of the city council. The regular order of
business shall be as follows:
   A.   Call meeting to order;
   B.   Approve minutes of previous meeting and city treasurer's report;
   C.   Unfinished business;
   D.   New business;
   E.   Report of committees;
   F.   Adjournment. (1977 Code § 2.04.060; amd. 2004 Code)
1-7-5: RULES OF PROCEDURE:
   A.   Presiding Officer, Powers And Duties: The presiding officer shall
preserve order and decorum, and may speak to points of order in preference to
other members; and shall decide all questions of order, subject to appeal to
the city council, on which appeal no member shall speak more than once without
permission of the city council. (1977 Code § 2.04.120)
   B.   Motions Under Debate: When a motion is under debate, no motion shall be
received except to adjourn, to lay on the table, to postpone to a day certain,
to refer, to amend or to postpone indefinitely; which several motions shall
have precedence in the order in which they are stated. (1977 Code § 2.04.130)
   C.   Motion For Adjournment: A motion for adjournment shall always be in
order, except when once put and voted down, the same shall not again be in
order until some other business shall have been taken up, and a motion to
adjourn shall always be decided without debate. (1977 Code § 2.04.140)
   D.   Voting: Every member who shall be present when the question is put
shall vote for or against the same, unless the city council shall excuse him;
but no member shall be permitted to vote on a question when the ayes and nays
are called for unless present when his name is called in regular order; except
that after having once voted, the member may change his vote if he so desires
at any time before the vote is announced by the presiding officer. (1977 Code §
2.04.150)
   E.   Consideration Of Motions: No motion shall be considered unless the same
shall be recorded. When a motion is recorded, it shall be stated by the
presiding officer before debate. It shall be reduced to writing if desired by
any member of the city council; but the mover may withdraw it at any time
before a decision or amendment is made to it. (1977 Code § 2.04.160)
   F.   Roll Call Vote: Upon a division of the city council, the names of those
voting for and those who voted against a question shall be entered upon the
journal when requested by the mayor or any member of the city council; and in
such case, it shall be the duty of the city clerk to enter on the journal the
names of the members so voting. (1977 Code § 2.04.170)
   G.   Majority Vote: All question, unless otherwise fixed by this chapter,
shall be determined by majority vote. (1977 Code § 2.04.180)
   H.   Suspension Of Rules: No standing rule or order of the city council
shall be suspended except by vote of two-thirds (2/3) of the members present;
nor shall the order of business established by the rules of the city council be
postponed or changed except by vote of two-thirds (2/3) of the members present;
and the ayes and nays of all present shall be recorded on any proposition to
suspend a rule. (1977 Code § 2.04.190)
   I.   Presiding Officer Permitted To Vote: A member of the city council
acting as presiding officer may vote on all questions presented to the city
council. (1977 Code § 2.04.200)
   J.   Alteration; Amendment: These rules and order of business may be
altered, amended or repealed only by two-thirds (2/3) vote of the whole city
council, and any member desiring to have the rules so altered, amended or
repealed, must give notice in writing at a previous meeting. (1977 Code §
2.04.210)
1-7-6: ORDINANCES:
   A.   Presentation: All proposed ordinances of the city shall be typewritten
or printed and presented to the city council by a member at any regular or
special meeting. (1977 Code § 2.04.070)
   B.   Readings:
      1.   Three Readings: Every proposed ordinance shall be read in meetings
of the city council on three (3) different days.
      2.   Discussion; Amendment; Referral To Committee: At each reading of an
ordinance, it shall be open to discussion and amendment and may be referred to
a committee and shall be passed to the next reading unless by vote at the
meeting some other disposition is made.
      3.   Final Passage: On final passage, the yeas and nays shall be called
and recorded and a concurrence of a majority of the whole number of members of
the city council shall be required for passage; provided, however, that three-
fourths (3/4) of the city council may dispense with the portions of this
section requiring all ordinances to be read on three (3) different days, and on
the vote upon the motion to dispense with the above provisions, the yeas and
nays shall be called and recorded. (1977 Code § 2.04.080)
   C.   Passage; Approval By Mayor:
      1.   Passage With Approval Of Mayor: When any proposed ordinance is
passed, it shall be signed by the city clerk, and the date of its passage by
the city council shall be added thereto, and it shall, within three (3) days
thereafter, be presented to the mayor, or, in case of his absence from the
city, to the president of the city council for his approval. If the proper
officer approves the same, he shall attach his signature thereto.
      2.   Failure Of Mayor To Sign: Should the mayor refuse or neglect to sign
such ordinance and return the same with his objection in writing at the next
regular meeting after the same has been presented to him, it shall become a law
without his signature. The city clerk shall annex to such ordinance a
certificate to the effect that the mayor has failed to sign or veto the same,
and it has therefore become a law without his signature. (1977 Code § 2.04.090)
   D.   Veto By Mayor; Council Reconsideration:
      1.   Veto: Should the mayor not approve the ordinance, he shall, before
the next regular meeting after such ordinance is presented to him for his
approval, return the same to the city council with his objections to the same
in writing.
      2.   Reconsideration: When any ordinance is so returned by the mayor, it
shall be reconsidered by the city council at the first regular meeting
thereafter.
      3.   Passage Notwithstanding Veto: If, on such reconsideration, two-
thirds (2/3) of the members elected to the city council shall vote in the
affirmative, the ordinance shall become a law notwithstanding the mayor's veto.
The city clerk, in such case, shall annex a certificate to the ordinance
stating that the same was vetoed by the mayor and that, on its reconsideration,
it received the required majority of votes. (1977 Code § 2.04.100)
   E.   Recording: It shall be the duty of the city clerk to safely keep the
original ordinances, after final passage, as permanent records of the city.
(1977 Code § 2.04.110; amd. 2004 Code)
1-7-7: COMMITTEES:
Upon the organization of the city council at the first Monday in January
following an election, it shall be the duty of the mayor to appoint the
following committees of the city council, consisting of three (3) members each,
as follows:
Administration committee, which shall study, review and report to the city
council on city matters relating to budget, finances, personnel, building code
and inspections, police.
Public works committee, which shall study, review and report to the city
council on city matters relating to streets, water, sewer, public grounds,
parks and cemetery, timber. (Ord. 2014-692, 2-10-2014)
CHAPTER 8
CITY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-8-1: Officers Designated
1-8-2: Term Of Office
1-8-3: Compensation
1-8-1: OFFICERS DESIGNATED:
The elected officers of the city are a mayor and six (6) council members,
including the council president. In addition and with the consent of the city
council, the mayor shall appoint a city clerk, city treasurer, city attorney,
public works director and such other officers as may be deemed necessary for
the efficient operation of the city. (Ord. 2017-714, 1-9-2017)
1-8-2: TERM OF OFFICE:
The term of office of all officers of the city shall commence on the second
Monday of January. (1977 Code § 2.08.170; amd. 2004 Code)
1-8-3: COMPENSATION:
Commencing on January 1, 2002, the salaries of the mayor and city council
members shall be as follows:
   A.   Mayor: The mayor shall receive an annual salary in the sum of six
thousand dollars ($6,000.00), payable at five hundred dollars ($500.00) per
month.
   B.   Council Members: Each member of the city council shall receive an
annual salary of three thousand dollars ($3,000.00), payable at two hundred
fifty dollars ($250.00) per month. (Ord. 628, 8-13-2001; amd. 2004 Code)
ARTICLE A. CITY CLERK
SECTION:
1-8A-1: General Powers And Duties
1-8A-1: GENERAL POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   Attend Meetings; Record Proceedings: The city clerk shall attend all
meetings of the city council and keep a correct journal of its proceedings and
shall also keep a book or record of all ordinances of the city in which all of
the ordinances adopted by the city council and approved by the mayor, or which
may be adopted without his approval, together with the proof of their
publication, shall be recorded in regular order. He shall keep an index of such
book or ordinances and journal of proceedings.
   B.   Custody Of Records, Corporate Seal: The city clerk shall have the
custody of all the records of the city council, and of the corporate seal.
   C.   Additional Duties: The city clerk shall perform such other duties as
may be prescribed by ordinance or fixed by the laws of the state. (1977 Code §
2.08.040; amd. 2004 Code)
ARTICLE B. CITY TREASURER
SECTION:
1-8B-1: General Powers And Duties
1-8B-2: Deposit Of City Monies
1-8B-1: GENERAL POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   Custodian Of Funds: The city treasurer shall be the custodian of all
monies that belong to the city.
   B.   Separate Accounts: The city treasurer shall keep a separate account of
each fund or appropriation, and debits and credits belonging thereto.
   C.   Receipts: The city treasurer shall give to every person paying any
money into the treasury a receipt therefor, showing the date of the payment,
and on what account paid.
   D.   Financial Records:
      1.   Bonds: The city treasurer shall keep a record of all outstanding
bonds against the city, showing the number, amount and date of each, to whom
issued and when paid or canceled. (1977 Code § 2.08.070; amd. 2004 Code)
      2.   Books: The city treasurer shall keep a complete set of double entry
books; and enter therein everything appertaining to the finances of the city,
distributed in their respective funds, showing the amount appropriated and
expended for each particular item or appropriation, according to estimation of
the administration committee, and shall furnish a complete trial balance at the
first meeting of the city council of each month, reporting at the same time the
balance remaining in each fund. (1977 Code § 2.08.070; amd. 2004 Code; Ord.
2014-692, 2-10-2014)
   E.   Reports To City Council: The city treasurer shall, at the first of each
month and as often as may be required, render to the city council, under oath,
an account showing the state of the treasury at the date of such account, and
the balance on hand.
   F.   Failure To Report; Vacancy: A failure on the part of the city treasurer
for the space of ten (10) days after demand, or from the end of each month, to
render such account, shall be cause for the city council to declare his office
vacant, and they may fill such vacancy by appointment until the next election.
(1977 Code § 2.08.070; amd. 2004 Code)
   G.   Utility Payments: It shall be the duty of the city treasurer, in the
event of the failure of a water consumer of the city to make payments at the
time and in the manner prescribed by the ordinances of the city, to enforce the
same by directing and ordering the water of delinquent water users turned off,
and to also issue necessary orders for the turning on of the water when the
water users have complied with the rules and regulations of the city and have
paid the delinquent bill as prescribed in the ordinances of the city. (1977
Code § 2.08.060)
1-8B-2: DEPOSIT OF CITY MONIES:
The city treasurer may be required to keep all money in his hands belonging to
the city at such place or places of deposit within the city as approved by
ordinance of the mayor and city council. (1977 Code § 2.08.080; amd. 2004 Code)
ARTICLE C. CITY ATTORNEY
SECTION:
1-8C-1: Duties And Responsibilities
1-8C-1: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
   A.   Legal Advisor: The city attorney shall be the legal adviser of the city
council.
   B.   Suits; Actions: The city attorney shall commence, prosecute and defend
all suits and actions necessary to be commenced, prosecuted or defended on
behalf of the corporation, or that may be ordered by the city council. (1977
Code § 2.08.100)
   C.   Attend Meetings: The city attorney may attend all regular meetings of
the city council and give them his opinion on any matter submitted to him
either orally or in writing. (1977 Code § 2.08.100; amd. 2004 Code)
   D.   Additional Duties: The city attorney shall perform such other duties as
may be required of him by ordinance. (1977 Code § 2.08.100)
ARTICLE D. PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTORS
SECTION:
1-8D-1: Powers And Duties
1-8D-1: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   Supervisory Control: The directors of public works, subject to orders
of the mayor and city council, shall have supervisory control over all street
improvements and the construction of all sidewalks. (1977 Code § 2.08.160; amd.
2004 Code)
   B.   Repairs: It shall be the duty of the public works directors to see that
all defects in the streets and sidewalks are repaired immediately on notice of
the same; provided, however, that this shall not authorize him to construct new
walks or grade new streets, except by order of the city council. (1977 Code §
2.08.160)
ARTICLE E. BUILDING INSPECTOR
SECTION:
1-8E-1: Appointment Or Contract
1-8E-2: Powers And Duties
1-8E-1: APPOINTMENT OR CONTRACT:
The city council and county commissioners shall appoint a building inspector
for the city, or the city council may elect to joint contract with the county
for building inspector services. (1977 Code § 15.08.010; amd. 2004 Code)
1-8E-2: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   Authority: The building inspector shall have authority to ensure
compliance with title 9 of this code and all existing ordinances pertaining to
building codes within the city.
   B.   Building Permits; Inspections: The building inspector shall have
authority to issue permits for and cause inspection of said structures in
accordance with the ordinances of the city; to collect permit fees according to
the adopted schedule of the city and county and to account for and pay to the
county all such fees, such payment and accounting to be made at least once each
month.
   C.   Stop Work Orders: The building inspector shall have the power to issue
stop work orders for noncompliance with title 9 of this code or with the
building codes adopted by the city. (1977 Code § 15.08.020; amd. 2004 Code)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-1-1: Title
2-1-2: Definitions
2-1-3: Commission Established
2-1-4: Officers
2-1-5: Powers And Duties
2-1-6: Rules, Record And Meetings
2-1-7: City Officials To Cooperate
2-1-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the CITY PLANNING AND ZONING
COMMISSION. (1977 Code § 2.32.010)
2-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words, and their
derivations shall have the meaning given herein:
APPOINTIVE MEMBERS: All members of the commission.
COMMISSION: The planning and zoning commission hereby created.
GOVERNING BOARD: The city council of the city of St. Maries, Benewah County,
Idaho. (1977 Code § 2.32.020)
2-1-3: COMMISSION ESTABLISHED:
   A.   Established: A planning and zoning commission is established in and for
the city.
   B.   Composition: The commission shall consist of five (5) members,
including at least one member who shall reside within the city impact area
pursuant to Idaho Code 67-6526. All members must have resided in the county for
at least two (2) years immediately preceding appointment to the commission. The
area of impact member(s) must have resided in the city or the area of impact
for at least two (2) years immediately preceding appointment to the commission
and must reside within the area of impact while serving on the commission. All
other members must have resided in the city for two (2) years immediately
preceding appointment to the commission, and must reside within the city while
serving on the commission.
   C.   Appointment: Members shall be appointed by the mayor and confirmed by
the city council.
   D.   Compensation: Compensation for members shall consist of reimbursement
for travel outside the limits of the city while on commission business at a
given rate per mile compensatory with city council policy.
   E.   Term: Two (2) members of the commission shall be appointed to serve
terms of three (3) years and three (3) commission members shall be appointed to
serve terms of four (4) years, with terms expiring on September 30. The city
council may, by resolution, designate or assign a three (3) year term or a four
(4) year term for each commission seat.
   F.   Vacancies: Vacancies in the commission shall be filled in the same
manner as the original appointments.
   G.   Removal: Members may be removed for cause by a majority vote of the
governing board.
   H.   Power To Incur Indebtedness: Neither the commission nor any member
thereof shall incur any financial liability in the name of the city except as
authorized by the mayor and city council. (1977 Code §§ 2.32.030, 2.32.050,
2.32.070, 2.32.140; amd. Ord. 2016-710, 7-24-2016; Ord. 2022-757, 6-20-2022)
2-1-4: OFFICERS:
   A.   Chair: A chair shall be selected by a majority vote of the members of
the commission.
   B.   Additional Offices: The commission may create and fill such additional
offices as it may determine necessary for the proper conduct of the affairs and
business of the commission.
   C.   Ex Officio Advisors: The commission may appoint nonvoting ex officio
advisors as may be deemed necessary. (1977 Code § 2.32.090)
2-1-5: POWERS AND DUTIES:
It shall be the duty of the planning and zoning commission to:
   A.   Provide ways and means to obtain citizen participation in the
administration of title 11 of this code;
   B.   Prepare a procedure for processing zoning permits namely: special use
permits, rezone applications, planned unit development proposals and variance
applications;
   C.   Recommend changes in the city comprehensive plan to the governing
board;
   D.   Hear all requests for amendment to title 11 of this code, hold at least
one public hearing and make its recommendation to the governing board;
   E.   Recommend changes to title 11 of this code, if needed, to the governing
board; and
   F.   Make recommendations to governing board for changes to boundaries of
the city and to zoning areas included therein. (1977 Code § 2.32.120)
2-1-6: RULES, RECORD AND MEETINGS:
   A.   Rules; Bylaws: Written organization papers or bylaws consistent with
Idaho Code title 67, chapter 65 and other laws of the state for the transaction
of business of the commission shall be adopted.
   B.   Records: A record of meetings, hearings, resolutions, studies,
findings, permits and actions taken shall be maintained.
   C.   Meetings: All meetings and records shall be open to the public. At
least one regular meeting shall be held each month for not less than nine (9)
months in a year.
   D.   Quorum: A majority of voting members of the commission shall constitute
a quorum. (1977 Code § 2.32.110)
2-1-7: CITY OFFICIALS TO COOPERATE:
All officers and division heads of the city shall cooperate with the commission
and render all reasonable assistance. (1977 Code § 2.32.130)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL BUSINESS LICENSES
(Reserved)
CHAPTER 2
LIQUOR CONTROL
SECTION:
3-2-1: Title
3-2-2: Purpose
3-2-3: Idaho Laws Adopted
3-2-4: Beer Regulations
3-2-5: Wine Regulations
3-2-6: Liquor Regulations
3-2-1: TITLE:
This chapter will be known as the LIQUOR CONTROL ORDINANCE of the city. (2004
Code)
3-2-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to protect the general health, safety and public
welfare of city residents and visitors by regulating the hours, places and
conditions for the sale of alcoholic beverages in the city. (2004 Code)
3-2-3: IDAHO LAWS ADOPTED:
There is adopted for the purpose of governing the licensing, sale and use of
alcoholic beverages within the city the laws of the state, being particularly
Idaho Code title 23, as presently in effect or as may hereafter be amended by
the Idaho legislature, the same adopted and incorporated as an ordinance of the
city as fully as though set forth at length herein. Copies of said laws shall
be kept on file in the office of the city clerk for use and examination by the
public. (Ord. 227, 1971)
3-2-4: BEER REGULATIONS:
   A.   Definitions:
   BEER: Shall be defined as provided in Idaho Code title 23, chapter 10, as
amended from time to time.
   RETAILER: Any person engaged in the sale or distribution of beer to the
consumer.
   B.   License Required: It is unlawful for any person to sell beer without
first obtaining a proper license.
   C.   Application For License:
      1.   Application for the retail sale of beer shall be made and filed with
the city clerk in such form and manner as provided herein. The application
shall provide for the name of the applicant, the location of the proposed
business, the information required to show that the applicant meets the
qualifications required by this chapter, and such other information as may be
prescribed and required by the governing body. At the time the application is
filed, the applicant shall also present a copy of a license to sell beer
obtained from the county.
      2.   All applications received by the city clerk shall be referred to the
city council for final approval.
      3.   Licenses will be for a period of no longer than one year and shall
expire at one o'clock (1:00) A.M. on the first day of the renewal month for a
state license as determined by the director of Idaho state police.
   D.   Qualifications: No retail license shall be issued to any applicant who
is not qualified under Idaho Code title 23, chapter 10, as the same may be
amended from time to time.
   E.   Fee For License: The fee for a license for the sale of beer shall be
established by resolution of the city council, and shall be consistent with the
limitations provided in Idaho Code title 23, chapter 10, as amended from time
to time.
   F.   Revocation Of License:
      1.   The city council shall retain the right at all times to revoke and
cancel any license.
      2.   If any licensee or employee of a business licensed to sell beer by
the drink violates any of the provisions of this chapter or is convicted of
violation of any of the provision of the laws of the state relating the sale of
alcoholic beverages, the city council is authorized to revoke the license
issued to the licensee; provided, however, that in the event it is brought to
the attention of the city council that a violation has taken place, before
revoking such license, the city council shall cause notice to be served upon
the licensee, setting forth in general terms the violation or violations
claimed to have been committed, and such notice shall provide a time for
hearing thereon by the city council, which date of hearing shall not be less
than five (5) days nor more than ten (10) days from the date of the service of
the notice, and upon or following the hearing, the city council, if they shall
find that the provisions of this chapter or the provisions of the laws of the
state have been violated, shall revoke such license theretofore issued, and no
refund of any unused portion of the license fee shall be made to the licensee.
      3.   A revocation by the state or the county of any license to sell any
alcoholic beverages shall automatically revoke the license issued by the city.
   G.   Restrictions:
      1.   It is unlawful sell or dispense beer to be consumed on the premises
at any times other than those allowed in Idaho Code title 23, chapter 10, as
amended from time to time.
      2.   No license shall be issued for the sale of beer upon premises in
locations where such sale is prohibited by Idaho Code title 23, chapter 10, as
amended from time to time.
   H.   Regulations: It is unlawful for any person to sell beer to any person
to whom the sale of the same is prohibited by the laws of the state. Any
violation of this section shall constitute a misdemeanor. Any such sale by any
person licensed to sell or a person working at a business licensed to sell one
or more beverages shall be considered cause for cancellation of such license or
licenses as such person may be issued.
   I.   Renewal Of License:
      1.   Application for renewal of a license to sell beer shall be on the
same form as the application for the initial license.
      2.   If all of the information provided by the licensee is the same in
the application for renewal as was provided in the initial application, renewal
of the license may be issued by the city clerk without the application being
referred to the city council. (2004 Code)
3-2-5: WINE REGULATIONS:
   A.   Definitions:
   RETAILER: Any person engaged in the sale or distribution of wine to the
consumer.
   WINE: Shall be defined as provided in Idaho Code title 23, chapter 13, as
amended from time to time.
   B.   License Required: It is unlawful for any person to sell wine without
first obtaining a proper license.
   C.   Application For License:
      1.   Application for the retail sale of wine shall be made and filed with
the city clerk in the same form and manner as a license to sell beer. At the
time the application is filed, the applicant shall also present a copy of a
license to sell wine obtained from the state.
      2.   All applications received by the city clerk shall be referred to the
city council for final approval.
      3.   Licenses will be for a period of no longer than one year and shall
expire at one o'clock (1:00) A.M. on the first day of the renewal month for a
state license as determined by the director of Idaho state police.
   D.   Qualifications: No retail license shall be issued to any applicant who
is not qualified under Idaho Code title 23, chapter 13, as the same may be
amended from time to time.
   E.   Fee For License: The fee for a license for the sale of wine shall be
established by resolution of the city council.
   F.   Revocation Of License: The city council shall retain the right at all
times to revoke and cancel any license, subject to the same rights to appeal as
set forth in subsection
3-2-4F of this chapter relating to a license to sell beer.
   G.   Hours Of Sale Restricted: Wine sold for consumption on licensed
premises may be sold only during the hours that beer can be sold pursuant to
the laws of the state. Wine sold by a retailer for consumption off the premises
of the retailer may be sold only during the hours that beer may be sold
pursuant to the laws of the state.
   H.   Regulations: The sale of wine is subject to the same regulations as set
forth in subsection
3-2-4H of this chapter relating to the sale of beer.
   I.   Renewal Of License: Renewal of a license shall be accomplished in the
same manner as provided in subsection
3-2-4I of this chapter relating to renewal of a beer license. (2004 Code)
3-2-6: LIQUOR REGULATIONS:
   A.   Definitions:
   LIQUOR: Shall be defined as provided in Idaho Code title 23, chapter 9, as
amended from time to time.
   RETAILER: Any person engaged in the sale or distribution of liquor to the
consumer.
   B.   License Required: It is unlawful for any person to sell liquor without
first obtaining a proper license.
   C.   Application For License:
      1.   Application for the retail sale of liquor shall be made and filed
with the city clerk in the same form and manner as a license to sell beer. At
the time the application is filed, the applicant shall also present a copy of a
license to sell liquor obtained from the state.
      2.   All applications received by the city clerk shall be referred to the
city council for final approval.
      3.   Licenses will be for a period of no longer than one year and shall
expire at one o'clock (1:00) A.M. on the first day of the renewal month for a
state license as determined by the director of Idaho state police.
   D.   Qualifications: No retail license shall be issued to any applicant who
is not qualified under Idaho Code title 23, chapter 9, as the same may be
amended from time to time.
   E.   Fee For License: The fee for a license for the sale of liquor shall be
established by resolution of the city council and shall be in conformance with
Idaho Code title 23, chapter 9, as amended from time to time.
   F.   Revocation Of License: The city council shall retain the right at all
times to revoke and cancel any license, subject to the right to the same rights
to appeal as set forth in subsection 3-2-4F of this chapter relating to a
license to sell beer.
   G.   Restrictions:
      1.   Liquor may be sold or given away on any licensed premises only
during the hours of sale allowed in Idaho Code title 23, chapter 9, as amended
from time to time.
      2.   No license shall be issued for the sale of liquor upon premises in
locations where such sale is prohibited by Idaho Code title 23, chapter 9, as
amended from time to time.
   H.   Regulations: The sale of liquor is subject to the same regulations as
set forth in subsection 3-2-4H of this chapter relating to the sale of beer.
   I.   Renewal Of License: Renewal of a license shall be accomplished in the
same manner as provided in subsection 3-2-4I of this chapter relating to
renewal of a beer license. (2004 Code)
CHAPTER 3
PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS AND CANVASSERS
SECTION:
3-3-1: Purpose
3-3-2: Definitions
3-3-3: License Requirements
3-3-4: License Suspension, Revocation Or Denial
3-3-5: Conditions Of License
3-3-6: Exemptions
3-3-7: Unlawful Conduct
3-3-8: Violation; Penalty
3-3-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide the citizens and inhabitants of the
city with the information relating to persons who peddle, solicit or canvass
within the city and to protect citizens from deceptive or dishonest practices.
(Ord. 638, 12-22-2003)
3-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
PEDDLER, SOLICITOR OR CANVASSER: Any person either as a principal or agent who
goes from place to place within the city or who, while not going from place to
place, sells from the back of a motor vehicle or other temporary location, and
who:
   A.   Sells, takes orders for or offers to sell any goods, wares, merchandise
or services, whether collecting in advance for such goods, wares, merchandise
or services or not; or
   B.   Seeks contributions or donations in goods or legal tender.
PERSON: Includes, but is not limited to, an individual, partnership,
corporation, limited liability corporation or other business entity, whether
for profit or not for profit for purposes of licensing. (Ord. 638, 12-22-2003)
3-3-3: LICENSE REQUIREMENTS:
It is unlawful for any person to act as a peddler, solicitor, or canvasser
within the city without first having obtained a license issued pursuant to this
chapter. Each individual going door to door must have his or her own license,
whether or not such individual is acting alone or on behalf of a business
entity or employer.
   A.   Application, Fees, Term And Limitations:
      1.   Filing Of Application: Persons seeking a license under this chapter
shall file a written application for such license with the city clerk on the
form provided by the city.
      2.   Term: Licenses provided for in this chapter shall be issued for a
period of one year, and may be renewed upon application made prior to the
expiration of the license.
      3.   Fees: Applicants for licenses shall pay fees for the original or
renewal license in an amount which is established from time to time by
resolution of the city council.
      4.   Issuance: Upon filing a completed application with the city clerk,
the city will have ten (10) business days to issue or deny the license.
Licenses may be issued by the city clerk with the approval of the mayor; or may
be denied by the city clerk for cause, notice of which shall be given in
writing, which notice shall state therein the reasons for the denial.
   B.   Contents Of Application: The application shall be sworn to by each
applicant and shall be accompanied by an application fee for each license. The
applicant shall provide the following information on the form provided by the
city:
      1.   Name, physical description and gender, social security number,
driver's license number and date and place of birth of the applicant;
      2.   Permanent home address, telephone number and local address and
telephone number of the applicant;
      3.   A brief description of the nature of the business and goods to be
sold or services to be performed;
      4.   If employed by another, the name and address of the employer;
      5.   The place of manufacture or production of goods to be offered for
sale, the present location of such goods and the proposed method of delivery;
      6.   A polaroid picture of the applicant seeking a license taken by the
applicant at the time of application, which shall show the head and shoulders
of the applicant in a clear and distinguishing manner;
      7.   A statement by the applicant as to any convictions of crimes,
misdemeanors or violations of municipal ordinances, the date, the nature of the
offense and the penalty assessed against the applicant;
      8.   A statement that a license, if granted, will not be used or
represented as an endorsement by the city for solicitations thereunder;
      9.   The applicant's Idaho state sales tax certificate or temporary sales
tax permit;
      10.   If a vehicle is to be used, a description of the vehicle including
the license number;
      11.   When food or other products for human consumption are to be sold, a
certification by the applicable health agency shall be required prior to
issuance of the license. (Ord. 638, 12-22-2003)
3-3-4: LICENSE SUSPENSION, REVOCATION OR DENIAL:
   A.   Cause Of Suspension, Revocation Or Denial: A license issued under this
chapter may be suspended or revoked or issuance may be denied for any of the
following causes:
      1.   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
application for license;
      2.   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in the course of
carrying on the business of being a peddler, solicitor or canvasser;
      3.   Any violation of this chapter, any violation of city ordinances or
carrying on business in violation of any city, state or federal law;
      4.   Conviction of any felony or other crime involving moral turpitude,
or conducting the business of peddling, soliciting or canvassing in an unlawful
manner or in such manner as to constitute a breach of the peace or so as to
constitute a menace to the health, safety or welfare of the public.
   B.   Notice: Notice of suspension, revocation or denial of a license shall
be in writing and mailed to the licensee at the address of record on the
original application.
   C.   Appeals: Any person aggrieved by the suspension, revocation or denial
of a license by the city clerk shall have the right of appeal to the city
council. Such appeal shall be taken by filing with the city clerk written
notice thereof within five (5) business days after the entry of the notice of
suspension, revocation or denial. The notice of appeal shall specify an address
at which the licensee may be given notice of hearing on the appeal. The city
council shall hear the appeal or may refer the same to a committee or hearing
examiner for hearing. The hearing will take place not more than fifteen (15)
business days from the date the notice off appeal is filed with the city clerk.
At the hearing, the licensee shall be entitled to appear in person and offer
evidence pertinent to the suspension, revocation or denial, or may appear
through legal counsel. The city clerk shall likewise be entitled to be heard at
the hearing and to offer evidence in support of the notice of suspension,
revocation or denial. The city council shall determine whether the suspension,
revocation or denial shall be upheld or reversed and shall put its findings and
conclusions in writing. At the discretion of the city council or hearing
examiner, other evidence may be received and other witnesses may be heard. A
transcribable record shall be retained relating to any hearing conducted. (Ord.
638, 12-22-2003)
3-3-5: CONDITIONS OF LICENSE:
   A.   Possession And Display Of License: The license shall be exhibited in a
conspicuous place if the licensee is using a vehicle or a building for the
conduct of business, or shall be in the possession of the licensee at all times
when peddling, soliciting or canvassing in the city and shall be exhibited by
said peddler, solicitor or canvasser whenever requested to do so by a peace
officer, the mayor, the city clerk or any person solicited or canvassed.
   B.   Hours Of Operation: All licensees may conduct business only between the
hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) P.M. Monday through
Saturday. (Ord. 638, 12-22-2003)
3-3-6: EXEMPTIONS:
The licensing requirements of this chapter shall not apply to:
   A.   Newspaper carriers or sales persons whether subscriptions are taken or
not;
   B.   Any person licensed to do such business by the state;
   C.   Any person under the age of eighteen (18) years unless employed by
another person as defined in this chapter;
   D.   Any candidate or representative of a registered political committee;
   E.   Representatives of any charitable or nonprofit organization when the
solicitation is managed and conducted solely by officers and members of said
organizations who are unpaid for such services;
   F.   Occasional sales or fundraising efforts by local schools, university
student groups or local service clubs;
   G.   Commercial sales persons selling orders or soliciting orders for
wholesale businesses, retail businesses, local governments and schools.
   H.   The city, its agents and concessionaires;
   I.   Any bona fide auction sale;
   J.   Garage, yard or similar sales by individuals at their residence or
place of business, not exceeding three (3) days in length nor exceeding four
(4) sales in one calendar year, which sale shall not include business
inventory. (Ord. 638, 12-22-2003)
3-3-7: UNLAWFUL CONDUCT:
No licensee hereunder shall:
   A.   Make unwanted physical contact with the person being solicited;
   B.   Misrepresent the purpose of the solicitation;
   C.   Misrepresent the affiliation of those engaged in the solicitation;
   D.   Continue efforts to solicit from an individual once that individual
informs the solicitor that he does not wish to give anything or to buy anything
from that solicitor;
   E.   Represent that the issuance of any license issued under this chapter is
an endorsement or recommendation by the city;
   F.   Enter upon any premises when the same is posted with a sign stating "no
peddlers allowed" or "no solicitation allowed" or other words to such effect;
   G.   Knowingly make any false statement on an application for a license
hereunder;
   H.   Engage in any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement in the course
of carrying on the business. (Ord. 638, 12-22-2003)
3-3-8: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Violations of any provision of this chapter shall be unlawful and shall be an
infraction punishable by a civil penalty as provided in subsection 1-4-1B of
this code. Each calendar day that a violation continues shall constitute a
separate offense. (Ord. 638, 12-22-2003)
CHAPTER 4
FRANCHISES
SECTION:
3-4-1: Permit Or Franchise Required
3-4-2: Time Limit; Exclusivity Prohibited
3-4-3: Application
3-4-4: Objections
3-4-5: Granting Franchise
3-4-1: PERMIT OR FRANCHISE REQUIRED:
Any person who intends to construct or erect, or causes to be constructed or
erected, within the corporate limits of the city a cable television, electric
and/or gas system, whereby any part or portion of any highway, bridge, street
or alley in said corporate limits will be used for the erection of poles,
stretching of wires, laying underground wires or laying of pipes for purpose of
light plants, and laying water pipes for a system of waterworks, must first
obtain from the city council a permit or franchise. (1977 Code § 5.24.010; amd.
2004 Code)
3-4-2: TIME LIMIT; EXCLUSIVITY PROHIBITED:
No permit or franchise shall be granted for a longer period than twenty (20)
years, nor shall any permit or franchise be exclusive. (1977 Code § 5.24.020)
3-4-3: APPLICATION:
   A.   Contents: The application shall be presented to the city council and
shall state fully:
      1.   The persons, company, corporation or association applying for the
permit or franchise;
      2.   The object, purpose and period for which the permit is requested,
and the privileges asked for;
      3.   The designation of all highways, bridges, streets or alleys to be
made use of;
      4.   A full description of the mode of how the proposed line or system
and the extent of its plants, and how built, constructed or to be erected;
      5.   The proposed rates of tolls and charges to patrons and consumers,
and any concession in return for the permit to be made on the part of the
applicant to the city or its residents;
      6.   Any other information that will fully explain the terms, conditions,
and purposes under which the permit is requested. (1977 Code § 5.24.030)
   B.   City Council Action: After the filing of such application, the city
council shall cause an ordinance to be drawn up in conformity with the
application and also embodying therein such conditions, terms, regulations and
restrictions for the government, operation and construction of the respective
lines or systems as they deem fit. Such ordinance shall be read three (3) times
before final action is taken thereon. (1977 Code § 5.24.040)
   C.   Notice Of Application:
      1.   Publication Required: After the filing of any application for a
permit or franchise, the applicant shall, at his own expense, cause to be
published a notice that such application has been made, and in such notice
shall set forth the purpose, the period for which such permit or franchise is
requested, and the concessions, conditions and terms under which such permit or
franchise is requested. The highways, bridges, streets and alleys to be used in
the construction of the lines; or systems and the rate of tolls and charges
proposed to be charged to patrons and consumers shall be stated in the notice.
(1977 Code § 5.24.050)
      2.   Publication Requirements: Such notice shall be published in the
official newspaper of the city for a period of not less than four (4)
consecutive weeks. (1977 Code § 5.24.060)
3-4-4: OBJECTIONS:
Upon such notice being published, any resident of the city may file with the
city council any protest, remonstrance or objection against the granting of
such permit or franchise, such protest, remonstrance or objection to be in
writing and signed, and if the city council finds that a majority of the
property owners and taxable inhabitants in the city have signed such protest,
remonstrance or objection, such permit or franchise shall not be granted. (1977
Code § 5.24.070)
3-4-5: GRANTING FRANCHISE:
Should no majority of property owners and taxable inhabitants present protests,
remonstrances or objections, at the time when the ordinance for a permit or
franchise comes up for the third reading, such ordinance shall then come up for
final action, and it shall require a majority vote of members elected on the
city council to pass such ordinance. (1977 Code § 5.24.080; amd. 2004 Code)
CHAPTER 5
JUNKYARDS
SECTION:
3-5-1: Purpose
3-5-2: Definitions
3-5-3: License Requirements
3-5-4: Nuisances Declared
3-5-5: Violation; Penalty
3-5-1: PURPOSE:
For the purposes of promoting the public safety, health, welfare, convenience
and enjoyment of public travel, to protect the public investment in streets,
alleys, utilities, and to preserve and enhance the scenic beauty of the city,
it is declared by the city council to be in the public interest and for public
health and safety purposes to prohibit the establishment, operation and
maintenance of junkyards within the city. The city council finds and declares
that junkyards in the city are public nuisances. (Ord. 617, 11-8-1999)
3-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
JUNK: Old or scrap metal, wood, glass, plastic, rope, rags, batteries,
paper,trash, rubber, debris, waste; junk, inoperable, dismantled or wrecked
vehicles, boats or other machines or their parts.
JUNKYARD: A piece of real property which is maintained, operated or used for
storing, keeping, buying or selling junk, or for the maintenance or operation
of an automobile graveyard. (Ord. 617, 11-8-1999)
3-5-3: LICENSE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Required: No person shall operate, establish or maintain a junkyard in
the city without first obtaining a license from the city council.
   B.   Issuance: Licenses may be granted by the city council for operation of
a junkyard or for storage otherwise in violation of this chapter when the city
council determines that the site meets the following requirements:
      1.   Is not a zoned residential area;
      2.   Does not unreasonably or adversely affect surrounding property
values or uses;
      3.   Does not unreasonably or adversely affect public use or enjoyment of
public streets, utilities or other public property; and
      4.   Does not present a significant health or safety concern.
   C.   License Term: Any license granted shall be for one calendar year
expiring December 31 and must be renewed by the city council after annual
reconsideration of the above criteria.
   D.   Fees: A shall be charged for each license or any renewed license and
shall be deposited with the city clerk. The amount of said fee shall be as
established by resolution of the city council, and amended from time to time.
   E.   Conditions Of License: The city council may condition or qualify any
license to limit permitted storage uses or require fencing or make other
reasonable requirements necessary to meet the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 617, 11-8-1999; amd. Ord. 2023-776, 12-21-2023)
3-5-4: NUISANCES DECLARED:
All violations of this chapter are hereby declared to be public nuisances. The
city may apply to the district court of Benewah County for an injunction
prohibiting further operation of any junkyard or dump in violation of this
chapter. (Ord. 617, 11-8-1999)
3-5-5: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person who knowingly allows a junkyard to exist in the city without a
license therefor, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by a
fine not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) and/or one hundred eighty
(180) days confinement in the county jail. Each calendar month in which the
violation continues shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 617, 11-8-1999)
TITLE 4
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
NUISANCES
SECTION:
4-1-1: Reserved
4-1-2: Declaration Of Nuisance; Acts Prohibited
4-1-3: Exceptions
4-1-4: Enforcement
4-1-5: Abatement
4-1-6: Request For Hearing
4-1-7: Open Burning
4-1-1: RESERVED:
(Ord. 2018-723, 7-23-2018)
4-1-2: DECLARATION OF NUISANCE; ACTS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any "responsible party(ies)" (defined as any person or
persons, corporation or other legal entity, tenant or lessee, landlord or
lessor using or occupying a premises) to cause, allow, maintain or permit the
existence of any nuisance on any property within the City of St. Maries. Any,
or all, responsible parties may be held accountable.
   A.   Keeping or permitting another to keep upon any premises deleterious or
septic material unless such material is retained in containers or vessels which
deny access to humans, flies, insects, rodents or other animals. Such materials
shall not be retained upon the premises for longer than twenty four (24) hours,
nor may such materials be regularly stored upon the premises even if exchanged
regularly with a new supply.
   B.   Permitting any premises to become a fire menace by allowing any dry or
dead grass, shrubs or other matter to grow, accumulate or otherwise occupy and
remain on such premises.
   C.   Permitting pools of water to accumulate and remain upon any premises
thereby becoming stagnant and foul.
   D.   Keeping or permitting another to keep upon any premises an accumulation
of trash, rubbish, garbage or other materials that attract or harbor
mosquitoes, flies, insects, rodents or other animals.
   E.   Keeping or permitting another to keep upon any premises an accumulation
of trash, rubbish, garbage or other materials, whether in containers or not,
which are fermenting, putrefying or odoriferous.
   F.   Keeping or permitting another to keep upon any premises an accumulation
of new or used appliances, new or used furniture not meant for outdoor use, or
other items that constitute an unsightly combination.
   G.   Keeping or permitting another to keep upon any premises an accumulation
of building materials that may attract children, rodents, or other animals.
Building materials being stored and used during construction upon the premises
shall be kept in a safe and secure manner and shall be removed from the
premises upon completion of construction.
   H.   Keeping or permitting another to keep upon any premises an accumulation
of automobile tires, wheels, parts or other items which may accumulate and
store stagnant water, or may attract insects, rodents, or other animals.
   I.   Keeping or permitting another to keep on any premises a "junked
vehicle" as defined by section
5-6-2 of this Code for a period of more than thirty (30) days.
   J.   Any act constituting a violation of section
5-6-3 of this Code.
   K.   Any other use of property which is specifically declared by resolution
of the Council to be a nuisance after compliance with the notice requirements
of this chapter.
   L.   Any partially destroyed or damaged house, building, trailer or other
structure or improvement to real property; and any partially constructed or
deconstructed house, building or other structure or real property improvement
upon which regular and daily progress is not being made to complete the
construction or deconstruction thereof; which constitutes a menace, threat or
hazard to the general health or safety of the community, including being an
attractive nuisance to minors.
   M.   Any house, building, trailer, structure or improvement to real
property, or any portion thereof, which, because of the condition thereof, is
found or permitted to be or remain a danger to the health, safety, life, limb
or property of any person entering into or around the same.
   N.   Any building, trailer, structure or improvement to real property, set
up, erected, constructed, altered, enlarged, converted, moved, or parked
contrary to the Building Codes or zoning ordinances of the City.
   O.   Any use of land, buildings or premises in violation of the zoning or
subdivision ordinances of the City.
   P.   The existence of any fence or other structure or item on private
property abutting any public street, sidewalk or place, which is in a sagging,
leaning, fallen, decayed, dilapidated or unsafe condition.
   Q.   Trees that are likely to fall and damage buildings or property owned by
another, or do injury to the life or property of another.
   R.   Any unguarded or abandoned excavation, pit or hole which would endanger
the safety of passersby.
   S.   Anything which unreasonably, or unlawfully interferes with, obstructs
or tends to obstruct, or renders dangerous for passage, any public or private
street, highway, sidewalk, stream, ditch, or drainageway.
   T.   Any condition or use of property which is detrimental to the health or
safety of persons or the property of others or which is declared to be a
nuisance by any Idaho State law, Federal laws or other provisions within this
Code. (Ord. 2018-723, 7-23-2018)
4-1-3: EXCEPTIONS:
Materials and things described in the foregoing section may be retained within
a building which prevents the view (or smell) of these things from the street
or from other public or private property. (Ord. 2018-723, 7-23-2018; amd. Ord.
2022- 760, 8-8-2022)
4-1-4: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Appointment: The Mayor, with the consent of the City Council, shall
appoint a duly authorized representative who shall be responsible for the
enforcement of this chapter. If no such "Code Officer" is formally appointed,
any City police officer or the Benewah County Sheriff or one of his duly
constituted deputies and/or any authorized City employee or agent may serve as
such authorized representative.
   B.   Notice Of Violation: Written notice of a violation of this chapter
shall be served upon any adult occupying the real property upon which the
nuisance is located; or upon a responsible party; or upon the owner of such
real property, if known. If no occupant or other responsible party can be
located, then a written notice shall be affixed to any building on the subject
real property or posted to a place conspicuous on the property so as to be
reasonably discovered by anyone coming upon the real property. In the event
responsible parties are known, but have not been personally served a notice, in
addition to posting notice, the parties may be served by certified mail to
their last known mailing address. Any such notice shall constitute notice to
the owner and/or occupant of the real property.
   C.   Contents Of Notice: The notice of nuisance shall contain the following:
      1.   The physical address of the property where nuisance is located.
      2.   A general description of the nuisance.
      3.   The date of sending/posting the notice.
   D.   Penalty:
      1.   If the nuisance remains on the property longer than three (3) days
following notice of violation, it shall be an infraction and punishable as set
forth in the general penalty section (section
1-4-1 of this Code).
      2.   If the nuisance remains for more than ten (10) days following notice
of violation it will be a misdemeanor and punishable as set forth in section
1-4-1 of this Code.
      3.   In the event the nuisance remains for more than fifteen (15) days it
will be a separate misdemeanor violation for every day thereafter. (Ord. 2018-
723, 7-23-2018)
4-1-5: ABATEMENT:
   A.   Notice Of Abatement: The City may take action to have any such nuisance
abated. In such instance the notice of nuisance violation set forth in
subsection
4-1-4B of this chapter shall include a notice of abatement and such notice
shall include a provision that the expense of such abatement if not performed
on the property by the owner and/or the responsible party shall be assessed
against the real property involved pursuant to Idaho Code sections 50-334 and
50-1008. The notice shall also provide the responsible party and/or owner that
they may petition the City Council for hearing on the issue of abatement within
five (5) days of the posting/service of the notice.
   B.   Tolling Of Time Period: From the date a petition for hearing is filed
until five (5) days after a posthearing decision by the City Council the time
limit set forth in section
4-1-4 of this chapter shall be tolled.
   C.   Authority To Employ Labor: The Mayor is hereby given the power and
authority to employ such labor as is necessary to carry out the provisions of
this chapter. Any bills, costs or expenses incurred by the City (including
hourly wages of City employees), shall be assessed to the real property
pursuant to Idaho Code sections 50-334 and 50-1008. (Ord. 2018-723, 7-23-2018)
4-1-6: REQUEST FOR HEARING:
   A.   Request: Any person ordered to abate a nuisance may have a hearing with
the City Council as to whether a nuisance exists. A request for hearing must be
made in writing and delivered to the Office of the City Clerk within five (5)
days of the service or posting of the notice, or it will be conclusively
presumed that a nuisance exists and it must be abated as ordered.
   B.   City Council Decision: At the conclusion of the hearing, the City
Council shall render an oral decision to be memorialized in a written order as
to whether a nuisance exists. If it finds that a nuisance exists, it must be
ordered to be abated within additional time which must be reasonable under the
circumstances. Notice of the abatement order will be considered entered and
delivered as of the date of the City Council's oral pronouncement even though
written order is not signed by the Mayor until a later date. (Ord. 2018-723, 7-
23-2018)
4-1-7: OPEN BURNING:
   A.   Prohibited Zone: There is an established zone within the city where
there shall be no burning of trash or debris whatsoever at any time within the
year and said zone is described as follows:
From the north side of College Avenue to the west side of Eleventh Street to
the east side of Third Street; thence one block south to the north side of
Jefferson Avenue, and east to the east side of First Street; thence north to
the south side of Milwaukee Railroad; thence west to the west side of Eleventh
Street; thence south to the north side of College Avenue.
   B.   Permit Required: In other parts of the City not covered by the zone as
described in subsection A of this section, open burning requires a bum permit
from the St. Maries Fire Protection District. Applicable open burning
regulations established by the St. Maries Fire Protection District shall apply.
The use of portable, factory built, outdoor wood burning fireplaces or
permanently installed, outdoor wood burning fire pits for recreational fires
does not require a burn permit. Additionally, any structure used for outdoor
recreational fires that was not originally constructed to be used for wood
burning requires an inspection and approval by a fire code official or
designee. Once approved, that structure does not require a burn permit for a
recreational fire. Recreational fires must only bum clean, dry wood. Bum
barrels are prohibited. Burning is only permitted when the Idaho Department of
Environmental Quality (DEQ) has set the air quality level at GREEN. Burning
with YELLOW or RED air quality condition is prohibited. (Ord. 2019-730, 6-11-
2019; amd. Ord. 2022-754, 3-14-2022)
CHAPTER 2
FIREARMS
SECTION:
4-2-1: Title
4-2-2: Purpose
4-2-3: Definition
4-2-4: Discharge Prohibited
4-2-5: State Preemption
4-2-6: Violation; Penalty
4-2-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the FIREARMS DISCHARGE
ORDINANCE. (1977 Code § 8.24.010)
4-2-2: PURPOSE:
This chapter is enacted for the purpose of promoting the public safety by
reducing the hazards inherent by the discharge of firearms in a populated area.
(1977 Code § 8.24.020)
4-2-3: DEFINITION:
Whenever the term "firearm" is used in this chapter, the term shall mean any
instrument used in the propulsion of shot, shell or bullet or other harmful
objects by the action of gunpowder exploded within it. (1977 Code § 8.24.030)
4-2-4: DISCHARGE PROHIBITED:
   A.   Prohibited; Exception: It is unlawful to discharge any firearms within
the city, except at a regularly established shooting gallery; provided, that
this section shall not be construed to prohibit any officer of the law from
discharging a firearm in the performance of his duty, nor to any citizen from
discharging a firearm when lawfully defending person or property.
   B.   Tranquilizer Gun: This provision shall not apply to a veterinarian
discharging a tranquilizer gun in the performance of his occupation as a
veterinarian. (1977 Code § 8.24.040)
4-2-5: STATE PREEMPTION:
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to in any manner regulate the
ownership, possession or transportation of firearms when carried or transported
for purposes not prohibited by the laws of the state. (1977 Code § 8.24.050)
4-2-6: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person found guilty of violating any provision of this chapter shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. (1977 Code § 8.24.060)
CHAPTER 3
GARBAGE, RUBBISH AND REFUSE
SECTION:
4-3-1: Definitions
4-3-2: Contract For Services
4-3-3: Mandatory Use Required
4-3-4: Containers
4-3-5: Accumulation Prohibited
4-3-6: Littering Prohibited
4-3-7: Violation; Penalty
4-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
GARBAGE: All putrescible wastes except sewage and body wastes, including
vegetable and animal offal and carcasses of dead animals, but excluding
recognizable industrial byproducts, and shall include all such substances from
public and private establishments and from all residences.
REFUSE: All solid wastes including garbage and rubbish.
RUBBISH: Nonputrescrible wastes. (1977 Code § 8.12.010)
4-3-2: CONTRACT FOR SERVICES:
   A.   Authority: The mayor and city council may provide for the collection of
garbage, rubbish and refuse within the city and may contract for the collection
and disposal thereof with any qualified person lawfully engaged in the business
of collection and disposal of garbage or refuse in the St. Maries area. (1977
Code § 8.12.070)
   B.   Contract Required: No person shall collect, transport or dispose of
garbage or other refuse within the city limits who has not contracted with the
city to provide such service and who does not possess a license or franchise
from the city, and no person shall be granted such contract, permit or license
who is not capable of complying with the requirements of this chapter. (1977
Code § 8.12.080)
4-3-3: MANDATORY USE REQUIRED:
All premises including residence and business premises within the city shall be
required to subscribe to and make use of the garbage collection and disposal
system herein established. (1977 Code § 8.12.060)
4-3-4: CONTAINERS:
No owner, tenant or lessee of any public or private premises shall permit to
accumulate upon his premises any garbage or refuse except in covered containers
approved by the public works directors and shall abide by all rules and
regulations established by the city relating to the use and storage of said
containers. (1977 Code § 8.12.040; amd. 2004 Code)
4-3-5: ACCUMULATION PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any person to permit or suffer to accumulate in or about any
yard, lot, place or premises or upon any street, alley or sidewalk adjacent to
such lot, yard, place or premises, owned or occupied by such person any garbage
or refuse so as to cause such yard, lot, premises to cause or create a nuisance
or offensive odor, atmosphere or rodent harborage or thereby be or become or
cause or create a public nuisance. (1977 Code § 8.12.100)
4-3-6: LITTERING PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any person to throw or deposit in any street, alley,
sidewalk or footpath of the city any broken glass, bottles, crockery, nails or
other substance whatever whereby automobile tires or the feet of horses,
pedestrians or any beast of burden may be injured; or shall throw, deposit or
sweep into or upon any street, sidewalk or footpath of the city any paper or
other substance whatever. (1977 Code § 9.28.010; amd. 2004 Code)
4-3-7: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
It is unlawful and shall constitute a misdemeanor for any person to violate the
provisions of this chapter, or for any person to throw away, dump or discard
any type or nature of garbage or refuse on any public lands, rights of way or
private land belonging to another. Upon conviction of violation of this
chapter, the offender shall be punished as set forth in the general penalty in
section
1-4-1 of this code. In addition thereto, the court shall have power to issue an
injunction against further or continued violation of the terms or intent of
this chapter. (1977 Code § 8.12.110)
CHAPTER 4
WEEDS
SECTION:
4-4-1: Definitions
4-4-2: Destruction Required
4-4-3: Destruction By City, Charges
4-4-4: Authority To Employ Labor
4-4-5: Penalty
4-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
NOXIOUS WEEDS: All weeds and vegetable growth that have been declared noxious,
destructive and detrimental to agricultural interests. (Ord. 2018-723, 7-23-
2018)
4-4-2: DESTRUCTION REQUIRED:
   A.   Every person, either as owner, tenant, lessee or merely as occupant of
any lot, land or premises within the corporate limits of the City, shall, at
all times and continuously during the time and dates hereinafter stated,
destroy, cut down, weed out and obliterate all weeds, noxious weeds, grasses
and growths growing or starting to grow on any such lot, land or premises and
exceeding a height of eight inches (8").
   B.   Every person, during the time hereinafter stated, shall keep
continuously cut down, weeded out, destroyed and obliterated all weeds, noxious
weeds, grasses and growths from and off all that part or portion of land or
premises herein last referred to being the sidewalk around, as well as the
parking ground fronting, adjacent or contiguous to any such lots, lands or
premises.
   C.   All such weeds and noxious weeds, grasses and growths exceeding a
height of eight inches (8") which are deleterious, unsightly and injurious to
the public or to the residents or owners of adjacent property within the City
shall, at all times, continuously be kept weeded out, cut down, obliterated and
destroyed between May 31 and October 1 of each and every year. (Ord. 2018-723,
7-23-2018)
4-4-3: DESTRUCTION BY CITY, CHARGES:
   A.   Every person owning or occupying any lots, lands or premises situated
within the corporate limits of the City shall, within the time fixed by section
4-4-2 of this chapter, keep continuously destroyed, weeded out, cut down and
obliterated all such deleterious, unsightly and injurious weeds and noxious
weeds, grasses and growths exceeding a height of eight inches (8") in or on any
and all such lots, lands or premises so owned or occupied by such person in the
manner prescribed by and in accordance with the provisions of section
4-4-2 of this chapter.
   B.   In the event that such deleterious, unsightly and injurious weeds and
noxious weeds, grasses and growths are not so continuously destroyed, weeded
out, cut down and obliterated, the Mayor and City Council may cause, through
its duly authorized personnel, such deleterious, unsightly and injurious weeds
and noxious weeds, grasses and growths to be cut down, weeded out and
destroyed, and the costs and expenses of such destruction in cutting down,
weeding out and obliterating the same shall be assessed against such property,
as general taxes, and collectable as other general State, County and Municipal
taxes.
   C.   Before the costs and expenses of such destruction shall become a lien
against the property, the City Clerk is authorized and empowered to notify, in
writing, the owner of any such lot, place or area within the City, or the agent
of said owner, to cut, destroy and/or remove any such weeds, grasses or
deleterious, unhealthful growth or other noxious matter found growing, lying or
located on such property. The procedure set out in subsection 4-1-4B of this
title concerning abatement of nuisances shall be applicable to this chapter.
(Ord. 2018-723, 7-23-2018)
4-4-4: AUTHORITY TO EMPLOY LABOR:
The Mayor and City Council are hereby given the power and authority to employ
such labor as is necessary to carry out the provisions of this chapter. (Ord.
2018-723, 7-23-2018)
4-4-5: PENALTY:
   A.   Any person owning or occupying any lots, lands or premises within such
incorporated limits of the City who shall fail, refuse or neglect to
continuously keep weeded out, cut down, obliterated or destroyed all such
deleterious, unsightly and injurious weeds and noxious weeds, grasses and
growth above named in the manner prescribed and according to the provisions of
this chapter during the time provided for in section
4-4-2 of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of an infraction.
   B.   Each and every day any such person shall fail, refuse or neglect to
comply with the provisions of this chapter shall constitute a separate and
distinct offense against the provisions of this chapter, and each of such
separate offenses shall be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 2018-723, 7-23-2018)
CHAPTER 5
VIDEO SURVEILLANCE POLICY
SECTION:
4-5-1: Benefit and Purpose
4-5-2: Application and Exceptions
4-5-3: Video System Placement
4-5-4: Authorized Use and Review
4-5-5: Inspection and Storage
4-5-1: BENEFIT AND PURPOSE:
   A.   Benefit: Benefit of the installation and use of video surveillance
systems can provide a visual deterrent to crime, assist with overall security
measures, and increase the potential identification and apprehension of person
(s) who breach City premises, use policies and/or commit criminal acts. The use
of security cameras extends the ability of the Administrative Staff when law
enforcement officers are not immediately available. Security cameras are not a
guarantee of safety; however, they do serve as deterrents and can alert
Administrative Staff to potential danger.
   B.   Purpose: The installation and use of video surveillance systems in
facilities, owned and/or possessed and occupied by the City shall facilitate
the following purposes:
      1.   The protection of the safety of City, employees, invitees who comply
with the City’s authorized public use in and around City Facilities; and
      2.   Respects the privacy rights of City employees and authorized invitee
use of City facilities; and
      3.   The primary use of surveillance cameras is to record images for
future identification of individuals and activity in the event of violations of
law or City policy. (Ord. 2021-750, 10-12-2021)
4-5-2: APPLICATION AND EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Application: This policy regulates the use of surveillance cameras to
protect the legal and privacy interests of the City, its employees and
authorized invitee use of the City facilities. This policy applies to all City
use of surveillance systems and devices for monitoring and/or recording
activity.
   B.   Non-Surveillance Exceptions: This policy does not apply to the use of
video for non-surveillance purposes, examples include:
      1.   Cameras used for training and other related educational purposes.
      2.   Webcams used for purposes of communication between specific persons.
      3.   Cameras or camera systems use for virtual appearances at City
meetings.
      4.   Cameras or camera systems use for City promotional and or public
educational purposes.
   C.   Law Enforcement Exception: This policy does not apply to the use of
video surveillance systems for law enforcement purposes when used by or under
the direction of the Chief of Police. (Ord. 2021-750, 10-12-2021)
4-5-3: VIDEO SYSTEM PLACEMENT:
Video Surveillance cameras may be placed for the purposes of video monitoring
and recording of public places in accordance with the following:
   A.   The installation of new surveillance cameras, their locations, and
purpose must be approved in advance by the Mayor. Approval must be secured
prior to the purchase and installation of equipment.
   B.   Protection of individuals, including employees, administrative staff,
council members, independent contractors and authorized invitee use of City
facilities and the monitoring and recording pedestrian and vehicular traffic
activity.
   C.   Protection of buildings and property. Areas that may be monitored
include building perimeters, entrances and exits, lobbies, hallways and
corridors, training rooms, restricted access entrances to buildings, apparatus
bays and vehicle entrances and exits.
   D.   Verification of security alarms.
   E.   Monitor and record locations where intrusion alarms, security alarms
and exit door controls are installed.
   F.   Video monitoring of other public areas.
   G.   Video Surveillance cameras will not be placed in residential support
areas such as bathrooms and fitness spaces and in individual offices unless
they contain an exterior entrance to the facility.
   H.   Monitors for video equipment shall be installed in controlled-access
areas and shall not be viewable by unauthorized persons.
   I.   City Employees will be informed of the location of Video Surveillance
Cameras. (Ord. 2021-750, 10-12-2021)
4-5-4: AUTHORIZED USE AND REVIEW:
   A.   Authorization of Installation: Only the Mayor and the City Clerk or a
designee authorized by the Mayor or the City Clerk and approved by the City
Council, will be involved in, or have access to surveillance camera data unless
otherwise specifically ordered by the City Council (“Authorized Personnel”)
   B.   Ethics and Training: Video monitoring for security purposes will be
conducted in a professional, ethical and legal manner. Authorized Personnel
involved in active video monitoring will be trained and supervised in the
responsible use of this technology.
   C.   Not a Personnel Monitoring Tool: In general, the City will not permit
either the installation or use of cameras as a tool to monitor routine
performance or the use of personal “webcam” or similar technology for
surveillance purposes unless specifically ordered by the City Council pursuant
to a condition of a personnel action.
   D.   No Placebo Camera Placement: The placement and use of dummy or placebo
cameras is prohibited.
   E.   Authorized Image Review: When an incident is suspected to have
occurred, only Authorized Personnel may review the images from surveillance
camera data.
   F.   Surveillance Images Copying: Only the Mayor, the City Clerk or the City
Council may authorize copies of surveillance images.
   G.   Requests: All requests to release of surveillance records must be
authorized by the Mayor or the City Clerk pursuant to a property public records
request.
   H.   Release of Video Images: The Mayor and City Clerk have the
responsibility to evaluate and make decisions for the release of Recordings
based on the following request source criteria:
      1.   For legitimate investigative, safety and security reasons;
      2.   Law Enforcement agencies, where it is believed that the images will
assist in a legal inquiry;
      3.   Prosecuting agencies;
      4.   Legal Representatives via a subpoena;
      5.   The media, where a decision has been made that it is needed in order
to assist in the identification of victim(s), perpetrator(s) or witnesses in
relation to a criminal incident;
      6.   Otherwise required by law. (Ord. 2021-750, 10-12-2021)
4-5-5: INSPECTION AND STORAGE:
   A.   System Inspection: All authorized cameras and systems will be inspected
annually to ensure that they are in proper working condition and meet policy
guidelines.
   B.   Image Storage: Recorded camera images will be retained in accordance
with the storage capacity of the surveillance system and public record
retention requirements unless the Mayor or the City Clerk or the City Council
retain the camera images for an additional time. (Ord. 2021-750, 10-12-2021)
TITLE 5
POLICE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
POLICE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
5-1-1: Department Established
5-1-2: Appointment Of Police Chief
5-1-3: Chief Of Police
5-1-4: Members Of Department
5-1-5: Peace Officer Training
5-1-6: Assisting Officers
5-1-1: DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED:
There is established a police department in the city which shall consist of a
chief of police, one assistant chief and such other police officers as the
needs of the department shall require. (1977 Code § 2.20.010)
5-1-2: APPOINTMENT OF POLICE CHIEF:
The mayor, with the consent of the city council, shall appoint the chief of
police of the city. (Ord. 2017-714, 1-9-2017)
5-1-3: CHIEF OF POLICE:
   A.   Powers And Duties:
      1.   Authority: The chief of police shall be subject to the orders of the
mayor and members of the city council;
      2.   Supervisory Control: The chief of police shall have supervisory
control over all other members of the police force;
      3.   Obstruction Of Streets Or Sidewalks; Nuisances: The chief of police
shall also notify the city council of any infringement of the ordinances
relating to the obstruction of streets, walks or sidewalks, by any person, and
of any nuisance that may come to his knowledge. (1977 Code § 2.08.130)
5-1-4: MEMBERS OF DEPARTMENT:
   A.   Supervision: All police officers shall be under the supervision of the
chief of police and subject to his orders. Members of the department shall also
be subject to the orders of the mayor. (1977 Code §§ 2.08.140, 2.20.030; amd.
2004 Code)
   B.   General Duties: It shall be the duty of police officers to preserve the
peace, restrain all riotous or disorderly conduct wherever the same occurs
within the city, remove all encroachments found upon the sidewalks, all
obstructions on the streets and to arrest all offenders and violators of the
laws and ordinances of the city. (1977 Code § 2.08.140)
   C.   Power, Duty To Arrest: In addition to other powers and duties provided
by ordinances and the statutes of the state, police officers shall have the
power and it shall be their duty to arrest or cause to be arrested and take
before the proper court all persons who shall break or threaten to break the
peace in the presence of such officer and to obtain a warrant for the arrest of
any person violating any ordinances of law out of the presence of such officer,
and the court may commit such persons to the county jail or other safe place in
default of bail being furnished. They or any of them shall have the power to
arrest all persons who shall be in the act of violating any ordinance of the
city or who may be reasonably suspected of committing any crime or of having
committed any crime or misdemeanor or of having violated any ordinance of the
city for the preservation of the peace and good order of the city. They shall
have power to detain or cause to be detained any person in custody in the
county jail or other safe place in the city for a reasonable period of time
until such person can be duly arraigned or tried by the proper officer. (1977
Code § 2.20.020)
   D.   Assistance To Other Officers: It shall be the duty of all officers and
members of the police department to aid and assist the chief of police and to
assist each other in the performance of police duties.
   E.   Service Of Warrant Or Process: While executing or serving or assisting
in the execution or service of any warrant or process, they shall be vested
with and have all the power and authority conferred by the laws of the state or
at common law. (1977 Code § 2.20.040)
5-1-5: PEACE OFFICER TRAINING:
   A.   Aid For Police Training: The city declares that it desires to qualify
to receive aid for police training from the law enforcement planning commission
under the provisions of Idaho Code 19-5110. (1977 Code § 2.24.010)
   B.   Adherence To State Standards: Pursuant to Idaho Code 19-5110, the city,
while receiving aid from the law enforcement planning commission, will adhere
to the standards for employment and training established by the Idaho peace
officer standards and training advisory council. (1977 Code § 2.24.020)
5-1-6: ASSISTING OFFICERS:
Any person in the city who shall be requested by the chief of police or any
officer or member of the police department to assist him in making an arrest,
capture or retaining in custody any person and shall refuse or fail to render
to the best of his ability such aid as is required shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and on conviction be punished as set forth in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1977 Code § 2.20.050)
CHAPTER 2
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
5-2-1: Cruelty To Animals
5-2-2: Livestock
5-2-1: CRUELTY TO ANIMALS:
Any person who shall cruelly beat, torture, misuse, deprive of food and water,
or otherwise treat any animal with cruelty within the corporate limits of the
city shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished as set forth
in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1977 Code § 6.16.010)
5-2-2: LIVESTOCK:
It is unlawful for any person to keep any livestock of any kind within the
corporate limits of the city except for the keeping of chickens as provided in
section
11-5-10 of this code. (Ord. 2015-703, 6-8-2015)
ARTICLE A. DOGS
SECTION:
5-2A-1: Title
5-2A-2: Licensing
5-2A-3: Vaccinations
5-2A-4: Collars
5-2A-5: Running At Large
5-2A-6: Impoundment And License Check
5-2A-7: Public Nuisance
5-2A-8: Dogs In City Parks
5-2A-9: Penalty
5-2A-1: TITLE:
This article shall be known and may be titled as the ST. MARIES DOG ORDINANCE.
(Ord. 2019-729, 5-13-2019)
5-2A-2: LICENSING:
   A.   Required: All dogs present within the City must be licensed except:
      1.   Dogs quartered in a pet shop or shelter and held for resale or
adoption;
      2.   Dogs whose owners are temporarily (up to 30 days) within the City if
the dog's owner can produce evidence that the dog is currently licensed in
another jurisdiction or permanently resides in a jurisdiction that does not
require licensing;
      3.   Dogs under the age of six (6) months.
   B.   Application: License applications must be submitted to the City or the
City's authorized agent utilizing a standard form which requests name, address,
and telephone number of the applicant; breed, sex, color of the dog, and length
of license sought (up to 3 years).
   C.   Vaccination: The application must be accompanied by a rabies
vaccination certificate that will be valid for the full term of the license and
meets the requirements of section
5-2A-3 of this article.
   D.   Fee: The City or the City's authorized agent shall collect a fee for
each dog license in the amount established by resolution of the city council
and amended from time to time. Provided however, a fee will not be charged:
      1.   If the license is obtained during the month of January or any other
date range designated by the City Council as a fee licensing period.
      2.   For licensing a dog trained and used to assist government officials
in the performance of their duties that is owned by the government agency.
      3.   For renewal licenses of the same dog by the original licensee owner
upon expiration of the original license.
   E.   Renewal: The license will be valid for up to three (3) years from the
date of purchase, and may be renewed at no cost as set forth herein upon
application and vaccination certificate.
   F.   Tag: At the time of issuing the license, the City or the City's
authorized agent shall furnish and deliver to the party a license in the shape
of a metal tag, bearing the words "City of St. Maries" and the year for which
the same is issued stamped thereon. The person to whom the license is issued
shall cause the tag to be attached to a collar to be worn by the dog for which
the license was issued, during the time which the license is valid.
   G.   Replacement: A duplicate or replacement tag shall be issued by the City
or the City's authorized agent to replace the original tag which was lost or
destroyed. The fee for such replacement tags shall be as established by
resolution of the city council and amended from time to time. (Ord. 2019-729,
5-13-2019; amd. Ord. 2023-776, 12-21-2023)
5-2A-3: VACCINATIONS:
   A.   Required: Rabies vaccination is required for all dogs within thirty
(30) days of when the dog:
      1.   Reaches the age of three (3) months;
      2.   Is acquired or brought into the City if over three (3) months old;
or
      3.   The expiration of the most recent vaccination.
This provision shall not apply to veterinarian or kennel operators temporarily
maintaining on their premises animals owned by others.
   B.   Certificate: Each veterinarian, when vaccinating any dog for rabies,
shall complete a certificate of rabies vaccination (in duplicate) which
includes the following information:
      1.   Owner's name and address;
      2.   A description of animal (breed, sex, markings, age, name);
      3.   The date of vaccination;
      4.   The rabies vaccination tag number;
      5.   The type of rabies vaccine administered; and
      6.   The manufacturer's serial number of vaccine.
A copy of the certificate shall be distributed to the owner and the original
retained by the issuing veterinarian. (Ord. 2019-729, 5-13-2019)
5-2A-4: COLLARS:
   A.   Required: Except as otherwise provided in this article, every owner
shall be required to provide each dog with either a collar or harness to which
the license tag shall be attached and constantly worn by the dog.
   B.   Removal Prohibited: No person shall remove or cause to be removed the
collar or tag from any licensed dog without the consent of the owner, keeper or
harborer thereof.
   C.   Optional Microchip Or Tattooing: Every owner has the option, at his own
expense, of causing his dog to be microchipped or one of his dog's ears to be
permanently tattooed, and having the tattoo number recorded with the City or
the City's authorized agent. In such event the dog is not required to wear a
tag. (Ord. 2019-729, 5-13-2019)
5-2A-5: RUNNING AT LARGE:
   A.   Definition: "At large" is defined as any dog off the premises of a
person owning, harboring or keeping such dog and not under said person's
immediate care and control either by leash, cord, chain or otherwise without a
competent and responsible attendant.
   B.   Prohibited: No person owning, harboring, keeping or having in his
possession or under his control a dog, shall permit such dog to run at large.
(Ord. 2019-729, 5-13-2019)
5-2A-6: IMPOUNDMENT AND LICENSE CHECK:
   A.   Duty To Impound: It shall be the duty of the Sheriff or any suitable
person under his direction, to impound any dog running at large in violation of
the provisions of this article, and immediately notify the owner of such dog if
the owner's name is disclosed in the registry of licensed dogs or otherwise
known to the Sheriff that such dog has been impounded. If the owner cannot be
located or is not available to retrieve the dog, the dog shall be delivered to
the Benewah Humane Society and held in accordance with the Benewah Humane
Society policies and standards.
   B.   License Check: The Sheriff shall perform a license check on any dog
found running at large in violation of this article, and if the dog is not
properly licensed in accordance with section
5-2A-2 of this article, the owner shall be issued a citation in accordance with
section
5-2A-9 of this article. Provided however, if the owner obtains a license for
the dog before the appearance date set forth in the citation, and provides
proof of license to the court or prosecutor, the citation shall be dismissed.
   C.   Notice Of Impoundment: If the dog has neither a tag displayed, a
microchip, nor a tattoo number recorded with the City, and the owner thereof is
unknown, or if the owner has been notified, and does not retrieve the dog
within five (5) business days of impoundment, the dog shall be available for
adoption in accordance with the Benewah Humane Society policies and standards.
   D.   Redemption: The owner of any dog impounded by the City and held by the
Benewah Humane Society may reclaim the dog from the Benewah Humane Society
within five (5) business days of impoundment, upon the payment of charges
assessed by Benewah Humane Society, including boarding fees, inoculations,
medicine and veterinarian fees and by providing proof of a City dog license
obtained in accordance with section
5-2A-2 of this article. (Ord. 2019-729, 5-13-2019)
5-2A-7: PUBLIC NUISANCE:
   A.   Public Nuisance Declared: It is hereby declared a public nuisance for
any person owning, harboring, keeping or having in his possession or under his
control a dog, and permitting or allowing such dog to do any of the following:
      1.   To bark, howl or yelp for any consecutive thirty (30) minute period
of time such that it is plainly audible from the public street, alley or
adjacent property.
      2.   To snap, growl, snarl, jump upon or otherwise threaten a person
lawfully using the public sidewalk, streets, alleys, or other public ways.
      3.   To cause injury or to otherwise endanger the safety of persons or
domestic animals, including biting, inflicting injury, assaulting or otherwise
attacking a person or domestic animal unless:
         a.   The dog was protecting or defending a person within the immediate
vicinity of the dog from an attack or assault;
         b.   The person was committing a crime or offense upon the property of
the owner or custodian of the dog;
         c.   The person was at the time, or had in the past, willfully
tormented, abused or assaulted the dog;
         d.   The dog was responding to pain or injury or protecting its
offspring;
         e.   The dog was working as a hunting dog, herding dog or predator
control dog on the property of, or under the control of, its owner or keeper,
and the damage or injury sustained was to a person who was interfering with the
dog while the dog was working in a place where it was lawfully engaged in such
activity, including public lands; or
         f.   The person was intervening between two (2) or more animals
engaged in aggressive behavior or fighting.
      4.   To defecate on public property or on private property not belonging
to the owner of the dog, unless the dog owner immediately removes the waste
material and properly disposes of it.
      5.   To run at large as defined in section
5-2A-5 of this article.
   B.   Notification: Whenever any person shall complain to the Sheriff that a
dog being kept by any person in the City is a public nuisance as declared
herein, the Sheriff shall make reasonable efforts to notify the person(s)
owning, harboring or keeping said dog or dogs that a complaint has been
received and the person should take whatever steps necessary to alleviate the
public nuisance. Failure to abate said nuisance after receiving notice from the
Sheriff shall subject the person(s) owning, harboring or keeping said dog or
dogs to the penalties set forth in section
5-2A-9 of this article. (Ord. 2019-731, 6-24-2019)
5-2A-8: DOGS IN CITY PARKS:
   A.   Leashes Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to take or allow
a dog upon the premises of the City parks unless the dog is on a leash or
confined within a designated dog park/area.
   B.   No Dogs on City beach at Aqua Park: It shall be unlawful for any person
to take or allow a dog whether it is on a leash or not upon the City beach at
Aqua Park.
   C.   Public Events: During events open to the general public at the City
parks it shall be unlawful for any person to take or allow a dog whether it is
on a leash or not upon the premises of the City parks.
   D.   Additional Times: The City Council may specify additional times when it
is unlawful for a person to take or allow a dog whether it is on a leash or not
upon the premises of a particular City park.
   E.   Service Dogs: The prohibitions in this section will not apply to a
service dog as defined by title II and title III of the ADA needed to assist an
individual with a disability or to a dog used by law enforcement in the line of
duty.
   F.   Exemption: Vendors or others with special circumstances may apply to
the City Clerk for an exemption from this section. The exemption may be granted
upon conditions being imposed for the protection of the public. If an exemption
is granted, a certificate shall be given by the City Clerk stating the
exemption and its conditions.
   G.   Posting Of Notice: Whenever dogs are not allowed in a City park for a
particular period, the park shall be conspicuously posted with notices that no
dogs are allowed in the park and that a violation of the prohibition is an
infraction.
   H.   Enforcement: The Sheriff is authorized to enforce this section and to
eject from a City park any person violating this section. (Ord. 2019-729, 5-13-
2019; amd. Ord. 2020-738, 3-23-2020)
5-2A-9: PENALTY:
   A.   Infraction: Any violation of this article, other than subsection
5-2A-7A3 of this article, shall be punishable as follows, notwithstanding that
the dog involved may not be the same dog as was involved in the previous
violation:
      1.   The first violation of this article shall constitute an infraction,
with a set fine of fifty dollars ($50.00) plus court costs.
      2.   The second violation of this article within two (2) years shall
constitute an infraction, with a set fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00) plus
court costs.
      3.   The third or subsequent violation of this article within two (2)
years shall constitute an infraction, punishable fine of double the penalty of
the previous violation, up to a maximum of six hundred dollars ($600.00) plus
court costs.
   B.   Misdemeanor: Any violation of subsection
5-2A-7A3 of this article shall be a misdemeanor and shall be punishable as set
forth in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 2019-731, 6-24-2019)
CHAPTER 3
GENERAL OFFENSES
SECTION:
5-3-1: Public Drinking
5-3-1: PUBLIC DRINKING:
   A.   Title: This section shall be known and may be cited as the CITY OF ST.
MARIES PUBLIC DRINKING ORDINANCE.
   B.   Purpose: This section is enacted for the purpose of promoting the
public safety by reducing the hazards incumbent upon the consumption of
alcoholic beverages in public.
   C.   Prohibited Acts:
      1.   Consumption: It is unlawful for any person to consume any beer or
intoxicating liquor, or to have in his possession any opened or open containers
or receptacles containing any beer or intoxicating liquor on any public park,
grounds or thoroughfares within the city or at any other place therein,
including any motor vehicle moving or parked, other than in a private residence
or open premises licensed for the sale and consumption of beer or liquor.
      2.   Possession: It is unlawful for any person to have in his possession
any containers or receptacles containing any beer or intoxicating liquor in any
public park.
   D.   Special Exemptions For Permitted Activities: Upon the issuance of a
permit from the city council for a specially permitted activity, the permit may
exempt the applications of subsection C of this section, either or both,
subject to any terms and conditions of the permit.
   E.   Violation; Penalty: Any person found guilty of violating any provision
of this section shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished
as provided in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 632, 8-12-2002)
CHAPTER 4
CURFEW
SECTION:
5-4-1: Title
5-4-2: Purpose
5-4-3: Definitions
5-4-4: Offenses
5-4-5: Defenses
5-4-6: Enforcement
5-4-7: Penalty
5-4-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the ST. MARIES CURFEW
ORDINANCE. (Ord. 599, 8-12-1996)
5-4-2: PURPOSE:
The city council has determined that there has been an increase in juvenile
violence and crimes by persons under the age of eighteen (18) in the city and
persons under the age of eighteen (18) are particularly susceptible, by their
lack of maturity and experience, to participation in unlawful activities and to
be victims of older perpetrators of crime; therefore, the purpose of this
chapter is to provide for the protection of minors from each other and from
other persons, for the enforcement of parental control over and responsibility
for children, for the protection of the general public, and for the reduction
of juvenile criminal activities. (Ord. 599, 8-12-1996)
5-4-3: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
CURFEW HOURS: Eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. every day until six o'clock (6:00)
A.M. of the following day.
EMERGENCY: An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting state
that calls for immediate action. The term includes, but is not limited to, a
fire, a natural disaster, or automobile accident, or any situation requiring
immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss of life.
ESTABLISHMENT: Any privately owned place of business operated for a profit to
which the public is invited, including, but not limited to, any place of
amusement or entertainment.
GUARDIAN: A person who, under court order, is the guardian of the person of a
minor.
MINOR: Any person under eighteen (18) years of age.
OPERATOR: Any individual, firm, association, partnership or corporation
operating, managing or conducting an establishment. This term includes the
members or partners of an association or partnership and the officers of a
corporation.
PARENT: A person who is:
   A.   A natural parent, adoptive parent or stepparent; or
   B.   At least twenty one (21) years of age and specifically authorized in
advance by a parent or guardian to have the care and custody of a minor.
PUBLIC PLACE: Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets, highways and
the common areas of schools, hospitals, apartment houses and office buildings.
REMAIN: To:
   A.   Linger or stay; or
   B.   Fail to leave premises when requested to do so by a peace officer or
the owner, operator or other person in control of the premises.
SERIOUS BODILY INJURY: Bodily injury that creates a substantial risk of death
or that causes death, serious permanent disfigurement or protracted loss or
impairment of the function of any bodily member or organ. (Ord. 599, 8-12-1996)
5-4-4: OFFENSES:
   A.   Minor: A minor commits an offense if he remains in any public place or
on the premises of any establishment within the city during curfew hours.
   B.   Parent; Guardian: A parent or guardian of a minor commits an offense if
he knowingly permits, or by insufficient control allows, the minor to remain in
any public place or on the premises of any establishment within the city during
curfew hours.
   C.   Owner, Operator, Employee Of Establishment: The owner, operator or any
employee of an establishment commits an offense if he knowingly allows a minor
to remain upon the premises of the establishment during curfew hours.
   D.   Failure To Take Custody: A parent or guardian commits a separate
offense if he fails to come immediately to a location designated by a police
officer to take custody of a child after being notified to do so by a peace
officer or his designated agent. (Ord. 599, 8-12-1996)
5-4-5: DEFENSES:
   A.   Minor: It is a defense to prosecution under subsection
5-4-4A of this chapter that the minor was:
      1.   Accompanied by the minor's parent or guardian;
      2.   On an errand at the direction of the minor's parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
      3.   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      4.   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
      5.   Involved in an emergency;
      6.   On the sidewalk abutting the minor's residence;
      7.   Attending an official school, religious or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by a government or civic
organization, or other similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor,
or going to or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an official
school, religious or other recreational activity supervised by adults and
sponsored by a government or civic organization, or another similar entity that
takes responsibility for the minor; or
      8.   Exercising first amendment rights protected by the United States
constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
      9.   Married or had been married.
   B.   Owner, Operator, Employee Of Establishment: It is a defense to
prosecution under subsection
5-4-4C of this chapter that the owner, operator or employee of an establishment
promptly notified the police department that the minor was present on the
premises of the establishment during curfew hours and refused to leave. (Ord.
599, 8-12-1996)
5-4-6: ENFORCEMENT:
Before taking any enforcement action under this chapter, a police officer shall
ask the apparent offender's age and reason for being in the public place. The
officer shall not issue a citation or make an arrest under this chapter unless
the officer reasonably believes that an offense has occurred and that, based on
any response and other circumstances, no defense in section
5-4-5 of this chapter is present. (Ord. 599, 8-12-1996)
5-4-7: PENALTY:
   A.   Adult Violation: A violation of subsections
5-4-4B, C or D of this chapter is a misdemeanor punishable by a fine up to five
hundred dollars ($500.00), or by incarceration up to six (6) months, or both.
   B.   Minor Violation: A violation of subsection
5-4-4A of this chapter may form the basis for a petition or proceedings against
the minor pursuant to the juvenile corrections act 1 . The court may utilize
any of the dispositional alternatives provided by Idaho law for the violation
of a status offense.
   C.   Restitution: The court may order restitution to the city or other
appropriate agencies for any costs reasonably incurred by the city, or other
appropriate agencies, in caring for the child, including, but not limited to,
wages of police officers, law enforcement officials, transportation and
attendant care charges, which resulted from a violation of subsections
5-4-4A, B and C of this chapter. (Ord. 599, 8-12-1996)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 20-501 et seq.
CHAPTER 5
FAIR HOUSING
SECTION:
5-5-1: Declaration Of Policy
5-5-2: Definitions
5-5-3: Unlawful Practices
5-5-4: Exemptions
5-5-5: Complaint Procedure
5-5-6: Other Remedies
5-5-7: Violation; Penalty
5-5-1: DECLARATION OF POLICY:
It is declared to be the policy of the city, in the exercise of its police
power for the public safety, public health and general welfare, to assure equal
opportunity to all persons to live in decent housing facilities regardless of
race, color, religion, sex or national origin and, to that end, to prohibit
discrimination in housing by any persons. (1977 Code § 9.16.010)
5-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter the following words shall have the following
meanings:
DISCRIMINATION OR DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE: Any difference in treatment
based upon race, color, religion, sex or national origin; or any act that is
unlawful under this chapter.
FINANCIAL INSTITUTION: Includes any person, as defined in this chapter, engaged
in the business of lending money or guaranteeing losses.
HOUSING ACCOMMODATION OR DWELLING: Any building, mobile home or trailer,
structure or portion thereof which is occupied as, or designed, or intended for
occupancy as, a residence by one or more families, and any vacant land which is
offered for sale or lease for the construction or location thereon of any such
building, mobile home or trailer, structure or portion thereof or any real
property, as defined in this chapter, used or intended to be used for any of
the purposes set forth in this chapter.
MORTGAGE BROKER: An individual who is engaged in or who performs the business
or services of a mortgage broker as the same are defined by Idaho statutes.
OPEN MARKET: The market which is informed of the availability for sale,
purchase, rental or lease of any housing accommodation, whether informed
through a real estate broker or by advertising by publication, signs or by any
other advertising methods directed to the public or any portion thereof,
indicating that the property is available for sale, purchase, rental or lease.
OWNER: Includes a lessee, sublessee, cotenant, assignee, managing agent or
other person having the right of ownership or possession, or the right to sell,
rent or lease any housing accommodation.
PERSON: Includes individuals, children, firms, associations, joint ventures,
partnerships, estates, trusts, business trusts, syndicates, fiduciaries,
corporations and all other groups or combinations.
REAL ESTATE BROKER OR REAL ESTATE SALESPERSON: Includes any individual
qualified by law who for a fee, commission, salary or for other valuable
consideration, or who with the intention or expectation of receiving or
collecting the same, lists, sells, purchases, rents or leases any housing
accommodations, including options thereupon, or who negotiates or attempts to
negotiate such activities; or who advertises or holds himself out as engaged in
such activities; or who negotiates or attempts to negotiate a loan, secured by
a mortgage or other encumbrance, upon transfer of any housing accommodation; or
who is engaged in the business of charging an advance fee or contracting for
collection of a fee in connection with a contract whereby he undertakes to
promote the sale, purchase, rental or lease of any housing accommodation
through its listing in a publication issued primarily for such purpose; or any
individual employed by or acting on behalf of any of these.
REAL PROPERTY: Includes buildings, structures, lands, tenements, leaseholds,
cooperatives and condominiums. (1977 Code § 9.16.020)
5-5-3: UNLAWFUL PRACTICES:
In connection with any of the transactions set forth in this section which
affect any housing accommodation on the open market, or in connection with any
public sale, purchase, rental or lease of any housing accommodation, it is
unlawful within the city for a person, owner, financial institution, real
estate broker or real estate salesperson, or any representative of the above,
to:
   A.   Refuse to sell, purchase, rent or lease, or deny to or withhold any
housing accommodation from a person because of his race, color, religion,
ancestry, national origin, sex or place of birth; or
   B.   To discriminate against a person in the terms, conditions or privileges
of the sale, purchase, rental or lease of any housing accommodation, or in the
furnishing of facilities of services in connection therewith; or
   C.   To refuse to receive or transmit a bona fide offer to sell, purchase,
rent or lease any housing accommodation from or to a person because of his
race, color, religion, ancestry, national origin, sex or place of birth; or
   D.   To refuse to negotiate for the sale, purchase, rental or lease of any
housing accommodation to a person because of his race, color, religion,
ancestry, national origin, sex or place of birth; or
   E.   To represent to a person that any housing accommodation is not
available for inspection, sale, purchase, rental or lease when in fact it is so
available, or to refuse to permit a person to inspect any housing
accommodation, because of his race, color, religion or national origin, sex or
place of birth; or
   F.   To make, publish, print, circulate, post or mail, or cause to be made,
published, printed, circulated, posted or mailed, any notice, statement or
advertisement, or to announce a policy, or to sign or to use a form of
application for the sale, purchase, rental, lease or financing of any housing
accommodation, or to make a record of inquiry in connection with the
prospective sale, purchase, rental, lease or financing of any housing
accommodation, or to make a record of inquiry in connection with the
prospective sale, purchase, rental, lease or financing of any housing
accommodation, which indicates any discrimination or any intent to make a
discrimination; or
   G.   To offer, solicit, accept or use a listing of any housing accommodation
for sale, purchase, rental or lease with the understanding that a person may be
subjected to discrimination in connection with such sale, purchase, rental or
lease, or in the furnishing of facilities or services in connection therewith;
or
   H.   To induce directly or indirectly, or attempt to induce directly or
indirectly, the sale, purchase, rental or lease, or the listing for any of the
above, of any housing accommodation by representing that the presence or
anticipated presence of persons of any particular race, color, religion, sex or
national origin or place of birth in the area to be affected by such sale,
purchase, rental or lease will or may result in either:
      1.   The lowering of property values in the area;
      2.   An increase in criminal or antisocial behavior in the area; or
      3.   A decline in the quality of schools serving the area; or
   I.   To make any misrepresentations concerning the listing for sale,
purchase, rental or lease, or the anticipated listing for any of the above, or
the sale, purchase, rental or lease of any housing accommodation in any area in
the city for the purpose of including or attempting to induce any such listing
or any of the above transactions; or
   J.   To engage in, or hire to be done, or to conspire with others to commit
acts or activities of any nature, the purpose of which is to coerce, cause
panic, incite unrest or create or play upon fear, with the purpose of either
discouraging or inducing, or attempting to induce, the sale, purchase, rental
or lease, or the listing for any of the above, of any housing accommodation; or
   K.   To retaliate or discriminate in any manner against a person because he
has opposed a practice declared unlawful by this chapter, or because he has
filed a complaint, testified, assisted or participated in any manner in any
investigation, proceeding, hearing or conference under this chapter; or
   L.   To aid, abet, incite, compel or coerce any person to engage in any of
the practices prohibited by this chapter; or to obstruct or prevent any person
from complying with the provisions of this chapter; or any order issued
thereunder; or
   M.   By canvassing, to commit any unlawful practices prohibited by this
chapter; or
   N.   Otherwise to deny to, or withhold any housing accommodation from a
person because of his race, color, religion, ancestry, national origin, sex or
place of birth; or
   O.   For any bank, building and loan association, insurance company or other
corporation, association, firm or enterprise whose business consists in whole
or in part, in the making of commercial real estate loans, to deny a loan or
other financial assistance to a person applying therefor for the purpose of
purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing or maintaining a dwelling, or to
discriminate against him in the fixing of the amount, interest rate, duration,
or other terms or conditions of such loans or other financial assistance,
because of the race, color, religion, sex or national origin of such person or
of any person associated with him in connection with such loan or other
financial assistance or the purposes of such loan or other financial assistance
or of the present or prospective owners, lessees, tenants or occupants of the
dwelling or dwellings in relation to which such loan or other financial
assistance is to be made or given; or
   P.   To deny any qualified person access to or membership or participation
in any multiple listing service, real estate brokers' organization, or other
service, organization or facility relating to the business of selling or
renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him in their terms or conditions
of such access, membership or participation on account of race, color,
religion, sex or national origin. (1977 Code § 9.16.030)
5-5-4: EXEMPTIONS:
This chapter shall not apply to:
   A.   A religious organization, association or society or any nonprofit
institution or organization operating, supervised or controlled by or in
conjunction with a religious organization, association or society, which limits
the sale, rental or occupancy of dwellings which it owns or operates for other
than commercial purpose to persons of the same religion, or which gives
preference to such persons, unless membership in such a religion is restricted
on account of race, color, sex or national origin;
   B.   A private club not in fact open to the public, which as an incident to
its primary purpose or purposes, provides lodgings which it owns or operates
for other than a commercial purpose, and which limits the rental or occupancy
of such lodgings to its members or gives preference to its members;
   C.   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner; provided, that such
private individual owner does not own more than three (3) such single-family
houses at any one time; provided further, that in the case of the sale of any
such single-family house by a private individual owner not residing in such
house at the time of such sale or who was not the most recent resident of such
house prior to such sale, the exemption granted by this subsection shall apply
only with respect to one such sale within any twenty four (24) month period;
provided further, that such bona fide private individual owner does not own any
interest in, nor is there owned or served on his behalf, under any express or
voluntary agreement, title to or any right to all or a portion of the proceeds
from the sale or rental of more than three (3) such single-family houses at any
one time; provided further, the sale or rental of any such single-family house
shall be excepted from the application of this chapter only if such house is
sold or rented:
      1.   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities or
the sales or rental services of any real estate broker, agent or salesperson,
or of such facilities or services of any person in the business of selling or
renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of any such broker, agent,
salesperson or person; and
      2.   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice, of any
advertisement or written notice in violation of the provisions of 42 United
States Code section 3604(c) or of section
5-5-3 of this chapter; but nothing in this section shall prohibit the use of
attorneys, escrow agents, abstractors, title companies and other such
professional assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer the title; or
   D.   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four (4) families living independently
of each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his residence. (1977 Code § 9.16.040)
5-5-5: COMPLAINT PROCEDURE:
Any person aggrieved by an unlawful practice prohibited by this chapter may
file a complaint with the city attorney within thirty (30) days after the
aggrieved person becomes aware of the alleged unlawful practice, and in no
event more than sixty (60) days after the alleged unlawful practice occurred.
The city attorney or his duly authorized representative shall investigate each
complaint and attempt to resolve each complaint. Failure to achieve a
resolution acceptable to both parties and compliance with this chapter shall
cause the city attorney to forward the complaint and his findings to
appropriate state and federal officials. (1977 Code § 9.16.050)
5-5-6: OTHER REMEDIES:
Nothing contained in this chapter shall prevent any person from exercising any
right or seeking any remedy to which he might otherwise be entitled or from
filing his complaint with any appropriate governmental agency. (1977 Code §
9.16.060)
5-5-7: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall, upon conviction
thereof, be punished as provided by law. (1977 Code § 9.16.070)
CHAPTER 6
ABANDONED, WRECKED, DISMANTLED AND INOPERATIVE MOTOR VEHICLES
SECTION:
5-6-1: Title
5-6-2: Definitions
5-6-3: Storing, Parking Or Leaving Prohibited
5-6-4: Notice To Remove
5-6-5: Responsibility For Removal
5-6-6: Notice Of Procedure
5-6-7: Redemption Of Impounded Vehicles
5-6-8: Immunity From Damages
5-6-9: Violation; Penalty
5-6-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the ABANDONED, WRECKED,
DISMANTLED AND INOPERATIVE VEHICLE ORDINANCE of the City. (Ord. 2018-723, 7-23-
2018)
5-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words and their
derivations shall have the meaning given herein. When not inconsistent with the
context, words used in the present tense include the future, words in the
plural number include the singular number, and words in the singular number
include the plural number. The word "shall" is always mandatory and not merely
directory.
CITY: The City of St. Maries, Benewah County, Idaho.
JUNKED VEHICLE: Any "vehicle", as defined herein, which does not have lawfully
affixed thereto both an unexpired license plate or plates or a current
registration certificate if such is required by law and the condition of which
is wrecked, dismantled, partially dismantled, inoperative, abandoned or
discarded.
PERSON: Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
PUBLIC PROPERTY: Any public street, alley or highway which shall include the
entire width between the boundary lines of every way publicly maintained for
the purposes of vehicular travel and shall also mean any other City owned
property or facility.
VEHICLE: Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a street, highway or waterway, excepting devices used
exclusively upon stationary rails and tracks, and shall include, but not be
limited to, automobiles, buses, motorbikes, ATVs, motorcycles, motorscooters,
trucks, tractors, go-carts, golf carts, campers, trailers and boats. (Ord.
2018-723, 7-23-2018)
5-6-3: STORING, PARKING OR LEAVING PROHIBITED:
No person shall park, store, leave or permit the parking, storing or leaving of
any vehicle of any kind which is abandoned, wrecked, dismantled, inoperative,
rusted, junked or partially dismantled, whether attended or not, upon any
public property of the City for any period of time in excess of seventy two
(72) hours. The presence of an abandoned, wrecked, dismantled, inoperative,
rusted, junked or partially dismantled vehicle or parts thereof on public
property is hereby declared a public nuisance which may be abated in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2018-723, 7-23-2018)
5-6-4: NOTICE TO REMOVE:
Whenever it comes to the attention of any City police officer or the Benewah
County Sheriff or one of his duly constituted deputies and/or any authorized
City employee, that any nuisance as defined in section
5-6-3 of this chapter exists in the City, a notice, in writing, shall be served
upon the owner of the vehicle, if known, and a notice to remove shall be placed
in a conspicuous place on the vehicle requesting its removal in the time
specified in this chapter. (Ord. 2018-723, 7-23-2018)
5-6-5: RESPONSIBILITY FOR REMOVAL:
Upon proper notice and opportunity to be heard, the owner of the abandoned,
wrecked, dismantled or inoperative vehicle shall be responsible for its
removal. In the event of removal and disposition by the City, the owner of the
vehicle shall be liable for the expenses incurred. (Ord. 2018-723, 7-23-2018)
5-6-6: NOTICE OF PROCEDURE:
   A.   Notice Required: Any City police officer or the Benewah County Sheriff
or one of his duly constituted deputies and/or any authorized City employee,
shall give notice of removal to the owner of the vehicle, if known, at least
three (3) days before the time of compliance. It shall constitute sufficient
notice when a copy of the same is posted in a conspicuous place upon the
vehicle and duplicate copies are sent by certified or registered mail to the
owner of the vehicle, if known, at his last known address.
   B.   Content Of Notice: Notice shall contain the request for removal within
the time specified in this chapter, and the notice shall advise that upon
failure to comply with the notice to remove, the City, or its designee, shall
undertake such removal with costs to be levied against the owner of the
vehicle. (Ord. 2018-723, 7-23-2018)
5-6-7: REDEMPTION OF IMPOUNDED VEHICLES:
The owner of any vehicle seized under the provisions of this chapter may redeem
such vehicle at any time after its removal but prior to sale or destruction
thereof on proof of ownership and payment to the business establishment where
the vehicle is impounded. (Ord. 2018-723, 7-23-2018)
5-6-8: IMMUNITY FROM DAMAGES:
Any police officer, towing service owner, operator or employee shall not be
held to answer or be liable for damages in any action brought by the registered
owner or his legal representative or any person legally entitled to the
possession of a motor vehicle or other vehicle when the vehicle was processed
and sold or disposed of as provided by this chapter. (Ord. 2018-723, 7-23-2018)
5-6-9: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person violating any provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of an
infraction and upon conviction, shall be subject to a fine as provided in the
general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this Code. Each act in violation of any of the provisions thereof
shall be deemed a separate offense. (Ord. 2018-723, 7-23-2018)
TITLE 6
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL TRAFFIC PROVISIONS
SECTION:
6-1-1: Local Control
6-1-2: Obedience Required
6-1-3: One Way Streets
6-1-4: Violation; Penalty
6-1-1: LOCAL CONTROL:
   A.   Authority: In all matters relating to traffic control not covered in
the stipulations of this title, the public works directors shall have full
power to make necessary regulations governing the same. In all points of
dispute as to the interpretation of the stipulations of this title, the public
works directors' decision shall be final and binding on all parties. (1977 Code
§ 10.04.040)
   B.   Signs: The public works directors, under the direction of the city
council, shall have power to erect or cause to be erected proper signs or
signals on any street or street intersection or at an railroad crossing
directing the method and tim of parking, the character of vehicles allowed to
park or stop and directing that vehicles shall stop or slow down at designated
points; or notifying the public of the location of schools and hospitals and
dangerous street intersections or crossing or of any other conditions affecting
the traffic and control of same. (1977 Code § 10.04.010)
6-1-2: OBEDIENCE REQUIRED:
All persons driving or operating vehicles, riding horseback or walking on the
streets and alleys shall at all times obey the orders, direction and signals of
all police officers directing traffic. (1977 Code § 10.04.030)
6-1-3: ONE WAY STREETS:
   A.   Designation Of One Way Streets: The city, acting though its city
council or the public works directors, may designate any street or roadway
under its jurisdiction for one way traffic, and shall cause to be erected
appropriate signs at intersections giving notice thereof. (1977 Code §
10.04.050)
   B.   Signs: Upon a street or roadway designated and signposted for one way
traffic, a vehicle shall be driven only in the direction designated. (1977 Code
§ 10.04.060)
   C.   Validation: Any streets or roadways designated one way streets before
the effective date hereof within the purview of this section, are validated and
declared to be one any streets. (1977 Code § 10.04.070)
6-1-4: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person who disregards, disobeys or fails to observe any traffic sign or
signs regulating traffic within the city, such as stop signs, signs limiting
parking of motor vehicles or any other traffic signs placed in the city by
order of the mayor and city council or public works directors, shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as
provided in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1977 Code § 10.04.080)
CHAPTER 2
PARKING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-2-1: Title
6-2-2: Purpose
6-2-3: Definitions
6-2-4: Parking Areas Designated
6-2-5: Parking Restrictions
6-2-6: Nuisance Declared
6-2-7: Unlawfully Parked Vehicles; Impoundment
6-2-8: Violation; Penalty
6-2-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the CITY OF ST. MARIES PARKING
ORDINANCE. (1977 Code § 10.08.010)
6-2-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to ensure the rights of way and other public
properties are utilized in a manner consistent with the health, safety and
welfare of the citizens of the city and consistent with the city's
responsibility and its proprietary interest in the public rights of way of the
city and other public properties. (1977 Code § 10.08.020)
6-2-3: DEFINITIONS:
All terms used in this chapter shall have the meaning given to them by Idaho
Code. (1977 Code § 10.08.030)
6-2-4: PARKING AREAS DESIGNATED:
The public works directors, with city council approval, are authorized:
   A.   Designation Of Parking Areas: To designate such parking areas as are
necessary for the purposes of limited parking for, but not limited to, the
following purposes: handicapped parking, loading zones, bus stop zones, taxi
zones, parking relating to emergency or medical services, permit parking areas
where the stopping or parking of vehicles would create hazardous conditions or
cause unusual delay in traffic.
   B.   Prohibit Parking: To prohibit parking on narrow streets.
   C.   Erect Signs: To erect such signs as are necessary to provide notice to
the driving public of such zones.
   D.   Painting Of Curbs: To cause curbs to be painted to provide notice that
the space or area adjacent to the curb is a no parking area. Parking adjacent
to a curb which is painted yellow or red shall constitute a violation of this
chapter. This section shall be applicable to private property as well as public
property. (1977 Code § 10.08.060)
6-2-5: PARKING RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Limited Parking: Where, in the public interest, the city council
determines that various parking areas on public rights of way or property
should have limited time duration parking or have restricted hours on parking,
the city council, may, by resolution, regulate and restrict public parking in
such manner as it determines to be in the public interest. (1977 Code §
10.08.050; amd. 2004 Code)
   B.   Handicapped Parking: It is unlawful for any person to stop, stand or
park a vehicle in a designated handicapped parking space or area as defined in
Idaho Code 49-213, unless the occupant has complied with Idaho Code 49-410.
This section shall apply to both public and private parking areas which are
properly designated. (1977 Code § 10.08.120)
   C.   Prohibited Parking:
      1.   Fire Lanes: It is in violation of this chapter for any vehicle to
park in a fire lane, either on public or private property. (1977 Code §
10.08.150)
      2.   Alleys: It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person to
park a vehicle within any alley of the city. However, it shall be lawful for a
vehicle to remain stationary within an alley for the minimum period of time
necessary to load or unload such vehicle, if the only reasonable location from
which said vehicle may be loaded or unloaded would be such alley. (1977 Code §
10.08.100)
      3.   Repairing Vehicles: No construction, repairing, overhauling,
remodeling or other type of work other than in case of extreme emergency shall
be performed on any vehicle or other property upon any street, alley, park,
parking lot or other public property within the city. (1977 Code § 10.08.110)
      4.   Loading And Unloading: Loading and unloading of vehicles shall only
take place in specified loading zones. (1977 Code § 10.08.080; amd. 2004 Code)
      5.   General Prohibition: It is unlawful for any person to stop, stand or
park a vehicle, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or
in compliance with law or the direction of a police officer or traffic control
device in any of the following places:
         a.   In any place where prohibited by Idaho Code 49-660.
         b.   In any place where signs have been erected at the direction of
the public works directors or city council. (1977 Code § 10.08.090)
6-2-6: NUISANCE DECLARED:
   A.   Declared Nuisance: Any vehicle parked in violation of the provisions of
this chapter is declared to be a nuisance. It is further declared that any
vehicle parking on city property, including public rights of way, in violation
of this section shall be considered to be trespassing on public property. It is
further declared that the registered owner of the vehicle shall be deemed the
party responsible for the unlawful use of such vehicle as to the provisions of
this chapter and shall be prima facie responsible for any violation as to the
unattended standing or parking of his vehicle.
   B.   Exceptions: Any charge under this chapter shall be dismissed when the
person charged has made a bona fide sale or transfer of the vehicle and has
delivered possession thereof through the purchaser, and has advised the police
department, within twenty (20) days of notice of the violation, of the name and
address of the purchaser along with proof of the date of sale. (1977 Code §
10.08.040)
6-2-7: UNLAWFULLY PARKED VEHICLES; IMPOUNDMENT:
The chief of police, or his authorized designee, may remove and impound any
unlawfully parked vehicle or cause the registered owner to be issued with a
citation, or both. In addition to any fines or fees that such unlawfully parked
vehicles may be subject to under this chapter, the registered owner shall be
liable to the city for all costs and expenses incurred in the removal,
impounding and storage of such unlawfully parked vehicle. (1977 Code §
10.08.130)
6-2-8: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   Infraction: Any violation of any provision of this chapter shall be
considered an infraction, punishable in accordance with subsection
1-4-1B of this code.
   B.   Separate Violation: Each limited time period for which a vehicle is
parked shall constitute a separate violation of this chapter (if a vehicle is
parked more than 3 hours in a 90 minute limited parking zone, 2 separate
violations have taken place). Either the registered owner of the vehicle or the
driver, if known, may be cited. However, only one citation may issue for each
violation. (1977 Code § 10.08.160)
   C.   Penalty: The penalty for such an infraction is twenty five dollars
($25.00), except for parking in a handicap zone or next to a fire hydrant that
shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00). The citation shall be paid to the City
Clerk of St. Maries within ten (10) days of the violation. Failure or refusal
to pay the fine set forth on the parking citation shall result in further
action being taken by the city, including, but not limited to, initiating
collection procedures via a debt collection service, filing a civil lawsuit for
collection of the unpaid penalty(ies), and subject to subsection E of this
section, filing a misdemeanor complaint. Provided, further, the city shall be
entitled to all fees, costs, and attorney fees incurred in the collection of
such fees, and, upon entry of judgment, the city shall have each, every, and
all rights of enforcement of a judgment as provided by the Idaho Code. (1977
Code § 10.08.140)
   D.   Parking Policy: The St. Maries City Council has promulgated its Parking
Regulations that govern parking policies within the City, which may be amended
from time to time by further Resolution of the City Council.
   E.   Misdemeanor: The failure to pay four (4) or more civil penalties
assessed for a parking violation shall constitute a misdemeanor and punishable
as set forth in section
1-4-1A of this Code. (amd. Ord. 2023-767, 3- -2023)
CHAPTER 3
MOTOR VEHICLES IN CITY PARKS
SECTION:
6-3-1: Title
6-3-2: Parking Or Use Prohibited
6-3-3: Signs
6-3-4: Vehicle Removal; Impoundment
6-3-5: Exceptions
6-3-6: Permits
6-3-7: Violation; Penalty
6-3-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and be cited as the ST. MARIES CITY PARKS PARKING
AND OPERATING OF VEHICLES PROHIBITION ORDINANCE. (1977 Code § 10.10.010)
6-3-2: PARKING OR USE PROHIBITED:
Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, no person shall park or operate
any vehicle within the confines of a city park of the city. (1977 Code §
10.10.020)
6-3-3: SIGNS:
The city shall cause to be erected signs at the entry way to all city parks,
said signs clearly designating the city park as a no parking or operating of
vehicles area. The signs so erected shall be in accordance with all state
requirements for traffic control signs. (1977 Code § 10.10.030)
6-3-4: VEHICLE REMOVAL; IMPOUNDMENT:
   A.   Removal: The police department, and all members thereof assigned to
traffic duty, are authorized to have removed and towed away by commercial
towing service, any car or other vehicle illegally parked within any one of the
city parks of the city.
   B.   Impoundment: Cars towed away for illegal parking shall be stored at
owner's risk and expense and shall be restored to the owner or operator of such
car upon payment of the commercial towing fee and the accrued storage thereon.
   C.   Unredeemed Vehicles: Any vehicle not claimed within thirty (30) days
shall be deemed to have been abandoned and thereafter processed pursuant to
Idaho laws governing abandoned vehicles 1 . (1977 Code § 10.10.040)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 5, chapter 6 of this code.
6-3-5: EXCEPTIONS:
Vehicles owned or operated by the city and used for authorized city purposes,
emergency vehicles, garbage collection vehicles being utilized in collecting
park garbage and refuse and vehicles operated by state, county and city law
enforcement officers while engaged in their official duties are exempt from the
provisions of this chapter. Areas designated by the city for parking or
operation of vehicles and so posted are also excepted. (1977 Code § 10.10.050)
6-3-6: PERMITS:
Persons or organizations having a legitimate need for parking and operating
vehicles within the confines of the city parks may apply to the city clerk for
a permit authorizing the operating and/or parking of vehicles within the
confines of the city parks. The city clerk is authorized to issue permits on an
event only basis. Any permit issued for other than an event basis must be
approved by the mayor or the city council. Permits issued pursuant to this
section will be at the sole discretion of the city. Any request for permits
denied by the city clerk or the mayor may be appealed to the city council for
reconsideration. (1977 Code § 10.10.060)
6-3-7: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person parking or operating a vehicle in a city park in violation of this
chapter shall be guilty of an infraction and upon being found to have committed
an infraction shall be punished as provided in subsection
1-4-1B of this code. (1977 Code § 10.10.070)
TITLE 7
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
STREETS AND PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
7-1-1: Supervision And Control
7-1-2: City Base And Street Grades Established
7-1-3: Design Standards And Specifications
7-1-4: Prohibited Acts And Conditions
7-1-5: Overhanging Trees And Shrubbery
7-1-6: Winter Street Policy
7-1-7: Violation; Penalty
7-1-1: SUPERVISION AND CONTROL:
   A.   Public Works Directors: All streets, alleys and public thoroughfares in
the city shall be under the immediate supervision and control of the public
works directors, subject to the orders of the mayor and the city council. (1977
Code § 12.04.010)
   B.   Building Inspector: The building inspector shall be charged with
supervision of the construction of any and all streets. Upon satisfaction of
the building inspector, based upon actual inspection and final approval by the
public works directors that construction is in compliance with all codes and
requirements, certificates of compliance shall be issued. Such certificate
shall be a copy of the signed and dated inspection record as made by the public
works directors and shall be issued prior to use. (1977 Code § 12.04.016)
7-1-2: CITY BASE AND STREET GRADES ESTABLISHED:
   A.   Baseline: A city base is fixed and established at a point at the
northwest corner of the intersection of First Street and College Avenue, the
said point being two thousand one hundred forty eight and thirty one-hundredths
feet (2,148.30') above sea level and marked by an iron bar. All official grades
and elevations fixed and established on any of the streets and avenues and
sidewalks of the city shall be with reference to and computed from the city
base as fixed and established in this section. (1977 Code § 12.04.130)
   B.   Street Grades: All grades and lines shall be established and approved
by the public works directors in accordance with ordinances establishing the
grade lines of the various streets and curbs. (1977 Code § 12.04.140)
7-1-3: DESIGN STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS 1 :
Design standards and specifications, for all streets, sidewalks, other public
ways and all right of way encroachments within the city, together with all work
and work procedures done thereon, shall be those current standards and
specifications on file with the city, and by this reference, made a part of
this chapter. (2004 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See section 11-12-1 of this code for fees.
7-1-4: PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Heavy Materials Or Vehicles: It is hereby unlawful for any person to:
      1.   Drag, push, pull or otherwise propel any poles, logs, ties, boards,
or other pieces of timber, or heavy material, over any grades or otherwise
improved streets within the city. (1977 Code § 12.04.030)
      2.   Drive, drag, pull, push or otherwise propel over or upon any graded
or otherwise improved street within the city; or cause to be driven, dragged,
pulled, pushed or propelled over the improved streets of the city, any drag
rack, logging dray, or other heavy vehicle or machine or thing which will be
destructive or tend to interfere with or injure the surface, base, or any part
of such street or avenue of the city. (1977 Code § 12.04.040)
   B.   Propelling Vehicle Over Curb: It is unlawful for any person to back,
push, or otherwise propel any auto, truck, wagon or any vehicle of any nature
whatsoever over or across any curb on any of the streets and avenues of the
city, or cause the same to be done, other than in a place specially provided
for each purpose and, if so provided, it must be done pursuant to the rules and
approval of the public works directors. (1977 Code § 12.04.050)
   C.   Coasting And Sleigh Riding: It is unlawful for any person to coast or
slide with a sled, scooter, wagon, or any other vehicle or instrument or
appliance upon any street or sidewalk within the city except that during the
sleighing season certain streets and avenues of the city may be set apart and
designated for the purpose of coasting and sleighing under such rules and
regulations as shall be adopted by the city council. (1977 Code § 12.04.060)
   D.   Driving On Sidewalks: It is unlawful for any person to drive or cause
to be driven any wagon, automobile, truck or any other vehicle of any kind or
nature across any of the sidewalks of the city other than at a place specially
constructed for such purpose. (1977 Code § 12.12.130)
   E.   Obstructions:
      1.   Gutters And Pipes: It is unlawful for any person to obstruct any of
the gutters on any street within the city, or to obstruct any artificial
carrier or conductor of any surface waters or to, in any manner, obstruct any
pipe, drain, sewer or other carrier or conductor of surface waters or sewerage
whether above or underneath any street or property within the city by placing
thereon or therein any dirt, refuse, snow, ice or any other matter or thing
which shall in any manner prevent the free discharge and drainage of water
through, over or in such gutters, pipes or other carriers or drains. (1977 Code
§ 12.04.070)
      2.   Streets: It is unlawful for any person to in any manner obstruct any
of the streets, or avenues within the city, by placing or leaving thereon any
brick, rock or any other material which will have a tendency to obstruct or
blockade the free use of such streets or avenues; provided, however, that
nothing herein contained shall prevent the city council or the public works
committee of the city from authorizing the use of such portions of any street
or avenue as may be necessary for the piling of lumber and building material to
be used in the actual construction of buildings, or in the repair or alteration
of existing buildings. (1977 Code § 12.04.080; amd. Ord. 2014-692, 2-10-2014)
7-1-5: OVERHANGING TREES AND SHRUBBERY:
All shade trees, including fruit bearing trees, located within the boundaries
of a dedicated street or alley shall have all foliage, including leaves and
branches, trimmed up to a point eight feet (8') above the level of the sidewalk
under or near said trees, and if there is no sidewalk, to a point eight and
one-half feet (8.5') above the average level of the traveled roadway opposite
said trees. (1977 Code § 10.04.020)
7-1-6: WINTER STREET POLICY:
   A.   Parking: It shall be illegal for any vehicle to be parked in such a
manner so as to impede snow removal operations. Any vehicle left in the street
or right of way may be subject to citation and/or removal, at the owner's
expense. Owners may return vehicles to "on street" parking following the
completion of the plowing operations.
Vehicles left in the right of way are left there at the owner's risk and could
be struck by a snowplow during plowing operations. In the event there is damage
to a snowplow or other city equipment caused by vehicles left in the right of
way, owners of said vehicle could be subject to reimbursing the city the cost
of the damage. The city is not liable for damage to any privately owned
vehicles, boats, trailers, etc., when parked in the city right of way.
   B.   Right Of Way Encroachments: Mailboxes, newspaper boxes, fences, and
other personal property located in the street right of way are the
responsibility of the owner. Damage to personal property located in the city
right of way resulting from plowing operations is not a reimbursable expense.
Owners of personal property located in the city right of way could be subject
to reimbursing the city should damage occur to city equipment during plowing
operations.
   C.   Accumulations From Private Property: It is unlawful for any person to
deposit or cause to be deposited, throw upon, or move onto any public street,
sidewalk, thoroughfare or other public property including right of way, any
snow, ice, dirt, soil, rock, or debris that has accumulated on any private
property.
   D.   Sidewalks: Owners and occupants of privately owned premises shall be
responsible for keeping their sidewalks and any areas adjacent to their
business or premises or any portion of their real property, including corners,
free and clear of snow and ice.
   E.   Penalty: Violation of this section or any part thereof shall be a
misdemeanor subject to punishment to the maximum allowed by Idaho Code. (Ord.
660, 12-10-2007)
7-1-7: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person who violates or fails to comply with any of the provisions of this
chapter or who, having obtained a permit hereunder, wilfully fails to comply
with the conditions herein set forth, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor
and upon conviction thereof shall be fined as provided in the general penalty
in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each successive act constitutes a new violation. (1977 Code
§§ 12.04.018A, 12.04.150; amd. Ord. 660, 12-10-2007)
CHAPTER 2
CEMETERY REGULATIONS
SECTION:
7-2-1: Cemetery Lots, Sales And Regulations
7-2-2: Permit Required
7-2-3: Rates And Charges
7-2-4: Design Standards
7-2-5: General Regulations And Restrictions
7-2-6: Prohibited Acts
7-2-7: Violation; Penalty
7-2-8: Perpetual Care Cemetery Fund; Endowment Care Funds
7-2-9: Burial Of Veterans
7-2-1: CEMETERY LOTS, SALES AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   All lots and parcels of ground in Woodlawn Cemetery which the City
shall sell will be conveyed by certificate, giving the owner the right of
possession forever, as a place of interment of the dead; subject, however, to
such rules of the Woodlawn Cemetery as shall be in force at the time of the
purchase, or that may be adopted thereafter for the general good of the
cemetery. Transfer or sale of ownership of lots must be completed by
"quitclaim" deed and filed at City Hall. If ownership is transferred by
inheritance, such documents must be filed at City Hall. A transfer fee shall be
paid as set by resolution of the City Council for each transfer of a lot.
   B.   All lots shall be sold and/or reserved on a next available space in the
desired block or row. The purpose of this requirement is to keep uniformity in
the cemetery and maintenance expenses down. Graves are available for purchase
at time of need or reserved by purchase prior to need going from east to west.
   C.   Lots in the designated veterans' section may not be reserved except as
may be allowed by resolution of the City Council.
   D.   A maximum of three (3) urns and one body may be placed on a single lot.
If a full body burial does not exist, a maximum of four (4) urns may be placed
on a single lot. (Ord. 2018-722, 6-11-2018)
7-2-2: PERMIT REQUIRED:
When a body is to be removed from one part of the cemetery to another part of
the cemetery, or to another place of interment, a permit issued by the
Department of Health and Welfare must be obtained prior to the removal of the
body. The removal must be witnessed by a licensed funeral director. (Ord. 2018-
722, 6-11-2018)
7-2-3: RATES AND CHARGES:
   A.   The fees charged to purchase cemetery spaces and columbarium niches,
and the fees charged for opening and closing of the space or columbarium, and
the fee charged for perpetual care will be as stated in the current cemetery
fee schedule, as set forth in that certain amending ordinance 635, as adopted
on January 27, 2003, until such time as the fee schedule may be changed by
resolution at any time deemed necessary by the City Council.
   B.   Lots in any area of the cemetery, including the veterans' section are
at no cost to veterans who have been residents of Benewah County for five (5)
or more consecutive years at any time during their lifetime. Perpetual care and
opening and closing fees must still be paid. Lots for the veteran's spouse are
to be paid in accordance to the fee set by City Council. (Ord. 2018-722, 6-11-
2018)
7-2-4: DESIGN STANDARDS:
   A.   Monuments And Headstones: No monument or headstone shall be placed in
any lot without permission of the Superintendent and it shall be his/her duty
to direct and supervise the location and placement of the same, and no monument
or headstone shall be so placed as to interfere with any important effects upon
adjoining lots. The cement foundation of all monuments and headstones shall not
be less than four inches (4") thick, and a minimum of six inches (6") of cement
must border the headstone with the cement base being laid flush with ground
level. The first monument or headstone placed on lot is not required to be
flush with the ground. Any additional monuments or headstones placed on the
same lot must be flush to the ground.
   B.   Fences, Railings And Ornamentation:
      1.   Fences And Railings Prohibited: No lot or parcel of ground shall be
surrounded by any so called fence, railing, embankment or ditch.
      2.   Ornamental Objects: No lot shall contain any glass objects, seat, or
metal or rock works, or any other ornamental objects, except by written
permission of the Superintendent. No ornamentation, decorating monuments or
headstones may be wider than the headstone. The cement foundation of the
monument or headstone must be at least four inches (4") thick and extend a
minimum of six inches (6") from the ornamentation and must be laid at ground
level. No ornamentation may extend higher than thirty six inches (36") from the
ground.
      3.   Trees And Shrubs: No lot shall be decorated by its owner or other
parties interested therein with any tree or shrub without the written
permission of the Superintendent. The Superintendent shall, under the direction
of the City Council, have entire charge of the plantings of trees and shrubs,
in accordance with the general plan, for the ornamentation of the grounds. If
any trees and shrubs shall become, by means of its roots, branches, or
otherwise, detrimental to adjacent lots or avenues, or for any reason its
removal shall become necessary or advisable, the Superintendent shall have the
right, and it shall be his/her duty, to remove such trees or shrubs or any part
thereof.
   C.   Memory Wall Space: All engravings to be placed on the memory wall space
shall measure three inches by nineteen inches (3" x 19"). The engravings shall
contain the deceased person's name, year of birth, and year of death and shall
be engraved using size three-fourths inch (3/4") in font roman lettering. (Ord.
2018-722, 6-11-2018)
7-2-5: GENERAL REGULATIONS AND RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Funeral Hours Permitted: Funerals shall, unless special permission be
granted by the Superintendent, take place between the hours of nine o'clock (9:
00) A.M. and four o'clock (4:00) P.M.
   B.   Driving Restrictions: Fast driving and driving off the pavement are
strictly prohibited.
   C.   Workers: In every case where non-City employee workmen are employed by
owners of lots to do work or make improvements in or about said lots, such
workmen shall be subject to the control and direction of the Superintendent;
and any workman who shall neglect or refuse to obey said direction, or who
shall carelessly or wilfully do injury to adjacent lots, or who shall neglect
to remove any rubbish accumulated in his work, will not thereafter be permitted
to work in the grounds of the cemetery.
   D.   Removal Of Undesirable Persons: The Superintendent and cemetery
employees are instructed to prevent the entrance of all improper persons, and
also all those who may be known to have at any time wilfully transgressed the
rules of the cemetery. It is also the Superintendent's duty to remove from the
grounds all who violate any of the rules, or commit any trespass or
depredation. (Ord. 2018-722, 6-11-2018)
7-2-6: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   Picnics: Picnics, parties, or persons with refreshments or liquors will
not be admitted on the grounds.
   B.   Firearms And Dogs: No person with firearms will be permitted on the
grounds of the cemetery, with the exception of military salutes. Dogs must be
confined to the vehicle at all times.
   C.   Disturbing Behavior: Boisterous and profane language, and any conduct
tending to disturb the quiet and good order of the cemetery, are forbidden.
   D.   Picking Flowers; Defacing Property: Visitors and all persons who shall
enter the grounds are forbidden to break or injure any tree or shrub, pick
flowers, or to write upon, deface, or desecrate any wall, monument, or
gravestone.
   E.   Tipping Attendants: No money shall be paid to the attendants at the
entrance or on the grounds. (Ord. 2018-722, 6-11-2018)
7-2-7: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be
punished as set forth in title 1, chapter 4 of this Code. (Ord. 2018-722, 6-11-
2018)
7-2-8: PERPETUAL CARE CEMETERY FUND; ENDOWMENT CARE FUNDS:
A perpetual care fee shall be charged in accordance with any current cemetery
fee schedule then in effect, for the purpose of maintaining a permanent,
Perpetual Care Reserve Fund of not less than fifty thousand dollars
($50,000.00), from which only the interest earned may be used for cemetery
maintenance and operations. In addition to said reserve fund, all perpetual
care fees or interest earned on the reserve fund shall be deposited to the
Woodlawn Cemetery account or accounts and shall be segregated from the general
funds of the City of St. Maries at the end of each quarter into such account or
accounts, and shall be used solely for expenditures and capital improvements to
Woodlawn Cemetery, City of St. Maries. Any endowment funds received from any
source, such as an estate, a testamentary bequest, a trust distribution, a
charitable donation or gift that are specifically designated to be used for a
special purpose shall be segregated from other cemetery funds and shall be used
solely for the purpose so designated. (Ord. 2018-722, 6-11-2018)
7-2-9: BURIAL OF VETERANS:
   A.   The City Council may by resolution designate a section or sections in
the cemetery for burial of veterans. The remains of the veteran's spouse may be
placed in the same lot as the veteran or in an adjacent lot at the time of
need. If the remains of the veteran's spouse are placed in the veterans'
section before the remains of the veteran, the veteran must agree in writing
(with a contract with the City or a prepaid funeral plan with a funeral home
indicating interment wishes) at that time to have his remains placed in the
same lot, or in a lot adjacent to the remains of the spouse.
   B.   Lots in the veterans' section may not be reserved except as may be
allowed by resolution of the City Council. Veterans may reserve a lot in any
area of the cemetery except in a designated veterans' section. Blocks 141 to
143 rows A and B are to be used by a veteran receiving, at the time of the
veteran's death or veteran's spouse, one single lot. There will be no adjacent
spaces for the veteran's spouse who desires burial. One body and one urn or up
to three (3) urns may be placed in a single veteran's lot. Block 144 is
reserved for only veterans and adjacent spaces for spouse at time of need where
cremation is undesirable to the veteran and the veteran's spouse for whatever
reason including religious or personal concerns. (Ord. 2018-722, 6-11-2018)
CHAPTER 3
TREES AND SHRUBS
SECTION:
7-3-1: Title
7-3-2: Purpose
7-3-3: Definitions
7-3-4: Tree Committee
7-3-5: Authority And Control Over Trees
7-3-6: Removal Of Public Trees And Shrubs
7-3-7: Planting Of Public Trees And Shrubs
7-3-8: Permit Required
7-3-9: Damaging, Destroying Or Topping Of Public Trees Or Shrubs
7-3-10: Care Of Trees Within The City
7-3-11: Penalty
7-3-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be titled as the ST. MARIES TREE ORDINANCE.
(Ord. 650-1, 3-13-2006)
7-3-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to protect trees and shrubs planted and growing
within the public rights of ways, city parks, and within or on all other
property owned or otherwise under the control of the city; to establish and
maintain species variety and age diversity of trees on public lands in the
city; to maintain city trees in a healthy and nonhazardous condition through
standard arboricultural practices. (Ord. 650-1, 3-13-2006)
7-3-3: DEFINITIONS:
DAMAGES: Injury or harm that impairs the health, vigor, value, or usefulness of
a tree, as determined by the St. Maries tree committee.
PARK TREE: Any tree within the boundaries of a designated city park.
PARKWAY: That portion of a street between a roadway and sidewalk.
PUBLIC PROPERTY: Property owned by the city of St. Maries either in fee simple
absolute, or implied, or expressly dedicated to the public for present or
future use for purposes of vehicular or pedestrian traffic, or for public
easements.
PUBLIC TREE OR SHRUB: Any tree or shrub that is situated in such a manner that
fifty one percent (51%) or more of the tree trunk or shrub base at ground level
is on public property or public right of way.
SIDEWALK: That portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral lines
of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines intended for the use of
pedestrians.
STREET: The entire width between the boundary lines of a public right of way
dedicated or deeded to the city for use of the public for purposes of vehicular
travel, whether or not maintained by the city and whether or not open for
vehicular traffic.
STREET TREE: Any tree, shrub or other woody vegetation on lands within any city
right of way. (Ord. 650-1, 3-13-2006)
7-3-4: TREE COMMITTEE:
   A.   Established: There is hereby created a St. Maries tree committee. The
St. Maries tree committee shall consist of a minimum of four (4) volunteer
members who are residents of this community. Members of the committee shall be
appointed by the mayor with the approval of the council to serve without
compensation. A city council member or employee of the city of St. Maries shall
be appointed to serve as council liaison.
   B.   Duties And Responsibilities Of Committee Members: It shall be the
responsibility of the St. Maries tree committee to:
      1.   Study, investigate, develop and update a written plan for the
selection, care, preservation, pruning, planting, replanting, removal or
disposition of trees and shrubs in the public streets and all other public
property or right of way. This plan shall constitute the official comprehensive
city tree plan for the city of St. Maries.
      2.   Distribute guidelines for the pruning of trees located on all city
properties and within city rights of way.
      3.   Distribute a tree list consisting of acceptable varieties of trees,
acceptable size of trees, proper planting and spacing instructions for trees
located within the rights of way.
      4.   Assist the city in planning and implementing Arbor Day celebrations
and activities.
      5.   Oversee planting, pruning, spraying, preserving and removal of trees
on all public properties and rights of way.
      6.   Encourage and solicit donations and other funding for the city tree
program.
   C.   Duties And Responsibilities Of Committee Chairperson: It shall be the
responsibility of the St. Maries tree committee chairperson to:
      1.   Preside over St. Maries tree committee meetings and report
activities to the liaison.
      2.   Organize materials for public education and distribution. (Ord. 650-
1, 3-13-2006)
7-3-5: AUTHORITY AND CONTROL OVER TREES:
The mayor and council have complete authority and control over all trees on or
within the city properties. The city, with advice from the tree committee may
remove or cause the removal of public or private trees or branches which create
a hazard to the public health and safety of the community. (Ord. 650-1, 3-13-
2006)
7-3-6: REMOVAL OF PUBLIC TREES AND SHRUBS:
It is the policy of the city that public trees shall not be removed without a
permit from the tree committee. Permits will be granted pursuant to the
criteria specified below:
   A.   The tree is significantly diseased, harboring injurious insects or
pathogens, is dead or near dead and constitutes a public safety hazard.
   B.   The tree interferes with overhead utility lines and creates a public
safety hazard.
   C.   The tree causes a sight obstruction in which pruning will not resolve
the problem.
   D.   Any other criteria deemed appropriate by the St. Maries tree committee.
(Ord. 650-1, 3-13-2006)
7-3-7: PLANTING OF PUBLIC TREES AND SHRUBS:
It is the policy of the city of St. Maries that public trees and shrubs shall
not be planted without a permit from the tree committee. Permits will be
granted after the committee determines the proposed location of the planting
will not interfere with overhead utility lines and will not hamper the line of
sight for traffic. (Ord. 650-1, 3-13-2006)
7-3-8: PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   It is unlawful to plant or remove any tree or shrub on or within the
public properties without first procuring a permit from the tree committee.
   B.   Any person desiring a permit to plant or remove a tree or shrub on or
within the city properties shall file with the city clerk or tree committee
chairperson an application to do so.
   C.   The fee for such permits shall be as established by resolution of the
city council and amended from time to time.
   D.   Upon the filing of such permit, the tree committee shall investigate
the proposed work and, if in their judgment it is desirable and should be done,
shall issue a written permit. Denial of a permit shall be issued in writing.
   E.   In addition to a permit, a temporary street closure approval from the
city is required whenever such tree work will impair the free and full use of
any sidewalk, street or alley as determined by the city public works director.
(Ord. 650-1, 3-13-2006; amd. Ord. 2023-776, 12-21-2023)
7-3-9: DAMAGING, DESTROYING OR TOPPING OF PUBLIC TREES OR SHRUBS:
It is unlawful for any person to:
   A.   Damage, mutilate or destroy any public tree or shrub of the city.
   B.   Store or place, or cause to be stored or placed: oil, gasoline,
chemicals, or any other materials harmful to trees and shrubs, around or near
public trees or shrubs.
   C.   Attach a potentially harmful device or structure (i.e., tree houses,
signs, etc.) to or on public trees unless otherwise authorized by the city.
   D.   Make excavations in the soil near roots of public trees or shrubs
unless appropriate measures are taken to prevent exposed soil from drying out.
   E.   Damage a public tree or shrub by "topping", without a permit from the
tree committee. (Ord. 650-1, 3-13-2006)
7-3-10: CARE OF TREES WITHIN THE CITY:
   A.   City Responsibilities: The city shall be responsible for the following:
      1.   Care and maintenance of park trees and shrubs.
      2.   Removal of dead, diseased or hazardous park trees, limbs, and
shrubs.
      3.   Controlling insects and diseases of park trees and shrubs.
      4.   Managing insect and disease management programs for all trees in the
city.
   B.   Private Citizens' Responsibilities: Every owner shall be responsible
for the following:
      1.   Repairing damage done to sidewalks and surrounding areas by the
roots of private trees or shrubs, or public trees and shrubs located on the
right of way adjacent to the owner's private real property.
      2.   Control of significant pests for private trees and shrubs on the
owner's private property.
      3.   Removal of any private tree or shrub which, by reason of location or
condition, constitutes an imminent danger to the health, safety or welfare of
the general public. (Ord. 650-1, 3-13-2006)
7-3-11: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter is guilty of an
infraction and is subject to penalty not exceeding one hundred dollars
($100.00) as provided in subsection 1-4-1B of this code. (Ord. 650-1, 3-13-
2006)
CHAPTER 4
SPEED LIMITS
SECTIONS
7-4-1: Applicability Of State And City Regulations
7-4-2: Reasonable And Prudent Speed
7-4-3: Specific Speed Limits
7-4-4: Authority To Alter Speed Limits
7-4-1: APPLICABILITY OF STATE AND CITY REGULATIONS:
The state traffic laws regulating the speed of vehicles shall be applicable
upon all streets within the city except as in this section, as authorized by
state law, hereby declares and determines regulations shall be applicable upon
specified streets or in certain areas, in which event, it shall be unlawful for
any person to drive a vehicle at a speed in excess of any speed so declared in
this section when signs are in place giving notice thereof. (Ord. 2022-753, 1-
10-2022)
7-4-2: REASONABLE AND PRUDENT SPEED:
No person shall drive a vehicle on a street or highway within the city at speed
greater than is reasonable and prudent under the conditions and having regard
to the actual and potential hazards then existing. In every event, speed shall
be so controlled as may be necessary to avoid colliding with any person,
vehicle, or other conveyance on or entering the street or highway in compliance
with legal requirements and the duty of all persons to use due care. (Ord.
2022-753, 1-10-2022)
7-4-3: SPECIFIC SPEED LIMITS:
Except when a special hazard exists that requires lower speed for compliance
with section
7-4-2 of this chapter, the limits specified in this subsection or established
as hereinafter authorized shall be lawful speeds, and any speed in excess of
the limits specified shall be prima facie evidence that such speed is not
reasonable or prudent, and that it is unlawful.
   A.   Alleys: The speed limit shall be ten (10) miles per hour in any alley.
   B.   School Zones: The speed limit shall be fifteen (15) miles per hour when
passing any school building or when crossing any marked school zone, such zone
to extend one hundred fifty feet (150'), unless otherwise posted, in either
direction from any marked school crossing when appropriate signs giving notice
thereof are erected.
   C.   All Other Streets: The speed limit shall be twenty-five (25) miles per
hour upon all other streets in the city. (Ord. 2022-753, 1-10-2022)
7-4-4: AUTHORITY TO ALTER SPEED LIMITS:
Whenever the city council determines, on the basis of an engineering or traffic
investigation, and the residential, urban or business character of the
neighborhood abutting the street or highway in a residential, business or urban
district, that the speed limit permitted under this section is greater than is
reasonable and safe under the conditions found to exist upon a street of
highway or because of the residential, urban or business character of the
neighborhood abutting the street or highway in a residential, business or urban
district, the city council may determine and declare a reasonable and safe
maximum limit which decreases the limit within a residential, business or urban
district. (Ord. 2022-753, 1-10-2022)
TITLE 8
WATER AND SEWER
CHAPTER 1
SEWER REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-1-1: Title
8-1-2: Definitions
8-1-3: Use Of Sewers Required
8-1-4: Private Sewage Disposal
8-1-5: Service Outside City
8-1-6: Building Sewers And Connections
8-1-7: Prohibited Discharge
8-1-8: Use Regulations
8-1-9: Protection From Damage
8-1-10: Inspectors, Power And Authority
8-1-11: Penalty
8-1-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the ST. MARIES SEWER ORDINANCE.
(1977 Code § 13.02.010)
8-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meaning of terms used
in this chapter shall be as follows:
BOD (Denoting BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND): The quantity of oxygen utilized in
the biochemical oxidation or organic matter under standard laboratory procedure
in five (5) days at twenty degrees centigrade (20°C) expressed in milligrams
per liter.
BUILDING DRAIN: That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage system
which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes inside
the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer, beginning five
feet (5') (1.5 m) outside the inner face of the building wall.
BUILDING SEWER: The extension from the building drain to the point of
connection with the public sewer or other place of disposal.
COMBINED SEWER: A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
GARBAGE: Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking and
dispensation of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
INDUSTRIAL WASTES: The liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing processes,
trade or business as distinct from sanitary sewage.
NATURAL OUTLET: Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body
of surface or ground water.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group.
pH: The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams per
liter of solution.
PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE: The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that has been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1/2") (1.27 cm) in any
dimension.
PUBLIC SEWER: A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights, and is controlled by public authority.
SANITARY SEWER: A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface and
ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
SEWAGE: A combination of the water carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions and industrial establishments, together with such
ground, surface and stormwaters as may be present.
SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT: Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
SEWAGE WORKS: All facilities for collecting, dumping, treating and disposing of
sewage.
SEWER: A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
SHALL, MAY: "Shall" is mandatory; "may" is permissive.
SLUG: Any discharge of water, sewage, or waste which in concentration of any
given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any period of duration
longer than fifteen (15) minutes more than five (5) times the average twenty
four (24) hour concentration or flows during normal operation.
STORM DRAIN (Sometimes Termed STORM SEWER): A sewer which carries storm and
surface waters and drainage, but excludes sewage and industrial wastes, other
than unpolluted cooling water.
SUPERINTENDENT: The Superintendent of Public Works of the City of St. Maries,
or his authorized deputy, agent or representative.
SUSPENDED SOLIDS: Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water, sewage, or other liquids, and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
WATERCOURSE: A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously or
intermittently. (1977 Code § 13.02.020; amd. Ord. 2018-721, 5-14-2018)
8-1-3: USE OF SEWERS REQUIRED:
   A.   Prohibited Deposits: It is unlawful for any person to place, deposit,
or permit to be deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private
property within the City or in any area under the jurisdiction of the City, any
human or animal excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
   B.   Prohibited Discharge: It is unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet
within the City or in any area under the jurisdiction of the City, any sewage
or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   C.   Privies; Septic Tanks: Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be
unlawful to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool
or other facility intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
   D.   Toilet Facilities: The owners of all houses, buildings or properties
used for human occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes, situated
within the City and abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which
there is now located or may in the future be located a public sanitary or
combined sewer of the City, is required at his expense to install suitable
toilet facilities therein, and to connect such facilities directly with the
proper public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this chapter within
ninety (90) days after date of official notice to do so, provided that said
public sewer is within one hundred feet (100') of the property line. (1977 Code
§ 13.02.030)
8-1-4: PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL:
   A.   Public System Unavailable: Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is
not available under the provisions of subsection
8-1-3D of this chapter, the building sewer shall be connected to a private
sewage disposal system complying with the provisions of this section.
   B.   Permit; Fee:
      1.   Permit Required: Before commencement of construction of a private
sewage disposal system the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by
the Superintendent.
      2.   Application; Form: The application for such permit shall be made on
a form furnished by the City, which the applicant shall supplement by any
plans, specifications and other information as are deemed necessary by the
Superintendent.
      3.   Fee: A permit and inspection fee shall be paid to the City at the
time the application is filed. The amount of the fee shall be as established by
resolution of the city council and amended from time to time.
   C.   Permit Becomes Effective; Inspection: A permit for a private sewage
disposal system shall not become effective until the installation is completed
to the satisfaction of the Superintendent. He shall be allowed to inspect the
work at any stage of construction and, in any event, the applicant for the
permit shall notify the Superintendent when the work is ready for final
inspection and before any underground portions are covered. The inspection
shall be made within twenty four (24) hours of the receipt of notice by the
Superintendent.
   D.   Specifications Of System: The type, capacities, location and layout of
a private sewage disposal system shall comply with all recommendations of the
Idaho Department of Health and Welfare. No permit shall be issued for any
private sewage disposal system employing subsurface soil absorption facilities
where the area of the lot is less than ten thousand (10,000) square feet. No
septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any natural outlet.
   E.   Availability Of Public System: At such time as a public sewer becomes
available to a property served by a private sewage disposal system, as provided
in subsection D of this section, a direct connection shall be made to the
public sewer in compliance with this chapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools
and similar private sewage disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filled
with suitable material.
   F.   Operation Of Private System: The owner shall operate and maintain the
private sewage disposal facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no
expense to the City.
   G.   Additional Requirements: No statement contained in this section shall
be construed to interfere with any additional requirements that may be imposed
by the Health Officer.
   H.   Time Limitation: When a public sewer becomes available, the building
sewer shall be connected to said sewer within sixty (60) days and the private
sewage disposal system shall be cleaned of sludge and filled with clean bankrun
gravel or dirt. (1977 Code § 13.02.040; amd. Ord. 2023-776, 12-21-2023)
8-1-5: SERVICE OUTSIDE CITY:
The City from time to time may agree to allow access to the City sewer by users
from outside the City. By connecting on to the City sewer system, users,
whether residing within or outside the City limits, shall be deemed to have
given consent to be bound and governed by the provisions of this chapter. (1977
Code § 13.02.050)
8-1-6: BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS:
   A.   Permit Required: No unauthorized personnel shall uncover, make any
connections with or opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or
appurtenance thereof without first obtaining a written permit from the
Superintendent.
   B.   Classes Of Permits; Application: There shall be two (2) classes of
building sewer permits: 1) for residential and commercial service, and 2) for
service to establishments producing industrial wastes. In either case, the
owner or his agent shall make application on a special form furnished by the
City. The permit application shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications
or other information considered pertinent in the judgment of the
Superintendent.
   C.   Permit And Inspection Fee: A permit and inspection fee for a sewer
permit shall be paid to the City at the time the application is filed. The
permit and inspection fee shall be as established by resolution of the city
council and amended from time to time.
   D.   Costs; Indemnification:
      1.   Connection To Curb: The City shall provide the connection mechanism
and the service pipe from the City sewer main to the curb, or at the discretion
of the City, to the lot line of the property to be served provided the distance
is not greater than seventy five feet (75'). The owner of the property to be
served shall bear the expense of installing the connection mechanism and the
service pipe.
      2.   All Other Costs: All pipe in excess of seventy five feet (75') or
extending beyond the curb or the lot line, shall be paid for by the owner of
the property served. Any additional costs and expenses incident to the
installation and connection of the building sewer shall be borne by the owner.
      3.   Indemnity: The owner shall indemnify the City from any loss or
damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the
building sewer.
   E.   Breaks Or Blockages:
      1.   The City will be responsible for repair to breaks or blockages that
occur to the public sewer main.
      2.   The property owner will be responsible for breaks or blockages that
occur to the building sewer.
      3.   Where there is a break or blockage and it is doubtful whether the
break or blockage is located on the public sewer main or in the building sewer,
the City shall have the charge of the repairs but the cost of the repairs shall
be assessed to the private property owner in the event the break or blockage is
in the building sewer.
   F.   Cleanout Boxes: For all new construction, the owner shall be required
to install a cleanout in the lateral pipe at the lot line.
   G.   Separate Sewers Required; Exception: A separate and independent
building sewer shall be provided for every building; except where one building
stands at the rear of another on an interior lot and no private sewer is
available or can be constructed to the rear building through an adjoining
alley, court, yard or driveway, the building sewer from the front building may
be extended to the rear building and the whole considered as one building
sewer. Each building shall have its own connection to the City sewer main.
   H.   Existing Building Sewers: Old building sewers may be used in connection
with new buildings only when they are found, on examination and test by the
Superintendent, to meet all requirements of this chapter.
   I.   Specifications: The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction
of a building sewer and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the
pipe, jointing, testing and backfilling the trench shall all conform to the
requirements of the Building and Plumbing Codes or other applicable rules and
regulations of the City. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification
thereof, the materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications
of the ASTM and WPCF Manual of Practice No. 9 shall apply.
   J.   Elevation: Whenever possible the building sewer shall be brought to the
building at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which
any building main is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer,
sanitary sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved
means and discharged to the building sewer.
   K.   Storm Drainage Prohibited: No person shall make connection of roof
downspouts, exterior foundation drains, areaway drains or other sources of
surface runoff of groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in
turn is connected directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   L.   Compliance Required: The connection of the building sewer shall conform
to the requirements of the Building and Plumbing Codes or other applicable
rules and regulations of the City, or the procedures set forth in appropriate
specifications of the ASTM and the WPCF Manual of Practice No. 9. All such
connections shall be made gastight and watertight. Any deviation from the
prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the Superintendent
before installation.
   M.   Inspection; Connection: The applicant for the building sewer permit
shall notify the Superintendent when the building sewer is ready for inspection
and connection to the public sewer. The inspection shall be done prior to fill
being placed over the connection and sewer line. The connection shall be made
under the supervision of the Superintendent or his representative.
   N.   Excavations: All excavations for building sewer installation shall be
adequately guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from
hazard. Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the
course of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the City. The
owner shall bear the cost of restoring the streets, sidewalks, parkways and
other public property. (Ord. 2018-721, 5-14-2018; amd. Ord. 2023-776, 12-21-
2023)
8-1-7: PROHIBITED DISCHARGE:
   A.   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any stormwater,
surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated
cooling water or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
   B.   Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers,
or to a natural outlet approved by the Superintendent. Industrial cooling water
or unpolluted process waters may be discharged, on approval of the
Superintendent, to a storm sewer, combined sewer or natural outlet.
   C.   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following waters or wastes to any public sewers:
      1.   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
      2.   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids
or gasses in sufficient quantity, singly or by interaction with other wastes to
injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a hazard to
humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard in the
receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant, including, but not limited to,
cyanides in excess of two milligrams per liter (2 mg/L) as CN in the wastes as
discharged to the public sewer;
      3.   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment
and personnel of the sewage works;
      4.   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works, such as but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, etc., either whole
or ground by garbage grinders.
   D.   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, water or wastes if it appears likely in the
opinion of the superintendent that such wastes can harm either the sewers,
sewage treatment process, or equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving
stream, or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property, or constitute a
nuisance. In forming his opinion as to the acceptability of these wastes, the
superintendent will give the consideration to such factors as to quantities of
subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of
construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment process, the sewers,
capacity of the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of wastes in the
sewage treatment plant, and other pertinent factors. The substances prohibited
are:
      1.   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than one hundred
fifty degrees Fahrenheit (150°F) (65°C);
      2.   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease or oils, emulsified
or not, in excess of one hundred (100) mg/l or containing substances which may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between thirty two degrees
Fahrenheit (32°F) and one hundred fifty degrees Fahrenheit (150°F) (0° and
65°C);
      3.   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder with a motor three-fourths (3/4)
horsepower or greater shall be subject to review and approval of the
superintendent;
      4.   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling wastes or
concentrated plating solutions, whether neutralized or not;
      5.   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc, and
similar objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the superintendent for such materials;
      6.   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste producing or
odor producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the superintendent as necessary, after treatment of the
composite sewage, to meet the requirements of the state, federal or other
public agencies or jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters;
      7.   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such halflife or
concentrations as may exceed limits established by the superintendent in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
      8.   Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of nine and five- tenths
(9.5);
      9.   Materials which exert or cause:
         a.   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids, such as, but
not limited to, fullers earth, lime slurries, and lime residues, or of
dissolved solids, such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride or sodium
sulfate;
         b.   Excessive discoloration, such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions;
         c.   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand, or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works;
         d.   Unusual volume of flow or concentrations of wastes constituting
"slugs" as defined in section
8-1-2 of this chapter;
      10.   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters. (1977 Code § 13.02.070)
8-1-8: USE REGULATIONS:
   A.   Power Of Superintendent: If any waters or wastes are discharged or are
proposed to be discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the
substances or possess the characteristics enumerated in subsection
8-1-7D of this chapter, and which in the judgment of the superintendent may
have a deleterious effect upon the sewage works, processes, equipment, or
receiving waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a
public nuisance, the superintendent may:
      1.   Reject the wastes;
      2.   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to the
public sewers;
      3.   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
      4.   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating the
wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charge under the provision of
subsection F of this section.
If the superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of water flows,
the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be subject to the
review and approval of the superintendent and subject to the requirements of
all applicable codes, ordinances and laws.
   B.   Interceptors: Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when,
in the opinion of the superintendent, they are necessary for the proper
handling of liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any
flammable wastes, sand or other harmful ingredients; except that such
interceptors shall not be required for private living quarters or dwelling
units. All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by the
superintendent and shall be located as to be readily and easily accessible for
cleaning and inspection.
   C.   Pretreatment: Where preliminary treatment or flow equalizing facilities
are provided for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in
satisfactory and effective operation by the owner at his expense.
   D.   Control Manhole: When required by the superintendent, the owner of any
property serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install
a suitable control manhole together with such necessary meters and other
appurtenances in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and
measurement of the wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and
safely located, and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by
the superintendent. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his expense,
and shall be maintained by him so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
   E.   Measurements, Tests And Analysis: All measurements, tests and analyses
of the characteristics of waters and wastes to which reference is made in this
chapter shall be determined in accordance with the latest edition of "Standard
Methods For The Examination Of Water And Wastewater", published by the American
Public Health Association, and shall be determined at the control manhole
provided, or upon suitable samples taken at said control manhole. In the event
that no special manhole has been required, the control manhole shall be
considered to be the nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer to the
point at which the building sewer is connected. Sampling shall be carried out
by customarily accepted methods to reflect the effect of constituents upon the
sewage works and to determine the existence of hazards to life, limb and
property. (The particular analyses involved will determine whether a 24-hour
composite of all outfalls of a premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample
or samples should be taken. Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids
analyses are obtained from 24-hour composites of all outfalls whereas pHs are
determined from periodic grab samples.)
   F.   Special Agreement: No statement contained in this section shall be
construed as preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the city
and any industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or
character may be accepted by the city for treatment, subject to payment
therefor, by the industrial concern. (1977 Code § 13.02.070)
8-1-9: PROTECTION FROM DAMAGE:
No unauthorized person shall maliciously, wilfully or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is a part of the sewage works. Any person violating this
provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly
conduct. (1977 Code § 13.02.080)
8-1-10: INSPECTORS, POWER AND AUTHORITY:
   A.   Permitted Entry: The superintendent and other duly authorized employees
of the city bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to
enter all properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling and testing in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Inquiry To Processes: The superintendent or his representatives shall
have no authority to inquire into any processes including metallurgical,
chemical, oil, refining, ceramic, paper or other industries beyond that point
having a direct bearing on the kind and sources of discharge to the sewers or
waterways or facilities for waste treatment.
   C.   Safety Rules: While performing the necessary work on private properties
referred to in subsection A of this section, the superintendent or duly
authorized employees of the city shall observe all safety rules applicable to
the premises established by the company and the company shall be held harmless
for injury or death to the city employees and the city shall indemnify the
company against loss or damage to its property by city employees and against
liability claims and demands for personal injury or property damage asserted
against the company and growing out of the gauging and sampling operation,
except as such may be caused by negligence or failure of the company to
maintain safe conditions as required in subsection 8-1-8D of this chapter.
   D.   Entry To Easement: The superintendent and other duly authorized
employees of the city bearing property credentials and identification shall be
permitted to enter all private properties through which the city holds a duly
negotiated easement for the purpose of, but not limited to, inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of
the sewage works lying within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if
any, on said easement, shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the
duly negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved. (1977
Code § 13.02.090)
8-1-11: PENALTY:
   A.   Notice Of Violation: Any person found to be violating any provision of
this chapter, except section
8-1-9, shall be served by the city with written notice stating the nature of
the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in
such notice, permanently cease all violations.
   B.   Failure To Comply: Any person who shall continue any violation beyond
the time limit provided for in subsection A of this section, shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor, and on conviction thereof shall be fined in the amount not
exceeding one hundred dollars ($100.00) per day for each violation. Each day in
which such violations shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
   C.   Liability For Damage: Any person violating any of the provisions of
this chapter shall become liable to the city for any expense, loss or damage
occasioned by the city by reason of such violation. (1977 Code § 13.02.100)
CHAPTER 2
SEWER RATES
SECTION:
8-2-1: Title
8-2-2: Purpose
8-2-3: Applicability
8-2-4: Minimum Rates
8-2-5: Reserved
8-2-6: Periodic Review
8-2-7: Annual Notification
8-2-8: Retained Authority
8-2-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the CITY SEWER RATE ORDINANCE.
(1977 Code § 13.06.010)
8-2-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter shall be to provide for the health of the residents
of the city by providing for the means by which the city's sanitary sewer
system may be adequately operated and maintained. (1977 Code § 13.06.020)
8-2-3: APPLICABILITY:
The rates prescribed in this chapter shall apply to all structures, homes and
buildings or other units wherein an independent sewer connection is in use; all
dwellings and structures designed for human occupancy shall be deemed to be
user units within the meaning of this section. (1977 Code § 13.06.030)
8-2-4: MINIMUM RATES:
   A.   Inside City Limits: The basic minimum rate for sewer services furnished
by the city to sewer service users within the city shall be established by
resolution of the city council and amended from time to time.
   B.   Outside City Limits: The minimum rate for residential sewer service and
other sewer service outside the city limits of the city shall be established by
resolution of the city council and amended from time to time. (1977 Code §§
13.06.040 and 13.06.050; amd. 2004 Code; Ord. 2023-776, 12-21-2023)
8-2-5: RESERVED:
Reserved by Ord. 2023-776, 12-21-2023.
8-2-6: PERIODIC REVIEW:
The city shall conduct a periodic review of the rate basis for establishing
sewer user charges and the rate schedules as provided herein and as per adopted
user charge system shall be revised from time to time as may be indicated by
each periodic review. Periodic reviews shall be conducted no less frequently
then biannually. (1977 Code § 13.06.070)
8-2-7: ANNUAL NOTIFICATION:
The city shall, on an annual basis, notify each user of that portion of the
user charge attributable to wastewater treatment services. (1977 Code §
13.06.080)
8-2-8: RETAINED AUTHORITY:
These rates may be changed or altered at any time by resolution of the city
council or by amendment of this chapter as in the opinion of the city council
such change is deemed advisable. (1977 Code § 13.06.090)
CHAPTER 3
WATER REGULATIONS
ARTICLE A. GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
8-3A-1: Supervision
8-3A-2: Application For Tapping And Connection Permit
8-3A-3: Installation And Maintenance Of Equipment
8-3A-4: Excavations
8-3A-5: Shutoff Permitted
8-3A-1: SUPERVISION:
   A.   The public works directors shall be the head of the water department
and subject only to the orders of the city council. The public works directors
shall perform the duties herein prescribed for the water department of the
city, except such duties as may be specifically assigned to the city treasurer
as the clerk of the water department. (1977 Code § 13.08.010)
   B.   The water department shall consist of the city treasurer as clerk of
the water department, and the public works directors, who shall carry out all
the provisions of this chapter and shall be subject only in matters of
discretion to the city council. (1977 Code § 13.08.020)
8-3A-2: APPLICATION FOR TAPPING AND CONNECTION PERMIT:
   A.   Applicant: All applications for the tapping or connection with any
water mains must be made at the office of the water department by the owner of
the property to be served, or their legal agents.
   B.   Required Information: The applicant shall fully state all purposes for
which the water is required, the size and number of taps or other outlets from
which the water is to be drawn, and the number of the lot and block to which
the water is to be taken and used and the street from which it is desired that
the service pipe shall be laid.
   C.   Rules And Regulations: Such application shall show upon its face that
the same is made, taken and accepted subject to any and all rules and
regulations then in force, or to be made later, for the government and control
of the waterworks system.
   D.   Connection By City: No person other than an authorized employee of the
city shall tap or make any perforation or opening of any kind in any water main
or any service pipe from which water may be taken. (1977 Code § 13.08.070)
8-3A-3: INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE OF EQUIPMENT:
   A.   Service Pipe:
      1.   City To Bear Cost: The water department will, at the expense of the
city, run a service pipe not larger than three-fourths of an inch (3/4") from
the city water main to the lot line of any applicant or consumer of water;
provided, that the distance is not greater than seventy five feet (75').
      2.   Owner To Bear Cost: All pipe in excess of seventy five feet (75') in
length, or three-fourths of an inch (3/4") in size, is to be laid by and under
the direction of the city water department, and the expense thereof charged to
the consumer or owner of the property served.
   B.   Owner/Consumer Responsibility: The water consumer, or the owner of the
property served, shall at all times be responsible for the condition of the
lateral pipes, curb cock and box when located on his premises, and such owner,
or water consumer, shall be responsible for all damages resulting from leaks or
breaks to the service pipe on his property; and no claim shall be made against
the city on account of the breaking of any service pipe or apparatus, or for
the failure in the supply of water.
   C.   City Responsibility: The city will be responsible for repair of leaks
that occur upon public property.
   D.   Break Or Leak: If a water user notifies the city of a water leak within
fifteen (15) days of the last billing, the city will recalculate that month's
billing by averaging the last three (3) months' charges and crediting the
remaining usage. Prompt repair of the water leak by the property owner is
required. If repair is not completed by the next billing period, full charges
will resume.
      1.   Responsibility To Repair: Where a break or leak occurs in a lateral
service pipe, the property owner or water consumer will be required to repair
the pipes at his own expense and to protect the city and the water department
from any cost for such repair.
      2.   Failure To Repair: If, after being notified, the owner of the
property upon which a break or leak occurs or his agent does not make the
necessary repairs to his lateral service pipe immediately, the water department
shall cause the water to be shut off from said premises and the same shall not
be turned on until the service pipe has been properly repaired and the owner or
water consumer has paid to the city the fee for the shutting off and turning on
of said water. Said fee shall be as established by resolution of the city
council and amended from time to time.
      3.   Liability For Damages: Where a break or leak occurs in a lateral
service pipe, the property owner or water consumer shall be responsible for any
and all damages resulting therefrom.
      4.   Location Of Break Uncertain: Where there is a leak and it is
doubtful whether the water is from a break in the city main or in a private
service pipe or lateral line, the city shall have charge of the repairs but the
costs of repairs shall be assessed to the proper private property owner or
consumer in the event the leak or break is in a service pipe or lateral line.
(1977 Code § 13.08.030; amd. 2004 Code; Ord. 649, 4-10-2006; Ord. 2023-776, 12-
21-2023)
8-3A-4: EXCAVATIONS:
   A.   Permit Required: Before excavation within the streets, for the purpose
of laying service pipes or repairing the same, the owners of property to be
served, or their legal agent, must first, through the plumber doing the work or
by themselves, secure a permit for such work from the office of the city clerk
on a form provided for that purpose. (1977 Code § 13.08.060)
   B.   Safety Precautions: The streets must be opened in the manner which will
occasion the least inconvenience to the public. No excavation in any street or
alley shall be left open overnight unless properly guarded with rails and red
lights, which must be maintained from sunset to sunrise; and every precaution
must be taken to ensure public safety. (1977 Code § 13.08.050)
8-3A-5: SHUTOFF PERMITTED:
The water department reserves the right at any time to shut off, without
notice, the water from its main for the purpose of making repairs or
extensions, or for any other purpose; and no claim shall be made against the
city by reason of the breakage of any service pipe or from any other damage
that may result from shutting off said water. (1977 Code § 13.08.040)
ARTICLE B. WATER CONNECTIONS
SECTION:
8-3B-1: Title
8-3B-2: Connection Required; Billing
8-3B-3: Connection Fee
8-3B-4: Notice Of Violation
8-3B-1: TITLE:
This article shall be known and may be cited as the CITY OF ST. MARIES WATER
CONNECTION ORDINANCE. (1977 Code § 13.10.010)
8-3B-2: CONNECTION REQUIRED; BILLING:
   A.   Connection Required: The owners of all houses, buildings or properties
used for human occupancy, employment, recreation or other purpose, situated
within the city shall and they are required to install all suitable water
facilities therein, and to connect such facilities directly with the public
water system of the city, provided that such water system is located where it
is possible or practicable for such owner to make such connection, whether such
property be located within a local improvement district or elsewhere. The
practicability of connection shall be determined by the city council.
   B.   Uninterrupted Billing: A monthly basic rate water bill will be
generated at month end and every month subsequently following the purchase of a
water hookup regardless if the tap has or has not been made into the main line.
Once a service connection has been established, a monthly bill will be
generated regardless if it is in use or not in use. Water service may not be
temporarily shut off in order to avoid paying a monthly base rate charge. (Ord.
2008-662, 9-8-2008, eff. 10-1-2008)
8-3B-3: CONNECTION FEE:
Such owner, upon making such water connection with the public water system as
required in this article, whenever a connection from the main line to the
property is required to be installed, shall pay the appropriate and proper fee
therefor, which fee shall from time to time be set by resolution of the mayor
and city council under the terms of existing rules and regulations and
ordinances of the city whether such property be located within an existing
local improvement district within the city or elsewhere. (1977 Code §
13.10.030)
8-3B-4: NOTICE OF VIOLATION:
Any person found to be violating the provisions of this article shall be served
by the city with written notice of same stating the nature of the violation,
and providing a reasonable time for satisfactory correction thereof, such time
to be determined by the city council. The offender shall, within the period of
time stated in such notice, cease the violation of this article by paying the
proper fee or otherwise. (1977 Code § 13.10.040)
ARTICLE C. INSTALLATION REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-3C-1: Water Meters
8-3C-2: Service Outside City Limits
8-3C-1: WATER METERS:
   A.   Required:
      1.   All commercial property owners within the corporate limits of the
city and all commercial property owners located outside the corporate limits of
the city who are purchasers of city water under the terms and conditions set
forth by the city, including all commercial property owners where city water is
supplied by the city, in, on or upon premises where water is consumed by the
owner, tenant, occupant, customer or otherwise, shall have a water meter
installed. Such water meter shall be purchased and installed at the expense of
the city and approved by and through the city public works department. It shall
be installed at and upon the respective commercial premises not later than
January 1, 2007; or in a time frame favorable to the public works department,
and all city water used in, on or upon said commercial premises shall pass
through and be measured by such water meter. In the event that any commercial
property owner shall refuse to allow the city to install a water meter on or
before January 1, 2007, or in a time frame favorable to the public works
department, or shall fail to pay as required, it shall be the duty of the
public works department to discontinue the water service to the premises or
property of such commercial property owner, or to refuse to deliver water to
the property or premises of the owner.
   B.   Type Of Meter: All meters installed in or outside the corporate limits
of the city for the purpose of measuring city water shall be water meters
approved by the public works department.
   C.   Placement: Meters shall be set at the point where the service pipe
enters the property, as near to the property line as possible and at a place
easily accessible or upon the recommendation of placement by the city public
works department. All meters must be placed in a meter box approved by the
public works department and sufficiently large enough to permit removal or
resetting of the meter. The enclosure must be frostproof with a secure lid. A
removable insulated cover to prevent cold air from reaching the meter is
required. If determined necessary by the public works department, a backflow
prevention assembly approved by the public works department shall be purchased
by the property owner and installed at the expense of the property owner in
accordance with chapter 5 of this title. The backflow prevention assembly will
be maintained by the property owner, and it will be the property owner's
responsibility to repair the backflow assembly in the event of damage due to
injury or frost.
   D.   Ownership And Maintenance; Liability For Damage: Consumers supplied by
meter shall take every reasonable precaution to protect the meter and all
appurtenances, i.e., meter set, enclosure, pressure reducing valve (if
required), from injury or damage by frost or otherwise. The meter shall be the
property of the city and the city shall be liable for all repair or replacement
to said meters and appurtenances excluding backflow assembly.
   E.   Failure To Register Correctly; Testing: If from any cause the meter
fails to register correctly, the charge to the consumer shall be at the rate
used for the corresponding period of the month previous, or if for any reason
the rate for the corresponding period of the previous month cannot be justly
applied, the rate shall be equitably adjusted by the utility clerk. (Ord. 649,
4-10-2006)
8-3C-2: SERVICE OUTSIDE CITY LIMITS:
   A.   City Council Authority: From and after the effective date hereof, it
shall be discretionary with the city council as to whether water service shall
be provided outside the corporate limits of the city.
   B.   Hookup Charge: From and after the effective date hereof, a minimum
hookup charge as set from time to time by resolution of the city council shall
be made and collected in all instances where water services are to be provided
outside the corporate limits of the city, which fee shall be paid in advance to
the city clerk. (Ord. 649, 4-10-2006)
ARTICLE D. WATER RATES
SECTION:
8-3D-1: Authority
8-3D-2: Applicability
8-3D-3: Minimum Rates
8-3D-4: Unmetered Premises
8-3D-5: Separate Service Required; Exception
8-3D-6: Shutoff Orders
8-3D-7: Use For Building Purposes
8-3D-8: Analysis Fee
8-3D-1: AUTHORITY:
The city, through the mayor and city council, retains authority to make any
amendment to or additions or corrections to the following rates by city council
action or by resolution, and specifically retains the right to enter into
contract or agreement with respect to revised water rates with any water
district which may in the future be formed outside the city limits. (1977 Code
§ 13.16.170)
8-3D-2: APPLICABILITY:
The rates prescribed in this article shall apply to all structures, homes and
buildings or other units wherein an independent water connection is in use; all
dwellings and structures designed for human occupancy shall be deemed to be
user units within the meaning of this article. (1977 Code § 13.16.130)
8-3D-3: MINIMUM RATES:
The minimum rates, as established by resolution of the city council and amended
from time to time, shall be for use up to the sum of twelve thousand (12,000)
gallons per month or lesser amount of water consumed in such structure or
premises. Payment and collection of rates is provided for in
chapter 4 of this title. (Ord. 2009-668, 1-26-2009; amd. Ord. 2023-776, 12-21-
2023)
8-3D-4: UNMETERED PREMISES:
   A.   Schedule Of Estimated Use: With respect to structures and premises
wherein water use is not metered, the water rates will be charged on the basis
of estimated water use in accordance with the following schedule:
Place Estimated Water Use In
      Terms Of Gallons Per Day
Place                                      Estimated Water Use In
                                           Terms Of Gallons Per Day
Airport:                                         
   Each employee                        15     
   Each passenger                       5      
Assembly halls                             2     per seat
Bars and taverns                           40    per seat
Bowling alleys                             75    per lane
Camps and resorts:                               
   Luxury resorts                       100   per person
   Summer camps                         50    per person
Churches                                   4     per seat
Construction camps                         50    per person
Country clubs                              50    per member1
Dance halls                                2     per person
Domestic:                                        
   Apartments                           300   per unit
   Homes and independent mobile homes   400   per residence
Drive-in theaters                          5     per car space
Factories                                  30    per employee
Food service operations:                         
   Curb service                         50    per car space
   Restaurants                          50    per seat
   24-hour restaurants                  55    per seat
Hospitals (patients and staff)             150   per bed
Hotel-motel (excluding bar and restaurant) 50    per unit
Institutions                               100   per person or room
Laundries (coin operated)                  300   per machine
Milk plants                                100   per 1,000 pounds milk
Nursing and rest homes                     100   per person
Office building                            30    per employee
Schools:                                         
   Elementary                           15    per person
   High                                 25    per person
Service stations                           1,000 for first bay
                                          500   each additional bay
Shopping centers and stores                0.1   per square foot
Swimming pools                             10    per person
 
   Note:
      1.   Does not include sprinkling.
(1977 Code § 13.16.150)
   B.   Premises Not Included In Schedule: For any establishment or premises
not specifically listed above, an agreement shall be arrived at between the
city and the owner or occupant of such premises, structure or establishment as
to the estimated amount of use, or a meter shall be installed at the cost of
the owner or occupant. The owner or occupant of any structure or premises may,
under direction of the city, procure a water meter which will measure the
amount of water consumed by such structure or premises, and the rate shall be
charged in accordance with section
8-3D-3 of this article. Cost of meter and installation shall be borne by the
metered service. (1977 Code § 13.16.160)
8-3D-5: SEPARATE SERVICE REQUIRED; EXCEPTION:
The service pipes must be so arranged that the supply for each separate house
or premises may be controlled by a separate stopcock placed at a point
designated by the public works directors and the owner of said property will be
held responsible for all bills for water used through said service for his use,
or from the use of others to whom it may be accessible. Where water is supplied
on one service to several dwellings, as in the case of duplexes and other
multi-family dwellings, the public works directors, in their discretion, may
require separate services or may permit the single service to be used on
condition that one designated person shall pay for all water used on the
service. (1977 Code § 13.16.080; amd. 2004 Code)
8-3D-6: SHUTOFF ORDERS:
All orders for turning water off must be made in writing to the public works
directors. (1977 Code § 13.16.020; amd. 2004 Code)
8-3D-7: USE FOR BUILDING PURPOSES:
Contractors, builders or others desiring water for building purposes must make
application to the clerk of the water department prior to using same, and the
amount to be paid shall be based upon the rates fixed therefor by the mayor and
city council. (1977 Code § 13.16.070)
8-3D-8: ANALYSIS FEE:
A system analysis fee will be required to be paid to the city of St. Maries
utility department by contractors, developers, or individuals requesting "will
serve" letters in order to hook into the existing water/wastewater system. The
fee will be used to cover the cost of studying specific areas of the city's
water and wastewater system in order to determine the availability of water/
sewer extensions or hookups in that area. The amount of the fee for such water
and / or wastewater analysis shall be as established by resolution of the city
council and amended from time to time. In the event the total deposit is not
used, the city will return the unused portion. In the event the analysis
requires greater cost, the applicant will be required to pay the additional
costs. (Ord. 2008-662, 9-8-2008, eff. 10-1-2008; amd. Ord. 2023-776, 12-21-
2023)
ARTICLE E. PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS
SECTION:
8-3E-1: Prohibited Acts Generally
8-3E-2: Unauthorized Turn On
8-3E-3: Unauthorized Use
8-3E-4: Supplying Two Buildings Through One Connection
8-3E-5: Waste
8-3E-6: Water Meters
8-3E-7: Street Washers And Sprinklers
8-3E-8: Pollution Of System
8-3E-9: Violation; Penalty
8-3E-1: PROHIBITED ACTS GENERALLY:
It is unlawful for any person to open, close, turn or interfere with, or to
attach to or connect with, any fire hydrant, curb cock or valves, without
permission from the water department, or to disturb or damage any pipe,
machinery, tools or other property of the water department, or to throw any
substance into the reservoir or water main, or to bathe in any reservoir, or to
deface or injure any buildings belonging to or connected with such water
system. (1977 Code § 13.20.050)
8-3E-2: UNAUTHORIZED TURN ON:
After the water has been turned off at the curb cock, it shall not be turned on
by any person except an employee of the city; and if so turned on at the curb
cock by any person other than an employee of the city, the public works
directors shall have the water turned off at the main and shall have charged
against the property and the property owner a penalty of twenty dollars
($20.00) which must be paid before the water shall again be turned on, and in
addition thereto the party turning on such water in violation of the provisions
of this section may be punished for the violation of this section as provided
in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1977 Code § 13.20.010; amd. 2004 Code)
8-3E-3: UNAUTHORIZED USE:
No person shall knowingly take, use or allow to be used water without having
previously contracted for the same. (1977 Code § 13.20.020)
8-3E-4: SUPPLYING TWO BUILDINGS THROUGH ONE CONNECTION:
It is unlawful for any owner to supply or permit to be supplied any water to
two (2) or more buildings through one and the same connection. (1977 Code §
13.20.030; amd. 2004 Code)
8-3E-5: WASTE:
   A.   Waste Prohibited: It is unlawful for any person to maintain, suffer or
permit to remain in a leaky or defective condition any water pipe, hydrant,
service or water connection of any sort whereby city water may be wasted; or
cause the same to be maintained, suffered or permitted to remain in such leaky
or defective condition for more than twenty four (24) hours after knowledge or
discovery of the same; and it is unlawful for any person to waste or cause to
be wasted in any way whatsoever any water from the water supply works of the
city.
   B.   Termination of Service: If undue waste is permitted, or water is
bypassed to other consumers, or in cases of deception, misrepresentation or
abuse of the privilege of connection with the water system, the supply of water
shall be turned off without notice, and a shut off and a reconnections fee
shall be paid to the city before the water is turned on, and in addition
thereto the offending persons may be punished as prescribed in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1977 Code § 13.20.040; amd. 2004 Code; Ord. 2023-776, 12-
21-2023)
8-3E-6: WATER METERS:
It is unlawful to do an of the following acts with intent to injure or defraud:
   A.   Obstruct, alter, injure or prevent the action of any meter or other
instrument used to measure or register the quantity of water supplied to a
consumer thereof;
   B.   Make any connection by means of a pipe, or otherwise, with any main or
pipe used for delivery of water to a consumer thereof in such a manner as to
take water from such main or pipe without its passage through the meter or
other instrument provided for registering the amount or quantity consumed, or
use any water so obtained;
   C.   Make any connection or reconnection with such main or pipe, or turn off
or on, or in any manner interfere with, any valve, stopcock or other appliance
connected therewith; or
   D.   Prevent by the erection of any device or construction, or by any other
means, free access to any meter or other instrument for registering or
measuring the amount of water consumed, or interfere with, obstruct or prevent
by any means, the reading or inspection of such meter or instrument by any of
the employees of the water department. (1977 Code § 13.20.060)
8-3E-7: STREET WASHERS AND SPRINKLERS:
No person shall use or permit to be used a street washer, lawn or garden
sprinkler except upon his own premises. (1977 Code § 13.20.070; amd. 2004 Code)
8-3E-8: POLLUTION OF SYSTEM:
No person shall cast, throw or place in any water reservoir, supply pipe, water
main, head works, or other part of the waterworks or supply system of the city,
any dirt, refuse, filth, wood, sticks, stones or other substances or matter, or
shall in any manner pollute the water in any service supply pipe, head works or
any other part of such waterworks system. (1977 Code § 13.20.100)
8-3E-9: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Each and every person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be
punished as set forth in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1977 Code § 13.20.110)
ARTICLE F. CAPITALIZATION FEE
SECTION:
8-3F-1: Title
8-3F-2: Definitions
8-3F-3: Purpose
8-3F-4: Applicability
8-3F-5: Basis For Determination
8-3F-6: Determination Of Water System Value
8-3F-7: Hookup Required, Permit, Fees
8-3F-8: Nonresidential User Equivalent Residential User Schedule
8-3F-1: TITLE:
This article shall be known and may be titled as the ST. MARIES CAP FEE
ORDINANCE. (Ord. 648, 12-12-2005)
8-3F-2: DEFINITIONS:
BOARDING HOUSE: Any building or portion thereof which includes separate
bedrooms for rent and common kitchen and/or bathroom facilities.
CAPITALIZATION FEE: The fee calculated and collected according to this article
with respect to parcels created or otherwise brought under this article
representing a fair share of the net value of the water system, as allocated to
an individual parcel of land.
CITY COUNCIL: The city council of the city of St. Maries, as it may be
constituted from time to time.
CITY OF ST. MARIES: City of St. Maries water system.
ENGINEER: The engineer(s) or engineering firm(s) (or the duly authorized
employee or representative thereof) contracted or otherwise designated by the
city of St. Maries from time to time to advise the city council with respect to
water services provided by the city of St. Maries.
EQUIVALENT RESIDENCE OR ER: The basic unit of measurement utilized by the city
of St. Maries to establish relative water consumption requirements of various
property uses, with one equivalent residence or ER being defined as one typical
single-family residence. The number of ERs attributable to a particular use
shall be determined according to section
8-3F-8 of this article.
GUESTHOUSE: A secondary improvement (including a mobile home, trailer, garage,
apartment, and the like) which is designed or intended to accommodate overnight
human occupancy, which is located on a residential parcel which is also
improved with a primary single-family residence or a multi-family dwelling.
MOTEL AND HOTEL: A building or group of buildings on the same premises, either
detached or connected, containing sleeping or dwelling units, and designed for
or occupied with an ordinary rental period or a multi-family dwelling.
MULTI-UNIT DWELLING: A building containing a combination of units with
individual sleeping, bath, and kitchen facilities, each unit being designated
and intended for individual or single-family occupancy. This definition
includes apartments, townhouses, duplexes, triplexes, and the like.
PARCEL OR LEGAL PARCEL: Any legal lot now existing or hereafter created through
a division or subdivision process, and any other parcel of real property
recognized by the appropriate governmental entity as a separate legal parcel,
having dimensions which would legally allow such parcel to be improved with a
residence or other structure for human use and/or occupancy, or which otherwise
could reasonably be deemed benefited by the availability of water service
provided by the city of St. Maries. Additionally, the term "parcel" shall
include a unit having final approval as part of a planned unit development, but
only where no further platting or other governmental approvals are required as
a prerequisite to the issuance of a building permit.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, company, association, partnership, society,
corporation, group, or other legal entity.
SERVICE CONNECTION: The point at which a building water supply pipe connects to
the public water distribution system at the edge of the public right of way or
easement.
SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE: A building or condominium unit designed and used
exclusively for residential purposes by one family. This definition shall also
include mobile homes, trailers, garage apartments, and the like, used for
residential purposes.
USER: Any person owning, controlling, occupying, or otherwise using an improved
parcel which is connected to or is required to be connected to the water supply
system.
WATER SERVICE AREA: Initially, the entire area within the boundaries of the
city of St. Maries and also including any area to which the water supply system
has been previously or may be extended from time to time and to which water
supply service is therefore made available, or which may be designated as part
of the water supply service area by resolution or ordinance of the city of St.
Maries. (Ord. 648, 12-12-2005)
8-3F-3: PURPOSE:
The city council of the city of St. Maries has previously acted on behalf of
the city of St. Maries to acquire an operating water system, including sources
of supply, storage and distribution lines, which caused the city of St. Maries
to issue revenue bonds for the purpose of financing said acquisition and
certain other necessary property and improvements to the water system.
In direct relation to the water system in place, the city of St. Maries desires
to provide a schedule of fees associated with the establishment of new water
service connections to the city of St. Maries water system which will more
fairly apportion the costs of the infrastructure necessary to the water service
provided by the city of St. Maries. (Ord. 648, 12-12-2005)
8-3F-4: APPLICABILITY:
Effective January 1, 2006, all new development or building within the city of
St. Maries or the existing service area of the city of St. Maries water system
that requires a building permit and/or establishment of a domestic water
service connection to the water system of the city of St. Maries will be
subject to a capitalization fee. (Ord. 648, 12-12-2005)
8-3F-5: BASIS FOR DETERMINATION:
   A.   Scope Of Fee: The city of St. Maries shall collect from all new users
as defined herein, the appropriate capitalization fee for existing platted lots
at the time the building permit is issued, and for existing developed parcels
prior to connecting to the water system; this money shall be placed in a
special fund for utilization by the city of St. Maries for repair and
replacement of existing water system infrastructure, including sources of
supply, pumping, storage and distribution.
   B.   Single Equivalent Residence (ER): For all applicable lots or parcels
within the service area of the city of St. Maries, the capitalization fee
determined hereunder shall become due and be payable to the city of St. Maries
water system at the same time payment for a water or sewer connection is due
for applicable lots or parcels, or before an application for a building permit
is issued for such lots or parcels. For new plats of subdivisions or
modifications and extensions of previously approved plats, the capitalization
fee determined hereunder shall become due and be payable to the city of St.
Maries water system at the same time payment for a water or sewer connection is
due for such new plat of subdivision or modification and extensions of
previously approved plats, or before an application for a building permit is
issued for such new or previously approved plats. The time for establishing a
water service connection shall be after a building permit is issued and all
water fees are paid, including, but not limited to, the capitalization fee. The
capitalization fee shall be in addition to other fees and costs described in
this article and all other applicable ordinances, and represents a portion of
the present value of the increment of capital of the city of St. Maries water
system utilized by the new connection that shall be provided or replaced at a
future date.
   C.   Multiple Equivalent Residences (ERs): The capitalization fee for all
users which do not meet the description of a "single-family residence" herein
shall be equal to the number of ERs calculated in this article times the
capitalization fee for a single-family residence. In no case shall the
capitalization fee be less than that for one single-family residence (1 ER). In
section
8-3F-8 of this article is the schedule of the city of St. Maries for
determining ERs for users installing a water service connection to the city of
St. Maries water system for purposes other than single-family residences. Any
use not covered by the classifications in section
8-3F-8 of this article shall have its ER factor determined by the city of St.
Maries on an individual basis in such manner to approximate potential water
service requirements. The city of St. Maries reserves the right to adjust a
particular ER factor from time to time with respect to capitalization fees in
the case of a change in use.
   D.   Adjusting The Fee: The capitalization fees shall be reviewed and
adjusted at least annually by the city of St. Maries on or before April 15, and
may be adjusted at any time at a regular meeting of the city council.
   E.   Adjusting The ER Factor: The city of St. Maries reserves the right to
adjust a particular ER factor from time to time in the case of a change in use
of a particular user. The city of St. Maries may negotiate the ER calculation
for a new connection and adjust the value after a reasonable period to verify
actual use (typically 1 year). (Ord. 648, 12-12-2005)
8-3F-6: DETERMINATION OF WATER SYSTEM VALUE:
   A.   Basis For Charging The Capitalization Fee: The city of St. Maries shall
collect from new users an applicable capitalization fee. The fee shall be based
on an equitable buy-in to the water system of the city of St. Maries. The basis
for the capitalization fee charge for those persons or entities connecting to
the city of St. Maries water system is to charge the value of that portion of
the system that the new user will utilize at that point in time.
   B.   Determining The Gross System Replacement Value: The replacement value
of the water system is determined each year by taking the original estimated
construction cost of each major capital improvement to the system and
determining the cost to replace that improvement in that particular year. This
is accomplished by determining the engineering news record construction cost
index (ENR-CCI) in the year that the improvements were made (as can be
determined from city records) and the year that the capitalization fee is being
determined. The ENR-CCI for the year that the capitalization fee is being
calculated is divided by the ENR-CCI for the year in which the improvements
were made. This value is then multiplied by the original cost for the
improvements. The value obtained is the estimated cost to replace the
improvements at the time the capitalization fee is calculated. The gross value
of replacing the system shall be adjusted by subtracting the remaining bond
principal associated with the purchase of the system to be retired and the
unfunded depreciation to obtain the net value. For purposes of the initial
determination hereunder, the depreciation which has accumulated for system
components since construction is treated as unfunded depreciation within the
meaning of this article. The remaining bond principal to be paid for bond
retirement is determined from the bond retirement schedule each year. The
remaining bond interest is not subtracted from the gross system replacement
value.
   C.   Unfunded Depreciation: The future unfunded depreciation is figured from
the date of implementation of the new user charge ordinance. The basis for
determining the yearly depreciation is to distribute the estimated original
cost of the improvement uniformly over the life of the improvement. The life of
major categories of improvement to the water system is assigned as follows:
 
Distribution system 60 years
Pump facilities     20 years
Storage facilities  50 years
Meters              10 years
 
The cumulative unfunded depreciation from the date of construction of major
system components to the year that the capitalization fee is being determined,
is subtracted from the gross system replacement value, along with the remaining
bond principal, to obtain the net system value.
   D.   Equation For Determining Net System Value: The following is the
equation for determining the net system value of any system component or
combination of system components:
 
Net system value = Gross system replacement value minus remaining bond
                   principal minus cumulative unfunded depreciation.
 
   E.   Determination Of Capitalization Fee: The capitalization fee is then
determined by dividing the net system value by the design capacity of the
system component with the least capacity expressed in equivalent residential
users (ERs). Alternatively, the city of St. Maries may elect to use an average
of the design capacities for major components to determine the capitalization
fee upon adoption of an appropriate resolution by the city council of the city
of St. Maries. The design capacity of the system component is determined by the
city of St. Maries engineer based upon city of St. Maries policy and generally
accepted engineering practices.
   F.   Effective Date And Amount Of Capitalization Fee: The owner or agent of
all properties connecting to the water system shall pay a capitalization fee
per equivalent residence (ER) or fraction thereof as may be assigned to the
property by the city of St. Maries for the value of water service to be
provided by the city of St. Maries. The capitalization fee shall be established
by resolution of the city council and amended as specified in subsection G of
this section.
   G.   When And How To Adjust The Capitalization Fee: It is hereby required
that beginning April 15 of the year following the passage date hereof, and
every year thereafter, the city council of the city of St. Maries shall meet
and calculate the capitalization fees to be charged by the city of St. Maries
pursuant to the foregoing formula for that particular year. The calculation of
capitalization fees shall be made pursuant to the formula specified in this
article, and shall not be based upon any budgetary needs except for the mandate
that the water system of the district shall be self-supporting. (Ord. 648, 12-
12-2005; amd. Ord. 2023-776, 12-21-2023)
8-3F-7: HOOKUP REQUIRED, PERMIT, FEES:
   A.   Mandatory Connection: As required by law in the city of St. Maries
ordinance 533, all improved parcels within the service of the city of St.
Maries shall, to the extent allowed by law, be required to connect to the water
distribution system of the city of St. Maries for purposes of domestic water
supply not later than the date of first occupancy of any building constructed
upon such parcels. The obligation to connect shall be enforced by the city
council according to applicable provisions of Idaho law, or by such other
method as may be allowed by law.
   B.   Hookup Permit: A permit for hookup must be obtained from the city
council prior to construction of a physical connection to the city of St.
Maries water supply system. The permit will be issued by the city of St. Maries
or its engineer or other authorized representative upon completion of an
application for connection and payment of any fees required by this article.
Payment of any fees accruing after the connection permit is issued shall be a
condition of final approval following inspection. Construction of the water
connection shall be made according to specifications recommended and maintained
by the engineer, and shall be performed by employees or authorized
representatives of the city of St. Maries. The installed connection including
the water meter shall be and remain property of the city of St. Maries. (Ord.
648, 12-12-2005)
   C.   Hookup Fees: Hookup fees shall be paid to the city of St. Maries with
the issuance of a hookup permit. Such fees do not include the above referenced
capitalization fee. They are intended to reimburse the city of St. Maries for
its costs incurred in establishing a physical connection in the form of a water
meter installation between the supply system of the city of St. Maries and the
supply lines to a parcel. The person seeking a connection shall be responsible
for installing water service lines to the meter installation location
identified by the city of St. Maries. The city of St. Maries shall have no
obligation to pay any portion of the costs of bringing water service lines from
the parcel to the meter location. The fees within the scope of this subsection
for a hookup to the city of St. Maries water system are as follows:
      1.   Hookup (Connection) Fees: A hookup (connection) fee is two thousand
dollars ($2,000.00) for a meter service up to one inch (1") plus street
restoration costs. Any connection larger than one inch (1") shall be charged a
fee equal to the installation expense incurred by the city of St. Maries for
the connection. This fee will include materials, labor, and restoration of
pavement cuts. (Ord. 2008-662, 9-8-2008, eff. 10-1-2008)
8-3F-8: NONRESIDENTIAL USER EQUIVALENT RESIDENTIAL USER SCHEDULE:
A nonresidential user equivalent residential user schedule ("ER schedule") is
used to equalize the connection charges applied to nonresidential users (mobile
home parks, apartments, and other commercial users). A single-family equivalent
residential user ("ER") is used as a baseline and all other users are compared
to a single ER. The other nonresidential users are then charged higher or lower
connection fees based on whether or not their use of the water system places a
greater or lesser demand on the water system.
Nonresidential Users Equivalent Residence (ER) Schedule 
Nonresidential Users Equivalent Residence (ER) Schedule 
Mobile home park           ER = Number of spaces x 0.75
Churches                   ER = 1
Taverns                    ER = Number of seats x 0.07
Restaurant                 ER = Number of seats x 0.17
Business and offices       ER = Number of employees x 0.07
Service stations           ER = Number sets of 3 hoses x 1.7
Hospitals                  ER = Number of beds x 0.07 and number of employees x
                           0.17
Bowling alleys             ER = Number of lanes x 0.07
Medical and dental offices ER = Number of hours/week x number of employees x
                           0.01
Auto dealership            ER = 2
Multi-unit dwelling        ER = Number of units x 1
Boarding houses            ER = Number of occupants x 0.25
Laundromats                ER = Number of washing machines x 0.56
Theaters                   ER = Number of seats x 0.007
Nursing homes              ER = Number of beds x 0.07
Motel with kitchen         ER = Number of units x 0.5
Motel without kitchen      ER = Number of units x 0.25
High schools:               
Without kitchen            ER = Number of students x 0.13
With kitchen               ER = Number of students x 0.25
With kitchen and showers   ER = Number of students x 0.29
Elementary schools:         
Without kitchen            ER = Number of students x 0.065
With kitchen               ER = Number of students x 0.125
With showers               ER = Number of students x 0.085
With kitchen and showers   ER = Number of students x 0.145
 
(Ord. 648, 12-12-2005)
CHAPTER 4
WATER, SEWER AND GARBAGE SERVICES TERMINATION
SECTION:
8-4-1: Title
8-4-2: Scope
8-4-3: Definitions
8-4-4: Grounds For Termination
8-4-5: Notice Of Termination
8-4-6: Reconnection Charge
8-4-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known, and may be titled as the ST. MARIES WATER, SEWER
AND GARBAGE SERVICES TERMINATION ORDINANCE. (Ord. 630, 9-24-2001)
8-4-2: SCOPE:
Every owner of record of real property within the city limits or who otherwise
purchases and is supplied with water from the city shall be subject to the
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 630, 9-24-2001)
8-4-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words shall have the following
meanings:
BILLING: The city provides a single composite billing to its customers for
water, sewage and garbage pick up services. Any payment for less than the full
amount of the billing will be considered to be only a partial or prorated
payment for water services within the intent and meaning of this chapter.
CUSTOMER: Any person, firm, partnership, association, company or organization
of any kind who is the legal owner of record of real property and who is
purchasing and receiving water through the city distribution system, whether
within or without the city limits.
DELINQUENCY: Any water, sewer and garbage bill not paid by the fifteenth day of
the month. (Ord. 630, 9-24-2001; amd. Ord. 2008-662, 9-8-2008, eff. 10-1-2008)
8-4-4: GROUNDS FOR TERMINATION:
Water, sewer and garbage disposal services provided by the city to its
customers are billed as follows, which billing schedule may be modified at any
time by resolution of the city council:
   A.   Commercial Accounts: Commercial accounts are billed monthly on the last
working day of each month.
   B.   Residential Accounts: Residential accounts are billed monthly on the
last working day of each month.
   C.   Delinquency: Any water, sewer, and garbage bill not paid by the
fifteenth day of the month will be considered delinquent. Customers with
delinquent accounts as defined herein will be notified in writing of such
delinquency. If the delinquent account is not paid within fifteen (15) days
following service of the delinquency notice on the customer, water service will
be terminated.
   D.   Late Fee: A late fee will be assessed on all customer accounts which
are in arrears on the last working day of each month. The amount of the fee
shall be established by resolution of the city council and amended from time to
time. (Ord. 2008-662, 9-8-2008, eff. 10-1-2008; amd. Ord. 2023-776, 12-21-2023)
8-4-5: NOTICE OF TERMINATION:
Customers with delinquent accounts as heretofore defined will be notified in
writing of such delinquency within five (5) days of the payment due date, and
if the delinquent account is not paid within fifteen (15) days following
service of the delinquency notice on the customer, water service will be
terminated. Service of any notice permitted or required under the terms of this
chapter shall be deemed completed upon the deposit of the same in the United
States mail by the city, addressed to the customer at the last known address of
the customer filed with the city by the customer for billing purposes. (Ord.
630, 9-24-2001)
8-4-6: RECONNECTION CHARGE:
Once service has been discontinued by the city, it will be reconnected only
upon payment by the customer of all delinquent payments and a reconnection
charge. The amount of the reconnection charge shall be established by
resolution of the city council and amended from time to time. (Ord. 630, 9-24-
2001; amd. Ord. 2023-776, 12-21-2023)
CHAPTER 5
CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL
SECTION:
8-5-1: Purpose
8-5-2: Applicability
8-5-3: Enforcement
8-5-4: Definitions
8-5-5: Cross Connections Prohibited
8-5-6: Installation Of Backflow Prevention Assemblies
8-5-7: Plan Review
8-5-8: Types Of Backflow Prevention Assemblies Required
8-5-9: Location
8-5-10: Installation, Approval And Acceptable Types
8-5-11: Inspections And Testing
8-5-12: Service Fee Schedule
8-5-13: Violations; Penalties
8-5-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter, in conjunction with IDAPA 16.01.080 Idaho rules
for public drinking water systems, and section 1003 of the uniform plumbing
code, is to protect the public health by the control and prevention of actual
and potential cross connections by requiring the proper installation and
safeguarding of service lines leading to premises where cross connections exist
or are likely to occur, by periodic inspection and by regulating plumbing
within premises or to the public water system itself. An additional purpose is
to provide for the maintenance of a continuing program of cross connection
control, which will systematically and effectively prevent the contamination or
pollution of all potable water delivered by the water systems of the city.
(Ord. 631, 3-24-2003)
8-5-2: APPLICABILITY:
This chapter applies throughout the city and outside the city limits to every
user and to every premises, whether residential or commercial, and the owners
and occupants thereof served by the water system of the city. It applies to all
systems installed prior to or after its enactment, both inside and outside the
city limits. Every owner and occupant of any premises covered by this chapter
is responsible for compliance with its terms and shall be strictly liable or
all damages incurred as a result of failure to comply with the express terms
and provisions contained herein. (Ord. 631, 3-24-2003)
8-5-3: ENFORCEMENT:
The mayor and city council, by and through the department of public works, will
administer the provisions of this chapter. Any deviation, modification or
change from approved standards must be approved in advance by the mayor and
city council. (Ord. 631, 3-24-2003)
8-5-4: DEFINITIONS:
AR GAP (AG) SEPARATION: The unobstructed vertical distance through the free
atmosphere between the lowest opening from any pipe or faucet supplying water
to tank, plumbing fixture or other device and the flood level rim of the
receptacle, and must be at least double the diameter of the supply pipe
measured vertically above the flood level rim of the vessel. In no case may the
gap be less than one inch (1").
APPROVED ASSEMBLY: Any backflow prevention assembly which has satisfactorily
completed laboratory and field tests by an independent laboratory recognized by
the Idaho department of health and welfare and/or the Idaho department of
environmental quality, and which is selected by the owner, user or occupant
from the state approved list.
AUXILIARY SUPPLY: Any water source or system other than the city water system
that may be available in the building or on the premises.
BACKFLOW: The flow, other than the intended direction of flow, of any foreign
liquids, gases or substances into the distribution of the public water system.
   Back Pressure: Backflow caused by a pump, elevated tank, boiler or other
means that could create pressure within the system greater than the potable
water supply system.
   Back Siphonage: A form of backflow due to a negative or subatmospheric
pressure within the water system.
BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY: An assembly to counteract back pressures or
prevent back siphonage.
CROSS CONNECTION: Any physical arrangement whereby a public water system is
connected, directly or indirectly, with any other nonpotable water system,
sewer, drain, conduit, pool, storage reservoir, plumbing fixture or other
device which contains, or may contain, contaminated water, sewage or other
waste liquid of unknown or unsafe quality which may be capable of imparting
contamination to the public water system as a result of backflow. Bypass
arrangements, jumper connections, removable sections, swivel or changeover
devices, or other temporary or permanent devices through which, or because of
which, backflow may occur are considered to be cross connections.
DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY (DCVA): An assembly composed of two (2) single,
independently acting check valves, including resilient seated tightly closing
shutoff valves located at each end of the assembly and equipped with properly
located resilient seated test cocks for testing the water tightness of each
check valve.
PRESSURE VACUUM BREAKER BACK SIPHONAGE PREVENTION ASSEMBLY (PVBA): An assembly
containing an independently operating internally loaded check valve and an
independently operating internally loaded air inlet valve located on the
discharge side of the check valve. The assembly is to be equipped with properly
located resilient seated test cocks and tightly closing resilient seated
shutoff valves attached at each end of the assembly. This assembly is designed
to protect against a back siphonage condition only.
REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY (RPBA): An assembly
incorporating two (2) or more check valves and an automatically operated
differential relief valve located between the two (2) checks. Two (2) resilient
seated shutoff valves, one located at each end of the assembly and equipped
with properly located resilient seated test cocks for testing. The assembly
must operate to maintain the pressure in the zone between the two (2) check
valves, less than the pressure on the public water system side of the assembly.
At cessation of normal flow, the pressure between the check valves must be less
than the supply pressure. In case of leakage of either check valve, the
differential relief valve must operate to maintain the reduced pressure by
discharging to the atmosphere. When the inlet pressure drops below two (2)
pounds per square inch, the relief valve must be open to the atmosphere thereby
providing an atmospheric zone between the two (2) check valves. (Ord. 631, 3-
24-2003)
8-5-5: CROSS CONNECTIONS PROHIBITED:
   A.   All cross connections, whether or not they are controlled by automatic
devices such as check valves or by hand operated mechanisms such as gate valves
or stop cocks, are prohibited.
   B.   Any reinjection of water by individual, residential, commercial or
industrial use of the public water system is specifically prohibited. Water to
water and water to air heat exchangers are considered a cross connection
because of health risks. Any modifications allowing reinjection are prohibited.
   C.   Failure on the part of persons, firms or corporations to discontinue
the use of all cross connections and to physically separate cross connections
is sufficient cause for the immediate discontinuance of public water services
to the premises. (Ord. 631, 3-24-2003)
8-5-6: INSTALLATION OF BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLIES:
Backflow prevention assemblies shall be installed in accordance with this
chapter, at the service connection or within any premises where, in the
judgment of the city by and through the public works department, the nature and
extent of the activity on the premises, or the material used in connection with
the activities, or the materials stored on the premises would present an
immediate and dangerous hazard to health should a cross connection occur, even
though such cross connection does not exist at the time the backflow prevention
device is required to be installed, including, but not limited to, the
following:
   A.   Premises having auxiliary water supply.
   B.   Premises having internal cross connections that are not correctable, or
intricate plumbing arrangements that make it impractical to ascertain whether
or not cross connections exist.
   C.   Premises where entry is restricted so that inspections for cross
connections cannot be made with sufficient frequency or at sufficient short
notice to assure that cross connections do not exist.
   D.   Premises having a repeated history of cross connections being
established or reestablished.
   E.   Premises on which any substance is handled under pressure so as to
permit entry into the public water system, or where a cross connection could
reasonably be expected to occur. This includes the handling of process waters
and cooling waters.
   F.   Premises where materials of a toxic or hazardous nature are handled
such that if back siphonage should occur, a serious health hazard may result.
   G.   The following types of facilities require mandatory service protection,
including, but not limited to:
      1.   Hospitals, mortuaries, clinics;
      2.   Laboratories;
      3.   Piers and docks;
      4.   Sewage treatment plants;
      5.   Food or beverage processing plants;
      6.   Chemical plants using a water process;
      7.   Metal plating industries;
      8.   Petroleum processing or storage plants;
      9.   Radioactive material processing plants or nuclear reactors;
      10.   Car washes;
      11.   Hot water and steam boilers for individual, commercial and
industrial uses;
      12.   Others specified by the public works director. (Ord. 631, 3-24-
2003)
8-5-7: PLAN REVIEW:
All backflow prevention assemblies installed in new construction of buildings
which are required to be installed shall be shown and specified on all required
building and engineering plans in accordance with industry standards. Approval
by the state plumbing inspector and the city, by and through the public works
department, of the intended assembly installation is required prior to water
service being provided by the city to the applicant. (Ord. 631, 3-24-2003)
8-5-8: TYPES OF BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLIES REQUIRED:
The type of prevention device required depends on the degree of hazard that
exists:
   A.   An air gap separation or reduced principle backflow prevention assembly
shall be installed where the water supply may be contaminated by sewage,
industrial waste of a toxic nature or other contaminant which could cause a
health or system hazard.
   B.   In the case of a substance which may be objectionable but not hazardous
to health, an air gap separation or a reduced pressure principle backflow
prevention assembly, or a double check valve assembly, shall be installed.
   C.   Lawn sprinkler systems which are supplied by city water only shall be
required to have either a double check valve backflow prevention assembly or a
pressure vacuum breaker assembly or atmospheric vacuum breaker assembly
depending on the design of the sprinkler system and potential risk to the
potable water supply. The design of backflow prevention assemblies larger than
one inch (1") will be submitted and approval made by the public works director.
All backflow prevention assemblies shall be of a type approved by the state
department of environmental quality. (Ord. 631, 3-24-2003)
8-5-9: LOCATION:
Backflow prevention assemblies required by this chapter must be installed at
the meter on metered accounts or at the proper line of the premises when meters
are not used or at a location designated by the public works department so as
to be readily accessible for maintenance and testing, where no part of the
device will be submerged or hidden from proper inspection. (Ord. 631, 3-24-
2003)
8-5-10: INSTALLATION, APPROVAL AND ACCEPTABLE TYPES:
Any backflow prevention assembly required by this chapter shall be a model
approved by the public works director. A double check valve assembly or a
reduced pressure principle backflow prevention assembly will be approved if it
has successfully passed performance tests of the University of Southern
California Foundation for Cross Connection Control and Hydraulic Research, or
other testing laboratories satisfactory to the state and the city public works
department. Backflow prevention assemblies which are already in service as of
the effective date of this chapter but are not listed shall be permitted to
remain in service provided they:
   A.   Were listed on the current approved cross connection control assembly
list at the time they were installed;
   B.   Are properly maintained;
   C.   Are commensurate with the degree of hazard; and
   D.   Are tested and successfully pass the test annually.
When these assembles are moved or require more than minimum maintenance, they
shall be replaced by an assembly that is on the current list of approved
assemblies. To maintain their approval status, all assemblies must be delivered
to the job site and be installed with the shutoff valves #1 and #2 and test
cocks which are supplied by the device manufacturer. (Ord. 631, 3-24-2003)
8-5-11: INSPECTIONS AND TESTING:
   A.   Inspections: The reduced pressure principle backflow assembly and the
double check valve assembly must be inspected annually or more often when
successive inspections indicate failure.
   B.   Testing And Maintenance:
      1.   Each backflow prevention assembly shall be inspected and tested to
ensure that is functions properly:
         a.   Upon installation.
         b.   After repairs.
         c.   After being relocated, moved or reinstalled.
         d.   Annually.
      2.   The assembly owner shall be notified one month prior to the date for
annual testing. It is then the assembly owner's responsibility to acquire the
services of a certified tester to test the assembly and provide the public
works director a copy of the test results. If the test indicates the assembly
must be repaired, the owner shall be responsible for making repairs and a
record of the repair work and a report of satisfactory final test must be sent
to the public works director. The annual testing of backflow prevention
assemblies must be done prior to any repair work or flushing of the relief
vale, to properly reestablish its operating status. Failure to test and
maintain backflow prevention assemblies is grounds for the city to discontinue
water service. (Ord. 631, 3-24-2003)
8-5-12: SERVICE FEE SCHEDULE:
The city retains the authority to adopt a fee schedule for services provided by
the city under this chapter by resolution adopted at a regular meeting of the
city council. (Ord. 631, 3-24-2003)
8-5-13: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
The failure of the customer to cooperate in the installation, maintenance, test
or inspection of backflow prevention assemblies required by this chapter is
grounds for termination of water services to the premises. Reconnection of a
service which has been disconnected from the city water system for
noncompliance with this chapter shall be a misdemeanor. Each day of a violation
shall be considered a separate offense, and each offense may be punishable as
provided in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code. This chapter may also be enforced by appropriate civil
action in a court of competent jurisdiction. (Ord. 631, 3-24-2003)
TITLE 9
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODES
SECTION:
9-1-1: Building Codes Adopted
9-1-2: Agricultural Buildings
9-1-1: BUILDING CODES ADOPTED:
   A.   Code Adoption: The approved editions of the following nationally
recognized codes, as adopted by the state of Idaho, together with any
amendments, exclusions, or revisions made by the Idaho building code board, are
adopted as the official building codes of the city of St. Maries, except as
provided in subsection B of this section:
      1.   The international building code, 2018 edition, with Idaho
amendments, collectively named the Building Code 2018 of Idaho, as adopted and
amended by the Idaho Building Code Board through the negotiated rulemaking
process.
      2.   The International Existing Building Code, 2018 edition, with
amendments, collectively named the Existing Building Code 2018 of Idaho, as
adopted and amended by the Idaho Building Code Board through the negotiated
rulemaking process.
   3.   The International Residential Code, 2018 edition (parts I, II, III and
IX), with Idaho amendments, collectively named the Idaho Residential Code (2020
edition), as adopted and a   mended by the Idaho Building Code Board through
the negotiated rulemaking process.
      4.   The International Energy Conservation Code, 2018 edition, with
amendments collectively named the Idaho Energy Conservation Code (2020
edition), as adopted and amended by the Idaho Building Code Board through the
negotiated rulemaking process.
      5.   The Uniform Building Code for Abatement of Dangerous Buildings, 1997
edition.
      6.   The International Mechanical Code, 2018 edition, as prepared by the
International Code Council, and as adopted and amended by the State of Idaho or
by the Idaho Building Code Board, made through the negotiated rulemaking
process.
      7.   The International Fire Code, 2018 edition, as currently adopted and
amended by the Idaho State Fire Marshal.
      8.   National Electrical Code, 2017 edition, as prepared by the
International Code Council, and as adopted and amended by the State of Idaho or
by the Idaho Building Code Board, made through the negotiated rulemaking
process.
      9.   Idaho State Plumbing Code, 2017 edition, as prepared by the
International Code Council, and as adopted and amended by the State of Idaho or
by the Idaho Building Code Board, made through the negotiated rulemaking
process.
   The adopted versions of the foregoing codes shall be deemed superseded by
successive versions of such codes as they are adopted or approved by the Idaho
building code board effective January 1 of the year following the adoption by
the Idaho building code board.
   B.   Amendments: Amendments relating to the administrative duties of the
building inspector, the fee schedule, or civil or criminal penalties relating
to the enforcement of this chapter may be adopted by resolution. All other
amendments to this chapter shall be by ordinance.
      1.   Amendments To International Residential Code:
   Table R301.2(1) Climatic And Geographic Design Criteria:
Wind speed (mph)                  75 mph fastest mile
                                 90 mph 3 second gust
Air freezing index                1500
Seismic design category           C
Weathering                        Severe
Frost line depth                  24"
Decay                             Slight
Ice shield underlayment required  Yes
Roof snow load                    60 lbs/square foot
 
   Table N1102.1 Minimum Requirements: In no cases shall there be less than the
following components in any conditioned, habitable space:
 
a. Ceiling (flat)     R-38
b. Ceiling (vaulted)  R-38
 
c. Exterior walls       R-20
d. Floors               R-30
e. Cantilevered floors  R-30
f. Slab perimeter (2')  R-10
g. Windows              0.35 u-factor
 
   C.   Copies On File: Copies of each code as adopted in subsection A of this
section shall be and remain on file in the offices of the city building
inspector and open for public inspection.
   D.   Penalty: Violation of any provisions of this section, or failure to
comply with any of its requirements shall constitute a misdemeanor. Each day
such violation continues shall be considered a separate offense; provided,
however, that the maximum punishment of each offense shall be as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. The landowner, tenant, subdivider, builder, contractor,
subcontractor, public official, or any other person who commits, participates
in, assists in, or maintains such violation may be found guilty of a separate
offense. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the city council or any other
public official(s) or private citizen(s) from taking such lawful action as is
necessary to restrain or prevent any violation of this section. (Ord. 2013-689,
12-16-2013, eff. 1-1-2014; amd. Ord. 2021-751, 11-22-2021; Ord. 2023-769, 5-8-
2023)
9-1-2: AGRICULTURAL BUILDINGS:
   A.   Adoption: Idaho state building code regulations adopted.
   B.   Exemptions: Agricultural buildings, as defined in this section, are
exempt from the building codes adopted herein, but shall remain subject to
placement requirements established by zoning regulations.
   C.   Definitions:
    AGRICULTURAL BUILDING: A structure that is designed and constructed for one
or more of the following purposes:
      1.   Livestock shelters or buildings, including shade structures and
milling barns;
      2.   Poultry buildings or shelters;
      3.   Barns;
      4.   Storage of equipment and machinery used exclusively in agriculture;
      5.   Horticultural structures, including detached production greenhouses
and crop protection shelters;
      6.   Sheds;
      7.   Grain silos; or
      8.   Stables.
   EQUIPMENT AND MACHINERY USED EXCLUSIVELY IN AGRICULTURE: Farm implements and
other equipment and machinery that are used exclusively on land actively
devoted to agriculture, and are not used on public highways except as necessary
for access to land actively devoted to agriculture.
   LAND ACTIVELY DEVOTED TO AGRICULTURE: Real property meeting the eligibility
criteria for appraisal, assessment and taxation as agricultural property, as
set forth in Idaho Code section 63-604.
The above definitions shall supersede any definitions of these terms that are
contained in the international building code.
   D.   Exemption From Building Code Requirements: A building that meets the
definition of "agricultural building" contained in subsection C of this section
shall be exempt from the requirements of the building codes enumerated in Idaho
Code title 39, chapter 41, and the rules promulgated by the Idaho building code
board, to the extent such exemption is provided in Idaho Code section 39-4116,
provided that both of the following criteria are met:
      1.   The building is used solely for one or more of the purposes listed
in the definition of "agricultural building" in subsection C of this section;
and
      2.   The property on which the building is sited has been determined by
the Benewah County assessor to be land actively devoted to agriculture.
   E.   Requirements Applicable To Agricultural Buildings: Notwithstanding any
other provision of this chapter, the following requirements shall apply to
agricultural buildings:
      1.   An agricultural building shall not be:
         a.   Used as a place of human habitation; or
         b.   Used as a place of employment where agricultural products are
processed, treated or packaged; or
         c.   Open to use by the public.
      2.   All agricultural buildings shall conform to the minimum placement
standards established pursuant to the city of St. Maries zoning ordinance.
      3.   The owner of an agricultural building shall obtain a site permit for
the building from the city of St. Maries building department. (Ord. 2008-661,
2-25-2008; amd. Ord. 2013-689, 12-16-2013, eff. 1-1-2014)
CHAPTER 2
BUILDING PERMITS
SECTION:
9-2-1: Permit Required
9-2-2: Application
9-2-3: Fee Schedule
9-2-4: Compliance Required
9-2-5: Issuance
9-2-6: Inspections
9-2-7: Roof Drains
9-2-8: Certificate Of Compliance
9-2-9: Appeals
9-2-10: Enforcement
9-2-1: PERMIT REQUIRED:
A.   Building Permit: It shall be unlawful for any person to do, or cause or
permit to be done, whether acting as principal, agent or employee, any
construction, improvement, extension, alteration, or any other action for which
a building permit is required by the building codes adopted by the city
pursuant to section
9-1-1 of this chapter, within the jurisdiction of the city of St. Maries
without first procuring a building permit authorizing such work to be done.
   1.   Survey:
      a.   Every applicant for a building permit shall submit with the
application a written statement prepared and stamped by a licensed surveyor
certifying that a field survey has been completed and the corners of the
property have been located and marked.
      b.   The surveyor shall locate and mark the corners of the property.
      c.   Such marking shall be maintained in good order by the owner until
final completion of the building envelope.
      d.   The city may require the owner to stake the building envelope and/or
the location of the setback lines in the vicinity of the proposed construction,
and all such stakes shall be preserved until the building envelope is complete.
   2.   Exception: A field survey is not required when:
      a.   The work being performed is demolition only;
      b.   Construction is fully contained within the existing building
envelope; or
      c.   A survey has been previously prepared by a licensed surveyor and the
original corner markers set by a licensed surveyor are in place and visible.
B.   Boundary Structure Permit: It shall be unlawful for any person to do, or
cause or permit to be done, whether acting as principal, agent or employee, any
construction, improvement, extension, or alteration, other than routine
maintenance, to any boundary structure defined in subsection D.1. herein,
within the jurisdiction of the city of St. Maries without first procuring a
boundary structure permit authorizing such work to be done.
   1.   Survey. Every applicant for a boundary structure permit shall submit
with the application a survey in accordance with subsection A.1 herein, unless
there is an applicable survey exception as set forth below.
   2.   Exception. A field survey is not required for boundary structures when
one of the following conditions are met:
      a.   A survey has been previously prepared by a licensed surveyor and the
original corner markers set by a licensed surveyor are in place and visible; or
      b.   The property owner signs a liability waiver, acknowledgement of
potential encroachment on city right-of-way, and agreement to remove the
structure at the request of the city in the event the structure is later found
to be located in the city right-of-way and the city determines that removal is
in the best interest of the city.
   3.   Process:
      a.   If a field study is provided, and the boundary structure is shown to
be located entirely on the owner's property, the city clerk shall issue the
boundary structure permit.
      b.   If a field study is not provided, or the boundary structure is shown
to be encroaching on the city right-of-way, the city clerk may only issue the
boundary structure permit if both the following conditions are met:
         (1)   The property owner signs a liability waiver, acknowledgement of
potential encroachment on city right-of-way, and agreement to remove the
structure at the request of the city in the event the structure is later found
to be located in the city right-of-way and the city determines that removal is
in the best interest of the city; and
         (2)   The city clerk determines that the boundary structure will not
interfere with sight lines, street maintenance, snow removal, utility
maintenance and monitoring, and is otherwise in conformality with the
surrounding neighborhood.
      c.   If the city clerk denies issuance of a boundary structure permit for
any reason, the applicant may request review of the decision by city council at
the next regularly scheduled city council meeting, at which time, the permit
may be granted by city council only if the city council determines issuance of
the permit to be in the best interest of the property owner and the city, and
shall be made subject to any modifications or conditions imposed by the city.
      d.   Each boundary structure waiver, acknowledgement, and agreement for
removal shall be recorded by the city clerk within thirty (30) days of permit
approval and shall be a covenant running with the land and will be binding upon
the owner and the owner's successors, heirs, or assignees.
C.   Code Compliance: No building or boundary structure permit shall be issued
or authorized unless the work or project is in compliance with all ordinances
of the city, including the zoning and subdivision ordinances.
D.   Definitions:
 
                    Fence, retaining wall or other such structure located on or
BOUNDARY STRUCTURE: within 10 feet of a city street or alley. Trees and hedges
                    are not considered boundary structures.
                    Any structure used or intended for supporting or sheltering
                    any use or occupancy and for which a building permit is
BUILDING:           required pursuant to the building codes adopted by the city
                    pursuant to section
                    9-1-1 of this chapter.
                    The footings, foundations, exterior walls, roof and any
BUILDING ENVELOPE:  other part of the building, such as, but not limited to,
                    eaves and decks, projecting beyond any of the foregoing.
 
(Ord. 650, 10-23-2006; amd. Ord. 2019-736, 11-12-2019; Ord. 2020-743, 9-28-
2020)
9-2-2: APPLICATION:
The applicant shall obtain an application from the building inspector and file
such application in completed form with the building inspector along with the
following:
   A.   In the case of all building permit applications not concerning a simple
boundary structure such as a fence or wall, architectural drawings sufficient
to meet the requirements of a recognized financial lending agency;
   B.   Survey plat completed and filed by licensed surveyor with property pins
visibly positioned. In situations where appropriate, the survey plat must also
show sewer and water hookup points and the location of structure as it will be
positioned on property;
   C.   Fee for permit;
   D.   In situations where appropriate, receipt for water and sewer hookup fee
previously paid to city clerk;
   E.   The initial application may require review by the planning and zoning
commission for compliance with title 11 of this code. (Ord. 650, 10-23-2006)
9-2-3: FEE SCHEDULE:
Building permit fees shall be set by the city council and based on valuation.
(Ord. 650, 10-23-2006)
9-2-4: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
No building permit shall be issued until such time that all city requirements
for extension of streets, water and sewer are complied with. (1977 Code §
15.12.040)
9-2-5: ISSUANCE:
Building permits shall be issued by the building inspector and signed by such
inspector, after required advertising and subject to compliance with the
conditions set forth in this title. (1977 Code § 15.12.050)
9-2-6: INSPECTIONS:
The building inspector shall inspect the structure at designated points of
construction as set forth in the building code adopted by the city, and no
construction may proceed beyond each designated inspection point until
inspection is completed and so signified on the building permit. (1977 Code §
15.12.060; amd. 2004 Code)
9-2-7: ROOF DRAINS:
It is unlawful for any roof drains within the city to be allowed to run into
the sanitary sewer system of the city. Violation of this provision shall
constitute a violation of the building code and shall be subject to civil and
criminal penalties therein provided. (1977 Code § 15.12.070)
9-2-8: CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE:
Upon satisfaction of the building inspector that all codes and requirements
have been complied with, a certificate of compliance shall be issued. Such
certificate shall be a copy of the signed and dated inspection record and shall
be issued prior to use and/or occupancy. (1977 Code § 15.12.080)
9-2-9: APPEALS:
   A.   Actions Of Building Inspector: Any and all persons may appeal the
actions of the building inspector to the administration committee, such appeal
to be in writing and brought before the administration committee within ten
(10) days of the inspector's actions. (1977 Code § 15.12.090; amd. Ord. 2014-
692, 2-10-2014)
   B.   Decision Of Committee: An appeal of the committee's action may be made
to the city council as a whole within thirty (30) days after committee action.
(1977 Code § 15.12.090)
9-2-10: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Enforcement Procedure:
      1.   It shall be the duty of the Building Inspector to enforce the
provisions of this title. The city shall not issue permits unless existing and
intended structures, the parcel of land, and uses of the buildings and land,
conform in all respects with the provisions of this title and other applicable
provisions of this code, with the following exceptions:
         a.   When the purpose of the permit is to correct a violation of this
title or other city ordinances.
         b.   To allow for the repair or replacement of structures damaged as a
result of a natural disaster pursuant to resolution of the city council, but
only to the extent necessary to remedy damage actually or proximately caused by
the natural disaster. This shall not constitute a waiver or estoppel of the
city's ability to enforce any violations of this title, or of any other
provision of this code, existing on any parcel.
      2.   Whenever any construction or site work is not in compliance with
this title, specific conditions of approval, or other related laws, ordinances
or requirements, the Building Inspector may issue a notice of violation and
order any work stopped by written notice. Such notice of violation or stop work
order shall be served on any persons engaged in doing or causing such work to
be done, and persons shall forthwith stop such work until authorized by the
Building Inspector to proceed. "Served", as used in this section, shall
include, but not be limited to, hand delivered by an employee or designee of
the city, posted on a prominent place on the subject property, or mailing to
the property owner of record.
      3.   A copy of the notice of violation or stop work order, if applicable,
shall be mailed to the property owner of record and any other known holder of
any legal interest in the property as follows:
         a.   Notices of violation and stop work orders shall be mailed as
follows:
            (1)   Initial notices of violation in which no stop work order has
been issued may be mailed via first class mail.
            (2)   Stop work orders and associated initial notices of violation
shall be mailed via certified mail, return receipt requested.
            (3)   All notices of violation recorded in the office of the
Benewah County recorder shall be sent via certified mail, return receipt
requested.
         b.   The notification shall include:
            (1)   The property owner and the legal description of the parcel;
            (2)   A detailed description of the nature of the violation;
            (3)   A detailed description of all remedial actions that must be
undertaken to resolve the violation; and
            (4)   The length of time allotted to resolve the violation.
      4.   The property owner shall have forty-five (45) days from the date the
notice of violation was mailed to resolve the violation. If the violation is
not cured or an agreement reached with the city on an alternate timeframe for
resolution within the forty-five (45) days, the notice of violation shall be
filed in the office of the county recorder, with a copy mailed to the owner via
certified mail.
      5.   The notice of violation or stop work order shall also advise the
owner of the process for appeals of notices of violation and stop work orders.
An owner or a holder of any legal interest in the property may appeal a notice
of violation or stop work order pursuant to title 11, chapter 11. The appeal
shall be heard in accordance with said chapter. If the appeal is denied (i.e.,
the action is affirmed), the city council shall specify an exact number of days
to gain compliance with this title before the notice of violation is recorded
and may add or remove conditions of remedial action. If the appeal is approved
(i.e., the action is reversed), the city council shall specify actions to be
taken by the Building Inspector to release the violation.
      6.   Prior to or at such time as a violation is resolved, the owner shall
pay the fee specified in the current adopted fee schedule unless the
enforcement action was reversed by the city or a court of competent
jurisdiction. Upon payment of such fees or a determination that payment of fees
is not necessary, the Building Inspector shall cause a release of notice of
violation to be recorded in the office of the county recorder. The release
shall contain all of the information contained in the notice of violation, as
well as the corrective action taken to resolve the violation. A copy of the
release shall be mailed to the owner, via certified mail, return receipt
requested.
   B.   Violations: Any person may file a written complaint alleging that a
violation of this title has occurred. Such complaint, stating fully the causes
and basis thereof, shall be filed with the city clerk. The Building Inspector
shall investigate the allegations made in the complaint, and, if it appears
that there is reasonable cause to find that the alleged violation did occur,
shall take action thereon as provided in this section.
   C.   Penalties: Penalties for failure to comply with or violations of the
provisions of this title shall be as follows:
      1.   Violation of any of the provisions of this title or failure to
comply with any of its requirements shall constitute a misdemeanor punishable
as set forth in section
1-4-1 of this code, with the exception of those provisions which state that a
violation thereof shall constitute an infraction punishable as set forth in
section
1-4-1 of this code.
      2.   The Building Inspector may impose a civil penalty for a recorded
violation of any provision of this title or failure to comply with any of its
requirements in an amount not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per
incident per day, with a maximum penalty of twenty thousand dollars
($20,000.00) per incident. For purposes of this section, "incident" means any
instance of a violation of a provision of this title or failure to comply with
a requirement of this title. The city council may establish by resolution a
schedule of civil penalties for specific categories of incidents consistent
with the provisions of this section. Civil penalties shall be in addition to
any fees imposed to recoup the cost of enforcement.
      3.   Each day on which a violation or failure to comply continues shall
be considered a separate incident for purposes of both civil and criminal
action. Any landowner, tenant, subdivider, builder, or other person who
commits, participates in, assists in, or maintains such violation or failure to
comply may be found guilty of a separate offense and may be found liable for
payment of civil penalties. In cases where multiple individuals, firms,
corporations or agents have participated in an incident, they may be held
jointly and severally liable for any remedies, penalties or payments.
      4.   The prosecuting attorney or other attorney who represents the city
may also take civil action in district court on behalf of the City to prevent,
restrain, correct, or abate any action taken, or which may be taken, in
violation of this title, or to otherwise enforce the provisions of this title.
In addition to other actions that may be ordered by the Court, if the City
prevails, the violator shall pay to the City all fees associated with the
incident then due and owing. Either party may also seek costs and attorney fees
against the other pursuant to state laws and court rules. The City may also
seek the imposition of a civil penalty in an amount not to exceed one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00) per incident per day, with a total maximum penalty of
twenty thousand dollars ($20,000.00) per incident and may also seek to compel
payment of any civil penalty previously imposed by the Building Inspector. No
abatement of property or foreclosure on a lien securing any civil penalty
imposed pursuant to this section shall occur unless the property has been found
to be a public or moral nuisance by a court of competent jurisdiction.
      5.   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the City Council or any other
public official or private citizen from taking such lawful action as is
necessary to restrain or prevent any violation of this title or of Idaho Code.
      6.   The Building Inspector may withhold issuance of permits, including
building permits and certificates of occupancy, for lots or parcels of land
that are in violation of any provision of this title.
      7.   Any decision of the Building Inspector made pursuant to this section
may be appealed in accordance with title 11, chapter 11.
   D.   Abatement of Nuisances and Hazards:
      1.   Nuisances: Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to restrict the
power and duty of the city to abate public or moral nuisances through its
process in Title 4, Chapter 1 of this Code. If the Building Inspector
determines that a structure constitutes a public or moral nuisance, then the
Building Inspector may require the property owner to abate the nuisance, and
may require that such structure shall not thereafter be used, restored,
repaired or rebuilt, or that such use shall not thereafter continue, except in
conformity with this title. The Building Inspector shall give notice in writing
to the owner, owner's agent, or other person in control of the property. Upon
receipt of such notice, the owner, owner's agent, or other person in control of
the property shall abate the nuisance within the time period specified in the
notice or such other time period to which the Building Inspector may agree.
Failure to complete the required abatement by the specified date shall
constitute a violation governed by the provisions of this section, and in such
cases, the city may contract to complete the work necessary to abate the
nuisance at the owner's expense.
      2.   Hazards: Whenever the Building Inspector determines that there
exists a condition or situation on private property that is not defined as a
public or moral nuisance under this code, but which has become a hazard to life
and limb, or endangers other property, or adversely affects the safety, use, or
stability of public or private property, or adversely affects any public or
private access or drainageway, the Building Inspector may require the property
owner to abate the hazard. The Building Inspector shall give notice in writing
to the owner, owner's agent, or other person in control of the property. Upon
receipt of such notice, the owner, owner's agent, or other person in control of
the property shall abate the hazard within the time period specified in the
notice or such other time period to which the Building Inspector may agree.
Failure to complete the required abatement by the specified date shall
constitute a violation governed by the provisions of this section, and in such
cases, the city may contract to complete the work necessary to abate the hazard
at the owner's expense.
   E.   Compliance Agreements: The Building Inspector may enter into compliance
agreements on a case-by-case basis, subject to the following provisions or
conditions:
      1.   The Building Inspector finds that the violations that are the
subject of the compliance agreement do not pose an imminent threat to people or
property.
      2.   The party responsible for compliance agrees to remedy the violation
(s) in an expeditious manner by a certain date.
      3.   The Building Inspector may require the responsible party to:
         a.   Agree to hold the Building Inspector and City of St. Maries
harmless and to defend against any claims arising through operation of the
compliance agreement; and/or
         b.   Provide evidence of general liability coverage for personal
injury and property damage for the premises subject to the compliance
agreement, with the City of St. Maries named as an additional insured.
      4.   The responsible party shall pay any costs and/or attorney fees
incurred to enforce a compliance agreement. (Ord. 2025-784, 3-24-2025)
CHAPTER 3
MANUFACTURED HOMES
SECTION:
9-3-1: Definitions
9-3-2: HUD 3280 Adopted
9-3-3: NFPA 501A Adopted
9-3-4: Permitted
9-3-5: Substandard Transportable Dwelling
9-3-6: Physical Requirements
9-3-7: Manufactured Home Parks
9-3-7-1: Building Permit Required
9-3-7-2: Minimum Acreage
9-3-7-3: Responsibilities Of Developer
9-3-7-4: Park Requirements
9-3-7-5: Inspection
9-3-7-6: Refuse Handling; Insect And Rodent Control
9-3-7-7: Responsibilities Of Park Management
9-3-8: Violation; Penalty
9-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
BUILDING INSPECTOR: The official building inspector of the city of St. Maries.
CITY: The city of St. Maries, Idaho.
DEVELOPER: An individual person, firm, trust, partnership or private
association or corporation undertaking the venture of improving and/or building
a structure upon a lot.
HUD 3280: The code of federal regulations, housing and urban development part
3280, manufactured home construction and safety development.
LOT: A parcel of land at least sufficient in size to meet the minimum zoning
requirements for use, coverage and area and to provide such yards and other
open spaces as herein required. Such lots shall have frontage on an improved
street or thoroughfare and may consist of:
   A.   A single lot of record.
   B.   A portion of a lot of record.
   C.   A combination of complete contiguous lots of record, and portions of
lots of record, and/or of contiguous portions of lots of record under one
owner.
   D.   A parcel of land described by metes and bounds, provided that in no
case of division or combination shall any residual lot or parcel be created
which does not meet the requirements of this chapter.
MANUFACTURED HOME: Either:
   A.   A structure constructed since June 15, 1976, that bears the seal of the
U.S. department of housing and urban development (HUD) indicating it has met
the manufactured home construction and safety standards of the U.S. department
of housing and urban development or the international building code;
   B.   A structure constructed prior to June 15, 1976, constructed in such a
manner that it meets all such standards established by HUD or the IBC and which
has been approved by the planning and zoning commission and the city council;
and in addition to the criteria set forth in A above, when erected on site is
seven hundred (700) or more square feet of exterior measurement and which is
built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with a
permanent foundation, or "pit set" with tongue and axles removed when connected
to the required utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning
and electrical systems contained within.
MANUFACTURED HOME AREA: An area of definite dimensions which has been planned
and improved for the placement of manufactured homes exclusively, and within
which the individual lots comprising it are offered for sale.
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK: Any lot or tract of land or contiguous lots under
single ownership, upon which two (2) or more manufactured home habitations are
parked, either free of charge or for revenue purposes; including any roadway,
building, structure, vehicle or enclosure used as part of the facilities of
such park.
NFPA 501A: The publication, installation of manufactured homes including
manufactured home park requirements, which will be applied to manufactured home
parks for the purpose of this chapter, NFPA 501A 1977, or the most current
edition, published by the National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) and the
Manufactured Housing Institute (MHI) and excluding this publication's
definitions of a manufactured home, manufactured home park.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, trust, partnership or public or private
association or corporation.
SITE AREA: Shall apply to the applicable zone.
SUBSTANDARD TRANSPORTABLE DWELLING: Any motor home or travel or camping trailer
or any other factory built transportable dwelling unit which is not constructed
in conformance with HUD 3280, or which has an exterior measurement of less than
seven hundred (700) square feet, or both. (Ord. 588, 4-1-1994)
9-3-2: HUD 3280 ADOPTED:
The publication, code of federal regulations, housing and urban development
part 3280, published April 1, 1988, or the most recent edition thereof, is
herewith adopted by reference. (Ord. 588, 4-1-1994)
9-3-3: NFPA 501A ADOPTED:
The publication, NFPA 501A is herewith adopted by reference. (Ord. 588, 4-1-
1994)
9-3-4: PERMITTED:
Manufactured homes, as defined in this chapter shall be permitted with an
approved building permit. All manufactured homes shall be located in areas
outside designated flood plains, or shall otherwise be sited in accordance with
applicable city and county flood plain regulations. Provided, however, pursuant
to Idaho Code 67-6509, nothing in this chapter shall be construed to abrogate
or repeal a recorded restrictive covenant otherwise restricting, controlling or
not allowing the siting of a manufactured home on property subject to the
restrictive covenant. (Ord. 607, 3-9-1998)
9-3-5: SUBSTANDARD TRANSPORTABLE DWELLING:
   A.   Use As Dwelling Prohibited: Except as otherwise provided in this
section, a substandard transportable dwelling shall not be occupied for
dwelling purposes.
   B.   Connection To Utilities Prohibited: Except as otherwise provided in
this section, a substandard transportable dwelling shall not be connected in
any way to external sources of electricity or water, nor shall it be connected
in any manner to an external septic or other sewage storage or disposal system,
nor shall waste solids or liquids of any type be allowed to drain from such a
dwelling into or onto the ground.
   C.   Special Permit: A person desiring to occupy a substandard transportable
dwelling on a temporary basis while constructing an on site built home or
installing an approved manufactured home, may apply to the planning and zoning
commission for a special permit to do so. The planning and zoning commission
may, at its discretion, issue such a permit, subject to the following
conditions:
      1.   Regular Building Permit Required; Term: Such a special permit shall
be issued only concurrently with a regular building permit to construct or
install an approved type permanent dwelling on that same site. Such special
permit shall expire one hundred twenty (120) days from its date of issuance.
      2.   Administrative Fee: There shall be an administrative fee set from
time to time by resolution of the city council charged for such a special
permit, which shall be credited to the city's general fund.
      3.   Connection To Utilities: As a condition of occupancy, the temporary
substandard dwelling shall be connected to electric, water and sewage disposal
systems during occupancy and shall be disconnected from such system upon the
expiration of the special permit. It shall then be removed from the premises or
situated upon the premises in compliance with the provisions of title 11 of
this code.
   D.   Manufactured Home Park: A substandard transportable dwelling may occupy
space in an approved manufactured home park, and may be occupied as a dwelling
and shall be connected to suitable water, electric and sewage disposal systems.
   E.   Campground: A substandard transportable dwelling may be occupied and
connected to suitable water, electric and sewage disposal systems when such a
dwelling is situated within a city approved campground providing such
facilities.
   F.   Accessory Or Outbuilding: A substandard transportable dwelling may be
utilized as an accessory or outbuilding to a main approved dwelling on that
same property, however, cooking, laundering or bathing shall not be performed
within such a substandard dwelling, nor shall it be connected in any manner to
an outside water supply or sewage storage or disposal system, nor shall it be
situated upon a property in a manner not in accordance with the provisions
title 11 of this code, nor shall it be situated upon any public right of way or
other city property.
   G.   Visitor/Guest: A visitor/guest desiring to occupy a self- contained
substandard transportable dwelling while visiting a resident may connect to
electricity and water, but may not connect to septic or other sewage disposal
systems and the occupant must use a legal dump site. The substandard dwelling
shall not be stationed upon any public right of way or other city owned
property.
      1.   Permit Required: As a condition of occupancy, the home owner/
resident must notify the city. Within seven (7) days a permit must be obtained
from the city.
      2.   Term; Administrative Fee: A permit shall be issued for eight (8) to
thirty (30) days and shall have an administrative fee to be set by resolution
of the city council, which is nonrefundable. The permit will have the
substandard transportable dwelling's license or serial number and legal
description.
   H.   Exemption: A substandard transportable dwelling in place and inhabited
immediately prior to the adoption hereof will be exempt from the provisions of
this chapter (in other words "grandfathered") unless replaced or moved. If this
dwelling is replaced by a transportable dwelling or a manufactured home, such
replacement dwelling must meet the requirements of this chapter. If the
dwelling is moved, it must be moved to a manufactured home park. (Ord. 588, 4-
1-1994)
9-3-6: PHYSICAL REQUIREMENTS:
Manufactured homes, wherever they may be situated, shall require a city permit
to be obtained from the city building inspector prior to installation on site,
and they shall not be occupied for dwelling purposes if they do not meet the
following requirements:
   A.   Are provided with and connected to water, electric and sanitary sewage
disposal services at least qual to those required of conventional on site
constructed dwellings.
   B.   Are sited upon their lots in accordance with all applicable city
regulations.
   C.   Shall be placed on an excavated and backfilled permanent foundation
enclosed at the perimeter not less than twelve inches (12") above existing
grade.
   D.   Shall have a minimum of twenty four inches (24") in crawl space under
the entire unit. Such crawl space shall be ventilated and shall have access
doors in accordance with NRPA 501A and Idaho Code title 44, chapter 2
(manufactured home setup code).
   E.   Shall have a pitched roof with a minimum of three feet (3') in height
for each twelve feet (12') in width.
   F.   Shall have permanent landings and steps affixed to all exits.
   G.   For any manufactured home to be located in either an R-1a zone or the
R-2 zone, defined in title 11 of this code, said manufactured home shall be
multisectional and with an enclosed living space of not less than nine hundred
eighty (980) square feet.
   H.   Shall have exterior siding and roofing which in material and appearance
is similar to the exterior siding and roofing material commonly used on
residential dwellings which is comparable to the predominant materials used on
surrounding dwellings as determined by the local permit approval authority.
   I.   Any garage, out building or carport built to accompany or service a
manufactured home shall be sided and roofed with materials comparable to those
that exist in the neighborhood on surrounding dwellings.
   J.   Those manufactured homes and substandard transportable dwellings which
occupy space in manufactured home parks shall have permanent skirting installed
of a material and color that blends harmoniously with the rest of the exterior
of the dwelling to enclose all areas between the lower edge of the outside
walls and the finished grade. Such skirting shall be installed within sixty
(60) days of installation of the dwelling on site. A one hundred dollar
($100.00) bond, payable at city hall, is required until the skirting is
completed to specifications.
   K.   In every instance where the property owner seeks to have a manufactured
home which was constructed prior to June 15, 1976, approved by the planning and
zoning commission and city council, as required in section
10-5-4 of this chapter, the burden of proof shall be on the property owner to
establish by a preponderance of the evidence that the manufactured home meets
all such HUD or IBC standards. The property owner shall be required to present
competent evidence in support of the requested approval, at his own expense, to
include expert witness testimony. (Ord. 607, 3-9-1998)
9-3-7: MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS:
9-3-7-1: BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   Permit Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to construct,
alter or extend any manufactured home park within the limits of the city unless
he holds a valid permit issued by the city in the name of such person for the
specific construction, alteration or extension proposed.
   B.   Application: All applications for permits shall be made to the city and
shall contain the following:
      1.   Name and address of applicant.
      2.   Interest of the applicant in the manufactured home/park area.
      3.   Location and legal description of the manufactured home park/area.
      4.   Complete engineering plans and specifications of the proposed park
showing the following:
         a.   The area and dimensions of the tract of land.
         b.   The number, location and size of all manufactured home lots.
         c.   The location and width of roadways and walkways.
         d.   The location of service buildings and any other proposed
structures.
         e.   The location of water and sewer lines and riser pipes.
         f.   Plans and specifications of the water supply and refuse and
sewage disposal facilities.
         g.   Plans and specifications of all buildings constructed or to be
constructed within the manufactured home park/area.
         h.   The location and details of lighting and electrical systems.
   C.   Review Of Application: Each application for a building permit shall be
reviewed by the building inspector, planning and zoning commission and the city
council and shall be approved by each before it shall become valid.
   D.   Revocation: Should a building permit be revoked for any fraud or other
reason which is the fault of the property owner or contractor, the application
process must be reinitiated and the previously paid fee is forfeited. (Ord.
588, 4-1-1994)
9-3-7-2: MINIMUM ACREAGE:
A manufactured home park or manufactured home area shall have a total area of
not less than five (5) acres. (Ord. 588, 4-1-1994)
9-3-7-3: RESPONSIBILITIES OF DEVELOPER:
   A.   Improvements: The developer of each manufactured home park or
manufactured home area shall be responsible for accomplishing any and all of
the following which may be required in the development of a manufactured home
park or area: Opening and extending streets, alleys, drainage culverts,
purchase of all materials, extending water and sewer mains, including any
required engineering, labor, pipe, manholes, cleanouts, shutoff valves, fire
hydrants, sewage lift stations, meters and any other required materials or
services, and extending electrical, gas, telephone, cable television or any
other services to and into the manufactured home park or area.
   B.   Utility Stubs: The developer shall provide water, sewer and electric
stubs to the property line of each lot within a manufactured home area. Such
water and sewer stubs shall be connected to active city water and sewer mains.
   C.   Cost Of Development: All costs whatsoever incurred in the development
of a manufactured home area shall be borne entirely by the developer of such a
project and the city shall be responsible for none of such costs unless the
city council shall, by a majority roll call vote of the full city council,
direct that the city shall participate to some specific given extent in sharing
certain costs with the developer.
   D.   Fence; Landscaping: The developer shall be responsible for installation
of a permanent sight obscuring fence around the manufactured home park, and
suitable landscaping outside of that fence in accordance with the title 11 of
this code.
   E.   Playground Area: The developer shall provide for a playground area
within the development boundaries if the manufactured home park is intended for
use by families with children under age fifteen (15). This is to preclude the
necessity of small children crossing roads to gain access to play areas. (Ord.
588, 4-1-1994)
9-3-7-4: PARK REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Compliance Required: Manufactured home parks shall be constructed and
operated in accordance with this and any other applicable city ordinance, and
with parts 2 through 10 (excluding the definitions of manufactured home and
manufactured home park) and with appendix figure A-2 of the publication NFPA
501A.
   B.   Parking: Each individual homesite must provide for parking to
accommodate at least two (2) vehicles off the street, drive, roadway or
walkways. (Ord. 588, 4-1-1994)
9-3-7-5: INSPECTION:
   A.   Authority Of Building Inspector: The building inspector is hereby
authorized and directed to make such inspections as are necessary to determine
satisfactory compliance with this chapter and regulations issued hereunder.
   B.   Power Of Entry: The building inspector shall have the power to enter at
reasonable times upon any private or public property for the purpose of
inspecting and investigating conditions relating to the enforcement of this
chapter and regulations issued hereunder.
   C.   Registry: The building inspector shall have the power to inspect the
register containing a record of all residents of the manufactured home park.
   D.   Duty To Give Access: It shall be the duty of the owners or occupants of
the manufactured home parks, and manufactured homes contained therein, or of
the person in charge thereof, to give the building inspector free access to
such premises at reasonable times for the purpose of inspection.
   E.   Access For Repairs Or Alterations: It shall be the duty of every
occupant of a manufactured home park to give the owner thereof, or his agent or
employee, access to any part of such manufactured home park or its premises at
reasonable times for the purpose of making such repairs or alterations as are
necessary to effect compliance with this chapter and regulations issued
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 588, 4-1-1994)
9-3-7-6: REFUSE HANDLING; INSECT AND RODENT CONTROL:
   A.   Refuse:
      1.   Storage, Collection, Disposal: The storage, collection and disposal
of refuse in the manufactured home park shall be so conducted as to create no
health hazard, rodent harboring, insect breeding areas, accident or fire
hazards or air pollution.
      2.   Containers; Location: All refuse shall be stored in flytight,
watertight, rodentproof containers, which shall be located not more than one
hundred fifty feet (150') from any manufactured home lot.
      3.   Number Of Containers Required: Containers shall be provided in
sufficient number and capacity to properly store all refuse.
      4.   Collection Stands: Refuse collection stands shall be provided for
all refuse containers. Such container stands shall be so designed as to prevent
containers from being tipped, to minimize spillage and container deterioration
and to facilitate cleaning around them.
      5.   Collection: All refuse containing garbage shall be collected at
least once weekly. Where suitable collection service is not available from
municipal or private agencies, the manufactured home park operator shall
provide this service. All refuse shall be collected and transported in covered
vehicles or covered containers.
      6.   Disposal By Park Operator: Where municipal or private disposal
service is not available, the manufactured home park operator shall dispose of
the refuse by transporting it to a disposal site approved by the health
authority.
   B.   Insects And Rodents:
      1.   Maintenance Of Grounds, Buildings And Structures: Grounds, buildings
and structures shall be maintained free of insect and rodent harboring and
infestation. Extermination methods and other measures to control insects and
rodents shall conform with the requirements of the health authority.
      2.   Parks: Parks shall be maintained free of accumulations of debris
that may provide rodent harboring or breeding places for flies, mosquitoes and
other pests.
      3.   Storage Areas: Storage areas shall be so maintained as to prevent
rodent harboring: lumber, pipe and other building material shall be stored at
least one foot (1') above the ground.
      4.   Screens: Where the potential for insect and rodent infestation
exists, all exterior openings in or beneath any structure shall be
appropriately screened with wire mesh or other suitable materials.
      5.   Brush, Grass, Weeds: The growth of brush, weeds and grass shall be
controlled to prevent harboring of ticks, chiggers and other noxious insects.
Parks shall be so maintained as to prevent the growth of ragweed, poison ivy,
poison oak, poison sumac and other noxious weeds considered detrimental to
health. Open areas shall be maintained free of heavy undergrowth of any
description. (Ord. 588, 4-1-1994)
9-3-7-7: RESPONSIBILITIES OF PARK MANAGEMENT:
Park management shall:
   A.   Operation Of Park: Ensure that the manufactured home park is operated
in compliance with this chapter and shall provide adequate supervision to
maintain the park, its facilities and equipment in good repair and in a clean
and sanitary condition.
   B.   Notify Occupants: Notify park occupants of all applicable provisions of
this chapter and inform them of their duties and responsibilities under this
chapter.
   C.   Supervise Placement: Supervise the placement of each manufactured home
on its manufactured home pad or stand, which includes securing its stability
and installing all utility connections.
   D.   Maintain Register: Maintain a register containing the names of all park
occupants. Such a register shall be available to any law enforcement officer
and to any authorized city employee or inspector.
   E.   Law Enforcement Assistance Charges: Be liable for charges for calls for
law enforcement assistance in excess of two (2) per month per each residence,
said fee schedules to be set by the city council. (Ord. 588, 4-1-1994)
9-3-8: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Each person in violation of any provision of this chapter shall have committed
a misdemeanor offense, and each day that each violation continues shall
constitute a separate misdemeanor offense. The penalty for each violation shall
be that prescribed in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 588, 4-1-1994)
CHAPTER 4
SURVEYS
SECTION:
9-4-1: Survey Requirements
9-4-1: SURVEY REQUIREMENTS:
A.   Record of Survey: A survey prepared and stamped by a licensed surveyor
shall be recorded with the county recorder and a copy provided to the city:
   1.   Within one hundred eighty (180) days of city council approval of a lot
line adjustment pursuant to section
9-6-3  of this title; and
   2.   Within one hundred eighty (180) days of city council approval of a
vacation of a plat or any part thereof, including any platted city street or
alley pursuant to section
9-7-1  of this title if a survey is required as a condition of approval.
B.   Field Survey: A field survey must be conducted before a building permit
may be issued for the construction, improvement, extension, alteration of any
building or boundary structure unless exempt pursuant to section
9-2-1 (D) of this title. (Ord. 2019-736, 11-12-2019)
CHAPTER 5
LOT MERGERS
(Rep. by Ord. 2024-781, 10-15-2024)
CHAPTER 6
LOT LINE ADJUSTMENTS
(Rep. by Ord. 2024-781, 10-15-2024)
CHAPTER 7
VACATION OF A PLAT OR ANY PORTION THEREOF INCLUDING A PLATTED STREET OR ALLEY
(Rep. by Ord. 2024-781, 10-15-2024)
CHAPTER 8
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK STANDARDS
SECTION:
9-8-1: Purpose
9-8-2: Design Standards
9-8-3: Landscaping And Open Space
9-8-4: Site Plan
9-8-5: Establishment Of RV Park
9-8-6: Application Requirements And Procedures
9-8-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is intended to:
   A.   Provide commercial rental parking spaces and sites for recreational
vehicles (RVs), including motor homes, travel trailers, pick-ups, campers and
tent trailers.
   B.   Provide goods and services customarily needed by occupants of the park.
   C.   Assure reasonable standards for the development of facilities for the
occupancy of recreational vehicles on a temporary basis, ranging from short
overnight stops to longer destination-type stays of several days to a maximum
of (8) weeks. (Ord. 2021-748, 10-12-2021)
9-8-2: DESIGN STANDARDS:
   A.   Minimum Park Area: The minimum size of an RV park shall be 2 acres.
   B.   Rental Space Size: Minimum rental space size for those spaces having
utility hookups shall be twelve hundred fifty (1250) square feet. Minimum
rental space size for those spaces not having hookups shall be nine hundred
(900) square feet. Minimum rental space size shall not include any area
required for access roads, off-street parking, service buildings, recreation
areas, office and similar RV park needs.
   C.   RV Rental Pads: Each site shall be marked and numbered for
identification and shall meet all requirements of this code. A minimum of sixty
percent (60%) of all spaces shall be equipped with a surfaced area of not less
than twenty-five feet by fifty feet, containing hookups for water, sewer and
electricity. Surfacing shall consist of gravel, asphalt or concrete. Where
gravel surfacing is used, the design of the gravel pad shall be approved by the
City Engineer to maintain proper drainage and minimize dust. Where provided,
each RV unit shall be parked entirely on the surfaced area so that no part
thereof obstructs any roadway or walkway within the RV Park. Those spaces not
equipped with such a surfaced area, intended for occupancy by recreational
vehicles not having self-contained toilet, lavatory or bathing facilities,
shall be equipped with a gravel pad, the design of which shall be approved by
the City Engineer, of not less than twenty by forty-five feet for RV unit
parking and a hookup for water. Spaces equipped with such a gravel pad shall
not exceed forty percent (40%) of the total number of spaces in the RV Park.
   D.   Setback Requirements: Each rental space shall meet the following
setback requirements:
      1.   Twenty-five (25) feet when abutting a state or federal highway or
designated major arterial.
      2.   Fifteen (15) feet when abutting a public right-of-way other than “a”
above.
      3.   Ten (10) feet when abutting any property line other than “a” or “b”
above.
      4.   There shall be a minimum distance of ten (10) feet between RV units
parked side by side.
      5.   There shall be a minimum distance of ten (10) feet between RV units
parked end to end.
      6.   There shall be a minimum distance of twenty-five (25) feet between
any RV space and any building.
   E.   Streets: Streets or roadways and parking areas within the RV Park shall
be designed to provide safe and convenient access to all spaces and to
facilities for common use by park occupants, and shall be constructed and
maintained to allow free movement of emergency and service vehicles at all
times, and shall be graded to drain and surfaced with gravel, asphalt or
concrete, the design of which shall be approved by the City Engineer, to
maintain proper drainage and minimize dust. All interior roadways shall be at
least twenty-four (24) feet in width for two-way traffic, and at least twelve
(12) feet in width for one-way traffic. Parking shall not be allowed on park
streets. A thirty-five (35) foot turning radius shall be required on all
curves, to allow access by emergency vehicles. Any bridges within the
development shall have a capacity of at least sixteen (16) tons, to allow
access by emergency vehicles. Road grades shall not exceed six percent (6%).
Access into the park from a public street shall meet the same design standards
as those of the public street. All roadways and walkways within the park shall
be adequately lighted at night, to provide safe access.
   F.   Frontage: All spaces shall have a minimum frontage of twenty (20) feet
along an interior roadway. Any accessory uses such as attached awnings, steps
or pop-outs, shall be considered to be part of the trailer.
   G.   Sanitary Facilities: Every RV Park shall be provided with one or more
service buildings equipped with flush toilets, lavatories, showers and laundry
facilities meeting minimum Idaho State Health Department standards. Such
facilities shall be conveniently located at a distance of not more than nine
hundred (900) feet from any RV served. Such facilities shall be kept in a clean
and sanitary condition, and plumbing fixtures shall be maintained in good
working order. All such facilities shall be adequately lighted at all times and
shall be well ventilated.
   H.   Utilities: All utilities shall be placed underground.
      1.   Water Supply: An accessible, adequate, safe and potable supply of
water under pressure shall be provided in every RV Park. The water supply shall
be connected to the City of St. Maries water system and installed to all
applicable city standards. All plans and specifications shall be submitted with
the zoning or rezoning request. Each rental space equipped with sewer and
electrical hookups shall be equipped with one water outlet, to provide
connection for the RV. All other rental spaces shall be equipped with one water
outlet.
      2.   Sanitary Sewer: A minimum of eighty percent (80%) of all RV rental
spaces shall be equipped with a hookup to a public sewage system by way of a
branch line and riser pipe at least four (4) inches inside diameter. The riser
pipe shall be capped with a watertight cap or plug when not in use.
Alternatively, RV dump stations may be used in lieu of a connection at each
space for RV parks with fewer than 50 spaces. Sanitary sewage systems shall be
installed in compliance with the State Health Department standards and the
rules and regulations of City of St. Maries. All plumbing in the RV Park shall
comply with state and local regulations. All wastewater systems shall require
approval of the city public works department.
      3.   Electricity: A minimum of seventy percent (70%) of all rental spaces
shall be equipped with an electrical outlet supplying at least 110 volts,
installed in accordance with applicable state electrical codes.
   I.   Lighting: Any light used to illuminate signs, parking areas, or for any
other purpose shall be non-glaring, energy efficient and so arranged as to
confine direct light beams to the lighted property by appropriate directional
hooding.
   J.   Fire Protection: Fire hydrants shall be installed if needed throughout
all RV Parks in accordance with the specification of the Fire District. All
buildings within the RV Park shall be equipped with fire extinguishing
equipment in good working order of such type, size and number as prescribed by
the fire district.
   K.   Structural Additions: Temporary structures such as canvas awnings,
screened enclosures, or platforms, which are normal camping equipment, may be
erected but must be removed when the rental space is vacated. No other
structural additions shall be built onto or become a part of any RV.
   L.   Storage Sheds: No storage sheds shall be allowed within an RV rental
space.
   M.   Fires: Fires shall be made only in stoves or designated fire pits and
other equipment intended for such purposes and placed in safe and convenient
locations, where they will not constitute fire hazards to vegetation,
undergrowth, trees and RVs.
   N.   Tents: Tents shall be permitted, and their number shall be limited to
one tent per rental space. Areas for group tent camping may be established,
with the following provisions:
      1.   The area set aside for such group use is not a part of any
designated open space.
      2.   An adequate number of parking spaces is provided.
      3.   The area is served by one or more water outlets, and
      4.   The area is located no further than nine hundred (900) feet from a
service building.
   O.   Registration of Occupants: It shall be the responsibility of the owner
or manager of the RV Park to keep a current record of the names and addresses
of the owners and/or occupants of each RV space, the make, model, year and
license number of each RV and motor vehicle by which it is towed, the state,
territory or country issuing such licenses, and the arrival and departure dates
of each occupant. This record must be made available for inspection to all
appropriate agencies whose duties necessitate acquisition.
   P.   Guest Parking: There shall be provided guest parking in each RV Park at
the ratio of one (1) parking space for each five (5) RV or camping sites within
the park.
   Q.   Swimming Pools - Swimming pools shall be operated, maintained and used
in compliance with recommendations and requirements of the Idaho Department of
Health regulations and standards. (Ord. 2021-748, 10-12-2021; amd. Ord. 2024-
782, 11-12-2024)
9-8-3: LANDSCAPING AND OPEN SPACE:
A landscape plan, to be approved by the St. Maires City Planning Commission,
shall be required for RV parks. Landscaping shall be designed to perform the
following functions:
   A.   Screen the RV Park visually and audibly from adjacent properties as
completely as possible.
   B.   Provide an attractive entrance and street frontage.
   C.   Provide dust and erosion control.
   D.   Provide a neat, attractive and aesthetically pleasing appearance. Grass
and ornamental landscaping shall be required in all RV parks, together with
adequate water outlets to maintain all landscaping. There shall be at least (1)
tree per camping site. Open space for common areas, playgrounds and other
recreational uses shall be provided at the rate of at least ten percent (10%)
of the gross area of the RV Park, and shall be of sufficient size and
distribution as to be a functional part of the entire development plan. Open
space shall not include any area designated as a roadway, RV rental space,
storage area, yard area surrounding the caretakers or manager’s residence, or
any area required for setbacks as set forth in this chapter. (Ord. 2021-748,
10-12-2021)
9-8-4: SITE PLAN:
A site plan, to be approved by the St. Maires City Planning Commission and the
Fire Chief, shall be required prior to development of the RV park. The site
plan shall demonstrate compliance with the design standards herein and shall
include a utility plan, subject to the review and approval of the Public Works
Director and City Engineer. (Ord. 2021-748, 10-12-2021)
9-8-5: ESTABLISHMENT OF RV PARK:
An RV Park may be established on an appropriately zoned tract of land held in
single ownership or unified control provided that the applicant shall show, and
the Planning Commission and the City Council find:
   A.   That the site is in conformance with sound planning principles and the
land use plan for that area.
   B.   That the site has an acceptable relationship to the major thoroughfare
plan of the city, and is accessible to recreational vehicles without causing
disruption to residential areas, and
   C.   That the proposed recreational vehicle park will not overload utility
and drainage facilities. (Ord. 2021-748, 10-12-2021)
9-8-6: APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS AND PROCEDURES:
The proponent of a recreational vehicle park, or an expansion thereof, shall
make written application for a Special Use Permit in accordance with the City
Zoning and Subdivision Standards. (Ord. 2021-748, 10-12-2021)
TITLE 10
CITY IMPACT AREA
CHAPTER 1
AREA OF CITY IMPACT
SECTION:
10-1-1: Legislative Purpose
10-1-2: Geographic Area Of City Impact
10-1-3: Jurisdiction
10-1-4: Applicability Of Regulations
10-1-5: Representation
10-1-6: Renegotiation
10-1-7: Amendments
10-1-8: Administration
10-1-9: Enforcement
10-1-1: LEGISLATIVE PURPOSE:
The purpose of establishing an area of city impact is to identify a logical
urban fringe area adjoining the city of St. Maries, Idaho. The urban fringe
area is realizing, or will realize, growth and development pressures that must
be planned and managed in an orderly fashion. The area of city impact
recognizes the actual and potential delivery of public services as being
associated with the city and is comprised of areas that may reasonably be
annexed to the city in the near or distant future. (Ord. 615, 5-10-1999)
10-1-2: GEOGRAPHIC AREA OF CITY IMPACT:
   A.   Map: The officially adopted and agreed upon area of city impact for St.
Maries, Idaho is established by city ordinance 592 and by Benewah County
ordinance 84, and is set forth therein on the map entitled "a map of city of
St. Maries impact area", dated December 12, 1994. The St. Maries area of impact
is defined as that unincorporated land mass which lies contiguous to the city
of St. Maries, having as its closest boundary to the city the city limits of
said city, as they now exist or as they may be altered by future annexation of
land to the city, and having as its outmost boundary an imaginary line
positioned and described in exhibit A, which exhibit is incorporated into this
chapter by reference. The St. Maries impact area is further divided into two
(2) zones, zone 1 being the area described in exhibit A which is the outermost
area; zone 2 being described in exhibit A as the area closest to the city
limits.
In case a property under single deed is divided by the boundary line of zone 1
or zone 2 of the city impact area, all land under said deed shall be included
in the St. Maries impact area zone which lies closest to the city limits.
   B.   Changes In Outermost Boundaries: In the event the city or the county
desires to alter the outermost boundaries of zone 1 and/or zone 2 of the city
impact area, or to change the jurisdiction over said areas, it shall do so by
renegotiation in accordance with Idaho Code and section
10-1-6 of this chapter. (Ord. 615, 5-10-1999)
10-1-3: JURISDICTION:
   A.   Zone 1: Jurisdiction for all matters concerning zoning, building,
subdividing or other matters granted under Idaho Code within zone 1 of the city
impact area is hereby granted to the county, subject to the terms and
conditions of its ordinances. The county planning and zoning commission and
board of county commissioners shall be the deciding authority.
   B.   Zone 2: Jurisdiction for all matters concerning zoning, building,
subdividing or other matters granted under Idaho Code within zone 2 of the city
impact area is hereby granted to the city, subject to the terms and conditions
of this chapter. The city planning and zoning commission and city council shall
be the deciding authority. (Ord. 615, 5-10-1999)
10-1-4: APPLICABILITY OF REGULATIONS:
   A.   Comprehensive Plan: The comprehensive plan and subsequent amendments
thereto, as officially adopted by the city, shall apply to zone 2 of the area
of city impact, as well as to the city.
   B.   Zoning: Zoning ordinances and subsequent amendments thereto, as
officially adopted by the city, shall apply to zone 2 of the area of city
impact as well as to the city.
   C.   Subdivisions: Subdivision ordinances and subsequent amendments thereto,
as officially adopted by the city, shall apply to zone 2 of the area of city
impact as well as to the city.
   D.   Building Codes And Permit Requirements: Within zone 2, the building
code and permit requirements of the city shall apply.
   E.   Floodplain Ordinance: The floodplain ordinance for Benewah County shall
apply to zone 2 and shall be administered by Benewah County and the appropriate
drainage district commissioners.
   F.   Public Streets Maintenance: Maintenance of public streets located in
zone 2 shall be the exclusive responsibility of the county unless otherwise
stipulated by written agreement between the county and the city.
   G.   Law Enforcement And Services: Law enforcement and fire services in zone
2 shall remain the responsibility of Benewah County and the St. Maries rural
fire department unless otherwise stipulated by written agreement between the
county and/or fire district and the city. (Ord. 615, 5-10-1999)
10-1-5: REPRESENTATION:
Pursuant to Idaho Code 67-6526, the city shall, as nearly as possible, appoint
persons to the city planning and zoning commission living within the city
impact area in a number to reflect the proportion of population living within
the city limits as opposed to the estimated population living within the city
impact area. (Ord. 615, 5-10-1999)
10-1-6: RENEGOTIATION:
The city impact area agreement shall be reviewed by the city and county at
least once every five (5) years. In accordance with Idaho Code, the city
council or the Benewah board of county commissioners may request, in writing,
to renegotiate any provisions of this chapter at any time. Within thirty (30)
days of receipt of such written request by either party, a meeting between the
two (2) parties shall occur.
While renegotiation is occurring, all provisions of this chapter shall remain
in effect until this chapter is amended or a substitute chapter is adopted by
the city and county, in accordance with the notice and hearing procedures
provided in Idaho Code title 67, chapter 65, or until a declaratory judgment
from the district court is final. Provided, however, that this chapter or
stipulated portions thereof shall be of no further force and effect if both
jurisdictions so agree by mutually adopted resolution. (Ord. 615, 5-10-1999)
10-1-7: AMENDMENTS:
This chapter shall not be amended, supplemented or repealed except pursuant to
section
10-1-6 above, which requires the renegotiation of the terms of this chapter
with Benewah County pursuant to Idaho Code. (Ord. 615, 5-10-1999)
10-1-8: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Benewah County shall be responsible for the administration and
enforcement of all applicable city and county ordinances for zone 1 of the city
impact area, and shall receive all permit fees for inspection or
administration, as well as all fees charged to recapture direct costs of
inspections, administration, legal publications and other costs arising from
the process.
   B.   The city shall be responsible for the administration and enforcement of
all applicable city and county ordinances for zone 2 of the city impact area,
and shall receive all permit fees for inspection or administration, as well as
all fees charged to recapture direct costs of inspections, administration,
legal publications and other costs arising from the process.
   C.   Amendments to the Benewah County comprehensive plan, the Benewah County
zoning ordinance, requests for preliminary and final plats or the vacation
thereof, requests for lot splits and requests for zone changes or special use
permits within zone 1 of the city impact area shall be reviewed by the city
planning and zoning commission and the city council prior to the county
reaching a decision on the application. The city shall be given the opportunity
to comment and submit recommendations to the county for approval, denial or
approval with conditions on the application. (Ord. 615, 5-10-1999)
10-1-9: ENFORCEMENT:
The provisions of this chapter may be enforced by either the city or county by
virtue of legal action initiated to require specific performance with the terms
of this chapter. (Ord. 615, 5-10-1999)
TITLE 11
ZONING AND SUBDIVISIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
11-1-1: Title
11-1-2: Purpose
11-1-3: Legal Authority
11-1-4: Applicability
11-1-5: Minimum Requirements
11-1-6: Compliance Required
11-1-7: Interpretation Of District Boundaries
11-1-1: TITLE:
This title shall hereafter be known as the ZONING ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF ST.
MARIES, IDAHO, and referred to as "zoning ordinance" or "zoning code". (Ord.
2011-677, 6-13-2011)
11-1-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this zoning code is to set forth the standards and procedures
for regulating the physical development of land within the city of St. Maries.
Furthermore, this code is intended to protect the public health, safety, and
general welfare, including the natural environment and the character and
qualities of the built environment, and to implement the St. Maries
comprehensive plan. (Ord. 2011-677, 6-13-2011)
11-1-3: LEGAL AUTHORITY:
This title is enacted pursuant to authority granted by chapter 65, title 67,
Idaho Code (local land use planning act); chapter 13, title 50, Idaho Code
(plats and vacations); and article 12, section 2 of the Idaho constitution as
currently comprised or as subsequently amended. (Ord. 2011-677, 6-13-2011)
11-1-4: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   This title shall apply, to the extent permitted by law, to all land and
the use thereof, within the jurisdictional boundaries of the city of St.
Maries.
   B.   In addition to the regulations and standards set forth herein, all
structures and uses of land within the city of St. Maries and area of impact,
as applicable, are subject to all building and land use codes and ordinances
adopted by the city of St. Maries, including, but not necessarily limited to,
the floodplain ordinance, international commercial (building) code,
international residential (building) code, and the international fire code.
(Ord. 2011-677, 6-13-2011)
11-1-5: MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS:
In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this title shall be
held to be minimum requirements necessary for the promotion of the public
health, safety and general welfare. Whenever the requirements of this title
conflict with the express requirements of any other locally adopted ordinance,
the ordinance providing the greatest measure of protection for the public
health, safety and general welfare shall prevail. (Ord. 2011-677, 6-13-2011)
11-1-6: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any building or structure to be moved,
erected, remodeled, altered, enlarged, or rebuilt within the city of St. Maries
contrary to the provisions of this title.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any yard, open space, building, structure or
land to be used for any purpose not permitted by this title, unless such use
has been lawfully established prior to enactment of this title.
   C.   Any use not permitted by the provisions of this title is prohibited.
(Ord. 2011-677, 6-13-2011)
11-1-7: INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES:
Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of any zoning district
as shown on the official zoning map, the following shall apply:
   A.   Where zone boundaries are indicated as approximately following the
centerline of street or highway right of way lines, streams, lakes or other
bodies of water, the centerline shall be construed to be such boundary. Where
the zoning boundary follows a railroad right of way, such boundary shall be
deemed to be located in the center of the right of way, unless otherwise
clearly designated.
   B.   Where zone boundaries approximately follow lot lines, such lot lines
shall be construed to be the boundaries. (Ord. 2011-677, 6-13-2011)
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
11-2-1: Terms Defined
11-2-1: TERMS DEFINED:
For the purpose of this title, certain terms, phrases, words and their
derivatives shall be construed as specified in this section. The word "shall"
is mandatory rather than directive. The meaning of any word or words not herein
so defined shall be a matter of interpretation by the planning and zoning
commission and/or city council:
ACCESSORY RESIDENTIAL UNIT: A separate, complete housekeeping unit with a
separate entrance, kitchen, sleeping area, and full bathroom facilities, which
is an attached or detached extension to a single-family structure. This term
includes similar terms such as garage apartment, granny flat, mother-in-law
apartment, and guesthouse.
ACREAGE: Any tract or parcel of land, which has not been subdivided and
platted, in common ownership having an area of one acre or more.
AGRICULTURE: The work of cultivating the soil, producing crops and raising
livestock.
AIRPORT: Any area of land or water which is used or intended for use by
aircraft and including the necessary appurtenant structures or facilities
located thereon.
ALLEY: A public way, not more than sixteen feet (16') nor less than ten feet
(10') in width, providing the secondary means of access to abutting property.
ALTERATIONS, STRUCTURAL: Any change, other than incidental repairs, which would
prolong the life of the supporting members of a building or structure, such as
bearing walls, columns and girders.
ANIMALS, FARM: Those animals associated with farming such as, but not limited
to, cattle, horses, rabbits, poultry, goats and sheep.
APARTMENT: A room or suite of rooms in a multiple-family structure which is
arranged, designed or used as a single housekeeping unit and has complete
kitchen and sanitary facilities permanently installed.
AREA, BUILDABLE: The space within the setback lines remaining on a lot after
the minimum open space requirements of this title have been complied with.
AREA, GROSS FLOOR: The sum of the gross horizontal areas of the several floors
inside the exterior walls of a building or portion thereof.
AREA, SETBACK: The space on a lot required to be left open and unoccupied by
buildings or structures, either by the front, side or rear yard requirements of
this title, or by delineation on a recorded subdivision map.
BATHROOM: A room in which to bathe by shower or tub.
BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENT: An owner-operator occupied residence having a
maximum of eight (8) quest units rented to transient quests and providing a
morning meal.
BLOCK: The space along one side of a street between the two (2) nearest
intersecting streets, or between an intersecting street and a right of way,
waterway or other similar barrier, whichever is the lesser.
BUILDING: Any structure with substantial walls and roof securely affixed to the
land and entirely separated on all sides from any other structure by space or
by walls in which there are no communicating doors, windows or openings, which
is designed or intended for the shelter, enclosure or protection of persons,
animals, chattels or property of any kind.
BUILDING, ACCESSORY: A building which is subordinate to, and the use of which
is incidental to, that of the principal building or use on the same lot; not
including any building containing a dwelling unit as hereinafter defined.
BUILDING, EXISTING: A building erected prior to the effective date hereof or
one for which a legal building permit has been issued.
BUILDING, PRINCIPAL: A building in which is conducted the principal use of the
lot upon which it is situated. Every dwelling in any R zone is a principal
building.
BUILDING, SERVICE (SANITATION): A building housing toilet facilities for men
and women, with slop water closet and laundry facilities, and with separate
bath and shower.
BUSINESS: The purchase, sale, exchange or other transaction involving the
handling or disposition of any article, substance or commodity for profit or
livelihood, or the ownership or management of office building, offices,
recreation or amusement enterprises or the maintenance and use of offices or
professions and trades rendering services.
CITY: That portion of Benewah County, Idaho, described as the corporate limits
of the municipality of St. Maries.
COURT: A space open and unobstructed to the sky, located at or above grade
level on a lot and bounded on three (3) or more sides by the wall of a
building.
CURB CUT: A cut in the street curb line for passage of vehicles into property.
DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY: A building, or portion thereof, containing three (3)
or more dwelling units.
DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY: A building designed for use and occupancy by no more
than one family. For the purpose of this title, the term "single-family
dwelling" shall include any home in which eight (8) or fewer unrelated mentally
and/or physically handicapped persons reside; and which is supervised.
   Residents staff, if employed, need not be related to each other or to any of
the mentally and/or physically handicapped persons residing in the home. No
more than two (2) of such staff shall reside in the dwelling at any one time.
DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY: A building designed for use and occupied exclusively by
the two (2) families living independently of each other.
FAIR MARKET VALUE: The highest price which a ready, willing and able buyer
would pay and the lowest price which a seller would accept, neither being under
any pressure to act, and in line with independent appraisal value.
FEE SCHEDULE: Refers to a schedule of fees that may be adopted by the city
council setting forth nonrefundable fees for certain permits or applications
required under this title.
FILL: The act of adding earth or other materials to low land until the required
level is reached; a piece of land artificially raised to the required level.
FLOODPLAIN: The geographical terrain at elevation and below, and recognized as
flood danger area by the army corps of engineers.
GARAGE: A fully enclosed accessory structure or fully enclosed portion of a
principal structure designed and intended for the shelter and storage of
vehicles.
HOME OCCUPATION: A business, occupation, or profession carried on within a
residential dwelling unit, or within an accessory structure located on the same
lot as the primary residential structure, but which is clearly an incidental
and secondary use of the dwelling unit.
HOTEL: A building or structure kept, used, maintained or advertised as an inn,
hotel or public lodging house or place where sleeping accommodations are
furnished for hire to transient guests, whether with or without meals, in which
more than ten (10) rooms are used for the accommodation of such guests.
HOUSE, BOARDING: A building occupied by an owner/operator, other than a hotel
or restaurant, where three (3) but not more than twelve (12) rooms are rented
for residential use (term of occupancy 30 days or more) and meals are provided
for compensation.
HOUSE, ROOMING: A building occupied by an owner/operator, other than a hotel,
where three (3) but not more than twelve (12) rooms are rented for residential
use (term of occupancy 30 days or more) for compensation where no meals are
provided by the owner/operator.
IMPACT AREA 1 : Any area within one mile outside the city limits.
LAVATORY: Washing facilities, usually with urinals and water closets.
LOT: Land occupied or to be occupied by a building or buildings together with
such open space as is required under this title and having its principal
frontage on a street or officially approved place.
LOT, INTERIOR: A lot other than a corner lot.
LOT LINE: The boundary property line encompassing a lot. The front lot line is
the boundary line which abuts a public street. For a corner lot, the front lot
line is the boundary line which runs along the short side of the lot abutting
the public street. The rear lot line is the lot line most nearly parallel to
and most remote from the front property line. All other lot lines are side lot
lines. An interior lot line is a side line in common with another lot.
LOT, THROUGH: A lot other than a corner lot having frontage on two (2) parallel
or approximately parallel streets. On a through lot both street lines shall be
deemed front lot lines.
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK: Any area, tract, plat or site of land of at least ten
thousand (10,000) square feet in size developed and maintained for manufactured
home dwelling purposes on a permanent basis.
MAP, ZONING: The map or maps incorporated into this title 2  designating zoning
districts.
MOBILE HOME: A trailer coach equal to or in excess of five hundred (500) square
feet of living space, transportable in one or more sections, and which is built
on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a permanent dwelling.
MOTEL: A group of cottages, detached or connected, of which each unit contains
not less than one sleeping room, one toilet and one parking space and faces a
common court or street.
NONCONFORMING USE: A building or land occupied by use that does not conform
with the regulations of the zone in which it is located.
OCCUPANCY: To take possession of and inhabit.
OWNER: That person or persons to whom a building or land is titled to and/or
remits taxes for.
PARK: A large piece of ground usually with grass and trees for public use and
recreation.
PARKING, OFF STREET: Space that is provided for and designated as parking lanes
for self-propelled vehicles and located on the lot for which use is desired.
PARKING SPACE: Usable space within a public or private parking area or
building, not less than one hundred eighty (180) square feet (9 feet x 20
feet), exclusive of access drives, aisles or ramps for the storage of one (1)
passenger automobile or commercial vehicles.
PLAT: A scale drawing of proposed construction, subdivision or alteration and
certified by registered land surveyor or engineer as required.
PLAT, FINAL: The final map, drawing or chart on which the subdivider's plans of
subdivision is presented to the Planning and Zoning Commission for approval.
PLAT, PRELIMINARY: The preliminary map, drawing or chart indicated for the
proposed layout of a subdivision to be submitted to the Planning and Zoning
Commission.
PLOT: Two (2) or more continuous lots under one (1) ownership.
RESIDENCE: A structure or part thereof used for permanent occupancy and
containing not less than a living room, a bedroom, a kitchen, and a fully
equipped toilet; equipped with and connected to an approved sewer drainage;
frontage on a public street only and not an alley. For purposes of this title
residence shall not include travel trailers.
SCHOOLS: A public or accredited private school.
STREET: A public thoroughfare established by and/or maintained under public
authority whether or not presently constructed.
STREET, COLLECTOR: A street which carries traffic from minor streets to main
thoroughfares, including the principal entrance streets of a residential
development and streets for circulations within such development.
STREET, MINOR: A street used primarily for access to abutting properties, but
not including alleys.
STREET, THOROUGHFARE: A street used mainly for established traffic routes of a
through nature.
STREET, WIDTH: The shortest distance between the lines delineating the right-
of-way of a street.
STRUCTURE: Any constructed object four feet (4') or more in any dimension
including fence height but not length.
SUBDIVIDER: Any individual, firm, association, syndicate, corporation, trust or
any other legal entity commencing proceedings to effect a subdivision of land
hereunder for himself or for another.
SUBDIVISION: The division of a lot, tract or parcel of land into two (2) or
more lots for the purpose of transfer of ownership or the construction of
improvements thereon, or, if a new street is involved, any division of a parcel
of land. The term includes resubdivision, replat and when appropriate to the
context, shall relate to the process of subdividing or to the subdivided.
TOILET: Bathroom, lavatory and water closet.
TRAILER HOME/TRAILER HOUSE: See definition of Mobile Home.
TRAVEL TRAILER/CAMPER: A vehicular portable structure designed as a temporary
dwelling for travel, recreational and vacation uses. It is less than five
hundred (500) square feet.
TRIANGLE, CLEAR VISION: Formed by measuring from the intersection of the street
corner or street and/or railroad corner property lines to points twenty feet
(20') along the front property line and side property line and then connecting
the two (2) points of base with a straight line.
USE: The purpose for which land or a building thereon is designed, arranged or
intended or for which it is occupied, maintained or leased.
USE, ACCESSORY: A use incidental and subordinate to the principal use of the
premises which does not alter the essential characteristic of the use
considered as a whole and as related to other uses permitted in the same
district.
USE, CONDITIONAL: A use or occupancy of a structure, or use of land permitted
only upon issuance of a conditional use permit and subject to the limitations
and conditions specified therein.
USE, NONCONFORMING: Any use lawfully occupying a building, structure or land at
the effective date hereof, or of subsequent amendments thereto, which does not
conform to the regulations for the district in which it is located.
USE, PRINCIPAL: The main use of land or buildings as distinguished from a
subordinate or accessory use.
WATER CLOSET: A room with water flushing fixtures for the purpose of evacuation
and disposal of feces and urine.
YARD: An open space on the same lot with the building, unoccupied or
unobstructed from the ground upward except as otherwise provided herein. No
yard, court or other open space provided about any building shall be used as a
yard, court or open space for another building.
YARD, FRONT: The minimum horizontal distance between the property line and the
front line of the building or any projection thereof excluding steps and
enclosed porches.
YARD, REAR: A yard, unoccupied except by an accessory building as hereinafter
permitted, extending across the full width of the lot between the rear line of
the building (principal) and the rear line of the lot.
YARD, SIDE: A yard between the buildings and the side of the lot, and from the
front line to the rear lot line. (Ord. 2011-677, 6-13-2011; amd. Ord. 2013-688,
12-16-2013; Ord. 2017-717, 5-8-2017; Ord. 2023-765, 3-13-2023)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 10, chapter 1 of this code.
2 2. See section
  11-3-1 of this title.
CHAPTER 3
ZONING CLASSIFICATIONS AND MAPS
SECTION:
11-3-1: Official Zoning District Map
11-3-2: Boundaries
11-3-3: Zoning Classifications
11-3-1: OFFICIAL ZONING DISTRICT MAP:
   A.   The city is divided into zones, as shown on the official zoning
district map, originally titled official plan of zoning 1984 edition, also
identified as page 4 and page 5 city of St. Maries zoning-building ordinance
titled map of St. Maries and vicinity Benewah County, Idaho, which, together
with all explanatory matter thereon and subsequent amendments, is adopted by
reference and declared to be a part of this title.
   B.   If, in accordance with the provisions of this title, changes are made
in zone boundaries or other matter portrayed on the official zoning district
map, such changes shall be entered on the official zoning district map promptly
after the amendment has been approved by the council.
   C.   In the event that the official zoning district map becomes damaged,
destroyed, lost or difficult to interpret because of the nature or number of
changes and additions, the council may by resolution adopt a new official
zoning district map which shall supersede the prior official zoning district
map. The new official zoning district map may correct drafting or other errors
or omissions in the prior official zoning district map, but no such corrections
shall have the effect of amending the original official zoning district map or
any subsequent amendment thereof. The new official zoning district map shall
contain the following statement: "This is to verify that this Official Zoning
District Map supersedes and replaces the Official Zoning District Map adopted
(date of adoption of map being replaced)."
   D.   Unless the prior official zoning district map has been lost, or has
been totally destroyed, the prior map or any significant parts thereof
remaining, shall be preserved, together with all available records pertaining
to its adoption or amendment. (Ord. 2013-688, 12-16-2013)
11-3-2: BOUNDARIES:
   A.   The boundaries of the zones, except where otherwise referenced, are
intended to follow the lines of lots, centerlines of streets and alleys and/or
natural boundaries such as dikes and streams. (Ord. 2011-677, 6-13-2011)
11-3-3: ZONING CLASSIFICATIONS:
R-1 Single residence zone
   R-1a Low density
   R-1b Medium density
R-2 Two-family and multiple dwelling residence zone
R-3 Manufactured home park residence zone
R-4 Agricultural residence zone
P-R Parks and recreation zone
CBD Central business district zone
GC  General commercial zone
M-I Manufacturing and industrial zone
 
(Ord. 2011-677, 6-13-2011)
CHAPTER 4
ZONING DISTRICTS
SECTION:
11-4-1: R-1a And R-1b Single Residence Zone
11-4-2: R-2 Two-Family And Multiple Dwelling Residence Zone
11-4-3: R-3 Manufactured Home Park Residence Zone
11-4-4: R-4 Agricultural Residence Zone
11-4-5: P-R Parks And Recreation Zone
11-4-6: CBD Central Business District Zone
11-4-7: GC General Commercial Zone
11-4-8: M-I Manufacturing And Industrial Zoning District
11-4-1: R-1a AND R-1b SINGLE RESIDENCE ZONE:
   A.   Permitted Uses:
   Accessory structures.
   Manufactured homes.
   Single-family dwellings.
   B.   Special Uses:
   Accessory residential units as provided in section
11-5-5 of this title.
   Bed and breakfast establishments.
   Boarding and rooming houses.
   Churches.
   Family daycare home.
   Group daycare facility.
   Home occupations as provided in section
11-5-3 of this title.
   Personal services, including, but not limited to:
      Barber and beauty shops.
      Hair styling/salon.
      Manicure/pedicure, etc.
      Tailor/bootmaker/shoe repair.
   Schools.
   Two-family dwellings.
   C.   Bulk Requirements:
      1.   Lot Area:
         a.   Medium density (R-1b): Minimum lot size is four thousand six
hundred (4,600) square feet, being at least fifty feet (50') wide for each
single-family dwelling.
         b.   Low density (R-1a): Minimum lot size is seven thousand five
hundred (7,500) square feet being at least seventy five feet (75') wide for
each single-family dwelling.
      2.   Lot Width:
         a.   R-1a minimum lot width at the front property line: Seventy five
feet (75').
         b.   R-1b minimum lot width at the front property line: Fifty feet
(50').
      3.   Rear Yard: There shall be a rear yard of not less than ten feet
(10') including overhang.
      4.   Side Yard: There shall be a side yard on each side of the dwelling
of not less than five feet (5') including overhang.
      5.   Front Yard: There shall be a front yard of not less than twenty feet
(20') in depth.
      6.   Structural Height: Thirty five feet (35') maximum. (Ord. 2011-677,
6-13-2011; amd. Ord. 2013-688, 12-16-2013; Ord. 2022-758, 1-10-2022; Ord. 2023-
765, 3-13-2023)
11-4-2: R-2 TWO-FAMILY AND MULTIPLE DWELLING RESIDENCE ZONE:
   A.   Permitted Uses:
   All permitted uses in the R-1a/R-1b zone.
   Two-family dwellings.
   B.   Special Uses:
   All special uses in the R-1a/R-1b zone.
   Medical offices and clinics.
   Multiple-family dwellings.
   Nursing homes and assisted living units.
   Professional offices.
   C.   Bulk Requirements:
      1.   Lot Area:
         a.   The minimum lot area for permitted uses in the R-1a/R-1b zone,
when located in the R-2 zone, is four thousand six hundred (4,600) square feet.
         b.   The minimum lot area for all other permitted and special uses in
the R-2 zone is seven thousand (7,000) square feet.
      2.   Lot Width: The minimum lot width shall be fifty feet (50').
      3.   Rear Yard: Not less than ten feet (10') including any eaves or
cantilever.
      4.   Side Yard: Not less than five feet (5') on either side including any
eaves or cantilever.
      5.   Front Yard: There shall be a front yard of not less than twenty feet
(20') in depth.
      6.   Structural Height: Thirty five feet (35') maximum. (Ord. 2011-677,
6-13-2011; amd. Ord. 2012-682, 7-23-2012; Ord. 2013-688, 12-16-2013; Ord. 2023-
765, 3-13-2023)
11-4-3: R-3 MANUFACTURED HOME PARK RESIDENCE ZONE:
   A.   Permitted Uses:
      Manufactured home parks, provided such parks comply with the standards
set forth in this section.
   B.   Special Uses:
      Home occupations.
   C.   Requirements:
      1.   Site Provisions: The manufactured home park must be well drained,
not adjacent to swamps or marshes, and adequately lighted at night.
      2.   Manufactured Home Space:
         a.   Minimum Space: Each manufactured home space shall contain a
minimum of two thousand five hundred (2,500) square feet, shall be at least
twenty five feet (25') wide, and shall have its boundaries clearly defined. The
space shall abut on a driveway not less than twenty four feet (24') in width,
which shall have unobstructed access to a public street or highway.
Manufactured homes shall be parked on each space so that there will be at least
fifteen feet (15') of clearance between manufactured homes, ten feet (10')
between manufactured homes and any adjoining property line, twenty five feet
(25') between manufactured homes and public street or highway, and fifteen feet
(15') between manufactured homes and any building or structure not attached. No
greater number of manufactured homes shall be allowed than the number of
manufactured home spaces available therefor.
         b.   Off Street Parking: Sufficient area shall be provided for the off
street parking of at least one motor vehicle for each manufactured home space.
         c.   Vehicular Access: Suitable vehicular access for firefighting
equipment, delivery of fuel, removal of garbage and refuse and for other
necessary services must be provided.
         d.   Recreational Area: A separate area shall be provided for
recreational purposes, which area shall be in a location not subject to traffic
hazards, and shall provide one hundred (100) square feet of open area for each
manufactured home space.
         e.   Minimum Number Of Spaces: Each manufactured home park shall
contain a total area sufficient to accommodate a minimum of four (4)
manufactured homes.
      3.   Water Supply: An adequate and safe supply of water under pressure
(20 pounds per square inch) shall be supplied to each manufactured home park.
Each manufactured home space shall have a separate water supply outlet.
      4.   Sewage Disposal: Waste from water closets, bathrooms, lavatories and
laundries shall be discharged into the public sewer system. Each manufactured
home space shall have a trapped sewer inlet to receive all manufactured home
sewage.
      5.   Refuse Disposal: Refuse must be stored in flytight and rodentproof
containers, which containers shall be provided, in adequate numbers, within one
hundred fifty feet (150') of each manufactured home.
      6.   Supervision: The owner or operator of every manufactured home park,
before allowing any manufactured home therein, shall file with the city the
name of the person who will be in continuous responsible charge of such park
and who is authorized to act as or for the owner. Any change of such person
will be immediately reported to the city. The duties of such person will be:
         a.   Register: To keep a register at all times. The register shall
record the names and addresses of all persons renting a space in the
manufactured home park.
         b.   Maintenance: To maintain the park in a clean, orderly and
sanitary condition.
         c.   Parking, Spacing: To enforce proper parking and spacing as set
forth in this title.
         d.   Sewer Hookups: To regulate accepted sewer hookups.
         e.   Lights: To see that all required lights are kept lighted.
         f.   Garbage And Refuse: To see that garbage and refuse is properly
disposed of.
         g.   Animals: Not to permit any domestic animal in the park unless it
meets the requirements of city ordinances.
         h.   Report Violations: To report promptly to the proper authorities
any violation of law pertinent to maintenance and operation of the manufactured
home park.
         i.   Enforcement: To enforce any and all applicable city ordinances.
(Ord. 2011-677, 6-13-2011)
11-4-4: R-4 AGRICULTURAL RESIDENCE ZONE:
   A.   Permitted Uses:
   Any permitted use in the R-1 and R-2 zones, manufactured homes.
   Agriculture, including farm animals as follows: One cow plus calf, two (2)
horses, two (2) sheep, two (2) goats, twelve (12) rabbits and twelve (12)
poultry may be maintained in buildings or enclosures when approved by planning
and zoning commission and when the facilities for such housing of any such
animals meet with the approval of the building inspector, and do not cause
offensive odor, noise or disturbance to the people in the neighborhood.
   B.   Special Uses:
   All special uses in R-2 zones.
   Any special use in the R-1a/R-1b zone.
   Cottage industry as provided in section
11-5-4 of this title.
   C.   Bulk Requirements:
      1.   Minimum lot size: Five (5) acres.
      2.   Lot width: Not less than seventy five feet (75').
      3.   Front yard: Not less than thirty feet (30').
      4.   Side yard: Not less than twenty feet (20'), including eaves and
cantilevers.
      5.   Rear yard: Not less than twenty feet (20'), including eaves and
cantilevers. (Ord. 2011-677, 6-13-2011)
      6.   Structural height: Thirty five feet (35') maximum. (Ord. 2011-677,
6-13-2011; amd. Ord. 2013-688, 12-16-2013; Ord. 2023-765, 3-13-2023)
11-4-5: P-R PARKS AND RECREATION ZONE:
   A.   Permitted Uses: No building or premises shall be used and no building
shall hereafter be erected or structurally altered in the P-R zone, except for
one or more of the following uses:
      Parks, playgrounds, community centers, recreational areas, cemetery and
fairgrounds.
      Uses customarily incident to the above uses, including travel trailer/
camper parking but only if a service building as described in section
11-5-7 of this title is provided for such travel trailer/campers.
   B.   Prohibited Use: No portion of a parks and recreation zone along
navigable waters may be used for anything except navigation, swimming, or
fishing or recreational uses incident to above mentioned uses. No travel
trailer/campers shall be parked, nor any crafts, boat, boathouse float, or deck
be moored permanently for a period of more than twenty four (24) hours;
provided, that the planning and zoning commission may, with city council
approval and after notice and public hearing, grant special revocable permits
for the mooring of any of the above craft, parking of travel trailer/campers,
or the construction of docks, piers, wharfs or boathouses if the planning and
zoning commission finds such not to be unduly detrimental to surrounding
property nor to the orderly development of the waterfront. (Ord. 2011-677, 6-
13-2011)
11-4-6: CBD CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT ZONE:
   A.   Permitted Uses:
   All permitted uses in the R-2 zoning district.
   Eating and drinking establishments:
      Restaurants without drive-through facilities.
      Taverns.
   Financial institutions.
   Lodging:
      Bed and breakfast establishments.
      Hotels.
      Motels.
   Personal services, including, but not limited to:
      Barber and beauty shops.
      Hair styling/salon.
      Manicure/pedicure, etc.
      Tailor/bootmaker/shoe repair.
   Professional offices, including, but not limited to:
      Architects.
      Attorney.
      Broker/financial.
      Governmental.
      Medical and dental.
      Real estate/insurance.
   Retail uses where goods are made available for purchase, primarily by walk-
in patrons. Specific types of retail includes, but is not necessarily limited
to:
      Art/photo galleries.
      Bookstores/newsstands.
      Clothing/shoe stores.
      Drugstores/pharmacies.
      Gift shops.
      Hardware and logging supplies.
      Office supply/quick copy/printing.
      Sporting goods.
      Variety/novelty stores.
   B.   Special Uses:
   Apartments/condos (above the first level of a nonresidential use).
   Auto service/motor fuel sales.
   Churches.
   Dance/fitness/martial arts studios.
   Drive-through facilities.
   Home occupations.
   Multi-family dwellings.
   Schools.
   C.   Bulk Requirements:
      1.   Front Setback: Zero; at least seventy five percent (75%) of the
building frontage shall be at the front property line.
      2.   Side Setback: Zero.
      3.   Rear Setback: Twenty feet (20') minimum as needed to provide for
service and delivery. If there is no alley adjacent to the rear property line,
the rear setback shall be ten feet (10').
      4.   Structural Height: Thirty five feet (35') (to top of pitch or
parapet).
      5.   Minimum Lot Size: Two thousand five hundred (2,500) square feet.
   D.   Recommended Design And Development Standards: While not mandatory
requirements, the following design and development standards are recommended in
order to achieve the purposes of the CBD zoning district:
      1.   Retail uses should be at street level with adequate window area for
good street connectivity and visual access to the interior space.
      2.   Recessed entries are encouraged.
      3.   Offices should be confined to upper levels of buildings and are
discouraged at street level.
      4.   Exterior materials should be wood, stone, or masonry, or synthetic
equivalent.
      5.   Canopies are encouraged. Canopies or awnings shall not encroach more
than five feet (5') or half the sidewalk whichever is shorter.
      6.   In new structures, modulation that simulates existing storefronts is
encouraged.
      7.   When drive-through facilities are provided (as conditional uses),
entries and exits should be to the rear of the building via an alley, or from a
side street. Front drive-through access is discouraged. (Ord. 2011-677, 6-13-
2011; amd. Ord. 2023-765, 3-13-2023)
11-4-7: GC GENERAL COMMERCIAL ZONE:
   A.   Permitted Uses:
   All permitted uses in the CBD central business district zone.
   Auto oriented uses including:
      Auto and truck repair/auto body.
      Automotive sales.
      Fuel service stations.
      Truck stops/terminals.
   Churches.
   B.   Special Uses:
   All special uses in CBD Central Business District Zones.
   Ministorage.
   Recreational vehicle/travel trailer park (subject to Recreational Vehicle
Park Standards).
   Schools.
   Wholesale/warehousing/contractor supplies.
   C.   Bulk Requirements:
      1.   Front setback: Minimum of ten feet (10') when site is less than two
(2) acres in size; fifty feet (50') when two (2) acres or greater.
      2.   Side setback: Minimum of ten feet (10').
      3.   Rear setback: Minimum of twenty feet (20') or as needed for service
and delivery.
      4.   Structural height: Thirty five feet (35') maximum.
   D.   Landscaping:
      1.   A minimum of ten percent (10%) of the site area shall be landscaped.
This requirement may include areas for snow storage and on site stormwater
retention when such areas are also landscaped.
      2.   The first five feet (5') of the front setback shall be landscaped,
excluding the entrance and exit, as well as any parkway between the property
line and the curb or edge of pavement as applicable.
      3.   Parking areas shall be punctuated by landscape islands and/or
planting strips. Vast expanses of pavement shall not be permitted. Parking
areas under one thousand five hundred (1,500) square feet are exempt from this
requirement, but are still subject to front setback landscaping as set forth in
subsection D2 of this section.
      4.   Landscaping shall be a combination of coniferous and deciduous
specimen trees, ornamentals, shrubs, and ground cover. Indigenous plant
materials are preferred.
      5.   Irrigation shall be provided and landscape maintenance is the
responsibility of the property owner(s). All dead or diseased plant materials
shall be replaced as soon as practicable.
   E.   Recommended Design And Development Standards: While not mandatory, the
following design and development standards are recommended in order to achieve
the purposes of the GC zoning district:
      1.   Driveway access points should be limited and controlled to allow for
smooth traffic flow and safety.
      2.   Exterior materials should be wood, stone, or masonry, or synthetic
equivalent.
      3.   Outdoor gathering and queuing spaces near building entries are
encouraged. (Ord. 2011-677, 6-13-2011; amd. Ord. 2020-737, 1-27-2020; Ord.
2021-748, 10-12-2021; Ord. 2023-765, 3-13-2023)
11-4-8: M-I MANUFACTURING AND INDUSTRIAL ZONING DISTRICT:
   A.   Permitted Uses:
         Contractor yard.
         Manufacturing of any type, including wood product processing, metal
fabrication, welding, and batch plants.
         Railroad terminals and facilities.
         Truck repair/terminal.
         Warehousing and distribution.
   B.   Special Uses:
         Caretaker quarters.
         Gravel extraction/processing.
         Ministorage.
         Wholesale/contractor supplies.
   C.   Bulk Requirements:
      1.   Front setback: Fifty feet (50').
      2.   Side setback: Fifteen feet (15').
      3.   Rear setback: Twenty feet (20') or as needed to provide service and
delivery.
   D.   Landscape Standards:
      1.   A minimum of ten percent (10%) of the entrance area shall be
landscaped. For purposes of this requirement, entrance area shall be the lot
width on the side of the lot where the main entrance to the building is
located.
      2.   Landscaping shall be designed and arranged to support a quality
industrial streetscape.
      3.   Landscaping shall be a combination of coniferous and deciduous
specimen trees, ornamentals, shrubs, and ground cover.
      4.   Irrigation shall be provided and landscape maintenance is the
responsibility of the property owner(s). All dead or diseased plant materials
shall be replaced as soon as practicable. (Ord. 2011-677, 6-13-2011)
CHAPTER 5
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
11-5-1: Yard Regulations
11-5-2: Floodplain Construction
11-5-3: Home Occupations
11-5-4: Cottage Industries
11-5-5: Accessory Residential Units (ARU)
11-5-6: Off Street Parking Standards
11-5-7: Service Buildings
11-5-8: Filling In Of Land
11-5-9: Lot Lines
11-5-10: Farm Animals
11-5-11: Curb Cuts
11-5-1: YARD REGULATIONS:
   A.   Front Yard:
      1.   Required Yard: Where any front yard is required, no building shall
hereafter be erected nor shall any addition be made to any existing building so
that any portion of such new building or addition to an existing building shall
be nearer to the property line than the distance indicated by the depth of the
required front yard.
      2.   Exceptions: The above requirement is subject to the following
exceptions:
         a.   Ornamentation: Eaves, cornices, belt courses and similar
ornamentations may project over a front yard not more than two feet (2').
         b.   Porches, Platforms, Terraces: Open porches, platforms or
terraces, the floors of which are not higher than the first floor of the
building, may extend into the front yard not more than six feet (6').
         c.   Fences, Hedges: Fences or hedges not over forty eight inches
(48") in height may be erected or maintained within a front yard.
   B.   Side Yard:
      1.   Required Yard: Where any side yard is required, no building shall be
hereafter erected nor shall addition be made to any existing building so that
any portion of such new building or addition to an existing building shall be
nearer to the side lot line than the distance indicated by the width of the
required side yard.
      2.   Exceptions: The above requirement is subject to the following
exceptions:
         a.   Ornamentation: Eaves, cornices, belt courses and similar
ornamentation may extend over a side yard for a distance of not more than two
feet (2').
         b.   Platforms, Terraces, Steps: Platforms, terraces and steps not
over forty eight inches (48") in height may be erected within a side yard to
rear of the house.
         c.   Chimneys: Chimneys may extend into a side yard a distance of not
more than eighteen inches (18").
         d.   Fences, Hedges: Fences or hedges not over seventy two inches
(72") in height may be erected or maintained in a side yard with the exception
of lots described in subsection D of this section.
   C.   Rear Yard:
      1.   Required Yard: When any rear yard is required, no building shall
hereafter be erected nor shall any portion of such new building or addition to
an existing building be nearer to the rear of the property line than the
distance indicated by the depth of the required rear yard.
      2.   Exceptions: The above requirement is subject to the following
exceptions:
         a.   Accessory Buildings: The usual accessory buildings commonly
appurtenant to the principal structure erected on the lot, such as private
storage garages, fuel storage sheds, private noncommercial greenhouses or a
child's playhouse may be erected within a rear yard.
         b.   Ornamentation; Steps, Terraces, Open Porches: Eaves, cornices,
steps, platforms, terraces and open porches may extend into a rear yard.
         c.   Fences, Hedges: Fences or hedges not over seventy two inches
(72") in height may be erected or maintained within a rear yard.
         d.   Maximum Area Occupied By Buildings: In the R-1 and R-2 zone not
more than forty percent (40%) of the rear yard area may be occupied by
buildings.
   D.   Adjoining Zones: Whenever a lot located in an R-1, R-2, R-3 or R-4 zone
has a side lot line coexistent with the side lot line of a lot in another zone,
the side yard requirements of the residential zones shall be applied to the
nonresidential zones. (Ord. 2011-677, 6-13-2011)
11-5-2: FLOODPLAIN CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   Review Of Application For Building Permit: The building inspector shall
review all building permit applications for new construction or substantial
alteration to determine whether proposed building sites will be reasonably safe
from flooding. If a proposed building site is in a location that has a flood
hazard, any proposed new construction or substantial alteration (including
prefabricated and manufactured homes) must:
      1.   Design: Be designed (or modified) and anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse or lateral movement of the structure.
      2.   Materials; Utility Equipment: Use construction materials and utility
equipment that are resistant to flood damage.
      3.   Construction Methods: Use construction methods and practices that
will minimize flood damage.
   B.   Review Of Subdivision Proposals: The planning and zoning commission
shall review subdivision proposals and other new developments to assure that:
      1.   Minimize Flood Damage: All such proposals are consistent with the
need to minimize flood damage.
      2.   Public Utilities And Facilities: All public utilities and
facilities, such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems are located,
elevated and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage.
      3.   Drainage: Adequate drainage is provided so as to reduce exposure to
flood hazards.
   C.   Water Supply And/Or Sewage Systems: The planning and zoning commission
shall require new or replacement water supply systems and/or sanitary sewage
systems to be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters
into the systems and discharge from the systems into the floodwaters, and
require on site waste disposal system to be located so as to avoid impairment
of them or contamination from them during flooding. (Ord. 2011-677, 6-13-2011)
11-5-3: HOME OCCUPATIONS:
Home occupations are permitted, subject to a special use permit, provided the
standards set forth herein are met. Boarding or rooming houses, tourist homes,
and bed and breakfast establishments are not considered home occupations.
   A.   The home occupation is incidental and secondary to primary residential
use of the dwelling.
   B.   The home occupation is conducted entirely within a building, either
principal or accessory.
   C.   Floor area dedicated to the home occupation shall not exceed twenty
five percent (25%) of the gross floor area of the level of the principal
structure which it occupies. A home occupation conducted in an accessory
structure shall not exceed four hundred forty (440) square feet in floor area.
   D.   No home occupation shall be operated in such a manner as to constitute
a nuisance, or in any way cause adverse impacts to surrounding and neighboring
residential properties in terms of noise, vibration, smoke, odor, radio or TV
interference, or related factors.
   E.   No outdoor storage or display is allowed except for one sign not
exceeding two (2) linear feet per side. Such sign may be attached to an
exterior wall of the structure in which the home occupation is conducted, or it
may be posted elsewhere on the property not to exceed a height of four feet
(4'). (Ord. 2011-677, 6-13-2011)
11-5-4: COTTAGE INDUSTRIES:
Cottage industries are permitted in conjunction with any primary residential
use in the R-4 agricultural residence zone subject to a special use permit, and
provided the standards set forth herein are met.
   A.   The cottage industry is incidental and secondary to the primary
residential use of the subject property.
   B.   Permitted cottage industry uses include, but are not necessarily
limited to, agricultural related sales and service (excluding slaughtering,
meatpacking, and concentrated animal feeding operations), landscaping, snow
removal, trucking, small general automotive repair, septic and well services,
building trades, upholstery, light metal fabrication, and woodworking/cabinetry
shops.
   C.   No more than three (3) persons who do not reside on the subject
property may be employed on site by the cottage industry.
   D.   All work, fabrication, manufacturing and similar operations shall be
conducted inside an enclosed building.
   E.   Outdoor storage of material and equipment is allowed, but storage areas
shall be effectively screened by fencing and/or landscaping.
   F.   No more than twenty five percent (25%) of the gross floor area of a
primary residential structure may be devoted to a cottage industry. Cottage
industry operations may be conducted in accessory buildings.
   G.   The minimum lot size on which a cottage industry may be conducted is
five (5) acres. (Ord. 2011-677, 6-13-2011)
11-5-5: ACCESSORY RESIDENTIAL UNITS (ARU):
Accessory residential units are permitted only in conjunction with a new
primary residential subdivision subject to a special use permit, and provided
the standards set forth herein are met.
   A.   The ARU may be attached to a primary single-family dwelling, be located
in a separate accessory structure, or attached to an accessory structure such
as a garage or shop, located in an area beside or behind a primary single-
family dwelling on the same lot. The ARU shall not exceed six hundred seventy
two (672) square feet.
   B.   The lot must conform to the minimum lot standards of the applicable
zoning district. Only one accessory unit per lot (including merged lots) is
permitted.
   C.   The ARU may not be rented or leased as a separate residence unless the
property owner maintains permanent residence in the primary dwelling. Rent or
lease of an ARU for a period of less than thirty (30) days is not allowed.
   D.   One off street parking space must be provided for the ARU in addition
to the parking requirements of the primary dwelling unit.
   E.   If the ARU is separate from the primary dwelling, separate water and
sewer connections are required.
   F.   The exterior treatment of the ARU shall be similar in appearance
(siding materials, roofing, colors, etc.) to the primary residential structure.
(Ord. 2011-677, 6-13-2011)
11-5-6: OFF STREET PARKING STANDARDS:
   A.   Off Street Parking According To Use: Off street parking shall be
provided for all uses according to the standards set forth in this section.
Where square footage is given as the basis for the standard, gross square feet
of fully enclosed floor space shall be used, including stockrooms and
administrative offices. When parking calculations result in a fraction of a
space, the parking requirement shall be rounded up to the next whole space.
Boarding houses/bed and breakfast        1 space per unit, plus 1 space per
                                         owner/operator unit
Building materials and supplies          4 spaces per 1,000 square feet
Churches                                 1 space per 4 seats, or 1 space per 80
                                         inches of undivided seating
Convenience                              8 spaces per 1,000 square feet, plus 1
                                         space per fuel dispenser
Furniture and appliance stores           3 spaces per 1,000 square feet
General offices (real estate, insurance, 3 spaces per 1,000 square feet
attorneys, accountants, etc.)
General retail and specialty shops       4 spaces for each 1,000 square feet
                                         1 space per unit, plus 75 percent of
Hotel/motel                              the required retail and/or restaurant
                                         space as applicable
                                         2 spaces per 1,000 square feet, but
                                         may be adjusted by the administrator
Industrial/manufacturing                 to account for different types of
                                         manufacturing and industrial uses and
                                         for staggered work shifts
Medical and dental offices               5 spaces per 1,000 square feet
Personal services (barber, hair and/or   1 space for every 2 chairs or stations
nail care, tanning salon, etc.)
Residential:                              
 a. One- and two-family                 2 spaces per unit
 b. Three- or more family               1.5 spaces per unit
Restaurant:                               
 a. Without drive-through facilities    1 space per 3 seats
 b. With drive-through facilities       8 spaces per 1,000 square feet
Services (dry cleaner, tailor, shoe/     3 spaces per 1,000 square feet
leather repair, etc.)
Tire and auto                            3 spaces per 1,000 square feet
Wholesale and warehousing                1 space per 1,000 square feet
 
For uses not specifically listed, off street parking shall be determined by the
administrator in consultation with the planning and zoning commission.
   B.   Shared Parking: Two (2) or more business establishments may share a
common parking area provided that a cross access and parking easement is
executed among the owners.
   C.   Reduced Requirement For Shared Parking: The administrator may reduce
the required off street parking when two (2) or more businesses share the same
parking area, and when, in the judgment of the administrator, patrons of the
businesses are likely to combine trips and visit two (2) or more of the
businesses on site.
   D.   Handicap Parking: Parking for disabled persons shall be provided
according to the schedule found in the Americans with disabilities act.
   E.   Parking Space Standards: Ninety degree (90°) parking spaces shall be at
least 18.5 feet in length, including a two foot (2') overhang into a landscaped
or open area. Parking overhangs shall not reduce sidewalk width below four feet
(4'). Space widths shall be no less than nine feet (9'). For ninety degree
(90°) parking spaces, aisle widths (single or double loaded) shall be no less
than twenty four feet (24'). For all angled parking, stall length, width, and
aisle standards shall be set by the administrator in consultation with the
planning and zoning commission.
   F.   Compact Spaces: Up to twenty percent (20%) of the required number of
off street parking spaces may be met with signed and designated compact spaces.
Ninety degree (90°) compact stalls shall be no less than 16.5 feet in length,
including a two foot (2') overhang into landscaped or open space.
   G.   Off street parking shall not be required for Permitted Uses in the
Central Business District (CBD) Zone, as listed in Section
11-4-6  A. Special Uses in the zone, as listed in Section
11-4-6  B. shall be required to comply with off-street parking requirements, as
outlined in this Section. (Ord. 2011-677, 6-13-2011; amd. Ord. 2024-779, 8-26-
2024)
11-5-7: SERVICE BUILDINGS:
Each travel trailer park shall provide one or more service buildings equipped
as follows:
   A.   Number Required: For every ten (10) trailer/camper or manufactured home
spaces or any part thereof, there shall be one service building.
   B.   Toilet, Laundry/Utility Room: Each service building shall contain one
toilet for females, one toilet for males and one laundry/utility room. Toilet
facilities for males and females shall be separated by a sound resistant wall.
      1.   Toilet Facilities: Each toilet shall include two (2) water closets,
two (2) lavatories and one bathroom. Urinals may be substituted for not more
than one-half (1/2) of the water closet fixtures required for males. Each water
closet and bathroom shall be in private compartments. Facilities for
handicapped must be provided.
      2.   Laundry/Utility Room: Laundry/utility room shall contain one large
utility sink, ironing table with electrical outlets, hose connection facilities
and clothes drying facilities.
   C.   Sewage Dump Station: One sewage dump station constructed to standards
acceptable to the building inspector to be located either with or separate from
the service building where sewer connections are not available at each trailer
space.
   D.   Location; Construction: Each service building shall:
      1.   Location: Be located not more than two hundred feet (200') from any
travel trailer/camper space and at least fifteen feet (15') from any travel
trailer/camper space.
      2.   Construction: Be of permanent construction and shall be provided
with adequate lighting, heat and ventilation.
      3.   Interior Finish: Have its interior of moisture resistant material to
promote frequent washing and cleaning.
      4.   Screens: Have all room ventilation openings effectively screened.
(Ord. 2011-677, 6-13-2011)
11-5-8: FILLING IN OF LAND:
Permission for the dumping of materials for fill on any land in any zone shall
fall within the jurisdiction of the building inspector and said inspector shall
ascertain if such dumping will cause undue noise, odor or air pollution not
conducive to good amenities and neighborhood environment before granting such a
permit. (Ord. 2011-677, 6-13-2011)
11-5-9: LOT LINES:
   A.   Abuts Side Street: Whenever a side yard or corner lot abuts a side
street, such side yard requirements may not be diminished to a sum less than
ten feet (10') or less than the side line of existing structures whichever is
greater.
   B.   Unobstructed View: In all residence zones there shall be provided an
unobstructed view at the triangle formed by the lines of the intersection of
streets and a line joining points on such street lines twenty feet (20')
distant from their point of intersection. (Ord. 2011-677, 6-13-2011)
11-5-10: FARM ANIMALS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep, or maintain any farm
animals in zones other than R-4, except any person may keep, own or maintain
chickens on any property within the city, subject to the following conditions:
      1.   A permit obtained from the city is required before keeping or
possessing or maintaining chickens on any property within the city. The fee for
the permit shall be as set by the city council in accordance with a fee
schedule adopted by resolution by the city. Such permit is required to be
renewed annually for a fee as set by the city council in accordance with a fee
schedule adopted by resolution by the city. Each application shall be in
writing, signed by the applicant, and shall contain, at a minimum, the name and
address of the applicant, and such further information as may be required by
the city. An application for a permit under this section gives the city, upon
complaint or on its own initiative, authority to inspect the premises upon
which chickens are kept and ascertain and determine whether the conditions of
this section are being met.
      2.   Roosters are prohibited.
      3.   Only hens and chicks may be kept in the city of St. Maries. Chicks
are chickens under four (4) months old.
      4.   The total number of chickens kept must be no more than ten (10)
chickens per single-family residence regardless of the number of parcels owned.
      5.   All persons who keep or maintain chickens shall keep them confined
at all times in an enclosure strong enough or staked out, or picketed on the
premises, or otherwise kept in such a manner as to prevent the chickens from
going upon the premises or property of another.
      6.   An enclosure that provides for safety, protection from the weather,
and providing a minimum of two (2) square feet per chicken must be provided.
Owners are responsible for protecting their chickens.
      7.   The enclosure must be roofed or otherwise enclosed on top as well as
all sides and must be kept clean to prevent offensive odors.
      8.   All feed must be kept in animalproof containers or indoors.
      9.   In residential zones, the enclosures must be located on the side or
behind the dwelling unit.
      10.   Animal locations, structures, pens, corrals, and any other premises
or structure used to keep the chickens must be kept in a clean and sanitary
condition, free from obnoxious odors and substances.
      11.   Chicken enclosures must be set back a minimum of ten feet (10')
from the property lines.
      12.   Outside slaughtering of chickens within the city limits is
prohibited.
      13.   It shall constitute an infraction punishable by a fine of twenty
five dollars ($25.00) to violate, or fail to comply with this section. Each day
that such violation continues shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 2015-
703, 6-8-2015; amd. Ord. 2023-776, 12-21-2023)
11-5-11: CURB CUTS:
Curb cuts in residence zones shall not exceed one 20-foot cut or two (2) 10-
foot cuts with a minimum ten inch (10") drain culvert where needed. (Ord. 2011-
677, 6-13-2011)
CHAPTER 6
NONCONFORMING USES
SECTION:
11-6-1: General
11-6-2: Nonconforming Structures
11-6-3: Nonconforming Use Of Structures Or Land, Or Structures And Land In
Combination
11-6-4: Nonconforming Parcels Of Land
11-6-5: Certificate Of Nonconforming Use
11-6-1: GENERAL:
Within the city there exist parcels of land, structures and uses which were
lawful prior to adoption of this title or under previously adopted ordinances,
but which no longer conform to the regulations for the zoning district in which
they are located. It is the intent of this title to permit these
nonconformities to continue until they are substantially destroyed, removed or
brought into conformance with this title, providing the nonconformity is not
enlarged or expanded. Nonconformities shall be regulated according to the
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2025-784, 3-24-2025)
11-6-2: NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES:
   A.   Nonconforming structures shall not be expanded or enlarged in a way
that increases the nonconformity. For example, a home that does not meet the
rear setback requirement to the property line may not construct a deck or
addition to any portion of the house that further encroaches into that setback.
An addition may, however, be constructed to the front of the house.
   B.   A nonconforming structure that is completely demolished, removed, or
relocated from the parcel on which it was previously located may be replaced
within twelve (12) months of its demolition, removal, or relocation, provided
that no portion of any replacement structure shall increase the previously
existing nonconformity. Otherwise, any subsequently built structures shall
conform to the provision of this title.
   C.   Ordinary repairs and additions may be performed on a nonconforming
structure, including, but not limited to, repair or replacement of the roof,
walls, fixtures, wiring, or plumbing, provided that such work does not increase
the nonconformity. (Ord. 2025-784, 3-24-2025)
11-6-3: NONCONFORMING USE OF STRUCTURES OR LAND, OR STRUCTURES AND LAND IN
COMBINATION:
   A.   The nonconforming use of a structure, land, or structure and land in
combination, shall not be enlarged or expanded beyond that which lawfully
existed on the effective date of this title or previously adopted applicable
ordinances. The criteria to be used to determine the fundamental and primary
use of the property, and whether such use has been enlarged or expanded, may
include, without limitation, hours of operation, square footage of structures
or area used, traffic generated, volume of goods handled, number of dwelling
units, and the International Building Code classification of uses. Mere
intensification of an existing nonconforming use shall not constitute an
unlawful enlargement or expansion of the use. A nonconforming use shall not be
used as justification for expanding or adding nonconforming uses other than the
fundamental and primary use of the property then existing.
   B.   Upon written request to, and approval by the planning commission, a
nonconforming use may be changed to another nonconforming use, providing the
new use would result in the same or greater conformity to this title, and
providing the previous use is permanently abandoned. For example, a
nonconforming business that produces noise and emissions could be replaced by
another nonconforming business that is quieter and does not produce emissions.
If a nonconforming use is replaced with a permitted use, nonconforming uses
shall not thereafter be allowed.
   C.   When any nonconforming use is discontinued for a period of twelve (12)
consecutive months, any subsequent use shall conform to this title.
Nonconforming uses that are discontinued are also governed by the requirements
of section 67-6538, Idaho Code.
   D.   Ordinary repairs and additions may be performed on a structure housing
a nonconforming use, including, without limitation, repair or replacement of
the roof, walls, fixtures, wiring or plumbing, provided that such work does not
enlarge or expand the nonconformity.
   E.   A structure housing a nonconforming use that is completely removed may
not be replaced unless the use and structure are in conformance with this
title. (Ord. 2025-784, 3-24-2025)
11-6-4: NONCONFORMING PARCELS OF LAND:
   A.   A parcel of land shall not be modified in any manner that results in it
becoming a nonconforming parcel, or that expands or enlarges an existing
nonconformity, unless the modification resulted from the exercise of eminent
domain.
   B.   A nonconforming parcel may be changed, providing the modification
results in the same or greater conformity with this title. Nonconforming
parcels must progress toward conformity. For example, the lot line of a lot
that does not meet the minimum size could be adjusted to increase the size of
the lot, but it could not be adjusted in a manner that would make the lot
smaller. (Ord. 2025-784, 3-24-2025)
11-6-5: CERTIFICATE OF NONCONFORMING USE:
Upon written request of the property owner, the planning administrator shall
evaluate a nonconforming use, lot, or parcel, and, if appropriate, shall issue
a certificate of nonconforming use. As part of the request, the property owner
or applicant shall provide a completed application form, review and inspection
fees, and any supporting documentation required by the planning administrator.
Upon receipt of a complete application, the planning administrator shall
determine the nature and extent of the nonconformity, and if it is a legal
nonconforming use shall issue a certificate documenting the same. Property
owners are not required to obtain a certificate of nonconforming use. When
requested, the purpose of the Certificate is to verify and document the legal
nonconforming status of the use. (Ord. 2025-784, 3-24-2025)
CHAPTER 7
SUBDIVISIONS
SECTION:
11-7-1: Compliance Required
11-7-2: Enforcement
11-7-3: Procedure
11-7-4: Preliminary Plat
11-7-5: Final Plat
11-7-6: Improvements
11-7-7: Design Standards
11-7-8:    Lot Mergers
11-7-9:    Boundary Line Adjustments
11-7-10: Plat And Street Vacations
11-7-1: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
   A.   Compliance: No subdivision or plat of any subdivision of any land
within the City shall be approved unless it is in full compliance with the
provisions of this Code.
   B.   Exemptions: The following shall be exempt from the subdivision approval
process of this title:
      1.   Divisions made by testamentary provisions, the laws of descent, or
upon court order.
      2.   Divisions made for cemeteries or burial plots while used for that
purpose.
      3.   A division of land for agricultural purposes into lots of five (5)
acres or more and not involving a new street.
      4.   Voluntary lot mergers where the requirements of section
11-7-8  of this chapter are met.
      5.   Boundary line adjustments where the requirements of section
11-7-9  of this chapter are met.
      6.   Divisions for the conveyance of land to a public entity. (Ord. 2017-
717, 5-8-2017; amd. Ord. 2024-781, 10-15-2024)
11-7-2: ENFORCEMENT:
The building inspector shall not issue building or occupancy permits for any
building and/or structure on a lot in a subdivision for which a plat has not
been approved in accordance with the terms of this title. (Ord. 2011-677, 6-13-
2011)
11-7-3: PROCEDURE:
Before subdividing any tract of land, a subdivider shall:
   A.   Submission Of Preliminary Plat: Submit, at least five (5) days in
advance of a Planning and Zoning Commission meeting, two (2) copies of a
preliminary plat for examination and subsequent recommendations of approval or
disapproval.
   B.   Submission Of Final Plat: Within six (6) months after receiving
tentative approval of the preliminary plat, the original and three (3) copies
of the final plat shall be submitted to the Planning and Zoning Commission.
   C.   Approval Of Final Plat: Approval of the final plat by the Planning and
Zoning Commission shall be null and void if the subdivision is not initiated on
the site within ninety (90) days after the date of approval.
   D.   Vote Of City Council Required: Approval of the preliminary plat and the
final plat by the Planning and Zoning Commission is subject to a vote of the
City Council. (Ord. 2011-677, 6-13-2011)
11-7-4: PRELIMINARY PLAT:
The preliminary plat shall be drawn to a scale not smaller than one inch to two
hundred feet (1" = 200') and shall contain the following information:
   A.   Proposed name of subdivision.
   B.   Names of adjacent subdivisions and owners of adjoining parcels of
unsubdivided land.
   C.   Names and addresses of the subdivider, owner and engineer.
   D.   Location by section, town, range, township, county and state.
   E.   Name of streets within the adjoining plat.
   F.   Boundaries of the subdivision indicated by a heavy line and approximate
acreage.
   G.   Location, width and names of existing or platted streets, railroad
rights-of-way, easements, parks, permanent buildings, section and corporation
lines.
   H.   Drainage channels, wooded areas, power transmission poles and lines and
any other significant items should be shown.
   I.   Date of preparation, scale or map and north point.
   J.   Location and principal dimensions for all proposed streets, alleys,
easements, lot lines and areas to be reserved for public use.
   K.   Provisions for water, sewer disposal, drainage and/or flood control.
   L.   A contour map showing contour intervals consistent with the contour of
the ground may be required by the Planning and Zoning Commission.
   M.   A statement of intended use of the proposed subdivision showing all use
applications.
   N.   Two (2) copies of any proposed or existing restrictive covenants and/or
deed restrictions or, if none, a statement that none are proposed or previously
exist. (Ord. 2011-677, 6-13-2011)
11-7-5: FINAL PLAT:
The final plat must be prepared in accordance with Idaho Code title 50, chapter
13, and shall contain the following information:
   A.   Name of the subdivision.
   B.   Names of adjacent subdivisions and owners of adjoining parcels of
unsubdivided land.
   C.   Names and addresses of the subdivider, owner and engineer.
   D.   Location by section, town, range, township, county and state.
   E.   Names of streets within the adjoining plat.
   F.   All plat boundaries.
   G.   Bearings and distances to the nearest established street lines, section
corners or other recognized permanent monuments which shall be accurately
described on the plat.
   H.   Municipal, township, county or section lines accurately tied to the
lines of the subdivision by distance and bearing.
   I.   Accurate location of all monuments within subdivision.
   J.   Length of arcs, radii, internal angles, points of curvature and tangent
bearings.
   K.   When lots are located on a curve or when side lot lines are at angles
other than ninety degrees (90°), the width at the proposed structure shall be
shown.
   L.   Date of preparation of plat, scale of map and north point.
   M.   All easements for right of way provided for public services or
utilities, and any limitations of such easements.
   N.   All lot numbers, and lines, with accurate dimensions in feet and
hundredths and with bearings or angles to street and alley or crosswalk way
lines.
   O.   Accurate outlines of any area to be dedicated or temporarily reserved
for public use with the purpose indicated thereon.
   P.   Proof of ownership and status title (title report). (Ord. 2011-677, 6-
13-2011)
11-7-6: IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Agreements: The final plat, when submitted to the planning and zoning
commission must, before final approval, be accompanied by the following:
      1.   Plans And Specifications: Plans and specifications for the required
land improvements, approved by the city engineer or other person designated by
the city council.
      2.   Agreement To Make And Install: An agreement executed by the owners
and subdividers whereby they agree to make and install the improvements
provided for in subsection B of this section in accordance with the plans and
specifications accompanying the final plat, and subject to inspection and
approval by the city engineer or other person designated by the city council.
      3.   Financial Assurance: An agreement, supported by a bond, a cash
deposit or other financial assurance that is satisfactory to the planning and
zoning commission, that the required improvements will be completed within two
(2) years after approval of the final plat.
   B.   Required Improvements: No final plat shall be approved by the planning
and zoning commission without receiving a statement from the city engineer or
other person designated by the city council that the improvements described in
the plans and specifications of the subdivider meet the minimum requirements of
this code and that they comply with the following:
      1.   Streets:
         a.   Surfacing: All streets shall be surfaced in accordance with
applicable standard specifications of the city.
         b.   Curbs, Gutters And Drainage: Curbs, gutters, drainage structures
shall be provided in accordance with standard specifications of the city.
         c.   Sidewalks: Concrete sidewalks, when required, shall be
constructed along at least one side of every minor street shown on the plat in
accordance with applicable standard specifications of the city and concrete
sidewalks shall be constructed along both sides of all collector streets.
         d.   Name Signs: Street name signs shall be placed at all street
intersections within or abutting the subdivisions.
         e.   Lighting: The minimum requirement for street lighting facilities
shall be one 100-watt sodium vapor lamp (9,500 lumen), or its equal, at each
street intersection within or abutting the subdivision or at a minimum every
three hundred feet (300') therein.
      2.   Water Supply:
         a.   Public System Accessible: Where a public water supply approved by
the city is reasonably accessible, each lot within the subdivision area shall
be provided with a connection thereto.
         b.   Public System, Pending Accessibility: In a proposed subdivision,
pending accessibility of a public water supply, the subdivider may be required
to construct an adequate supply of potable water which will be available to
every lot in the subdivision at the time improvements are erected thereon.
         c.   Fire Hydrants: Fire hydrants shall be installed in all
subdivisions in accordance with state codes.
      3.   Sewers:
         a.   Public System Accessible: Where a public sanitary sewer is
reasonably accessible, each lot within the subdivided area shall be provided
with a connection thereto.
         b.   Public System Not Accessible: Where a public sanitary sewer is
not accessible, it will be necessary for the subdivider to provide some
acceptable service to each lot. (Ord. 2011-677, 6-13-2011)
11-7-7: DESIGN STANDARDS:
All subdivisions shall comply with the following minimum requirements:
   A.   Streets:
      1.   Design Considerations: The arrangement, character, extent, width,
grade and location of all streets shall conform and shall be considered in
their relation to existing and planned streets to topographical conditions, to
public convenience and safety, and in their appropriate relation to the
proposed uses of the land to be served by such streets.
      2.   Existing Streets: The arrangement of streets in new subdivisions
shall make provision for the continuation of existing streets in adjoining
areas.
      3.   Proper Projection: Where adjoining areas are not subdivided, the
arrangement of streets in new subdivisions shall make provision for the proper
projection of streets.
      4.   Adjoining Unsubdivided Tract: When a new subdivision adjoins
unsubdivided land susceptible of being subdivided, then the new streets shall
be carried to the boundaries of the tract proposed to be subdivided.
      5.   Street Jogs; Centerline Offsets: Street jogs with centerline offsets
of less than one hundred twenty five feet (125') shall be avoided at
intersections.
      6.   Dead End Streets; Cul-De-Sacs: Dead end streets or cul-de- sacs,
designed to be so permanently, shall be no longer than four hundred feet (400')
and shall be provided at the closed end with a turnaround having an outside
roadway diameter of at least eighty feet (80'), and a street property line of
at least one hundred feet (100'). If a dead end street is of a temporary
nature, a similar turnaround shall be provided and provision made for future
extension of the street into adjoining properties.
      7.   Existing Arterial Street: Where a subdivision abuts or contains an
existing arterial street the planning and zoning commission may require
marginal access streets or other such treatment as may be necessary for
adequate protection of through and local traffic.
      8.   Minor Streets: Minor streets shall be so laid out that their use by
through traffic will be discouraged.
      9.   Minimum Width: All streets shall be of the following minimum width:
 
Thoroughfare streets 100 feet
Collector streets    80 feet
Minor streets        60 feet
 
      10.   Intersections:
         a.   More Than Two Streets: The intersection of more than two (2)
streets at one point shall be avoided except where it is impractical to secure
a proper system otherwise.
         b.   Angle Of Intersection: Streets shall intersect one another at an
angle as near to a right angle as possible, and no intersections of streets at
angles less than sixty degrees (60°) shall be approved.
         c.   Radius: Street intersections shall be rounded with a radius of
twelve feet (12') measured at the back of curbs. When the said intersection
occurs at an angle other than a right angle, it shall be rounded with a curve
of a radius acceptable to the planning and zoning commission.
         d.   Business Districts: In business districts, the planning and
zoning commission may permit comparable cutoffs or cords.
      11.   Connecting Street Lines: When connecting street lines deflect from
each other at any one point by more than ten degrees (10°), they shall be
connected by a curve with a radius adequate to ensure a sight distance of not
less than six hundred feet (600') for minor and collector streets, and of such
greater radii as the planning and zoning commission shall determine for special
cases.
      12.   Tangent: A tangent at least one hundred feet (100') long shall be
introduced between reverse curves on arterial and collector streets.
      13.   Future Resubdivision: Where a tract is subdivided into larger
parcels than ordinary building lots, such parcels shall be arranged so as to
allow the opening of future streets and logical further resubdivision.
      14.   Reserve Strips: Reserve strips controlling access to streets shall
be prohibited except under conditions approved by the planning and zoning
commission.
      15.   Grade: No street grade shall be less than one percent (1%) and
shall not exceed eight percent (8%), with due allowance for reasonable vertical
curves.
      16.   Railroad Right Of Way: Where a subdivision borders on or contains a
railroad right of way, or limits access highway right of way, the planning and
zoning commission may require a street approximately parallel to and on each
side of such right of way, at a distance for the appropriate use of the
intervening land, as for park purposes in residential districts, or for
commercial or industrial purposes in appropriate districts. Such distances
shall also be determined with due regard for the requirements of approach
grades and future grade separations.
      17.   Half Streets: Half streets shall be prohibited except where
essential to the reasonable development of the subdivision in conformity with
the other requirements of these regulations and where the planning and zoning
commission finds it will be practical to require the dedication of the other
half when the adjoining property is subdivided.
      18.   Street Names; House Numbers: Names of new streets shall not
duplicate existing or platted street names unless a new street is a
continuation of, or in alignment with the existing or platted street. House
numbers shall be assigned in accordance with the house numbering system in
effect in the city. All new streets shall be named by the subdivider subject to
the approval of the planning and zoning commission.
      19.   Access To Proposed Streets: The subdivider shall provide access to
all proposed streets, across all ditches in a standard method approved by the
city engineer or other person designated by the city council.
   B.   Alleys:
      1.   Residential Areas: Alleys shall not be permitted in residential
areas.
      2.   Commercial, Industrial Districts: Alleys shall be provided in
commercial and industrial districts except that the planning and zoning
commission may waive this requirement where other definite and assured
provision is made for service access, such as off street parking, loading, and
unloading consistent with that adequate for the uses proposed.
      3.   Minimum Width: The right of way width of an alley shall be twenty
feet (20') minimum.
      4.   Dead Ends: Dead end alleys shall not be permitted, except that the
planning and zoning commission may waive this requirement where such dead end
alley is unavoidable and where adequate turnaround facilities have been
provided.
   C.   Easements:
      1.   Utility Easements: Easements with a right of way width of eight feet
(8') shall be provided on each side of all rear lot lines and along certain
side lot lines where necessary for utilities.
      2.   Stormwater Easement: Where a subdivision is traversed by a
watercourse, drainageway, channel or stream, there shall be provided a
stormwater easement or drainage right of way conforming substantially with the
lines of such watercourse, and such further width or construction, or both, and
will be adequate for the purpose, as determined by the planning and zoning
commission.
   D.   Lot Sizes: Lot sizes must be consistent with the zoning provisions
established by the planning and zoning commission for the area. (Ord. 2011-677,
6-13-2011)
11-7-8: LOT MERGERS:
   A.   Intent and Purpose: The purpose of this section relating to the
voluntary merger of adjoining city lots is to provide a procedure by which two
(2) or more contiguous lots or units of land located in the city of St. Maries
and owned by the same property owner may be merged into one parcel for building
purposes without replatting.
   B.   Applicability: The provisions set forth in this section for the
voluntary merger of lots shall be applicable to two (2) or more adjoining lots
of land owned by the same owner under the following circumstances:
      1.   The owner of two (2) or more of the adjoining lots voluntarily
elects to merge the lots into one parcel; and
      2.   The owner has complied with the filing requirements set forth below;
and
      3.   The Planning Administrator, or if no Planning Administrator has been
appointed, the Planning Commission has determined it is in the best interest of
the city to approve the voluntary lot merger and good cause is found to support
the decision; and
      4.   The lots which are proposed to be voluntarily merged do not contain
dedicated easements for roads, ingress and egress, utilities or for any other
purpose that would be affected by the proposed merger.
   C.   Lots which are voluntarily merged shall not be sold separately or
considered separately eligible for building permits without approval by the
City, following the procedure outlined in Subsection G of this Section.
   D.   Nothing in the provisions relating to merger of lots in this Section
shall be construed or interpreted to prohibit the sale, lease or financing of
adjoining lots of land, where the same have not been merged pursuant to this
Section or any predecessor Section of St. Maries City Code.
   E.   Application and Approval:
      1.   The applicant shall file with the city clerk an application for
voluntary lot merger. The application shall be on a form provided by the city
and shall include all of the requirements necessary for the approval of the
voluntary merger.
      2.   The land owner shall attach to the application all documents
required in the application form, which shall include a site plan and / or
parcel map showing the lots to be combined and any existing structures on the
property; and a title report prepared within 6 months of application showing
proof of ownership, any other persons or entity with an ownership or property
interest in the lots to be merged, and easements of record.
      3.   The applicant shall pay an application and processing fee to the
city clerk at the time the application is filed, in accordance with a fee
schedule adopted by resolution of the city council, and which may be modified
from time to time by resolution.
      4.   Within 60 days of acceptance of a complete application, the Planning
Administrator, or if no Planning Administrator has been appointed, the Planning
Commission shall either approve or deny the application based on the following:
         a.   determination that approval would be in the best interest of the
city; and
         b.   the merged lot does not contain dedicated easements in the
interior of the merged parcel for road, ingress and egress, utilities or for
any other purpose that would be affected by the proposed merger.
   F.   Decision and Appeal. The decision shall be documented in an Order of
Decision which includes the information relied upon and conclusions. The
decision may be appealed in accordance with Title 11, Chapter 11 of this Code.
The Order of Decision shall be recorded at the county recorder's office by the
City Clerk after the appeal period expires.
   G.   Removal of Lot Merger. A completed and recorded lot merger may be
removed from the property by approval of the Planning Administrator, or if no
Planning Administrator has been appointed, the Planning Commission in
accordance with the following:
      1.   Application requirements
         a.   Completed Application on a form provided by the city
         b.   A Record of Survey showing the existing property boundary and
property lines to be re-established by removal of the merger, as well as
existing easements, utilities, driveways and structures on the property.
         c.   A narrative that addresses the existing zoning and how the
dimensional requirements, such as setbacks, lot size, road frontage, etc. will
still be met if the lot merger is removed.
      2.   Required findings. To approve an application for removal of a lot
merger, the Planning Administrator (or Planning Commission, as applicable) must
make the following findings.
         a.   The removal of the lot merger will re-establish the lot boundary
as originally platted and will not serve as a boundary line adjustment.
         b.   The removal of the lot merger will not create any dimensional
non-conformities or exacerbate any existing non-conformities with the
requirements of the zone it is located in.
         c.   Water and sewer connections are available to each of the lots
that will exist after removal of the lot merger.
         d.   If the property is subject to an LID, it must have paid for an
LID assessment for each lot that will exist after removal of the lot merger.
Due to the nature of LIDs, lots cannot be added to the LID after the LID is
created.
      3.   Decision and Appeal. The decision shall be documented in an Order of
Decision which includes the information relied upon and conclusions. The
decision may be appealed in accordance with Title 11, Chapter 11 of this Code.
The Order of Decision shall be recorded at the county recorder's office by the
City Clerk after the appeal period expires. (Ord. 2024-781, 10-15-2024)
11-7-9: BOUNDARY LINE ADJUSTMENTS:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to provide a procedure by which
two (2) or more contiguous lots, parcels or units of land located in the City
of St. Maries may be adjusted without the filing of a subdivision plat. In
situations where 3 lots will be adjusted into 2 lots (or similar combinations
of boundary changes), one lot will be adjusted using this process while the
other will be processed as a lot merger.
   B.   A boundary line adjustment adds a parcel of land to an abutting lot or
otherwise exchanges property between adjacent lots. Newly acquired land must be
combined on the same deed for recording purposes as the remainder of the
owner's parcel and shall thereafter be treated as combined with the adjoining
parcel for development purposes and may not be conveyed as a separate, stand-
alone lot or parcel.
   C.   Standards:
      1.   No additional lots or parcels may be created by the boundary line
adjustment.
      2.   Parcels resulting from a boundary line adjustment shall meet the
minimum lot size requirements for the zone in which the lots or parcels are
located and otherwise comply with all City zoning and development requirements.
If the original lots or parcels are non-conforming (do not meet the current
zoning requirements), the boundary line adjustment may be approved if the
boundary line adjustment does not result in a greater degree of non-conformity
for either lot or parcel.
   D.   Application:
      1. The owner(s) seeking a boundary line adjustment shall file with the
City Clerk an application on a form provided by the City, and shall include all
of the requirements necessary for approval of a boundary line adjustment. This
shall include:
         a.   A map, accurately drawn to conventional scale and dimension,
showing:
            (1)   Assessor's parcel numbers;
            (2)   All existing property lines;
            (3)   Proposed property line changes;
            (4)   Dimensions and size (by area) of all existing parcels;
            (5)   Dimensions and size (by area) of all proposed parcels;
            (6)   The location and size of all structures, improvements,
drainage facilities, utilities, easements, and any right-of-way in the area of
the proposed boundary line adjustment.
         b.    A vicinity map showing the relationship of the parcels to the
surrounding platting pattern and surrounding streets and alleys.
         c.   A title report completed within the previous six (6) months,
showing all owners of record, encumbrances and all lien holders.
         d.   A written statement giving the reason for the proposed
adjustment.
      3.   The application shall be signed and acknowledged by all owners and
any other persons with an ownership or property interest in the lots to be
adjusted.
   E.   Application Fee. The applicant shall pay an application and processing
fee to the City Clerk at the time the application is filed, as established by
resolution of the city council, and which may be modified from time to time.
   F.   Approval. Within 60 days of acceptance of a complete application, the
Planning Administrator, or if no Planning Administrator has been appointed, the
Planning Commission shall approve the proposed boundary line adjustment, return
the application to the applicant for additional information, or shall deny the
application. Approval or denial shall be based on whether the application is
complete and the requirements set forth herein have been met. The decision may
include reasonable conditions to ensure compliance with the requirements of
this code.
   G.   Decision and Appeal. The decision shall be documented in an Order of
Decision which includes the information relied upon and conclusions. The
decision may be appealed in accordance with Title 11, Chapter 11 of this Code.
The Order of Decision shall be recorded at the county recorder's office by the
City Clerk after the appeal period expires.
   H.   Completion by Applicant. The applicant shall have legal descriptions
prepared by a surveyor, licensed by the State of Idaho, and shall submit
appropriate deeds to the City for legal review prior to recordation. The deeds
shall be accompanied by a survey of the property showing the new lot lines with
property pins visibly positioned, prepared and stamped by a licensed surveyor.
The City shall complete its review of the unrecorded deeds within 30 days of
receipt from the applicant. Prior to recording, the applicant shall also pay
any current property taxes, special assessments, interests, or City utility
fees due on the parcels of land which the lot line adjustment application
relates. After city legal counsel review of the deeds, the applicant shall
record the deeds and survey with the county recorder within one hundred eighty
(180) days of the signature date on the Order of Decision.
   I.   If the deeds and survey are not recorded within one hundred eighty
(180) days of the city approval, then the approval shall be considered void and
the city clerk shall file a notice with the county recorder voiding the order
recorded pursuant to subsection G of this section.
   J.   Upon the approval of a boundary line adjustment application and the
recording of the appropriate deeds and survey, the former lot lines within the
adjusted lots or parcels shall be disregarded and the new boundary lines be
used for the purpose of zoning setbacks and other city codes and regulations.
   K.   No building permits shall be issued for construction of any structure
on any lot or parcel affected by the boundary line adjustment until the City
has received evidence of recording of the appropriate deeds, and that all
conditions of approval have been met. (Ord. 2024-781, 10-15-2024)
11-7-10: PLAT AND STREET VACATIONS:
   A.   Procedure: Applications for vacation of existing plats, roads, rights
of way, easements, or other conveyances shall be submitted to the City Clerk on
a form provided by the City. The applicant shall pay an application and
processing fee to the City Clerk at the time the application is filed, as
established by resolution of the city council, and which may be modified from
time to time. The application shall be processed by the City in accordance with
title 50, chapter 13, and section 50-311, Idaho Code. The procedure for notice
and hearing of such applications shall be in accordance with section 50-1306A,
Idaho Code.
   B.   Survey Required: If city council requires a survey be completed as a
condition of approval:
      1.   The applicant shall record a survey of the property showing the new
lot lines prepared and stamped by a surveyor with the county recorder and shall
provide a recorded copy to the city within one hundred eighty (180) days of
city council approval.
      2.   If not recorded within one hundred eighty (180) days, the approval
shall be considered void. (Ord. 2024-781, 10-15-2024)
CHAPTER 8
SPECIAL USE PERMITS
SECTION:
11-8-1: Special Use Permit Standards
11-8-2: Special Use Permit Criteria
11-8-3: Special Use Permit Conditions
11-8-4: Permits And Progress Required
11-8-5: Procedure
11-8-6: Violation; Revocation Or Penalty
11-8-7: Planned Unit Development
11-8-1: SPECIAL USE PERMIT STANDARDS:
The purpose of this chapter is to establish standards and a framework of
procedures for consideration of requests for special use permits (SUP). Special
uses are not permitted by right in a particular zoning district but may be
authorized following a public hearing provided that they comply with the
standards established in this chapter. Special uses are specifically listed as
such in each zoning district. Uses not specifically listed as special uses
cannot be permitted by the procedures set forth in this chapter. An SUP is not
transferable from one property to another, nor shall it be considered as
establishing a binding precedent to grant other SUPs in similar locations or
circumstances. Special use permits may be issued subject to specific
performance or compliance with conditions as outlined in this chapter and as
addressed by the specific proposal or application. (Ord. 2011-677, 6-13-2011)
11-8-2: SPECIAL USE PERMIT CRITERIA:
In considering a special use request, appropriate conditions may be attached to
mitigate impacts and to ensure conformance with the intent of the comprehensive
plan and applicable provisions of this chapter. An application for special use
permit may be approved as presented, conditionally approved, or denied upon
determining the following:
   A.   Whether the proposed special use would/would not conform to the
purposes and express terms of the applicable zoning district in which it would
be located.
   B.   Whether the proposed use constitutes an allowable special use as
established by this chapter for the zoning district involved, and complies with
all other applicable laws, ordinances, and regulations of the city of St.
Maries and the state of Idaho.
   C.   Whether the proposed special use as presented will/will not uphold the
health, safety, and welfare of the public in general and be compatible with
present or future land uses in the vicinity of the proposal.
   D.   Whether the proposed special use will/will not further positive
development of the surrounding neighborhood in accordance with relevant
policies set forth in the comprehensive plan and this zoning code. (Ord. 2011-
677, 6-13-2011)
11-8-3: SPECIAL USE PERMIT CONDITIONS:
Conditions and requirements specific to the proposal may be attached to the
approval of the SUP including, but not limited to:
   A.   Minimizing conflicts with present or future development.
   B.   Controlling the sequence and timing of development.
   C.   Controlling the duration of the development or use.
   D.   Assuring that development is maintained properly.
   E.   Controlling the location, setbacks, and other bulk standards of
development.
   F.   Requiring more restrictive standards than those generally required in
the zoning code for uses permitted outright. Such standards may include, but
shall not necessarily be limited to: additional setbacks, requiring development
within time limitations, height restrictions, additional landscaping or
screening, lighting restrictions, signage restrictions, selection of building
or hardscape materials, location of site accesses, location of site features,
prescribing site layout, circulation or grading, restricting hours of operation
or activity, design limitations, circulation limits for vehicles or
pedestrians, control of site drainage or areawide drainage patterns,
prescribing specific use limitations, and such other features of use or site
development as may be needed to enhance compatibility with use of surrounding
lands and public facilities.
   G.   Requiring mitigation of impacts of the proposed development upon
service delivery by any political subdivision, including school districts, that
provides services within the planning jurisdiction. (Ord. 2011-677, 6-13-2011)
11-8-4: PERMITS AND PROGRESS REQUIRED:
Except as modified by section
11-8-7 of this chapter or as expressly allowed by the terms of an SUP, if
permits for development of a requested special use have not been issued within
six (6) months of the date of granting an SUP, or if development of the
approved special use has not commenced with sustained effort to complete
development within one year after granting approval of the SUP, the SUP shall
be void. Upon a showing of good cause by the applicant, the city council may
grant an extension not to exceed twelve (12) months. An extension to the permit
may only be granted if applied for in writing to the administrator prior to the
date of expiration and if the council finds, upon review of the record, that an
extension is warranted due to circumstances outside of the control of the
applicant. (Ord. 2011-677, 6-13-2011)
11-8-5: PROCEDURE:
Special use permits may be granted pursuant to the procedure for processing
applications following the notice and hearing procedures provided in sections
67-6512 and 67-6519 Idaho Code. (Ord. 2011-677, 6-13-2011)
11-8-6: VIOLATION; REVOCATION OR PENALTY:
Any special use that operates in violation of the requirements or conditions
established for a special use permit, pursuant to this chapter, may be revoked
and the use restricted, suspended, and/or be subject to penalties for violation
of this title. Enforcement of provisions of the terms and conditions of special
use permits issued pursuant to this chapter may be by criminal penalty or by
civil action seeking to obtain compliance. (Ord. 2011-677, 6-13-2011)
11-8-7: PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT:
   A.   A planned unit development (PUD) is a large scale special use permit
that allows a measure of design flexibility by permitting variation of the
distribution of land use density, variation of building placement standards,
individual lot area, lot frontage requirements, access requirements, and
variation of other performance standards required within a zoning district or
combination of zoning districts when a development is planned in its entirety
and when the variations can be demonstrated to benefit the development for
those who will reside and conduct business affairs within the proposed
development and for the community in general. The intent of the PUD process is
to allow innovation in design that should prove superior to compliance with
standard development requirements that are not the product of site specific
integrated design.
   B.   A combination of residential, commercial, or industrial land uses may
be permitted within a PUD. Any such mixed use planned unit development must
follow the same procedures as those required for a change of zoning district
boundaries.
   C.   Proposed uses and manner of implementation of such uses may be
permitted within a PUD upon finding that the proposal:
      1.   Provides internal or external benefits that would not be achievable
through compliance with the normally required zoning standards and regulations.
      2.   Is and will be compatible with surrounding land uses, both existing
and future.
      3.   Furthers compliance with the goals and policies found in the city of
St. Maries comprehensive plan.
   D.   A planned unit development that includes residential land use must
provide open space of not less than ten percent (10%) of the gross land area
designated for residential land use within project boundaries for the benefit
of residents of the project or for benefit of the community in general. The
location and design of common open space should be practically usable for
outdoor activities. Open space with a slope in excess of twenty percent (20%)
may be discounted from the required common open space required for a PUD
project. Common open space provided in a PUD may be held and maintained
privately for the use of owners or residents within the development, and/or may
be designated as open for shared public use. Public utility rights of way and
easements are generally not acceptable for common open space unless such land
or rights of way are unimpaired as a trail or other similar benefit to the PUD
or public. The responsibility for and the method of maintaining common open
spaces shall be identified by the applicant as a facet of approval of any final
PUD development plan.
   E.   Planned unit developments that include a subdivision shall be
considered concurrently as a subdivision and PUD.
   F.   A planned unit development must provide for integrated and harmonious
design and arrangement of buildings, uses, public facilities and open space.
PUD proposals must provide adequate and properly arranged facilities for
internal traffic circulation, landscaping and such other features and
facilities as may be necessary to make the project attractive and efficient.
Buffering or screening commercial/industrial uses from residential uses within
or adjacent to the development must be incorporated into the design.
   G.   The criteria to be applied to the review of a proposed planned unit
development are:
      1.   Standards and criteria applicable to special use permits.
      2.   General concepts of community design addressed by the comprehensive
plan.
      3.   Achieving compatibility and buffering internally and with
neighboring uses.
      4.   Demonstrate design techniques preferable to strict adherence to
terms of the zoning ordinance.
   H.   The final plans for the planned unit development shall contain
sufficient detail and provide necessary specifications to construct the
project. Among the necessary elements are:
      1.   A plan of the existing site of the proposed development showing the
dimensions and bearings of the property lines, topography, existing features of
the development site, including major wooded areas, structures, streets,
easements, utility lines and land uses.
      2.   Engineered construction plans for water, sewer, storm drainage,
street improvements, and the nature and extent of earthwork required for site
preparation and development.
      3.   Scalable plans, showing building(s) and their placement, various
functional use areas, common open space, circulation details, and landscaping.
      4.   Preliminary building plans including exterior elevations.
      5.   Phasing plans that depict the scope of each phase and a timetable
for implementation.
      6.   Project documents to be used to designate the use, development and
maintenance of the land, and the improvements thereon, including those areas
that are to be commonly owned and maintained. The intent of designating such
responsibility shall not be included within the scope of the city of St.
Maries's enforcement authority but rather to determine where responsibility
lies for maintaining compliance with terms of approval of any planned unit
development.
      7.   The governing board must approve any final PUD application before
construction may begin. Each individual phase of the development, as well as
the total development, must be capable of existing as an independent unit
capable of creating an environment of desirable aesthetics or that adequate
assurance will be provided that such objective will be attained. Individual
phases of any such development must conform to the overall density and use
considerations required by the city of St. Maries's zoning ordinance and its
comprehensive plan. Any exception from standard zoning district requirements
must be justified by design and other amenities incorporated in the final
development plans, in accordance with the preliminary PUD and adopted policy of
the governing board as set forth in the comprehensive plan. The applicant must
also satisfy the standards applicable to subdivisions of land set forth in the
city of St. Maries subdivision ordinance. Final PUD plans must conform to the
approved preliminary PUD plans.
   I.   No construction of any kind shall take place on the site of an approved
PUD until final construction plans are reviewed and approved by the city of St.
Maries engineer and a construction improvement agreement is completed and
approved by the governing board.
   J.   The approval of a final development plan for the first phase of a PUD
shall be for a period not to exceed one year, or as expressly authorized in a
development agreement approved by the governing board. The time limit for a
planned unit development construction may be extended once for no more than
twelve (12) additional months by the administrator or for a maximum of two (2)
years by action of the governing board.
   K.   Any proposed modification of the approved final development plan of a
planned unit development must be submitted in writing by the applicant to the
administrator. The request shall specify what modifications are proposed and
why the changes are necessary. The administrator will determine whether or not
the proposed modification is minor or major. If the modification is minor, the
administrator may approve, approve with conditions, or disapprove the
modification in writing, subject to confirmation by the governing board. Any
major modification will require a public hearing before the planning and zoning
commission in accordance with procedures specified by this title.
   L.   Development of land through a PUD for residential, commercial or
industrial uses shall be required to comply with subdivision regulations and
other city of St. Maries ordinances as applicable. (Ord. 2011-677, 6-13-2011)
CHAPTER 9
VARIANCES
SECTION:
11-9-1: Variance Defined
11-9-2: Variance Criteria
11-9-3: Variance Procedure
11-9-1: VARIANCE DEFINED:
A variance is a discretionary exception to the requirements of the zoning
ordinance concerning bulk and placement standards such as lot area, lot
coverage, width, depth, setbacks, parking location requirements, height, or any
other ordinance provision affecting the size of a structure or the placement of
the structure upon the property. Variances may be permitted when, due to
unusual natural physical characteristics of the site, a literal enforcement of
the provisions of this title would result in unnecessary hardship denying an
owner all reasonable use of the applicant's property. An applicant for a
variance bears the responsibility for demonstrating an undue hardship because
of unique physical characteristics of the site, and after meeting that
obligation must demonstrate that the implemented variance would not harm the
public interest. (Ord. 2011-677, 6-13-2011)
11-9-2: VARIANCE CRITERIA:
The following criteria shall be considered when deciding a variance request:
   A.   Whether strict application of the provisions of this title would
deprive the applicant of all reasonable use of his property owing to natural
conditions or circumstances that are unique to his property not generally
applicable to other properties in the community.
   B.   Whether the variance, if granted, would harm the public interest by
adversely affecting public safety, the environment, or the legitimate interests
of neighboring owners.
   C.   Whether the variance, if granted, would bestow a special privilege on
the applicant not enjoyed by owners of similarly situated properties in the
same zoning district, or, whether the variance, if granted, would allow the
applicant to enjoy all rights and privileges afforded owners of similarly
situated properties within the same zoning district. (Ord. 2011-677, 6-13-2011)
11-9-3: VARIANCE PROCEDURE:
Variances may be permitted pursuant to the procedure for processing
applications following the notice and hearing procedure provided in section 67-
6519 Idaho Code. (Ord. 2011-677, 6-13-2011)
CHAPTER 10
ACTION BY AFFECTED PERSON
SECTION:
11-10-1: Definition
11-10-2: Petition For Hearing
11-10-3: Action By Planning And Zoning Commission
11-10-4: Judicial Review
11-10-1: DEFINITION:
An "affected person" as used herein, shall mean having an interest in real
property which may be adversely affected, by the issuance or denial of a permit
authorizing the development. (Ord. 2011-677, 6-13-2011)
11-10-2: PETITION FOR HEARING:
Any affected person may at any time prior to final action on a permit required
or authorized by this title, if no hearing has been held on the application,
petition the planning and zoning commission in writing to hold a hearing in the
manner set out in chapter 8 of this title; provided, however, that if twenty
(20) affected persons petition for a hearing, the hearing shall be held. (Ord.
2011-677, 6-13-2011)
11-10-3: ACTION BY PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION:
After a hearing, the planning and zoning commission may:
   A.   Grant or deny a permit; or
   B.   Delay such a decision for a definite period of time for further study
or hearing. The planning and zoning commission shall establish by rule and
regulation a time period within which a recommendation or decision must be
made. (Ord. 2011-677, 6-13-2011)
11-10-4: JUDICIAL REVIEW:
An affected person aggrieved by a decision may within sixty (60) days after all
remedies have been exhausted under this title, seek judicial review under the
procedures provided by Idaho Code. (Ord. 2011-677, 6-13-2011)
CHAPTER 11
APPEALS
SECTION:
11-11-1: Right To Appeal
11-11-2: Procedures
11-11-3: Fees
11-11-4: Notice Of Hearing
11-11-5: Conduct Of Hearing
11-11-6: Standard Of Review; Burden Of Proof
11-11-7: Record; Minutes (Rep. by Ord. 2025-784, 3-24-2025)
11-11-1: RIGHT TO APPEAL:
Any applicant or "affected person" as defined in section
11-10-1 of this title, who is aggrieved by any administrative decision of the
planning and zoning commission may, within twenty-eight (28) days after the
decision is made, appeal to the city council. Any applicant or “affected
person” as defined in section
11-10-1 of this title, who is aggrieved by any administrative decision of the
planner administrator or building inspector may, within twenty-eight (28) days
after the decision is made, appeal to the planning commission.
Any applicant or affected person seeking judicial review of a final decision on
a land use application must first seek reconsideration of the final decision
within fourteen (14) days. (Ord. 2011-677, 6-13-2011; amd. Ord. 2025-784, 3-24-
2025)
11-11-2: PROCEDURES:
   A.   Requests For Reconsideration: Any request for reconsideration shall be
in writing and must identify specific deficiencies in the decision for which
reconsideration is sought. Requests for reconsideration shall be limited to the
grounds set forth in section 67-6535, Idaho Code. The hearing and public notice
shall be conducted according to the provisions of this chapter, and any other
applicable provisions of this title. The request shall be heard by the city
council, which will then make a decision on the request. Upon reconsideration,
the decision may be affirmed, reversed or modified after compliance with
applicable procedural standards. A written decision shall be provided to the
applicant or affected person within sixty (60) days of receipt of the request
for reconsideration or the request is deemed denied. A decision shall not be
deemed final for purposes of judicial review unless the process required in
this subsection has been followed. The twenty-eight (28) day time frame for
seeking judicial review is tolled until the date of the written decision
regarding reconsideration or the expiration of the sixty (60) day
reconsideration period, whichever occurs first.
   B.   Administrative Appeals:
      1.   Administrative appeals of decisions made by the planning commission
shall be requested in writing and shall include an explanation of the grounds
for the appeal. Appeals of decisions made by the planning commission shall be
heard and decided by the city council, in accordance with the notice and
hearing procedures of this chapter. Decisions made by the city council may be
appealed to the district court as provided by law.
      2.   Administrative appeals of decisions made by the Planning
Administrator or Building Inspector shall be requested in writing and shall
include an explanation of the grounds for the appeal. Such appeals shall be
initially heard by the planning commission, in accordance with the notice and
hearing procedures of this chapter. The planning commission shall make a
recommendation to the city council, who shall make the final decision on the
matter after review of the planning commission's recommendation. City council
review shall occur as an action item on a city council agenda. No council
public hearing is required but a public hearing may be conducted on the matter
with proper notice if requested by the mayor or council. (Ord. 2025-784, 3-24-
2025)
11-11-3: FEES:
Requests for reconsideration of administrative appeals shall be accompanied by
an application fee, in accordance with the adopted fee resolution of the city.
(Ord. 2025-784, 3-24-2025)
11-11-4: NOTICE OF HEARING:
Upon receipt of the notice of appeal or request for reconsideration, the city
shall set a date for a hearing on the matter at the next reasonably available
regularly scheduled meeting of the appropriate hearing body. The city shall
provide written notice of the time and place of the hearing to the appellant,
to the owner if the owner is not the appellant, and to any persons who have
lodged complaints in the matter or who have indicated that they wished to
receive such notice, at least fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing. The
appellant shall be responsible for payment of all costs associated with such
notice. In addition, notices of regular and special meetings, including posting
of agendas, shall be given in accordance with section 74-204, Idaho Code.
11-11-5: CONDUCT OF HEARING:
The following rules shall govern the conduct of all hearings of appeals of an
administrative decision, appeals of the issuance of a notice of violation, and
requests for reconsideration:
   A.   Hearings shall be open to the public according to the provisions of the
Idaho open meetings law, title 74, chapter 2, Idaho Code, but shall not be
considered "public hearings" under the local land use planning act, title 67,
chapter 65, Idaho Code, and section 11-12-1 article 8.4 of this title.
   B.   The hearing shall be informal and strict rules of evidence shall not
apply. The appellant and the city may be represented by counsel and present
testimony and evidence at the hearing. The planning commission chair or the
mayor shall regulate the course of the proceedings to assure that there is a
full disclosure of all relevant facts and issues.
   C.   Testimony and submission of evidence shall be limited to the appellant,
representatives of the city, and other affected persons. As a general rule, the
following order of presentation should be observed:
      1.   Introduction of appeal or request by staff;
      2.   Appellant's case in chief;
      3.   Testimony and/or evidence in support of the appellant;
      4.   City's case in chief;
      5.   Testimony and/or evidence in support of the city; and
      6.   Appellant's rebuttal.
   D.   A transcribable record of the hearing in its entirety shall be made by
mechanical, electronic or other means. Any party may cause additional
recordings to be made during the hearing if the making of the additional
recording does not cause distraction or disruption. Any party may request
preparation of a transcript of the hearing. Any transcript prepared at the
request of the planning commission or city council shall be at city expense.
Any transcript prepared at the request of any other party shall be at that
party's expense. Expenses for any transcript prepared for purposes of judicial
review shall be paid in accordance with rule 84 of the Idaho rules of civil
procedure.
   E.   At the close of the hearing, the hearing body may take action on the
appeal or request for reconsideration, or may take it under advisement by
continuation of the hearing for a period not to exceed fourteen (14) days. The
hearing body shall make its final decision on the matter within thirty (30)
days of the close of the hearing. (Ord. 2025-784, 3-24-2025)
11-11-6: STANDARD OF REVIEW; BURDEN OF PROOF:
Appeals shall be based upon the grounds set forth in the written notice of
appeal or request for reconsideration and shall be heard and acted upon by the
hearing body in a de novo proceeding. The burden of proof shall upon the
appellant to establish, by a preponderance of the evidence, that the staff,
planning commission, or council action was erroneous. (Ord. 2025-784, 3-24-
2025)
11-11-7: RECORD; MINUTES:
(Rep. by Ord. 2025-784, 3-24-2025)
CHAPTER 12
ENFORCEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION
SECTION:
11-12-1: Administration
11-12-2: Building Permits, Certificates And Authorization
11-12-3: Enforcement
11-12-1: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Administrative Processes:
      1.   Duties And Authorities:
         a.   Planning And Zoning Commission: The commission shall be the
designated planning body for the city pursuant to Idaho Code 67-6504 and title
2 of this code. The commission shall be responsible for making recommendations
to the council on land use planning matters contained in this title and other
matters as requested by the council.
         b.   Planning And Zoning Administrator: The administrator shall be the
individual or individuals designated by the city to issue permits, collect fees
and process applications under this title.
         c.   Summary Of Actions: The following table is a summary list of the
actions that the city shall take in administration of this title, the body
responsible for the action, and the reference to the process under which the
action shall be taken unless otherwise required by Idaho Code.
TABLE A-1
AUTHORITIES AND PROCESSES
 
CC = City council                         
PZ = Planning and zoning commission      PM = Public meeting
PZA = Planning and zoning administrator  PH = Public hearing
 
 Recommending Authority/Process Final Decision Making Body/Process
                           Recommending Authority/ Final Decision Making Body/
                           Process                 Process
Annexation                 PZ/PH                   CC/PM
Boundary line adjustment   N/A                     PZA or PZ/PM
Comprehensive plan         PZ/PH                   CC/PM
amendment
Development code amendment PZ/PH                   CC/PM
Lot merger                 n/a                     PZA or PZ/PM
Special use permit or      PZ/PH                   CC/PM
revocation
Subdivisions and PUDs      PZ/PH                   CC/PM
Vacation of any part of
plat (including platted    N/A                     CC/PH
streets and alleyways)
Variances                  PZ/PH                   CC/PM
Zoning district boundary   PZ/PH                   CC/PM
amendment
 
      2.   General Application Process:
         a.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to outline the general
application process for a permit or decision under provisions of this title
unless otherwise required by Idaho Code.
         b.   Application Requirements:
            1.   All requests for permits and decisions in accordance with this
title shall require submission of an application to the administrator on forms
approved and provided by the administrator.
            2.   At a minimum, the application shall require the following
information:
               (A)   Name, address and contact information of the applicant and
the applicant's representative;
               (B)   Proof of current ownership in the property which is
subject of the application or signed letter of authorization from the property
owner for making application;
               (C)   Legal description of the property; and
               (D)   Statement of project intent for making the application.
            3.   Some requests for permits and decisions shall require
additional application information as determined by the administrator.
            4.   The administrator may allow some information to be submitted
in an electronic format.
            5.   All applications shall be accompanied by a nonrefundable
filing fee in the amount set forth herein or established by resolution.
            6.   The applicant shall also pay for all direct costs associated
with processing the application including, but not limited to, plan review,
postage, and the preparation of any necessary reports and findings. If the
applicant fails to pay the city fees on a timely basis, the city may suspend or
if deemed appropriate, terminate the processing of the application. The
applicant may be required to sign a reimbursement agreement at the request of
the city.
         c.   Determination Of Completeness:
            1.   An application shall contain all information deemed necessary
by the administrator to determine if the proposal will comply with the
applicable requirements of this title.
            2.   Within thirty (30) days of receipt of an application, or such
later time, but not to exceed sixty (60) days, as reasonably appropriate
consistent with staff or consultant workloads, the administrator shall certify
the application as complete for review or require additional information be
submitted.
            3.   After the application is certified as complete, the council,
commission, or administrator may require applicants to submit additional
information and materials.
            4.   No further action shall be taken on the application until such
additional information and materials have been submitted. If the additional
information is not submitted within thirty (30) days from the administrator's
request, or the date mutually agreed upon by the applicant and the
administrator, the application will be returned to the applicant.
            5.   The administrator shall issue a notice of application
acceptance and completion either by letter to the applicant or by public notice
of the pending public hearing or action on the application.
            6.   The administrator shall begin processing the application once
the application is deemed complete.
            7.   If at any time during the processing of the application, the
administrator, the planning and zoning commission or the city council requests
additional information, documents or prepayment of costs from the applicant and
the requested materials are not submitted within sixty (60) days from the
request, or the date mutually agreed upon by the applicant and the city, the
city may suspend or if deemed appropriate, terminate the processing of the
application.
      3.   Public Hearing Process:
         a.   Purpose: The purpose of this subsection is to outline the
specific application process for actions that require a public hearing unless
otherwise required by Idaho Code.
         b.   Public Notice Requirements: Applications that require a public
hearing shall be noticed in accord with the noticing requirements, as set forth
in table C-1 of this section, and the following relevant procedures:
            1.   Radius Notice: For applications that require radius notice:
               (A)    Addresses: At least twenty (20) days prior to the public
hearing, the applicant shall submit a current list, compiled by a title
company, of the addresses of all property owners required to be notified of the
public hearing.
               (B)    Notice By Mail: At least fifteen (15) days prior to the
public hearing, the city shall send the public notice of the time, place and
description of the application by first class mail to the property owners
required to be notified of the public hearing.
               (C)    Special Use Permit For Height: Where a special use permit
is requested by reason of height allowance, notice shall be provided
individually by mail to property owners or purchasers of record within no less
than three (3) times the distance of the allowed height of a structure when
more than one hundred feet (100') and, when four hundred feet (400') or more,
the structure's proposed location and height shall be stated in the notice.
               (D)    Vacation: In the case of vacation requests, radius notice
shall be sent by certified mail.
               (E)    Alternate Mailing Notice: When mailed notice is required
to two hundred (200) or more property owners, alternate notice may be provided
by a display advertisement at least four inches (4") by two (2) columns in size
in the official newspaper at least fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing date.
            2.   Publication: For applications that require publication, the
administrator shall provide a public notice of the time, place, and description
of the application in the official newspaper of general circulation at least
fifteen (15) days prior to the public hearing except as provided below:
               (A)    Vacation Requests: Legal notice shall be published once a
week for two (2) successive weeks, the last of which shall not be less than
seven (7) days prior to the public hearing.
               (B)    Comprehensive Plan Amendment: If the commission
recommends a material change to the plan after the public hearing, the public
notice for the council hearing shall include the commission's recommendation.
            3.   Posting On Site: For applications that require posting on
site, a public notice on a form provided shall be posted by the city on all
external boundaries of the site for which the permit is sought. The notice
shall be posted not less than seven (7) days prior to the public hearing.
            4.   Agency Notification: For applications that require agency
notice, at least fifteen (15) days prior to the public hearing, the city shall
give notice to all political subdivisions providing services, including the
school district. The administrator may transmit the notice, application and
other documents submitted for review and recommendations to departments and
other agencies and community organizations as deemed appropriate.
TABLE C-1
PUBLIC NOTICING REQUIREMENTS
 Radius - Adjacent Radius - Properties Within Publication On Site Agencies
 Properties        300 Feet
                 Radius -   Radius -
                 Adjacent   Properties Within Publication On Site Agencies
                 Properties 300 Feet
Annexation                 X                 X           X       X
Comprehensive                               X                  X
plan amendment
Development code                            X                  X
amendment
Special use
permit or                  X                 X           X       X
revocation
Subdivisions               X                            X       X
(including PUD)
Vacation of any
part of plat               X                 X                   
(streets and
alley)
Variances        X                           X           X        
Zoning district
boundary                   X                 X           X       X
amendment
Zoning ordinance                            X                  X
amendment
Other land use
applications (as                            X           X        
required by
state law)
 
         c.   Planning And Zoning Commission Public Hearing:
            1.   Hearing Date: Within sixty (60) days of receipt of an
application certified as complete, or as reasonably appropriate consistent with
staff or consultant workloads, the commission public hearing shall be
conducted. Notwithstanding such certification, the commission may extend the
time provided for review and action by making a finding that additional
materials and/or information are required due to the complexity of the
application or for other reasons deemed appropriate.
            2.   Consent Agenda: The commission may place any application on
the consent section of the commission agenda. An application placed on the
consent agenda shall be reviewed by the commission chairperson and a staff
member. During the meeting, the chairperson may recommend that the consent
agenda application(s) be approved, including any conditions and findings of
fact; or, if there are any written or oral comments regarding an application,
and if the chairperson determines that the application should be considered by
the entire commission, then the application shall be heard under the new
business section of the commission agenda.
            3.   Public Hearing:
               (A)    The commission shall hear all persons interested in an
application at the duly noticed public hearing.
               (B)    Written statements, mailed or hand delivered to city hall
during or in advance of the public hearing, shall be entered into the record of
the hearing.
               (C)    The applicant shall offer competent evidence in support
of the application sufficient to enable the commission to consider the matter
and to make findings on the subject.
               (D)    The applicant has the burden of providing all necessary
and relevant information and evidence in support of the application.
            4.   Commission Action:
               (A)    After hearing the evidence and considering the
application, the commission shall make its decision or recommendation.
               (B)    The commission shall report the facts upon which it based
its conclusion, the ordinances and standards used in evaluating the
application, the actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain
approval, and make a decision or recommendation of approval or disapproval.
               (C)    The commission shall make its findings and decision or
recommendations within thirty five (35) days from the date of the public
hearing, unless the commission determines that additional time is required to
properly evaluate the application.
            5.   Commission Transmittal: Upon the recommendations of approval
or disapproval by the commission, the application, together with a complete
copy of the commission's findings and decision or recommendations, shall be
transmitted to the council.
         d.   Council Action:
            1.   Public Hearing: Within thirty (30) days of the receipt of the
commission recommendations, the city shall decide whether or not they wish to
hold a public hearing.
               (A)    A public hearing by the council is required for
comprehensive plan amendments and annexation proceedings if the commission
recommends a material change to the plan or annexation proposal after the
public hearing and does not hold a second public hearing or if the council
makes a material change in the recommendation or alternative options contained
in the recommendation by the commission. In all other cases, the decision to
hold a public hearing is at the discretion of council.
               (B)    The public notice shall be made in the same manner in
which the hearing was noticed before the commission, unless otherwise required
by the local land use planning act, Idaho Code section 67-6501 et seq.
               (C)    At the hearing before the council, the council shall
consider the record and report of the commission and shall hear all persons
interested in the application.
               (D)    Written statements, mailed or hand delivered to city hall
and received during or in advance of the public hearing, shall be entered into
the record of the hearing.
               (E)    The applicant shall offer competent evidence in support
of the application sufficient to enable the council to consider the matter and
to make findings on the subject.
               (F)    The applicant has the burden of presenting all necessary
and relevant information and evidence in support of the application.
            2.   Council Decision: Upon conclusion of its review, the council
shall take action on the application and adopt its findings of fact and
conclusions by the next regular scheduled meeting unless the council determines
that additional time is required to properly evaluate the application.
               (A)    In its decision, the council shall base its findings upon
record and report the commission and, if taken, testimony presented before it.
               (B)    The council may adopt, modify with conditions, or reject
the recommendations of the commission or remand the application to the
commission for additional proceedings and findings.
               (C)    The council finding of facts and conclusion shall specify
the ordinance and standards used in evaluating the application, the reasons for
approval or denial, and the actions, if any, that the applicant could take to
obtain approval.
      4.   Expiration Of Approvals:
         a.   Expiration: All application approvals shall expire three hundred
sixty five (365) days from the date of approval unless:
            1.   The permitted activity is initiated on the site within three
hundred sixty five (365) days of approval, or
            2.   By condition of approval or development agreement, a time
period for completion of the application has been specified.
         b.   Extension: An extension may be granted by the administrator upon
finding that the application and/or applicable city regulations have not
changed. Such extension must be applied for within sixty (60) days of the
expiration date for the original approval; only one extension of not more than
three hundred sixty five (365) days shall be granted by the administrator or
for a maximum of three (3) years by action of the council.
   B.   Application Fees: Application fees shall be as established by
resolution of the city council and amended from time to time.
   C.   Adoption Of Application Form: The designated application form shall be
completed by the applicant and shall be filed with the administrative official,
together with the fees required according to the schedule set forth above, at
least ten (10) days prior to the next planning and zoning commission meeting at
which the commission shall review the application in accordance with this
section.
   D.   Amendment Of Fee Schedule: The fee schedule set forth above may be
amended by resolution of the city council, upon recommendation from the
planning and zoning commission. (Ord. 2011-677, 6-13-2011; amd. Ord. 2015-702,
5-11-2015; Ord. 2023-776, 12-21-2023; Ord. 2024-781, 10-15-2024)
11-12-2: BUILDING PERMITS, CERTIFICATES AND AUTHORIZATION:
   A.   Authorization: Only the building inspector is duly authorized to issue
permits and/or certificates except as herein provided in the jurisdiction of
the planning and zoning commission.
   B.   Building Permits:
      1.   Required: Building permits must be obtained for the erection of any
building and/or structure not previously existing; for any alteration of an
existing building and/or structure, excavation or filling of land; and for
parking of any qualifying mobile home.
      2.   Form: Every application for a building permit shall be filed in
duplicate on a form provided by the building inspector.
      3.   Application: Each application shall fully set forth the purposes for
which the building, structure or land is proposed to be used and shall be
accompanied by a plat drawn to scale showing:
         a.   The lot(s) upon which the building is proposed to be erected, or
on which it is situated, if an existing building.
         b.   Lot dimensions, lot and block numbers and subdivision or addition
name.
         c.   Names and widths of abutting roads or streets.
         d.   Locations, dimensions and uses of existing buildings or
structures on the lot.
         e.   Locations, dimensions and proposed use of the building for which
the permit is sought and use of land in connection therewith.
         f.   Dimensions of yards in relation to the building for which the
permit is sought and the distance of the proposed building on the same lot, or
any other distances that may be required in accordance with the provisions of
the zones in which the building use and/or structure is to be located.
         g.   North point and scale.
         h.   Plat shall be certified for applications for building permits for
construction of new buildings and/or structures and for parking a manufactured
home in an area where construction of new buildings and/or structures or
parking of a manufactured home has not previously existed and/or no survey has
ever been recorded.
      4.   Fees:
         a.   Permit Fee: Fees for building permits shall be such as to
compensate the city for its incurred expenses in such areas as advertising
costs, form costs, building inspector cost and/or procedural costs.
         b.   Additional Fees: All fees, such as water and sewer hookup fees
and mobile home fees, must be paid to the city clerk at the time application is
made.
      5.   Term Of Permit: Work for which a building permit has been issued
must commence within six (6) months after the date of such issuance and must be
completed within one year after the date of such issuance. An issued building
permit is no longer valid during other than the above listed time periods.
      6.   Rejection Of Application: In the event of rejection of a building
permit application, said applicant will be informed of the reasons for the
rejection in writing from the building inspector; in addition, any fees and/or
bonds paid will be refunded returned.
   C.   Certificate Of Occupancy:
      1.   Certificate Required: A certificate of occupancy shall be obtained
from the building inspector for any of the following:
         a.   Occupancy and use of a building and/or structure for which a
building permit was obtained.
         b.   Change in use of an existing building, except to another use of
the same type.
         c.   Occupancy and use of vacant land except for any use consisting
primarily of tilling the soil.
         d.   Any change in use of a nonconformity.
      2.   Required Information: Every application for an occupancy permit
shall contain the information required on an application for a building permit,
or may make reference to the information contained on a building permit issued
in advance of an occupancy permit.
   D.   Appeal: Any decisions of the building inspector may be appealed to the
city council through the planning and zoning commission. (Ord. 2011-677, 6-13-
2011)
11-12-3: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Enforcement Procedure:
      1.   It shall be the duty of the planning administrator to enforce the
provisions of this title. The city shall not issue permits unless existing and
intended structures, the parcel of land, and uses of the buildings and land,
conform in all respects with the provisions of this title and other applicable
provisions of this code, with the following exceptions:
         a.   When the purpose of the permit is to correct a violation of this
title or other city ordinances; or
         b.   To allow for the repair or replacement of structures damaged as a
result of a natural disaster pursuant to resolution of the city council, but
only to the extent necessary to remedy damage actually or proximately caused by
the natural disaster. This shall not constitute a waiver or estoppel of the
city's ability to enforce any violations of this title, or of any other
provision of this code, existing on any parcel.
      2.   Whenever any construction or site work is not in compliance with
this title, specific conditions of approval, or other related laws, ordinances
or requirements, the planning administrator may issue a notice of violation and
order any work stopped by written notice. Such notice of violation or stop work
order shall be served on any persons engaged in doing or causing such work to
be done, and persons shall forthwith stop such work until authorized by the
planning administrator to proceed. "Served", as used in this section, shall
include, but not be limited to, hand delivered by an employee or designee of
the city, posted on a prominent place on the subject property, or mailing to
the property owner of record.
      3.   A copy of the notice of violation or stop work order, if applicable,
shall be mailed to the property owner of record and any other known holder of
any legal interest in the property as follows:
         a.   Notices of violation and stop work orders shall be mailed as
follows:
            (1)   Initial notices of violation in which no stop work order has
been issued may be mailed via first class mail.
            (2)   Stop work orders and associated initial notices of violation
shall be mailed via certified mail, return receipt requested.
            (3)   All notices of violation recorded in the office of the
Benewah County recorder shall be sent via certified mail, return receipt
requested.
         b.   The notification shall include:
            (1)   The property owner and the legal description of the parcel;
            (2)   A detailed description of the nature of the violation;
            (3)   A detailed description of all remedial actions that must be
undertaken to resolve the violation; and
            (4)   The length of time allotted to resolve the violation.
      4.   The property owner shall have forty-five (45) days from the date the
notice of violation was mailed to resolve the violation. If the violation is
not cured or an agreement reached with the city on an alternate timeframe for
resolution within the forty-five (45) days, the notice of violation shall be
filed in the office of the county recorder, with a copy mailed to the owner via
certified mail.
      5.   The notice of violation or stop work order shall also advise the
owner of the process for appeals of notices of violation and stop work orders.
An owner or a holder of any legal interest in the property may appeal a notice
of violation or stop work order pursuant to title 11, chapter 11. The appeal
shall be heard in accordance with said chapter. If the appeal is denied (i.e.,
the action is affirmed), the city council shall specify an exact number of days
to gain compliance with this title before the notice of violation is recorded
and may add or remove conditions of remedial action. If the appeal is approved
(i.e., the action is reversed), the city council shall specify actions to be
taken by the planning administrator to release the violation.
      6.   Prior to or at such time as a violation is resolved, the owner shall
pay the fee specified in the current adopted fee schedule unless the
enforcement action was reversed by the city or a court of competent
jurisdiction. Upon payment of such fees or a determination that payment of fees
is not necessary, the planning administrator shall cause a release of notice of
violation to be recorded in the office of the county recorder. The release
shall contain all of the information contained in the notice of violation, as
well as the corrective action taken to resolve the violation. A copy of the
release shall be mailed to the owner, via certified mail, return receipt
requested.
   B.   Violations: Any person may file a written complaint alleging that a
violation of this title has occurred. Such complaint, stating fully the causes
and basis thereof, shall be filed with the city clerk. The planning
administrator shall investigate the allegations made in the complaint, and, if
it appears that there is reasonable cause to find that the alleged violation
did occur, shall take action thereon as provided in this section.
   C.   Penalties: Penalties for failure to comply with or violations of the
provisions of this title shall be as follows:
      1.   Violation of any of the provisions of this title or failure to
comply with any of its requirements shall constitute a misdemeanor punishable
as set forth in section
1-4-1 of this code, with the exception of those provisions which state that a
violation thereof shall constitute an infraction punishable as set forth in
section
1-4-1 of this code.
      2.   The planning administrator may impose a civil penalty for a recorded
violation of any provision of this title or failure to comply with any of its
requirements in an amount not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per
incident per day, with a maximum penalty of twenty thousand dollars
($20,000.00) per incident. For purposes of this section, "incident" means any
instance of a violation of a provision of this title or failure to comply with
a requirement of this title. The city council may establish by resolution a
schedule of civil penalties for specific categories of incidents consistent
with the provisions of this section. Civil penalties shall be in addition to
any fees imposed to recoup the cost of enforcement.
      3.   Each day on which a violation or failure to comply continues shall
be considered a separate incident for purposes of both civil and criminal
action. Any landowner, tenant, subdivider, builder, or other person who
commits, participates in, assists in, or maintains such violation or failure to
comply may be found guilty of a separate offense and may be found liable for
payment of civil penalties. In cases where multiple individuals, firms,
corporations or agents have participated in an incident, they may be held
jointly and severally liable for any remedies, penalties or payments.
      4.   The prosecuting attorney or other attorney who represents the city
may also take civil action in district court on behalf of the city to prevent,
restrain, correct, or abate any action taken, or which may be taken, in
violation of this title, to vacate any subdivision or condominium plat recorded
in violation of this title, or to otherwise enforce the provisions of this
title. In addition to other actions that may be ordered by the court, if the
city prevails, the violator shall pay to the city all fees associated with the
incident then due and owing. Either party may also seek costs and attorney fees
against the other pursuant to state laws and court rules. The city may also
seek the imposition of a civil penalty in an amount not to exceed one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00) per incident per day, with a total maximum penalty of
twenty thousand dollars ($20,000.00) per incident and may also seek to compel
payment of any civil penalty previously imposed by the planning administrator.
No abatement of property or foreclosure on a lien securing any civil penalty
imposed pursuant to this section shall occur unless the property has been found
to be a public or moral nuisance by a court of competent jurisdiction.
      5.   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the city council or any other
public official or private citizen from taking such lawful action as is
necessary to restrain or prevent any violation of this title or of Idaho Code.
      6.   The planning administrator may withhold issuance of permits,
including building permits, for subdivisions, lots, or parcels of land that are
in violation of any provision of this title.
      7.   Applications for approvals authorized by this title will not be
scheduled for hearing until all violations of this title or title 9 of this
code are corrected, except when the purpose of the approval is to correct the
violations of this title or title 9 of this code then existing.
      8.   Any decision of the planning administrator made pursuant to this
section may be appealed in accordance with title 11, chapter 11.
   D.   Abatement Of Nuisances And Hazards:
      1.   Nuisances: Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to restrict the
power and duty of the city to abate public or moral nuisances through its
process in title 4, chapter 1 of this code. If the planning administrator
determines that a structure or use constitutes a public or moral nuisance, then
the planning administrator may require the property owner to abate the
nuisance, and may require that such structure shall not thereafter be used,
restored, repaired or rebuilt, or that such use shall not thereafter continue,
except in conformity with this title. The planning administrator shall give
notice in writing to the owner, owner's agent, or other person in control of
the property. Upon receipt of such notice, the owner, owner's agent, or other
person in control of the property shall abate the nuisance within the time
period specified in the notice or such other time period to which the planning
administrator may agree. Failure to complete the required abatement by the
specified date shall constitute a violation governed by the provisions of this
section, and in such cases, the city may contract to complete the work
necessary to abate the nuisance at the owner's expense.
      2.   Hazards: Whenever the planning administrator determines that there
exists a condition or situation on private property that is not defined as a
public or moral nuisance under this code, but which has become a hazard to life
and limb, or endangers other property, or adversely affects the safety, use, or
stability of public or private property, or adversely affects any public or
private access or drainageway, the planning administrator may require the
property owner to abate the hazard. The planning administrator shall give
notice in writing to the owner, owner's agent, or other person in control of
the property. Upon receipt of such notice, the owner, owner's agent, or other
person in control of the property shall abate the hazard within the time period
specified in the notice or such other time period to which the planning
administrator may agree. Failure to complete the required abatement by the
specified date shall constitute a violation governed by the provisions of this
section, and in such cases, the city may contract to complete the work
necessary to abate the hazard at the owner's expense.
   E.   Compliance Agreements: The planning administrator may enter into
compliance agreements on a case-by-case basis, subject to the following
provisions or conditions:
      1.   The planning administrator finds that the violations that are the
subject of the compliance agreement do not pose an imminent threat to people or
property.
      2.   The party responsible for compliance agrees to remedy the violation
(s) in an expeditious manner by a certain date.
      3.   The planning administrator may require the responsible party to:
         a.   Agree to hold the planning administrator and City of St. Maries
harmless and to defend against any claims arising through operation of the
compliance agreement; and/or
         b.   Provide evidence of general liability coverage for personal
injury and property damage for the premises subject to the compliance
agreement, with the City of St. Maries named as an additional insured.
      4.   The responsible party shall pay any costs and/or attorney fees
incurred to enforce a compliance agreement. (Ord. 2025-784, 3-24-2025)
CHAPTER 13
AMENDMENTS
SECTION:
11-13-1: Power To Amend
11-13-2: Petition
11-13-3: Referral To Planning And Zoning Commission
11-13-4: Public Hearing
11-13-1: POWER TO AMEND:
The city council may from time to time on its own motion, or on petition, or on
recommendation of the planning and zoning commission, amend, supplement, or
repeal the regulations and provisions of this title. (Ord. 2011-677, 6-13-2011)
11-13-2: PETITION:
An amendment or rezoning may be initiated by an application from interested
property owners or authorized agents of such owners for rezoning of the
property owner's land, provided that said land is adjacent to or directly
across a street or alley from property which is already zoned in the same zone
as that to which said property is proposed to be rezoned. If the property
proposed to be rezoned is owned by more than one property owner, each and every
owner of the proposed change shall be in agreement to the change. The
application shall contain the signature of every property owner, and the
planning and zoning commission shall not accept any application not bearing all
signatures. Upon receipt of a properly signed application, the proposed change
shall be handled the same as a one owner application including, but not limited
to, one application fee, one public hearing and one set of exhibits, etc. (Ord.
2011-677, 6-13-2011)
11-13-3: REFERRAL TO PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION:
Every such proposed amendment or change whether initiated by the city council
or by petition shall be referred to the planning and zoning commission for
report thereon before the public hearing hereinafter provided for. (Ord. 2011-
677, 6-13-2011)
11-13-4: PUBLIC HEARING:
The city council by resolution adopted at a stated meeting shall fix the time
and place of a public hearing on the proposed amendments and cause notice to be
given as follows:
   A.   Publication Of Notice: Not less than fifteen (15) days prior to the
hearing a notice of time and place or hearing and a summary of the proposed
amendment shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the city.
   B.   Contents Of Notice: The notice shall state the general nature of the
proposed amendments as well as the text. (Ord. 2011-677, 6-13-2011)
TITLE 12
FLOOD CONTROL
CHAPTER 1
FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
SECTION:
12-1-1: Statutory Authorization; Findings Of Fact; Purpose And Objectives
12-1-2: Definitions
12-1-3: General Provisions
12-1-4: Administration
12-1-5: Provisions For Flood Hazard Reduction
12-1-6: Penalties For Noncompliance
12-1-1: STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION; FINDINGS OF FACT; PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES:
   A.   Statutory Authorization: The legislature of the state of Idaho has in
statutes delegated the responsibility to local governmental units to adopt
regulations designed to promote the public health, safety, and general welfare
of its citizenry 1 . Therefore, the city council for St. Maries, Idaho, does
ordain to adopt a floodplain map and floodplain ordinance that any development
in a floodplain must be constructed at a flood protection elevation and/or have
adequate floodproofing as follows.
   B.   Findings Of Fact:
      1.   The flood hazard areas of St. Maries, Idaho, are subject to periodic
inundation which can result in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety, and general welfare.
      2.   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in areas of special flood hazards which increase flood heights and
velocities, and when inadequately anchored, damage uses in other areas. Uses
that are inadequately floodproofed, elevated, or otherwise protected from flood
damage also contribute to the flood loss.
   C.   Statement Of Purpose: It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the
public health, safety, and general welfare; reduce the annual cost of flood
insurance; and minimize public and private losses due to flood conditions in
specific areas by provisions designed:
      1.   To protect human life and health;
      2.   To minimize expenditure of public money and costly flood control
projects;
      3.   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
      4.   To minimize prolonged business interruptions;
      5.   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water
and gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets, and bridges
located in areas of special flood hazards;
      6.   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use
and development of areas of special flood hazard so as to minimize future flood
blight areas;
      7.   To ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in an
area of special flood hazard;
      8.   To ensure that those who occupy the areas of special flood hazard
assume responsibility for their actions.
   D.   Methods Of Reducing Flood Losses: In order to accomplish its purpose,
this chapter includes methods and provisions for:
      1.   Restricting or prohibiting uses which are dangerous to health,
safety, and property due to water or erosion hazards, or which result in
damaging increases in erosion or in flood heights or velocities;
      2.   Requiring that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
      3.   Controlling the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels,
and natural protective barriers, which help accommodate or channel floodwaters;
      4.   Controlling filling, grading, dredging, and other development which
may increase flood damage; and
      5.   Preventing or regulating the construction of flood barriers that
unnaturally divert floodwaters or may increase flood hazards in other areas.
(Ord. 2009-671, 10-13-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. IC §§ 46-1020 – 46-1024.
12-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless specifically defined below, terms or phrases used in this chapter shall
be interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in common usage and to
give this chapter its most reasonable application.
ACCESSORY STRUCTURE: Low cost buildings that do not exceed five hundred (500)
square feet or have a fair market value (FMV) not greater than ten percent
(10%) of the FMV of the residence, such as detached two (2) car garages,
boathouses, small pole barns, and storage sheds, not to be used for human
habitation, shall be constructed and placed on the building site so as to offer
minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters; shall be anchored to prevent
flotation which may result in damage to other structures; service utilities
such as electrical and heating equipment shall be elevated or floodproofed.
APPEAL: A request for a review of the local administrator's interpretation of
any provision of this chapter or a request for a variance.
AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING: Designated as AO, or AH zone on the flood insurance
rate map (FIRM). AO zones have base flood depths that range from one to three
feet (3') above the natural ground; a clearly defined channel does not exist;
path of flooding is unpredictable and indeterminate; and velocity flow may be
evident. AO is characterized as sheet flow; AH indicates ponding, and is shown
with standard flood protection elevations.
AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD: The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a one percent (1%) or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
Designation on maps always includes the letters A or V.
BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year (also referred to as the "100-year flood").
Designated on flood insurance rate maps by the letters A or V.
BASEMENT: Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
CRITICAL FACILITY: A facility for which even a slight chance of flooding might
be too great. Critical facilities include, but are not limited to, schools,
nursing homes, hospitals, police, fire and emergency response installations,
and installations which produce, use or store hazardous materials or hazardous
waste.
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
ELEVATED BUILDINGS: For insurance purposes, a nonbasement building that has its
lowest elevated floor raised above ground level by foundation walls, shear
walls, posts, piers, pilings, or columns.
ELEVATION CERTIFICATE: The official form (FEMA form 81-31) used to track
development, provide elevation information necessary to ensure compliance with
community floodplain management ordinances, and determine the proper insurance
premium rate with section B completed by community officials.
EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the adopted floodplain management regulations.
EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: The preparation
of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the installation of
utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the
pouring of concrete pads).
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM): The official map on which the federal
insurance administration has delineated both the areas of special flood hazards
and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS): The official report provided by the federal
insurance administration that includes flood profiles, the flood boundary-
floodway map, and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
FLOOD OR FLOODING: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
   A.   The overflow of inland or tidal waters and/or
   B.   The unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters from any
source.
FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (FPE): An elevation that shall correspond to the
elevation of the one percent (1%) chance flood (100-year flood) plus any
increased flood elevation due to floodway encroachment, plus any required
freeboard. For the regulatory purposes of this chapter, FPE means the base
flood elevation (BFE), plus any increased elevation due to a floodway
encroachment, plus one foot (1').
FLOODWAY: The channel of the river or stream and those portions of the
floodplain adjoining the channel required to discharge and store the floodwater
or flood flows associated with the regulatory flood.
INCREASED COST OF COMPLIANCE: A flood insurance claim payment up to thirty
thousand dollars ($30,000.00) directly to a property owner for the cost to
comply with floodplain management regulations after a direct physical loss
caused by a flood. Eligibility for an ICC claim can be through a single
instance of "substantial damage" or as a result of a "cumulative substantial
damage".
LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access, or storage in an area other than a
basement area, is not considered a building's lowest floor, provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable nonelevation design requirements of this chapter found at subsection
12-1-5B1b of this chapter (i.e., provided there are adequate flood ventilation
openings).
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which is
built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
"manufactured home" does not include a "recreational vehicle".
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land
divided into two (2) or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
NEW CONSTRUCTION: Structures for which the "start of construction" commenced on
or after the effective date hereof.
NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of adopted floodplain management regulations.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicle which is:
   A.   Built on a single chassis;
   B.   Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
   C.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty
truck; and
   D.   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
REGULATORY FLOOD: A flood determined to be representative of large floods known
to have occurred in Idaho and which may be expected to occur on a particular
stream because of like physical characteristics. The regulatory flood is based
upon a statistical analysis of stream flow records available for the watershed
or an analysis of rainfall and runoff characteristics in the watershed. In
inland areas, the flood frequency of the regulatory flood is once in every one
hundred (100) years; this means that in any given year there is a one percent
(1%) chance that a regulatory flood may occur or be exceeded.
REPETITIVE LOSS: Flood related damages sustained by a structure on two (2)
separate occasions during a ten (10) year period for which the cost of repairs
at the time of each such flood event, on the average, equals or exceeds twenty
five percent (25%) of the market value of the structure before the damage
occurred.
START OF CONSTRUCTION: Includes substantial improvement, and means the date the
building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair,
reconstruction, placement or other improvements was within one hundred eighty
(180) days of the permit date. The actual start means either the first
placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the
pouring of slab, or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of
columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a
manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not include land
preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the
installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a
basement, footings, piers, or foundations or the erection of temporary forms;
nor does it include the installation on the property of accessory buildings,
such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main
structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual start of construction
means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural
part of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the external
dimensions of the building.
STRUCTURE: A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage tank
that is principally aboveground.
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the
cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal or
exceed fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the
damage occurred.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other
improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent
(50%) of the market value of the structure, before the "start of construction"
of the improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred
"substantial damage", regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term
does not, however include either:
   A.   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions or
   B.   Any alteration of a "historic structure", provided that the alteration
will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a "historic
structure".
VARIANCE: A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter that permits
construction in a manner that would otherwise be prohibited by this chapter.
WATER DEPENDENT: A structure for commerce or industry that cannot exist in any
other location and is dependent on the water by reason of the intrinsic nature
of its operations. (Ord. 2009-671, 10-13-2009)
12-1-3: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Lands To Which This Chapter Applies: This chapter shall apply to all
areas of the special flood hazards within the jurisdiction of the city of St.
Maries, Idaho.
   B.   Basis For Establishing The Areas Of Special Flood Hazard: The areas of
special flood hazard identified by the federal insurance administration in a
scientific and engineering report entitled "The Flood Insurance Study For
Benewah County, Idaho And Incorporated Areas" dated September 25, 2009, with an
accompanying flood insurance rate map (FIRM), are hereby adopted by reference
and declared to be part of this chapter. The flood insurance study and the FIRM
are on file at city hall, St. Maries, Idaho, and the Benewah County courthouse,
St. Maries, Idaho. The best available information for flood hazard area
identified as outlined in subsection 12-1-4C2 of this chapter shall be the
basis for regulation until a new FIRM is issued that incorporates data utilized
under subsection 12-1-4C2 of this chapter. For the regulatory purposes of this
chapter, FPE means the base flood elevation (BFE), plus any increased elevation
due to a floodway encroachment, plus one foot (1').
   C.   Warnings And Disclaimers Of Liability: The degree of flood protection
required by this chapter is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and
is based on scientific and engineering considerations. Larger floods can and
will occur on rare occasions. Flood heights may be increased by manmade or
natural causes. This chapter does not imply that land outside the areas of
special flood hazards or uses permitted within such areas will be free from
flooding hazards or uses permitted within such areas will be free from flooding
or flood damages. This chapter shall not create liability on the part of the
city of St. Maries, Idaho, any officer or employee thereof, or the federal
insurance administration, for any flood damages that result from reliance on
this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made hereunder. (Ord.
2009-671, 10-13-2009)
12-1-4: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Establishment Of Development Permit:
      1.   Development Permit Required: A development permit shall be obtained
before construction or development begins within any area of special flood
hazard established in subsection
12-1-3B of this chapter. This permit shall be for all structures including
manufactured homes, as set forth in section
12-1-2, "Definitions", of this chapter and for all development including fill
and other activities, also as set forth in section
12-1-2, "Definitions", of this chapter.
      2.   Application For Development Permit: Application for a development
permit shall be made on forms furnished by the city of St. Maries and may
include, but not be limited to, plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the
nature, location, dimensions, and elevations of the area in question; existing
or proposed structures, fill, storage of materials, drainage facilities, and
the location of the foregoing. Specifically, the following information is
required:
         a.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level, of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all structures recorded on a current elevation
certificate (FF 81-31) with section B completed by the local official;
         b.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any structure
has been floodproofed;
         c.   Certification by a registered professional engineer or architect
that the floodproofing methods for any nonresidential structure meet
floodproofing criteria in subsection
12-1-5B2 of this chapter; and
         d.   Description of the extent to which a watercourse will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development.
   B.   Designation Of The Local Administrator: The building inspector for the
city of St. Maries or designee is hereby appointed to administer and implement
this chapter by granting or denying development permit applications in
accordance with its provisions.
   C.   Duties And Responsibilities Of The Local Administrator: Duties of the
local administrator shall include, but not be limited to:
      1.   Permit Review:
         a.   Review all development permits to determine that the permit
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied.
         b.   Review proposed development to assure that necessary permits have
been obtained from government agencies.
         c.   Review all development permits to determine if the proposed
development is located in the floodway. If located in the floodway, assure that
the encroachment provisions of subsection
12-1-5D1 of this chapter are met.
      2.   Use Of Other Base Flood Data (In A Zones): When flood protection
elevation data has not been provided (in A zones) in accordance with subsection
12-1-3B, "Basis For Establishing The Areas Of Special Flood Hazard", of this
section the local administrator shall obtain, review, and reasonably utilize
any flood protection elevation and floodway data available from a federal,
state, or other source, in order to administer subsections
12-1-5B, "Specific Standards", and D, "Floodways", of this chapter.
      3.   Information To Be Obtained And Maintained:
         a.   Where flood protection elevation data is provided through the
flood insurance study, FIRM, or required as in subsection C2 of this section,
verify and record the actual (as built) elevation (in relation to mean sea
level regulatory floor level) of the lowest floor (including basement) of all
new construction or substantially improved structures, and whether or not
structure contains a basement. Record on a current elevation certificate (FF
81-31) with section B completed by the local official.
         b.   For all new or substantially improved floodproofed nonresidential
structures where flood protection elevation data is provided through the FIS,
FIRM, or as required in subsection C2 of this section:
         1.   Verify and record the elevation (in relation to mean sea level)
to which any new or substantially improved structures have been floodproofed.
         2.   Maintain the floodproofing certifications required in subsection
A2c of this section. When floodproofing is utilized, certification of design
criteria from a registered professional engineer or architect is required.
         3.   Require engineering certification (as built information) as to
the constructed flood protection elevation.
         c.   All records pertaining to the provisions of this chapter shall be
maintained.
      4.   Alteration Of Watercourses:
         a.   Notify adjacent communities and the Idaho department of water
resources prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit
evidence of such notification to the federal insurance administration.
         b.   Assure flood carrying capacity of any altered or relocated
waterway is maintained.
      5.   Interpretation Of FIRM Boundaries: Where interpretation is needed as
to exact location of the boundaries of the areas of special flood hazards
(e.g., where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and
actual field conditions), the floodplain administrator shall make the necessary
interpretation. The person contesting the location of the boundary shall be
given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the interpretation. Such appeals shall
be granted consistent with the standards of section 60.6 of the rules and
regulations of the national flood insurance program (44 CFR 59-76).
   D.   Variance Procedure:
      1.   Variance Application: An application for a variance must be
submitted to the city clerk on the form provided by the city of St. Maries, and
include at a minimum the same information required for a development permit and
an explanation for the basis for the variance request.
      2.   Conditions For Variances:
         a.   Generally, the only condition under which a variance from the
elevation standard may be issued is for new construction and substantial
improvements to be erected on a small or irregularly shaped lot contiguous to
and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below the base
flood level. As the lot size increases the technical justification required for
issuing the variance increases.
         b.   Variances shall not be issued within a designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
         c.   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
         d.   Variances shall be issued upon:
            1.   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
            2.   A determination that failure to grant the variance would
result in exceptional hardship to the applicant;
            3.   A determination that the granting of a variance will not
result in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety,
extraordinary public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
         e.   Variances as interpreted in the national flood insurance program
are based on the general zoning law principle that they pertain to a physical
piece of property; they are not personal in nature and do not pertain to the
structure, its inhabitants, economic or financial circumstances. They primarily
address small lots in densely populated residential neighborhoods. As such,
variances from flood elevations should be quite rare.
         f.   Variances will be issued for nonresidential buildings in very
limited circumstances to allow a lesser degree of floodproofing than watertight
or dry floodproofing, where it can be determined that such action will have low
damage potential, complies with all other variance criteria except subsection
D2a of this section, and otherwise complies with subsections 12-1-5A1, A3 and
A4 of this chapter.
         g.   An applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice that the permitted structure will be built with its lowest floor below
the flood protection elevation and that the cost of flood insurance will be
commensurate with the increased risk.
      3.   Appeal Board:
         a.   The St. Maries city council as established by ordinance shall
hear and decide appeals and requests for variances from the requirements of
this chapter.
         b.   The St. Maries city council shall hear and decide appeals when it
is alleged there is an error in any requirement, decision, or determination
made by the local administrator in the enforcement or administration of this
chapter.
         c.   Those aggrieved by the decision of the St. Maries city council,
or any taxpayer, may appeal such decision to the state district court, as
provided in the statutes of the state of Idaho.
         d.   In passing upon such applications, the St. Maries city council
shall consider all technical evaluations, all relevant factors, standards
specified in other sections of this chapter, and
            1.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
            2.   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion
damage;
            3.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents
to flood damage and the effects of such damage on the individual owner;
            4.   The importance of the services provided by the proposed
facility to the community;
            5.   The necessity of the facility to a waterfront location, where
applicable;
            6.   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use
which are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
            7.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and
anticipated development;
            8.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan
and floodplain management program for that area;
            9.   The safety of access to the property in times of flooding for
ordinary and emergency vehicles;
            10.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
            11.   The cost of providing government services during and after
flood conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems, and streets and
bridges. (Ord. 2009-671, 10-13-2009)
12-1-5: PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION:
   A.   General Standards: In all areas of special flood hazard, the following
provisions are required:
      1.   Anchoring:
         a.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure.
         b.   Manufactured homes shall be anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse, or lateral movement, and shall be installed using methods and
practices that minimize flood damage. Anchoring methods may include, but not
limited to, use of over the top or frame ties to ground anchors. For more
detailed information, refer to guidebook FEMA-85, "Manufactured Home
Installation In Flood Hazard Areas".
      2.   AH Zone Drainage: Adequate drainage paths are required around
structures on slopes to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed
structures.
      3.   Construction Materials And Methods:
         a.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
         b.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed using methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
         c.   All electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air
conditioning equipment and other service facilities shall be designed and/or
located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during flooding. Locating such equipment below the flood protection
elevation may cause annual flood insurance premiums to be increased.
      4.   Utilities:
         a.   New and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system;
         b.   Water wells shall be located on high ground that is not in the
floodway;
         c.   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate the infiltration of floodwaters into the systems and
discharges from the system into floodwaters;
         d.   On site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed
to avoid impairment of function, or contamination from them, during flooding.
      5.   Subdivision Proposals:
         a.   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage;
         b.   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and
facilities, such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems located and
constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage;
         c.   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided
to reduce exposure to flood damage;
         d.   Where flood protection elevation data has not been provided or is
not available from another authorized source, it shall be generated for
subdivision proposals and other proposed developments which contain at least
fifty (50) lots or five (5) acres (whichever is less).
      6.   Review Of Building Permits: Where flood protection elevations or
other current engineering data are not available either through the flood
insurance study, FIRM or from another authoritative source (subsection
12-1-4C2 of this chapter), the floodplain administrator shall obtain, review
and reasonably utilize scientific methods to assure that the proposed
construction will be reasonably safe from flooding. The test of reasonableness
is a local judgment and includes use of historical data, high water marks,
photographs of past flooding, etc., where available. Failure to elevate at
least two feet (2') above highest adjacent grade in these zones may result in
higher insurance rates.
   B.   Specific Standards: In all areas of special flood hazards where flood
protection elevation data has been provided as set forth in subsection
12-1-3B, "Basis For Establishing The Areas Of Special Flood Hazard", or
12-1-4C2, "Use Of Other Base Flood Data (In A Zones)", of this chapter the
following provisions are required:
      1.   Residential Construction:
         a.   Where flood protection data is available, any structure or
manufactured home shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to
or above the flood protection elevation (FPE).
         b.   Elevated buildings with enclosed areas below the lowest floor
that are subject to flooding are prohibited, or shall be designed to equalize
hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the automatic entry
and exit of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be
certified by a registered professional engineer or architect or must meet or
exceed the following minimum criteria:
         1.   A minimum of two (2) openings with a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided.
         2.   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot (1')
above grade.
         3.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic flow of floodwater
in both directions. Standard foundation vents as required by the IBC do not
meet this standard.
         4.   Below grade, crawl spaces are prohibited at sites where the
velocity of floodwaters exceed five feet (5') per second.
         5.   All building utility systems within the crawl space shall be
elevated above FPE or be designed so that floodwaters cannot enter or
accumulate within the system component during flood.
         6.   The interior of a crawl space below the FPE must not be more than
two feet (2') below the lowest adjacent exterior grade (LAG) and the height of
the below grade crawl space, measured from the interior grade of the crawl
space to the top of the crawl space foundation must not exceed four feet (4')
at any point.
         7.   Below grade, crawl spaces constructed in accordance with the
requirements listed in this subsection shall not be considered a basement.
However, applicants who construct buildings that have below grade crawl spaces
are hereby advised that such buildings will have higher flood insurance
premiums than buildings that have crawl spaces with interior elevations at or
above the lowest adjacent grade.
         8.   Below grade unfinished or flood resistant enclosures shall only
be used for parking of vehicles, limited storage of maintenance equipment, or
building access.
         9.   Otherwise follow the guidelines of the latest version of FEMA TB
11-01 crawl space construction for buildings located in the special flood
hazard areas: national flood insurance program interim guidance for crawl space
construction.
      2.   Nonresidential Construction: New construction and substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial, or other nonresidential structure
shall either have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or above
the flood protection elevation or, together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, shall:
         a.   Be floodproofed so that below one foot (1') or more above the
base flood level the structure is watertight with walls substantially
impermeable to the passage of water;
         b.   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy;
         c.   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect
that the design and methods of construction are in accordance with accepted
standards of practice for meeting provisions of this subsection based on their
development and/or review of the structural design, specifications and plans.
Such certificates shall be provided to the official as set forth in subsection
12-1-4C3b of this chapter;
         d.   Nonresidential structures that are elevated, not floodproofed,
must meet the same standards for space below the lowest floor as described in
subsection B1b of this section;
         e.   Applicants who are floodproofing nonresidential buildings shall
be notified that flood insurance premiums will be based on rates that are one
foot (1') below the floodproofed level (e.g., a building floodproofed to the
base flood level will be rated as 1 foot below). Floodproofing the building an
additional foot will reduce insurance premiums significantly.
         f.   Otherwise follow guidelines of the latest version of FEMA TB 11-
01 crawl space construction for buildings located in special flood hazard
areas: national flood insurance program interim guidance for crawl space
construction.
      3.   Manufactured Homes: All or varied placement of manufactured homes in
a floodplain shall be elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest
floor of the manufactured home is elevated to or above the flood protection
elevation and be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system
to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement.
      4.   Recreational Vehicles: Recreational vehicles placed on sites are
required to either:
         a.   Be on site for fewer than one hundred eighty (180) consecutive
days; or
         b.   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use, on wheels or jacking
system, attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities and
security devices, and have no permanently attached additions; or
         c.   Meet the requirements of subsection B3 of this section and the
elevation and anchoring requirements for manufactured homes.
   C.   AE And A1-30 Zones With Flood Protection Elevations But No Floodway: In
areas with flood protection elevations (but a regulatory floodway has not been
designated), no new construction, substantial improvements, or other
development (including fill) shall be permitted within zones A1-30 and AE on
the community's FIRM, unless it is demonstrated that the cumulative effect of
the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated
development, will not increase the water surface elevation of the base flood
more than one foot (1') at any point within the community.
   D.   Floodways: Located within areas of special flood hazard established in
subsection
12-1-3B of this chapter are areas designed as floodways. Since the floodway is
an extremely hazardous area due to the velocity of floodwaters that can carry
debris, and increase erosion potential, the following provisions apply:
      1.   Prohibit encroachments, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements, and other developments unless certification by a
registered professional engineer is provided demonstrating through hydrologic
and hydraulic analysis performed in accordance with standard engineering
practice that the proposed encroachment would not result in any increase in
flood levels during the occurrence of the base flood discharge.
      2.   If subsection D1 of this section is satisfied, all new construction
and substantial improvements shall comply with all applicable flood hazard
reduction provision of this section.
   E.   Building Standards For Areas Of Shallow Flooding (AO Zones): Areas of
special flood hazard may include designated "AO" shallow flooding areas. These
areas have base flood depths of one to three feet (3') aboveground, with no
clearly defined channel. Such flooding is usually characterized as sheet flow.
In these areas the following provisions apply:
      1.   All new construction and substantial improvements of residential and
nonresidential structures shall have the lowest floor, including basement,
elevated above the highest adjacent grade at least as high as depth number
specified in feet on the community's flood insurance rate map (FIRM) or at
least two feet (2') if no depth number is specified. Openings sufficient to
facilitate the unimpeded movement of floodwaters shall be provided in
accordance with standards of subsection B1 of this section.
      2.   New construction or the substantial improvement of a nonresidential
structure may be floodproofed in lieu of elevation. The structure, together
with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, must be designed to be
watertight to the specific flood protection elevation, with walls substantially
impermeable to the passage of water, and structural components having the
capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and the effect of
buoyancy. A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the design and methods of construction are in accordance with accepted
standards of practice; and
      3.   Drainage paths shall be provided to guide floodwater around and away
from a proposed structure.
   F.   Critical Facility: Construction of new critical facilities shall be, to
the extent possible, located outside the limits of the special flood hazard
area (SFHA) (100-year floodplain). Construction of new critical facilities
shall be permissible within the SFHA if no feasible alternative site is
available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA shall have the
lowest floor elevated three feet (3') above the FPE or to the height of the
500-year flood, whichever is higher. Access to and from the critical facility
should also be protected to the height utilized above. Floodproofing and
sealing measures must be taken to ensure that toxic substances will not be
displaced by or released into the floodwaters. Access routes elevated to or
above the level of the flood protection elevation shall be provided to all
critical facilities to the extent possible. (Ord. 2009-671, 10-13-2009)
12-1-6: PENALTIES FOR NONCOMPLIANCE:
No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended,
converted, or altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter
and other applicable regulations. Violations of the provisions of this chapter
by failure to comply with any of its requirements (including violations of
conditions and safeguards established in connection with conditions), shall
constitute a misdemeanor.
Any person who violates this chapter or fails to comply with any of its
requirements shall upon conviction thereof be fined not more than one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00) or imprisoned for not more than one hundred eighty (180)
days, or both, for each violation, and in addition shall pay all costs and
expenses involved in the case. Nothing herein contained shall prevent St.
Maries from taking such other lawful actions as is necessary to prevent or
remedy any violation. (Ord. 2009-671, 10-13-2009)
