SALMON, IDAHO
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Current through Ord. 21-849, passed 5-19-2021
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING CORPORATION
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
      
11.   CITY STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title
   
10.02   Acceptance
   
10.03   Amendments
   
10.04   Maintenance of city code
   
10.05   Repeal of general ordinances
   
10.06   Public utility ordinances
   
10.07   Saving clause
   
10.08   General constructional rule
   
10.09   Plural and singular words
   
10.10   Masculine and feminine gender
   
10.11   Priority of ordinance
   
10.12   Definitions
   
10.13   Captions
 
   
10.99   Penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE.
   This codification of the general ordinances of the City of Salmon is
declared to be the official City Code of the City of Salmon.
§ 10.02 ACCEPTANCE.
   Any official copy of the code shall be received without further proof in all
courts and in all administrative tribunals of the state.
§ 10.03 AMENDMENTS.
   Any ordinance amending the code shall set forth the title, chapter and
section number of the section or sections to be amended. All such ordinances
shall comply with the provisions of the code and Idaho Code Title 50, Ch. 9,
regarding passage, execution and publication of ordinances. All such amendments
shall be promptly forwarded to the codifiers by the City Clerk and such
ordinance shall be promptly published and inserted in its proper place in each
copy of the city code.
§ 10.04 MAINTENANCE OF CITY CODE.
   Upon receipt of each published ordinance from the codifiers, the City Clerk
shall promptly forward a copy of each page thereof to each person having an
official copy of the city code. The City Clerk may collect a fee for each copy
of the city code and an annual fee for maintenance thereof; provided, such fees
shall be established by resolution or ordinance duly passed by the City
Council.
§ 10.05 REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES.
   All general ordinances of the city are hereby repealed, except as herein
specifically preserved or are, by implication, reserved from repeal, subject to
the saving clauses herein contained, excluding without limitation the special
ordinances relating to the following subjects: tax levies; appropriation of
public moneys; boundaries and annexations; franchises; ordinances granting
special rights to persons or correspondence; contracts; issuance of warrants;
public salaries; ordinances establishing name or vacating streets, alleys or
other public places; improvement districts; bonds; local elections; the sale or
exchange of real estate; sign ordinances; economic development; urban renewal;
public utilities; zoning; and all special ordinances of any kind, except for
those provisions in such special ordinances which the code expressly amends.
§ 10.06 PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES.
   No ordinance or section thereof relating to railroad or railroad crossings
of streets and other public ways, or relating to the conduct, duties, service
or rates of public utilities, shall be repealed by the adoption of the code or
by §
10.05 of this chapter, except as this code specifically provides for such
repeal.
§ 10.07 SAVING CLAUSE.
   Any ordinance amending or repealing any section of the code shall not be
deemed or construed to abate any pending action based upon such amended or
repealed section, nor shall the passage of such ordinance prevent the arrest,
prosecution and punishment of any violation of such section committed prior to
the effective date of such ordinance.
§ 10.08 GENERAL CONSTRUCTIONAL RULE.
   Except as expressly stated in the code, all words shall have their ordinary,
generally accepted meaning.
§ 10.09 PLURAL AND SINGULAR WORDS.
   Whenever any word in the code is used in either the singular or in the
plural form, then such word shall be deemed to include both the plural and
singular forms of such word, unless the context indicates an intent otherwise.
§ 10.10 MASCULINE AND FEMININE GENDER.
   When any person is referred to in any section of the code by use of the
masculine gender, then such reference shall be deemed to include the feminine
gender unless the context indicates an intent otherwise.
§ 10.11 PRIORITY OF ORDINANCE.
   In the event of any discrepancy or conflict between the code and any
ordinance passing or amending the same section of the code, then the provisions
of the ordinance shall prevail.
§ 10.12 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGENT. A person acting on behalf of another.
   CITY. The City of Salmon, Lemhi County, State of Idaho.
   CITY ATTORNEY. An attorney appointed by the Mayor to provide general counsel
and legal assistance to the city and to prosecute or defend all civil actions
in which the city is a party.
   COUNCIL. The lawfully elected governing body of Salmon, Idaho.
   COUNTY. The County of Lemhi, Idaho.
   CRIME. An act in violation of this code.
   FELONY. A crime as defined under Idaho Code 18-111.
   INFRACTION. A civil public offense, not constituting a crime, which is
punishable only by a penalty not exceeding $100 and for which no incarceration
may be imposed.
   LICENSE. The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, trade,
profession or occupation.
   MISDEMEANOR. Every crime, except a felony.
   OCCUPANT. Any person who occupies the whole or any part of such building or
land, whether alone or with others.
   OFFENSE. A crime or other violation of this code.
   OPERATOR. The person who is generally in charge of or responsible for
conducting any business, profession or enterprise.
   OWNER. Any person owning real or personal property, including any part
owner, joint owner, tenant in common, joint tenant, remainderman or person
holding a life estate or reversionary interest of any kind.
   PERSON. A human being and any public or private corporation, firm,
partnership, trust, estate, sole proprietorship, association, organization,
government or any other entity recognized under state law.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Money, goods, chattels, effects, rights in action and all
written instruments evidencing any pecuniary obligation.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
   STATE. The State of Idaho.
   STREET. All public roads, ways, alleys and rights-of-way used for the
movement of vehicular traffic, including any public sidewalks adjacent thereto.
   TENANT. Any person who occupies any building or real property for a
consideration to the owner.
§ 10.13 CAPTIONS.
   The captions and titles used at the commencement of each section or division
of the code are used only to indicate the content of the section and shall not
limit, modify or in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the
provisions thereafter.
§ 10.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Penalties generally.
      (1)   Misdemeanor. Unless specifically provided elsewhere, any person
convicted of a violation of any section or provision of this code deemed a
misdemeanor may be fined in a sum not to exceed $300 for any offense and may be
confined in jail for a period of not more than six months. Either or both such
fine and imprisonment may be imposed; and in addition thereto, any person so
convicted shall pay such costs as the court may assess.
      (2)   Infraction. When the offense is designated as an infraction by any
section or provision of this code or by state law, it is punishable only by a
penalty not exceeding $100 and no incarceration may be imposed.
      (3)   Criminal or civil penalty. Any city which is participating in a
federally mandated program, wherein penalties or enforcement remedies are
required by the terms of participation in the program, may enforce such
requirements by ordinance, to include a criminal or civil monetary penalty not
to exceed $1,000, or imprisonment for criminal offenses not to exceed six
months or to include both a fine and imprisonment for criminal offenses.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-1)
   (B)   Applicability of penalty.
      (1)    The penalty provided in this section shall be applicable to every
section of this code the same as though it were a part of each and every
separate section.
      (2)   Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act
constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this code and there shall
be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the provisions of
this section shall apply.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-2)
   (C)   Prosecutorial discretion. In all cases where the same offense is made
punishable or is created by different clauses or sections of this code, the
prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed, but not more than one
recovery shall be had against the same person for the same offense; provided,
that the revocation of a license or permit shall not be considered a recovery
or penalty so as to bar any other penalty being enforced.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-2B)
   (D)   Penalty against officers. No provision of this code designating the
duties of any officer or employee shall be so construed as to make such officer
or employee liable for any fine or penalty provided for a failure to perform
such duty, unless the intention of the City Council to impose such fine or
penalty on such officer or employee is specifically and clearly expressed in
the section creating the duty.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-3)
CHAPTER 11: CITY STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   Corporate limits
   
11.02   City map adopted
   
11.03   Annexation ordinances
   
11.04   Corporate Seal
   
11.05   Official depositories
   
11.06   Official newspaper
§ 11.01 CORPORATE LIMITS.
   (A)   The corporate limits of the city are described in an updated legal
description compiled by Wade Surveying from the original 1987 legal description
and field notes, and is recorded by the County Clerk.
   (B)   The updated legal description and amendments thereof shall be kept on
file in the office of the County Clerk, and a copy of such kept in the office
of the Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-1) (Ord. 10-764, passed 8-18-2010)
§ 11.02 CITY MAP ADOPTED.
   (A)   A certain map recorded by the County Clerk compiled and drawn by Wade
Surveying from the updated legal description and field notes as shown thereon
and bearing official signatures is declared to be the official map of the city.
The original said recorded map and amendments thereof shall be kept on file in
the office of the County Clerk, and a copy of such in the office of the Clerk.
   (B)   As the legal description of the corporate boundaries of the city are
from time to time legally changed, said changes shall be drawn upon the
recorded map of the city in accordance with applicable provisions of Idaho Code
50-13, and shall be so indicated by amending the legal description and recorded
map. The cost for such updates to the legal description and map shall be the
responsibility of the petitioner for the changes.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-1A)
§ 11.03 ANNEXATION ORDINANCES.
   As additions to the city are from time to time legally annexed or de-
annexed, existing or future annexation ordinances shall be recorded and kept on
file in the office of the County Clerk, and a copy of such in the office of the
Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-1B)
§ 11.04 CORPORATE SEAL.
   (A)   Design. The Corporate Seal of the City shall be circular in form with
four circles. The outer circle shall be a line 1-15/16 inches in diameter. The
next inner circle shall be a rope design and shall be 1-13/16 inches in
diameter. The third inner circle shall be a line 1-11/16 inches in diameter.
The inner circle shall be a dotted circle 1-13/16 inches in diameter. On the
top half of the seal, between the third circle and the inner circle, in Roman
type, shall appear the words “CITY OF SALMON, IDAHO”. In the lower half of the
Seal, between the third circle and the inner circle, in Gothic style type,
shall appear the words “INCORPORATED A.D. 1892”. In the top center of the Seal
shall appear the miners’ crossed pick and shovel. In the center of the circle
shall appear a large salmon and, below this, to the left, shall be a farmer’s
plow, and to the right a sheaf of grain.
   (B)   Adoption of seal. The seal described in division (A) above is hereby
adopted as a Corporate Seal of the City of Salmon, Idaho.
   (C)   Custodian of seal. The Clerk shall be the custodian of the Corporate
Seal of the City and shall affix such seal’s imprint upon all official
documents, records and licenses.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-2)
§ 11.05 OFFICIAL DEPOSITORIES.
   Any FDIC-insured institution, along with the Local Government Investment
Pool, are hereby designated as the official depositories of the funds for the
city. The Treasurer/Finance Director is hereby ordered, required and directed
to keep monies belonging to, or in the care of, the city, coming into his or
her hands and into the hands of the city, in the best interest of the city,
with City Council approval.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-3) (Ord. 12-777, passed 1-4-2012)
§ 11.06 OFFICIAL NEWSPAPER.
   The Recorder-Herald, a newspaper of general circulation, is hereby
designated the official newspaper of the city.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-4)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
      
31.   OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
      
32.   ORGANIZATIONS
      
33.   PERSONNEL POLICIES
      
34.   ELECTIONS
      
35.   CITY ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES
CHAPTER 30: MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
Section
   
30.01   Election of officers
   
30.02   Mayor
   
30.03   Council members
   
30.04   Salaries of elected officers
   
30.05   Meetings of the City Council
   
30.06   Quorum, attendance of members
   
30.07   Ordinances of the city
§ 30.01 ELECTION OF OFFICERS.
   The City Council shall be composed of a Mayor and six Council members who
shall be elected at the time and in the manner as provided by the state in
Idaho Code 50-701 and 50-401 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-1)
§ 30.02 MAYOR.
   (A)   Qualifications. Any person shall be eligible to hold the office of
Mayor who is a qualified elector of the city at the time of his or her election
and remains a qualified elector during his or her term of office.
   (B)   Term of office. The term of office of the Mayor shall be for a period
of four years, except as otherwise specifically provided. The Mayor shall take
office at the time and in the manner provided for installation of Council
members.
   (C)   Vacancy in office. In case of a temporary vacancy in the office of
Mayor due to absence or disability, the President of the Council shall exercise
the office of Mayor during such disability or temporary absence and until the
Mayor shall return. When a vacancy occurs in the office of Mayor by reason of
death, resignation or permanent disability, the City Council shall fill the
vacancy from within or without the Council as may be deemed in the best
interests of the city, which appointee shall serve until the next general city
election, at which election a Mayor shall be elected for the full four-year
term.
   (D)   Powers and duties. The Mayor shall have those powers and duties as
provided by state law in Idaho Code 50-602 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-2)
§ 30.03 COUNCIL MEMBERS.
   (A)   Qualifications; terms of office. Any person shall be eligible to hold
the office of Council member of the city who is, at the time of election, and
remains a qualified elector under the Constitution and laws of the state. Each
Council member elected at the general city election shall be installed at the
first meeting in January following election.
   (B)   Vacancies in office. A vacancy on the Council shall be filled by
appointment made by the Mayor with the consent of the Council, which appointee
shall serve only until the next general city election, at which election the
vacancy shall be filled for the balance of the original term.
   (C)   Powers and duties. The City Council shall have such powers and duties
as are now or may hereafter be provided under the general laws of the state.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-3)
§ 30.04 SALARIES OF ELECTED OFFICERS.
   (A)   Mayor. The salary of the Mayor shall be as determined from time to
time by the City Council.
   (B)   Council members. The salary of each member of the City Council shall
be as determined from time to time by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-4)
§ 30.05 MEETINGS OF THE CITY COUNCIL.
   (A)   Regular meetings. The regular meetings of the City Council shall be
held on the first and third Wednesday of each month at 6:00 p.m. at the City
Hall. If such day be a legal holiday, the meeting shall be held on the day
following such holiday. The Mayor of the Council may convene the Council at any
time.
   (B)   Special meetings. Special meetings may be called by the Mayor upon
notice to each Council member. One-half plus one of the Council shall have the
power to call special meetings of the City Council, the object of which shall
be submitted to the Council members, in writing, at least 24 hours before the
meeting. Notice of the meeting shall also be posted. Special meetings shall be
held at such place in the city as is designated in the notice.
   (C)   Emergency meetings. Emergency meetings may be called for an emergency
which is hereby declared to exist by the Mayor upon notice to each Council
member.
   (D)   Meetings open to the public. All meetings of the City Council shall be
open to the public; except, that executive sessions may be closed upon a two-
thirds vote recorded in the minutes of the meeting by individual vote pursuant
to Idaho Code 74-206.
   (E)   Presiding officer. In the event of the Mayor’s absence, the City
Council meetings shall be presided over by a Council President to be selected
by the Council from its members each January. Such position shall rotate
yearly.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-5) (Ord. 90-535, passed 12-17-1990; Ord. 02-629, passed 4-3-
2002)
§ 30.06 QUORUM, ATTENDANCE OF MEMBERS.
   At all meetings of the City Council, a majority of the members shall
constitute a quorum to do business. Whenever at or during any meeting less than
a quorum shall be present, the members present may, by order entered upon the
minutes, direct any absent member or members to attend forthwith or at a stated
time and place and cause said direction to be communicated orally or in writing
to, or served upon, such absent member or members. Successive directions may be
ordered, communicated or served.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-6)
§ 30.07 ORDINANCES OF THE CITY.
   All ordinances of the city shall be presented and voted upon in the manner
and style and shall be subject to the terms and conditions of Idaho Code 50-901
et seq.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-7)
CHAPTER 31: OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Appointment and removal of officers
   
31.02   Bonds of officers
   
31.03   Salaries of appointive officers
   
31.04   Code of ethics
Specific Officers and Employees
   
31.15   Clerk
   
31.16   Treasurer/Finance Director
   
31.17   Attorney
   
31.18   Public Works Superintendent
   
31.19   Engineer/Surveyor
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 APPOINTMENT AND REMOVAL OF OFFICERS.
   (A)   Appointment. The Mayor shall, with the consent of the City Council,
appoint a Clerk, Treasurer/Finance Director, Attorney, Chief of Police, Public
Works Superintendent, Engineer/Surveyor and other officers as may be deemed
advisable for the efficient operation of the city.
   (B)   Removal. Any appointive officer may be removed by the Mayor for any
cause by him or her deemed sufficient, but such removal shall be by and with
the affirmative vote of one-half plus one of the members of the full Council;
provided that the City Council, by the unanimous vote of all its members, may,
upon its own initiative, remove any appointive officer.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-1)
§ 31.02 BONDS OF OFFICERS.
   The following officers shall give bonds to the city with two or more
sufficient sureties in the penal sums as follows; provided, that surety bonds
may be furnished at the expense of the city in lieu of personal bonds:
   (A)   Clerk: $200,000; and
   (B)   Treasurer/Finance Director: $200,000.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-3)
§ 31.03 SALARIES OF APPOINTIVE OFFICERS.
   Salaries of appointive officers shall be as set from time to time by the
City Council.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-4)
§ 31.04 CODE OF ETHICS.
   (A)   Declaration of policy.
      (1)   The public judges its government by the way public officials and
employees conduct themselves in the posts to which they are elected or
appointed.
      (2)   The people have a right to expect that every public official and
employee will conduct himself or herself in a manner that will tend to preserve
public confidence in and respect for the government he or she represents. Such
confidence and respect can best be promoted if every public official and
employee, whether paid or unpaid, and whether elected or appointed, will
uniformly:
         (a)   Treat all citizens with courtesy, impartiality, fairness and
equality under the law; and
         (b)   Avoid both actual and potential conflicts between their private
self-interest and the public interest.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      FINANCIAL INTEREST. Any interest which shall yield, directly or
indirectly, a monetary or other material benefit (other than the duly
authorized salary or compensation for his or her services to the city) to the
official or employee or to any person employing or retaining services of the
official or employee.
      OFFICIAL or EMPLOYEE. Any person elected or appointed to, employed or
retained by, any public office or public body of the city whether paid or
unpaid and whether part-time or full-time.
      PERSON. Any person, firm, association, group, partnership or corporation,
or any combination thereof.
      PERSONAL INTEREST. Any interest arising from blood or marriage
relationships or from close business or political association whether or not
any financial interest is involved.
      PUBLIC BODY. Any agency, board, body, commission, committee, department
or office of the city.
   (C)   Fair and equal treatment.
      (1)   Impartiality. No official or employee shall grant or make available
to any person any consideration, treatment, advantage or favor beyond that
which is the general practice to grant or make available to the public at
large.
      (2)   Use of public property. No official or employee shall request, use
or permit the use of any publicly-owned or publicly-supported property,
vehicle, equipment, labor or service for the personal convenience or the
private advantage of himself or herself or any other person. This rule shall
not be deemed to prohibit an official or employee from requesting, using or
permitting the use of publicly-owned or publicly-supported property, vehicle,
equipment, material, labor or service which it is the general practice to make
available to the public at large or which are provided as a matter of stated
public policy for the use of public officials and employees in the conduct of
official business.
   (D)   Conflict of interest.
      (1)   Public disclosure of financial or personal interest.
         (a)   No official or employee, either on his or her own behalf or any
other person, shall have any financial or public interest in any business or
transaction with any public body unless he or she shall first make full public
disclosures of the nature and extent of such interest.
         (b)   Whenever the performance of official duties shall require any
official or employee to deliberate and vote on any matter involving his or her
financial or personal interest, he or she shall publicly disclose the nature
and extent of such interest and disqualify himself or herself from
participating in the deliberation as well as in the voting.
         (c)   No official or employee shall engage in private employment with,
or render services for, any private person who has business transactions with
any public body unless he or she shall first make full public disclosure of the
nature and extent of such employment or services.
      (2)   Representation of private persons. No official or employee shall
appear on behalf of any private person, other than himself or herself, before
any public body in the city.
      (3)   Receiving gifts. No official or employee shall accept any gift,
whether in the form of money, thing, favor, loan or promise, that would not be
offered or given to him or her if he or she were not an official or employee.
      (4)   Disclosing confidential information. No official or employee shall,
without prior formal authorization of the public body having jurisdiction,
disclose any confidential information concerning any other official or
employee, or any other person, or any property or governmental affairs of the
city.
      (5)   Nepotism. No elected official shall appoint or vote for appointment
any person related to him or her by blood or marriage to any clerkship, office,
position, employment or duty when the salary, wages, pay or compensation is to
be paid out of public funds as provided in Idaho Code 18-1359e.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-5)
SPECIFIC OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
§ 31.15 CLERK.
   (A)   Appointment. The Clerk shall be appointed by the Mayor subject to the
approval of the Council. The Clerk may be removed by the Mayor for any cause by
him or her deemed sufficient; but such removal shall be by and with the
affirmative vote of one-half plus one of the members of the full Council;
provided, that the City Council, by the unanimous vote of all its members, may
upon its own initiative remove any appointive officer.
(Prior Code, § 1-7A-1)
   (B)   Duties and responsibilities.
      (1)   Duties. The Clerk performs administrative and management work in
serving as Clerk to the City Council; directs records management and city code
maintenance; directs business, animal licensing and code enforcement; directs
the billing and collections for city sewer and water utilities; directs the
conduct of municipal elections for the city; conducts city business; and other
related work as required.
      (2)   City Council and municipal elections. The Clerk directs and
approves the compilation and distribution of weekly City pre-Council and
Council agendas, minutes and public hearing schedules; attends City Council
meetings to record minutes, maintains all exhibits for the public record and
provides other assistance for the Mayor and Council as needed; maintains a
legislative history file of Council actions; maintains the city’s internet page
which allows public access to Council minutes, agendas and other city
information and records; serves as official for signing contracts and
agreements, notices and the distribution and record keeping for Urban Renewal
Plan changes, LIDs, and the like, ensures proper legal notice and publication;
budgets, monies for election expenses during election years; accepts and
certifies candidate petitions; hires precinct workers; arranges polling places;
and announces official election returns; administers oaths of office.
      (3)   Licensing and records management. The Clerk serves as Licensing
Officer to manage the procession of all city business regulatory licenses;
develops policies and procedures for issuing business and occupational
licenses; oversees the enforcement of licensing code requirements and analyzes
fee schedules and community licensing trends; participates on community
committees to address licensing issues; manages the city’s records archival
center; supervises the city’s document information system and the conversion of
city records to electronic format, accessibility, storage and preservation;
develops policies and procedures for automated city-wide records management;
and directs maintenance of the city code book.
      (4)   Office management.
         (a)   Develops and manages the Clerk’s office budget;
         (b)   Supervises clerical staff;
         (c)   Develops office policies and procedures;
         (d)   Coordinates operating procedures with other departments;
         (e)   Provides information to the public and media through interviews
or in written format;
         (f)   Manages and coordinates the collection of water and sewer
payments;
         (g)   Communicates with the Public Works Department in resolving
service and payment issues;
         (h)   Manages and coordinates the sale of cemetery plots, burial and
the like with the cemetery sexton; and
         (i)   Manages and coordinates the work activity of the Utility Clerk.
      (5)   Custodian of official seal. The Clerk shall be the custodian of the
Official Seal of the city.
(Prior Code, § 1-7A-2)
   (C)   Claims against the city.
      (1)   Filing; approval. All claims against the city must be filed in
writing with the Clerk. Claims must present a full account of the items and
damages.
      (2)   Claims for damages. All claims for damages against the city must be
filed with the Clerk within 180 days after such time as the damage is alleged
to have occurred. All such claims shall specify the time, place, character and
cause of damage. The Clerk shall oversee submission of documents to the city’s
risk management program.
      (3)   Payment of claims. Final decision of payment or denial of claims
will be made by the city’s risk management program.
(Prior Code, § 1-7A-3)
(Ord. 10-767, passed 10-20-2010; Ord. 15-804, passed 9-16-2015)
§ 31.16 TREASURER/FINANCE DIRECTOR.
   (A)   Appointment; term of office. The Treasurer/Finance Director shall be
appointed by the Mayor subject to the approval of the City Council. The
Treasurer/Finance Director may be removed by the Mayor for any cause by him or
her deemed sufficient; but such removal shall be by and with the affirmative
vote of one-half plus one of the members of the full Council; provided, that
the City Council, by the unanimous vote of all its members, may upon its own
initiative remove any appointive officer.
(Prior Code, § 1-7B-1)
   (B)   Duties.
      (1)   Generally. The Treasurer/Finance Director shall oversee the city’s
financial management programs, prepare and manage enterprise, capital and
operating budgets, implement fiscal policies and administer fiscal controls and
develop and oversee the city’s internal finance policy. The Treasurer/Finance
Director shall coordinate end-of-year auditing activities with designated
auditors and execute other fiscal duties. The Treasurer/Finance Director will
adhere to all city and state policies, regulations and ordinances that affect
the city’s fiscal operations; exercising supervision over permanent and
temporary staff as assigned and provide fiscal assistance to other department
directors as required.
      (2)   Accounts and Funds. The Treasurer/Finance Director shall:
         (a)   Accurate accounting. Administer all aspects of the city budget
in accordance with applicable governmental accounting standards to include fund
accounting, revenue administration and asset inventories; be responsible for
development and maintenance of all fiscal records; administer and manage all
aspects of the city’s fiscal software program; and schedule, coordinate and
implement municipal year-end fiscal closing activities and ensure compliance
with required auditing principles and regulations;
         (b)   Receive and disburse funds. Coordinate receipt or payment of
funds with state, county and federal agencies, and all other organizations with
which the city does business; manage all municipal debt accounts to include
taxes, leases, bonds, warrants, coupons and loans; be responsible for
investment of funds, debt management, grants administration, city-owned utility
billing operations, business licensing and purchasing; and manage all accounts
payable and receivable and disburse monies upon approval by the City Council;
and
         (c)   Demand and receive funds. Manage daily and monthly city finances
that include the actions of posting, balancing, reconciliation and depositing
and administer all aspects of the city’s utility fiscal operations; demand and
receive all monies and fees owing to the city whenever any person is indebted
to the city in any manner, and the means of collection of such debt is not
otherwise provided for by law; and when any claim shall not be collectible by
other methods, the Treasurer/Finance Director shall report the same to the
Attorney for prosecution.
      (3)   Monthly report. The Treasurer/Finance Director shall make a
detailed report to the City Council during the first meeting of each month
showing the business of his or her office during the last month closed, showing
the balance on hand to the credit of different funds, the amounts received
during the month and on what account, together with such information as may be
required by the City Council.
      (4)   Employee payroll and benefits. The Treasurer/Finance Director shall
prepare and oversee employee payroll operations, manage employee benefits,
classifications, sick leave and vacation accrual, insurance, personal
information, exemptions and deductions. Management of all employee fiscal
inquiries and oversight of the city’s risk management program.
      (5)   Deliver records to successor. The Treasurer/Finance Director shall
deliver to his or her successor in office all material, records and resources
of the office.
(Prior Code, § 1-7B-2)
(Ord. 15-804, passed 9-16-2015)
§ 31.17 ATTORNEY.
   (A)   Appointment; term of office. The Attorney shall be appointed by the
Mayor subject to the approval of the Council. The Attorney may be removed by
the Mayor for any cause by him or her deemed sufficient; but such removal shall
be by and with the affirmative vote of one-half plus one of the members of the
full Council; provided, that the City Council, by the unanimous vote of all its
members, may upon its own initiative remove any appointive officer.
(Prior Code, § 1-7C-1)
   (B)   Duties.
      (1)   Legal advisor. The Attorney shall be the legal advisor of the city
and shall render advice on all legal questions affecting the city whenever
requested to do so by any city official. Upon request by the Mayor or by the
Council, the Attorney shall reduce any such opinion to writing.
      (2)   Special assessments and condemnation proceedings. It shall be the
duty of the Attorney to see to the completion of all special assessment
proceedings and condemnation proceedings.
      (3)   Ordinance and document preparation. It shall be the duty of the
Attorney to draft or supervise the phraseology of any contract, lease or other
documents or instruments to which the city may be a party and, upon request of
the City Council, to draft ordinances covering any subjects within the power of
the city.
(Prior Code, § 1-7C-2)
(Ord. 15-804, passed 9-16-2015)
§ 31.18 PUBLIC WORKS SUPERINTENDENT.
   (A)   Appointment. The Mayor may appoint, with approval of the City Council,
a Public Works Superintendent. The Public Works Superintendent may be removed
by the Mayor for any cause by him or her deemed sufficient; but such removal
shall be by and with the affirmative vote of one-half plus one of the members
of the full Council; provided, that the City Council, by the unanimous vote of
all its members, may upon its own initiative remove any appointive officer.
(Prior Code, § 1-7D-1)
   (B)   Duties. The Public Works Superintendent will be responsible for
coordinating and overseeing the administrative and executive activities of the
Public Works Department:
      (1)   Streets and alleys. Supervise the grading, surfacing, repairs and
maintenance of all streets and alleys;
      (2)   Sewer. Supervise the installation and maintenance of all sewer
lines in the city except the installation of sewer projects which are
accomplished by contract;
      (3)   Water. Supervise the installation and maintenance of all water
mains and water services, except the installation of water mains so
accomplished by contract;
      (4)   Equipment. Have charge of and supervise the repair and upkeep of
all city-owned equipment;
      (5)   Employment and supervision. Employ, with the consent of the City
Council, such help as is needed to carry on the work of the city, including
contractor and volunteer recruitment, such help to be directly under his or her
supervision. Supervision over permanent and temporary staff as assigned;
      (6)   Budget. Oversight and management of the Public Works budget, grant
accounting and management, department materials and professional services
procurement and expenditures;
      (7)   Other duties. Management and maintenance of traffic signage, city
parks, city-owned lands, the city cemetery and the storm water collection
system. Project and program development and oversight; adherence to all
federal, city and state policies, regulations and ordinances. Development of
key partnership agreements for on-going public works programs, projects and
events. Completing planned and assigned projects; developing and implementing a
department strategic plan that addresses long-term community public works needs
and goals. Conducting public works communication initiatives that include
writing press releases, interacting with the public and the media, website
maintenance, conducting public meetings and responding to resident, visitor,
agency and partner comments and concerns. Coordinating projects with partners
and volunteers, facilitating committee meetings, workshops and public meetings
as required. Be responsible for the accomplishment of such other work of the
city which the City Council may from time to time assign to him or her; and
      (8)   Reports. Make such reports as are requested by the Mayor or the
City Council.
(Prior Code, § 1-7D-2)
§ 31.19 ENGINEER/SURVEYOR.
   (A)   Appointment; term of office. The Mayor may appoint, with the approval
of the Council, an engineer/surveyor who shall hold office for the duration of
such appointment or until such time as removed by the Mayor with the
concurrence of the Council.
(Prior Code, § 1-7E-1)
   (B)   Qualifications. Any person appointed as Engineer/Surveyor shall be a
competent engineer and surveyor and shall be duly licensed as such by the
state.
(Prior Code, § 1-7E-2)
CHAPTER 32: ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Planning and Zoning Commission
   
32.01   Definitions
   
32.02   Creation of Commission
   
32.03   Appointing Commission
   
32.04   Rules; organization and meetings
   
32.05   Duties
Fair Housing Commission
   
32.20   Title and purpose
   
32.21   Definitions
   
32.22   Unfair housing practices forbidden
   
32.23   Exclusions
   
32.24   Fair Housing Commission
   
32.25   Remedies for persons accused of unfair housing practices
   
32.26   Judicial review
Police Department
   
32.40   Department created; qualifications; appointments
   
32.41   Chief of police
   
32.42   Supervision of police officers
   
32.43   Powers and duties of Department members
   
32.44   Jurisdiction
   
32.45   Police training aid
 
   
32.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Personnel Committee, see §
33.04
   Tree Department, see §
154.03
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
§ 32.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPOINTIVE MEMBERS. All members of the Commission.
   COMMISSION. The Planning and Zoning Commission created by this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1) (Ord. 79-433, passed 10-1-1979)
§ 32.02 CREATION OF COMMISSION.
   The Commission shall consist of at least three and not more than nine
members. They shall be appointed by the Mayor and confirmed by a majority vote
of the City Council. All members must have been residents of the county in
which they are residing for at least two years prior to their appointment and
must reside within the city while serving on the Commission; provided, however,
that at least one and no more than three of the Commission shall reside outside
the city limits, provided they reside within the city impact area, but at no
time shall a majority of members live outside the city. The terms of office for
the appointive members shall be for three years, except those members initially
appointed who shall serve terms, as set by lottery, of one, two and three
years, in order to provide for annual appointment of at least one member. All
vacancies shall be filled in the same manner as original appointments. Members
may be removed for cause after public hearing by a majority vote of the City
Council. However, members who are absent from one-half or more of regularly
scheduled meetings within any calendar year may be removed by majority vote of
the Council.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-2) (Ord. 88-519, passed 2-16-1988; Ord. 92-561, passed 12-
16-1992)
§ 32.03 APPOINTING COMMISSION.
   The existing Planning Commission is hereby declared to be the City Planning
and Zoning Commission, and the existing members of the Planning Commission are
hereby appointed members of the City Planning and Zoning Commission. The terms
of the existing members shall continue as the terms of the City Planning and
Zoning Commission. New members when needed, may be appointed as stated herein
for the unexpired terms of the resigning or retiring members.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-3) (Ord. 79-433, passed 10-1-1979)
§ 32.04 RULES; ORGANIZATION AND MEETINGS.
   The Commission shall elect its own Chairperson and create and fill such
offices as it may determine necessary for the proper conduct of the affairs and
business of the Commission. Meetings of the Commission shall be held when duly
called by the Chairperson by written or oral notice. At least one regular
meeting shall be held each month for not less than nine months in a year. A
majority of voting members of the Commission shall constitute a quorum. All
meetings shall be open to the public. Written rules consistent with this
subchapter and the laws of the state for the transaction of business of the
Commission shall be adopted. Written records of meetings, hearings,
resolutions, findings, studies, permits and actions shall be maintained and
open to the public.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-4) (Ord. 79-433, passed 10-1-1979)
§ 32.05 DUTIES.
   It shall be the duty of the City Planning and Zoning Commission to conduct a
comprehensive planning process designed to prepare, implement, review and
update a comprehensive plan for the city and area of city impact as required by
Idaho Code 67-6508. The Commission shall exercise all powers granted to it by
the Local Planning Act, being Idaho Code 67-6501 et seq., and fulfill all
duties required by this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-5) (Ord. 92-561, passed 12-16-1992)
FAIR HOUSING COMMISSION
§ 32.20 TITLE AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   This shall be known as the “Salmon Fair Housing Ordinance” and will
hereinafter be referred to as “this subchapter”.
   (B)   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish fair housing practices
by ordinance in the city and to avoid discrimination and segregation in housing
on the basis of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, age, disability,
marital status and/or sexual orientation or affectional preference.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-1) (Ord. 74-426, passed 8-21-1974)
§ 32.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMISSION. The Fair Housing Commission established by this chapter.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure or portion thereof which is occupied as,
or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or more families,
and any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the construction or
location thereon of any such building, structure or portion thereof.
   DWELLING UNIT. A suite of rooms for occupancy by one family containing space
for living, sleeping and preparation of food, and containing toilet and bathing
facilities.
   HOUSING ACCOMMODATIONS. Shall include any dwelling house, building,
apartment, dwelling unit or other structure, facility, lot or parcel of land in
the city which is used or intended to be used for the accommodation of one or
more human beings, and shall include rooming units in dwellings or boarding
houses.
   LENDER. Banks, insurance companies, savings or building and loan
associations, credit unions, trust companies, mortgage companies or other
persons engaged wholly or partly in the business of lending money for the
financing or acquisition, construction, repair or maintenance of a housing
accommodation.
   MANAGER. A person who operates, manages, controls, has charge of or has the
right of management or control over housing accommodations on behalf of
another, but does not own housing accommodations.
   OWNER. A person who owns a housing accommodation.
   PERSON AGGRIEVED. Any person against whom any alleged unfair housing
practice has been committed.
   PERSONS. One or more individuals, partnerships or other organizations,
corporations, legal representatives, trustees, trustees in bankruptcy and
receivers.
   PROSPECTIVE BORROWER. A person who seeks to borrow money to finance the
acquisition, construction, repair or maintenance of a housing accommodation.
   PROSPECTIVE OCCUPANT. A person who seeks to purchase, lease, rent or
sublease a housing accommodation.
   REAL ESTATE AGENT, SALESPERSON or EMPLOYEE. Any person employed by a real
estate broker to perform or assist in the performance of any or all of the
functions of a real estate broker.
   REAL ESTATE BROKER. Any person who, for a fee, commission or other valuable
consideration, lists for sale, sells, purchases, exchanges, leases or subleases
or negotiates or offers or attempts to negotiate the sale, purchase, exchange,
lease, rent or sublease of a housing accommodation of another, or hold himself
or herself out as engaged in the business of selling, purchasing, exchanging,
listing, leasing, renting or subleasing of a housing accommodation of another,
or collects the rental for the use of a housing accommodation of another.
   RESPONDENT. Any person who is alleged to have committed an unfair housing
practice.
   ROOM or ROOMING UNITS. Includes individual sleeping rooms with or without
private bath in a home, boarding house or rooming house. A room in which two or
more persons sleep constitutes a single ROOM or ROOMING UNIT.
   SEX. Refers to gender, male or female.
   UNFAIR HOUSING PRACTICE. Any act prohibited by this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-2) (Ord. 74-426, passed 8-21-1974)
§ 32.22 UNFAIR HOUSING PRACTICES FORBIDDEN.
   (A)   An owner or manager shall not, because of race, color, religion,
national origin, sex, age, disability, marital status and/or sexual orientation
or affectional preference of an occupant, purchaser, prospective occupant or
prospective purchaser:
      (1)   Refuse to sell, lease, rent or sublease a housing accommodation to
a prospective occupant;
      (2)   Expel or evict an occupant from a housing accommodation; or
      (3)   Discriminate against an occupant or prospective occupant in the
price, terms, conditions or privileges of sale, lease, rent or sublease, or
occupancy of a housing accommodation, or in the furnishing of any related
facilities or service.
   (B)   A real estate broker, agent, salesman or employee shall not, because
of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, age, disability, marital status
and/or sexual orientation or affectional preference of an occupant, purchaser,
prospective occupant or prospective purchaser:
      (1)   Refuse or intentionally fail to list a housing accommodation for
sale, lease, rent or sublease;
      (2)   Refuse or intentionally fail to show to a prospective occupant the
housing accommodation listed for sale, lease, rent or sublease; or
      (3)   Refuse or intentionally fail to transmit to an owner any reasonable
offer to purchase, lease, rent or sublease a housing accommodation.
   (C)   A lender shall not, because of race, color, religion, national origin,
sex, age, disability, marital status and/or sexual orientation or affectional
preference of a borrower or prospective borrower:
      (1)   Deny a prospective borrower a loan for the acquisition,
construction, repair or maintenance of a housing accommodation; or
      (2)   Discriminate against a borrower or prospective borrower in the
terms, conditions or privileges of such a loan.
   (D)   An owner, manager, real estate broker, agent, salesperson, employee or
lender shall not:
      (1)   Require any information, make or keep any record, or use any form
of application containing questions or entries concerning race, color,
religion, national origin, sex, age, disability, marital status and/or sexual
orientation or affectional preference in connection with the sale, lease, rent
or sublease of any housing accommodation;
      (2)   Post, publish, circulate or cause to be posted, published or
circulated any notice, statement or advertisement which relates to the sale,
lease, rent or sublease, acquisition or financing of any housing accommodation
which indicates directly or indirectly a preference, limitation, specification
or discrimination, based on race, color, religion, national origin, sex, age,
disability, marital status and/or sexual orientation or affectional preference;
      (3)   Discriminate against a person in any manner because such person has
complied or proposes to comply with the provisions of this chapter or has filed
a complaint, testified or assisted in any proceeding under this subchapter;
      (4)   Induce or attempt to induce for profit, any person to sell or rent
any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or prospective entry into
the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color, religion,
national origin, sex, age, disability, marital status and/or sexual orientation
or affectional preference; or
      (5)   Represent to any person because of race, color, religion, national
origin, sex, age, disability, marital status and/or sexual orientation or
affectional preference that any dwelling is not available for inspections, sale
or rental when such dwelling is in fact so available.
(Prior Code § 2-3-3) (Ord. 74-426, passed 8-21-1974)
§ 32.23 EXCLUSIONS.
   (A)   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to include, or to apply
to any bona fide club, fraternal or religious organization but where public use
for the purpose of profit is carried on by a bona fide club, fraternal or
religious organization such use is banned by this subchapter.
   (B)   Nothing in this subchapter shall be interpreted to prohibit any person
from making a choice from among prospective purchasers and tenants of property
on the basis of factors other than race, color, religion, national origin, sex,
age, disability, marital status and/or sexual orientation or affectional
preference.
   (C)   Nothing in this subchapter shall prohibit the use of lawyers, escrow
agents, title companies and such other professional assistance as may be
necessary to perfect or transfer the title to property.
   (D)   Nothing in this subchapter shall limit an owner’s right to expel or
evict an occupant or tenant from a housing accommodation for any reason
permitted by law, or lawfully agreed upon by contract; provided, that such
action is not based on race, color, religion, national origin, sex, age,
disability, marital status and/or sexual orientation or affectional preference
of the occupant.
(Prior Code § 2-3-4) (Ord. 74-426, passed 8-21-1974)
§ 32.24 FAIR HOUSING COMMISSION.
   (A)   Creation, membership, term. There is hereby created the Fair Housing
Commission. This Commission shall consist of seven members, each to be
appointed by the Mayor and confirmed by the Council, to serve without
compensation for a term of three years, subject to removal by the Mayor with
the approval of the Council. Not more than one member of the Commission shall
be an officer or employee of the city. If a vacancy occurs on the Commission,
it shall be filled by the Mayor before the next regular meeting of the Fair
Housing Commission.
   (B)   Original terms. The original appointees to said Commission shall serve
staggered terms with the terms of three expiring January 1, 1982, the term of
two expiring January 1, 1981, and two terms expiring January 1, 1980. The term
of the Commissioners shall expire January 1. No member of the Commission may
serve more than two successive terms.
   (C)   Chairperson. The Mayor shall appoint one member of the Commission to
serve as the Chairperson for the period of one year. No person may serve as the
Chairperson for more than two successive years. After January 1, 1981, no
person may be appointed Chairperson until such person has served a year or more
on the Commission.
   (D)   Counsel. The Attorney shall serve as counsel for the Fair Housing
Commission and the Commission shall be empowered with permission of the City
Council to employ legal and clerical personnel and pay for the transcripts of
testimony in connection with hearings conducted by the Commission.
   (E)   Powers and duties. The Fair Housing Commission shall have the
following powers and duties.
      (1)   Rules and regulations. The Commission shall adopt the rules and
regulations for its own procedures not inconsistent with the provisions of this
subchapter or any other ordinance of the city. These rules shall provide for
notification of Commission members by the Chairperson in advance of meetings.
      (2)   Meetings, quorum. Meetings of the Commission shall be held at least
once every four months, at the call of the Chairperson and at such other times
as the Commission may determine. A quorum of four or more members shall be
necessary before the Commission may transact business.
      (3)   Complaints. Any person aggrieved by an unfair housing practice may
file with the Commission a statement of complaint upon form prescribed by the
Commission and sworn to under oath by the person aggrieved. Such statement of
complaint shall state the name of the person who is alleged to have committed
the unfair housing practice, the address of the housing accommodation
concerning which the alleged unfair housing practices have been committed and a
brief statement of the facts giving right to the statement of complaint.
      (4)   Investigation and review. The Commission shall investigate and
review, as soon as possible, each statement of complaint to determine whether
there are reasonable grounds for believing that an unfair practice has been
committed.
      (5)   Issuance of complaint by Commission. If 51% or more of the
Commission members present at a Commission meeting having a quorum determines
that such reasonable grounds exist, it shall issue its complaint against the
person who is alleged to have committed the unfair housing practice. Such
complaint need not be limited to matters contained in the aggrieved person’s
statement of complaint, but such complaint issued by the Commission shall be
limited to matters which are pertinent to offenses under this subchapter. Such
complaint shall state the name of the respondent, his or her address, the name
of the person aggrieved, the address of the housing accommodation concerning
which the alleged unfair housing practice has been committed, a statement that
the Commission has reasonable grounds to believe that the respondent has
committed an unfair housing practice and a brief statement of the facts upon
which the Commission bases such belief.
      (6)   Service of complaint(s). The Commission shall cause a copy of the
complaint or complaints to be served upon the respondent by certified or
registered mail, or by personal service, stating the time and place of hearing
on a complaint or complaints.
      (7)   Attempt to eliminate unfair practice.
         (a)   The Commission shall attempt, by means of education, conference,
conciliation, mediation, negotiation and persuasion, to eliminate any unfair
housing practice which is the subject of a statement of complaint filed with
the Commission.
         (b)   The Commission is specifically authorized and encouraged to
engage in informal discussions with the respondent, or the respondent’s
representative, for the purposes of reaching an agreement to the effect that
any violation of this act will not be continued or repeated. Upon arriving at
such an agreement satisfactory to the Commission, further proceedings shall be
terminated as long as the termination agreement is not violated. The terms of
conciliation agreed to by the parties may be reduced to writing and
incorporated into a conciliation agreement to be signed by the parties, which
agreement is for conciliation purposes only and does not constitute an
admission by any party that the law has been violated. The Chairperson of the
Commission shall sign such agreement on behalf of the Commission. It shall be
an unfair housing practice to violate or fail to adhere to any provision
contained in a conciliation agreement.
      (8)   Hearings. The Commission may hold hearings, call witnesses,
administer oaths, take testimony, and request the production of examination of
any books, papers, documents or records relating to any proceeding before the
Commission. However, these powers will not be invoked in informal discussions
as described in division (E)(7) above. Nothing in this subchapter shall be
construed to permit searches without permission of the owner of a house,
apartment or other housing accommodation for the administration of this
division.
      (9)   Probative evidence. The Commission, at any hearing, shall admit and
give probative evidence which would commonly be accepted by a reasonably
prudent person in the conduct of his or her affairs as having probative value.
      (10)   Record of evidence. The Commission shall make a record of evidence
admitted at the hearing, including a verbatim transcript if requested by the
person aggrieved, the respondent or Commission; provided, that the Commission
may require that the cost of any such transcript or of the reproduction thereof
shall be borne by the party requesting such transcript or reproduction.
      (11)   Findings. The Commission shall, as soon as possible, make findings
and determine whether or not an unfair housing practice has been committed.
      (12)   Order directed to respondent. If 51% or more of the Commission
members present at a Commission meeting having a quorum find that an unfair
housing practice has been committed, it shall issue an order directed to the
respondent setting forth the findings of the Commission and directing the
respondent to cease the practices set forth in the order. Failure to comply
with said order shall constitute a violation of this subchapter punishable
under §
32.99 of this chapter.
      (13)   Order dismissing complaint. If the Commission finds that the
respondent has not engaged in an unfair housing practice, the Commission shall
issue an order dismissing the complaint.
      (14)   Service of order. The Commission shall serve its order on the
person aggrieved and the respondent in accordance with the procedure set forth
in division (E)(6) above.
      (15)   Power to summons. The Fair Housing Commission shall have the right
to summon persons making accusations and persons accused of unfair housing
practices and other persons as witnesses. Any peace officer of the city must
serve a summons at the request of the Commission. Any person who willfully
refuses to obey a summons to appear before the Fair Housing Commission shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to penalty as provided in §
32.99 of this chapter.
      (16)   Research and study. The Commission may conduct research on and
study unfair housing practices in order to develop more effective methods for
eliminating unfair housing practices, and may publish or cause to be published
the results of such research and study when in the judgment of the Commission
such publications will aid in the elimination of unfair housing practices.
However, the Fair Housing Commission shall not expend city funds for research
or call in an outside consultant for this research without the approval of the
City Council.
      (17)   Federal and state law. The Commission shall keep abreast of
federal and state law affecting open housing and make recommendations to the
Mayor and City Council of changes in the fair housing ordinances necessary to
keep the ordinances in conformity with federal and state law. The Commission
shall render to the Mayor at least once per year a written report of the
activities of the Commission since the last report of the Commission. The Fair
Housing Commission is authorized to accept federal, state, or other assistance
in formulating or carrying out programs to prevent or eliminate discriminatory
housing practices, and to cooperate with federal, state and local agencies in
carrying out such programs.
   (F)   Time limitation. No statement of complaint may be filed with the
Commission more than six months after the alleged unfair housing practice has
been committed; provided, that in the event of a continuing violation of
alleged unfair housing practice, such period shall not commence until after the
last day upon which the alleged unfair housing practice has been committed.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-5) (Ord. 74-426, passed 8-21-1974)
§ 32.25 REMEDIES FOR PERSONS ACCUSED OF UNFAIR HOUSING PRACTICES.
   It is the intent of this subchapter to protect persons unfairly accused of
discrimination as well as persons who may be discriminated against in the
matter of unfair housing practices. Any person aggrieved by an act prohibited
or alleged to be prohibited by this chapter is given the right to file with the
Commission a statement of complaint. If such person does not file a complaint
and continues to make public his or her complaint in speech, writing or
demonstration, the person or group accused of discrimination in matters
pertaining to this subchapter shall have the right to bring this accusation to
the attention of the Fair Housing Commission. The Fair Housing Commission shall
hear the views of the person or group accused of discrimination and the person
making the accusation, shall investigate the accusation, and shall render an
opinion as soon as possible as to whether the accusation was true or false. The
Fair Housing Commission may request the person making the accusation and the
person or group accused of discrimination to refrain from airing their
controversy to the public during the period of investigation of the complaint
by the Fair Housing Commission. The records of the Fair Housing Commission
shall be open to any court in libel or other proceedings resulting from an
unfair accusation made under this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-6) (Ord. 74-426, passed 8-21-1974)
§ 32.26 JUDICIAL REVIEW.
   (A)   Any person against whom an order is issued or directed by the
Commission shall have a right to seek review of the Commission’s order by trial
de nova, in the county’s Magistrate Court.
   (B)   Where any person or owner refuses to comply with an order issued by
the Commission within ten days following the effective day of the order, then
and in that event the Commission shall submit and file a written report of the
complaint or complaints, and the proceedings had thereon with the City
Prosecutor as a basis for the issuance of a criminal complaint against such
person or owner and the prosecution thereunder in the same manner as violations
of other criminal ordinances are prosecuted. The person aggrieved shall make,
sign, and swear to the complaint before the City Prosecutor.
   (C)   Continuance of an alleged unfair housing practice on any day or days
during the pendency of a hearing before the county’s Magistrate Court during a
subsequent appeal to a higher court shall not constitute an offense for the
purpose of this subchapter.
   (D)   In the event that the Commission finds that a violation of this
subchapter will result from a pending or threatened sale or transfer which
violates this subchapter as contemplated herein, said Commission, by and
through the Attorney, shall have the right to apply to the District Court of
the State to enjoin such pending or threatened transfer or sale. Such action
shall be predicated upon:
      (1)   Finding by the Commission that the person aggrieved will be
irreparably injured unless the court issues such order; and
      (2)   That said person aggrieved has no adequate remedy at law.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-7) (Ord. 74-426, passed 8-21-1974)
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 32.40 DEPARTMENT CREATED; QUALIFICATIONS; APPOINTMENTS.
   There is hereby created a Police Department of the city, and members thereof
shall be citizens of the United States and shall be over the age of 21 years.
The Department shall consist of a Chief of Police, appointed by the Mayor with
the consent of the City Council, and such number of police as may be from time
to time authorized by the Mayor and City Council and appointed with their
consent, and such reserve officers as may from time to time be appointed by the
Chief as exigencies arise.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-1) (Ord. 15-809, passed 10-7-2015)
§ 32.41 CHIEF OF POLICE.
   (A)   Appointment. The Chief of Police shall be appointed by the Mayor
subject to the approval of the Council. The Chief of Police may be removed by
the Mayor for any cause by him or her deemed sufficient; but such removal shall
be by and with the affirmative vote of one-half plus one of the members of the
full Council; provided, that the City Council, by the unanimous vote of all its
members, may upon its own initiative remove any appointive officer.
   (B)   Rank. The Chief of Police shall be the head of the Department and have
supervision over all the officers and members thereof. The Chief of Police may,
with the approval of the Mayor, appoint such reserve officers as may be
required from time to time.
   (C)   Duties.
      (1)   Records and reports. The Chief of Police shall keep such records
and make such reports concerning the activities of the Department as may be
required by statute or by the Mayor. The Chief shall be responsible for the
performance of the Police Department and of its functions and all persons who
are members of the Police Department shall serve subject to the Chief’s orders.
      (2)   Enforcement of code. It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to
see to the enforcement of all provisions of this code and of all applicable
statutes and to preserve order and prevent infractions of the law and arrest
violators thereof. The Chief shall have authority to call upon any citizen or
bystander to assist him or her in the execution of the duties of such office.
The Chief shall serve all processes issued to him or her and enforce all orders
and judgments of the court.
   (D)   Custody of recovered property. The Chief of Police shall have the
custody of all lost, abandoned or stolen property recovered within the city.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-2) (Ord. 15-809, passed 10-7-2015)
§ 32.42 SUPERVISION OF POLICE OFFICERS.
   All members of the Department and reserve officers shall be under the
direction and supervision of the Chief of Police.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-3)
§ 32.43 POWERS AND DUTIES OF DEPARTMENT MEMBERS.
   (A)   Generally. It shall be the duty of all members of the Department to
cause the public peace to be preserved and to see that all laws and ordinances
within the city are enforced.
   (B)   Arrest powers.
      (1)   Whenever the violation of any law or ordinance shall be reported to
them or come to their knowledge, they shall cause the informant, who is a
competent witness, to testify against the accused and to sign the required
complaint; provided, however, that when a violation of any law or ordinance is
committed in their presence, the arrest may be made without a complaint and
such complaint may be made by the arresting officer and filed in the proper
court. It shall be the duty of members of the Department whenever arrests for
the violation of any law or ordinance have been made to see to it that all
possible evidence is procured for prosecution of the offenders.
      (2)   The officers and members of the Police Department shall have power
to arrest all offenders against the laws of the state and ordinances of the
city, by day or by night, in the same manner as any sheriff or constable, and
keep them in the county jail or other place to prevent their escape until trial
can be had before the proper court.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-4)
§ 32.44 JURISDICTION.
   Whenever police shall be in the fresh pursuit of an offender against any law
of the state or ordinance of the city, and the offense has been committed
within the corporate limits of the city, such police or police officer, while
in fresh pursuit, may go beyond the corporate or geographical limits of the
city. The arresting officer may take such offender to and keep such offender in
the county jail or other place to prevent escape until trial can be had before
the proper court, or may personally hand such arrested person a notice in
writing, or partly in writing and partly printed, to appear in the proper court
at a time specified in such notice. In addition to such notice, whenever a
proper judge is not available to fix and accept bail for the appearance of such
offender in a court of competent jurisdiction, such arresting officer may
accept a temporary bail for the appearance of such offender at the time
specified in said notice, and which bail shall be by the arresting officer
delivered to the proper judge.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-5)
§ 32.45 POLICE TRAINING AID.
   The city declares that it desires to qualify to receive aid for police
training from the State Police Officers’ Standards and Training Council
pursuant to Idaho Code 19-5101 et seq., and, while receiving such aid, will
adhere to the standards for recruitment and training established by that
Council.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-6)
§ 32.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of §§
32.22 through
32.26 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, subject to penalty as
provided in §
10.99 of this code. Each day such violation is committed or permitted to
continue shall constitute a separate offense up to a total of three days.
However, each new violation will constitute a separate offense also subject to
penalty as provided in §
10.99 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-7)
CHAPTER 33: PERSONNEL POLICIES
Section
   
33.01   Purpose
   
33.02   Classified service
   
33.03   Administration
   
33.04   Personnel Committee
   
33.05   Adoption of personnel policies and procedures
   
33.06   Agreements authorized
   
33.07   Prohibition against political activity
   
33.08   Unlawful acts prohibited
§ 33.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to establish a system of personnel
administration.
   (B)   The system herein established shall be consistent with the following
principles:
      (1)   Recruiting, selecting and advancing employees on the basis of their
relative ability, knowledge and skills, including open competition of qualified
applicants for initial appointment;
      (2)   Establishing pay rates consistent with the principles of providing
equal or comparable pay for equal or comparable work;
      (3)   Training employees, as needed, to assure high quality performance;
      (4)   Retaining employees on the basis of the adequacy of their
performance, correcting inadequate performance and separating employees whose
inadequate performance cannot be corrected; and
      (5)   Assuring fair treatment of applicants and employees in all aspects
of personnel administration without regard to political affiliation, race,
color, creed, national origin or ancestry, age, sex, religion, handicap, sexual
orientation or affectional preference, or marital status.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-1) (Ord. 91-543, passed 12-18-1991)
§ 33.02 CLASSIFIED SERVICE.
   (A)   Exceptions.
      (1)   The classified service shall be a permanent service to which this
law shall apply and shall include all employees serving in continuing
positions, now existing or hereafter established, except the following:
         (a)   Members of elective offices;
         (b)   Members of appointed boards or commissions, Public Works
Superintendent, Clerk, Police Chief, Finance Director and Attorney;
         (c)   Persons employed to conduct a temporary or special inquiry,
investigation or examination on behalf of the City Council or a committee
thereof;
         (d)   Volunteer personnel who receive regular compensation;
         (e)   Persons employed to work less than full time;
         (f)   Temporary positions scheduled for less than one year’s duration
unless specifically covered by the action of the City Council; and
         (g)   Persons performing work under contract for the jurisdiction who
are not carried on the payroll as employees.
      (2)   These exceptions are not to imply that these positions noted in
divisions (A)(1)(a) through (A)(1)(g) above will not adhere to the policies and
procedures set forth in the adopted policies and procedures of the city.
   (B)   Use of service. Nothing herein shall be construed as precluding the
city from filling any accepted position in the manner in which positions in the
classified service are filled.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-2) (Ord. 91-543, passed 12-18-1991)
§ 33.03 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Designation of position for duties of personnel officer. At the first
regular Council meeting after the beginning of a new fiscal year, the City
Council shall designate the position to which the duties of Personnel Officer
are to be assigned. The incumbent in the position so designated may have other
staff members designated to assist him or her or may designate any member of
his or her staff to assist.
   (B)   Personnel officer duties and responsibilities. The Personnel Officer
is responsible for the personnel administration system and shall direct all of
its administrative and technical activities. His or her duties shall include,
but not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   Encourage and exercise leadership in the development of effective
personnel administration practices within the jurisdiction;
      (2)   Investigate from time to time the operation and effect of this law
and the policies made thereunder and to report the findings and recommendations
to the City Council;
      (3)   Establish and maintain comprehensive personnel records for each
employee; including for each employee the classification, pay rate, date of
employment and other relevant data;
      (4)   Advise the City Council on matters affecting the most effective use
of human resources;
      (5)   Make an annual report to the City Council regarding the status of
their personnel administration program. Such report shall be submitted at least
two months prior to beginning of each fiscal year;
      (6)   Foster and develop programs for the improvement of employee
effectiveness, including training, safety, health, welfare, supportive services
and other appropriate areas; and
      (7)   Apply and enforce this law and the policies thereunder and to
perform any other lawful acts which may be necessary to carry out the purposes
of the provisions of this law.
   (C)   Personnel Committee. The Personnel Committee shall with the assistance
of the department heads draft, or cause to be drafted the personnel policies
and procedures for the city. Such rules shall become effective upon passage of
an appropriate ordinance.
   (D)   Meetings. The City Council shall hold two meetings during the fiscal
year with all city employees, one meeting in October, the other in March. The
meeting will be to discuss the policies and procedures of the city noting any
changes or problems therein.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-3) (Ord. 91-543, passed 12-18-1991)
§ 33.04 PERSONNEL COMMITTEE.
   The City Council may appoint a Personnel Committee made up of Council
members, the Clerk, and the Personnel Officer (unless the Clerk is appointed to
handle the duties of Personnel Officer) to serve in an advisory capacity in
personnel problems; to conduct grievance hearings for classified employees upon
their request and to render final decisions to the City Council; and to hear
appeals in the case of any employee in the classified service being suspended,
reduced or removed and to report its decisions to the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-4) (Ord. 91-543, passed 12-18-1991)
§ 33.05 ADOPTION OF PERSONNEL POLICIES AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Adoption. The city hereby adopts and will review annually personnel
policies and procedures for the city which sets forth the policies and
procedures for the following: employee examination/selection process;
employment and benefits; employee relations; interpretation; enforcement and
administration; selection and appointments; probationary periods; employee
performance evaluations; application and examinations; separations;
disciplinary actions; training and welfare activities; records and reports;
attendance and leave; overtime; and appeals and grievance procedures.
   (B)   Copies on file. In accordance with Idaho Code 50-901A, this section
contains a summary of the principal provisions of the entire personnel policies
and procedures ordinance and three copies of the full text are available and on
file for the use by the public in the office of the Clerk of the city. A full
text of the ordinance on personnel policies and procedures for the city shall
be provided by the Clerk to any citizen of the city on personal request.
   (C)   Administration of the policies and procedures. The policies and
procedures adopted above will be administered in accordance with the provisions
contained therein and in accordance with this chapter. (Prior Code, § 1-8-5)
(Ord. 91-544, passed 12-18-1991)
§ 33.06 AGREEMENTS AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   Reciprocal agreements. The city is authorized and empowered to enter
into reciprocal agreements upon such terms as may be agreed upon, for the use
of equipment, materials, facilities and services with any public agencies or
bodies for purposes deemed of benefit to the public personnel system.
   (B)   Cooperate with governmental agencies. The Personnel Officer,
coordinating with department heads and acting on behalf of the City Council,
may cooperate with other governmental agencies charged with public personnel
administration responsibilities in conducting or validating personnel tests,
recruiting personnel, training personnel, and for the interchange of personnel
and their benefits.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-6) (Ord. 91-543, passed 12-18-1991)
§ 33.07 PROHIBITION AGAINST POLITICAL ACTIVITY.
   (A)   While in the city’s employment an employee may not:
      (1)   Use his or her official authority or influence for the purpose of
interfering with or affecting the result of an election or a nomination for
office;
      (2)   Directly or indirectly coerce, attempt to coerce, command or advise
a state or local officer or employee to pay, lend or contribute anything of
value to a party, committee or organization, agency or person for political
purposes; or
      (3)   Politic on city time or property.
   (B)   Nothing herein contained shall be construed to restrict the right of
employees in the classified service to hold membership in and support a
political party, to vote as he or she chooses, to express privately his or her
opinions on all political subjects and candidates, to maintain political
neutrality and to attend political meetings after working hours.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-7) (Ord. 91-543, passed 12-18-1991)
§ 33.08 UNLAWFUL ACTS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Falsifying statements or certificates. No person shall falsify
statements, certificates, marks, ratings or reports with regard to any test,
certification or appointment made under any provision of this law or in any
manner commit or attempt to commit any fraud preventing the impartial execution
of this law and policies.
   (B)   Influencing of appointment or promotion.
      (1)   No person shall, directly or indirectly, give, render, pay, offer,
solicit or accept money, service or other valuable consideration for any
appointment, proposed appointment, promotion to or any advantage in, a position
in this jurisdiction’s government service.
      (2)   No employee of the Personnel Department, examiner or other person
shall defeat, deceive or obstruct any person in his or her right to
examination, eligibility, certification or appointment under this law, or
furnish to any person any special or secret information for the purpose of
affecting the rights or prospects of any person with respect to employment by
the city.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-8) (Ord. 91-543, passed 12-18-1991) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 34: ELECTIONS
Section
   
34.01   City elections
   
34.02   Precincts
   
34.03   Polling locations
§ 34.01 CITY ELECTIONS.
   City elections shall be held at the time and in the manner as provided by
Idaho Code 50-401 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-1)
§ 34.02 PRECINCTS.
   (A)   Number One Precinct shall consist of all that portion of the city
lying southerly from the center line of Main Street and easterly from the
center of the Salmon River.
   (B)   Number Two Precinct shall be all that portion of the city lying
northerly from the center line of Main Street and easterly from the center line
of the Salmon River.
   (C)   Number Three Precinct shall be all that portion of the city lying
westerly from the center line of the Salmon River.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-2)
§ 34.03 POLLING LOCATIONS.
   (A)   Precinct 1 polling location shall be at the American Legion Hall at
212 South Andrews Street.
   (B)   Precinct 2 polling location shall be at the Salmon Valley Center at
200 Main Street.
   (C)   Precinct 3 polling location shall be at the Lemhi County Brooklyn
Annex at 200 Fulton Street. (Prior Code, § 1-9-3) (Ord. 09-741, passed 9-2-
2009)
CHAPTER 35: CITY ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES
Section
Initiatives and Referendums
   
35.01   Creation of rights
   
35.02   Number of petitioners required
   
35.03   Requirements
   
35.04   Time for filing referendum petitions
   
35.05   Special election on petition
INITIATIVES AND REFERENDUMS
§ 35.01 CREATION OF RIGHTS.
   The people of the city shall have the right to enact ordinances through the
initiative process, and to repeal ordinances through the referendum process,
according to the procedures set forth herein.
(Prior Code, § 1-10-1) (Ord. 79-430, passed 7-2-1979; Ord. 15-800, passed 4-15-
2015)
§ 35.02 NUMBER OF PETITIONERS REQUIRED.
   To enact an ordinance by initiative or to repeal an ordinance by referendum,
there shall be attached or appended to the petition the signatures of the legal
voters of the city equal to at least 20% of the total number of electors who
cast votes at the last general municipal election in the city.
(Prior Code, § 1-10-2) (Ord. 79-430, passed 7-2-1979; Ord. 15-800, passed 4-15-
2015)
§ 35.03 REQUIREMENTS.
   Requirements for signatures, verification of valid petitions, printing of
petition, and time limits shall be as specified in Idaho Code 34 Ch. 18.
(Prior Code, § 1-10-3)
§ 35.04 TIME FOR FILING REFERENDUM PETITIONS.
   Referendum petitions with the requisite number of signatures shall be filed
with the Clerk not less than 60 days following the final adoption of the
ordinance to be subject to referendum.
(Prior Code, § 1-10-4) (Ord. 79-430, passed 7-2-1979; Ord. 15-800, passed 4-15-
2015)
§ 35.05 SPECIAL ELECTION ON PETITION.
   An election for initiative or referendum shall be provided as prescribed in
Idaho Code 34-106.
(Prior Code, § 1-10-5) (Ord. 15-800, passed 4-15-2015)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   WATER REGULATIONS
      
51.   WATER IRRIGATION
      
52.   CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL
      
53.   SEWER REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 50: WATER REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Connection to water system required
   
50.03   Refusal of use of system
   
50.04   Duties of Public Works Superintendent regarding service lines
   
50.05   Citation; appearance
   
50.06   Failure to appear unlawful
   
50.07   Liability
Water Use and Service
   
50.20   Independent water service line and meter required
   
50.21   Existing branch service lines
   
50.22   Water service line and meter maintenance
   
50.23   Injury to or tampering with water system unlawful
   
50.24   Permits required
   
50.25   Service line extension or repair permit required
   
50.26   Water service lines; installation, maintenance
   
50.27   Water meters; installation, maintenance
   
50.28   Right to revoke permission to connect
   
50.29   Water system construction, plans, specifications and inspection
   
50.30   Right to enter premises for inspection
   
50.31   Extension of water mains within city
Water System Design
   
50.45   Materials and installations
   
50.46   Design
   
50.47   As-built drawings and engineer’s certification
   
50.48   Subdivision developer’s or property owner’s responsibility for water
lines
   
50.49   Floodplain limitations
Water Rates and Charges
   
50.60   Service call charge
   
50.61   Monthly water user fees
   
50.62   Billing procedure and periods
   
50.63   Due date
   
50.64   Delinquent accounts
   
50.65   Water service discontinuance
   
50.66   Water System Improvement Fund
 
   
50.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPROVING AUTHORITY. The Public Works Superintendent of the city or his or
her duly authorized deputy(s), agent(s) or representatives.
   BACKFLOW. The flow other than the intended direction of flow, of any foreign
liquids, gases or substances into the distribution system of the city water
supply.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE. A device to counteract back pressure or prevent
back siphonage.
   CITY. The City of Salmon, Idaho.
   COMMERCIAL BUILDINGS. Any structure built for the support, shelter or
enclosure of persons, animals, chattels or property of any kind or for any type
of business or enterprise or for any other purposes not otherwise described or
covered below under DWELLINGS.
   COMMERCIAL USER. All persons not specifically classified as a domestic or as
an industrial user.
   CONTAMINATION. The entry into or presence in a city water supply of any
substance which may be deleterious to health and/or quality of the water.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any physical arrangement whereby the city water supply is
connected, directly or indirectly, with any other water supply system, sewer,
drain, conduit, pool, storage reservoir, plumbing fixture or other device which
contains or may contain contaminated water, sewage or other wastes or liquids
of unknown or unsafe quality which may be capable of imparting contamination to
the city water supply as a result of backflow.
   DOMESTIC WATER USAGE. Water that is used principally for dwellings, business
buildings, institutions and the like.
   DWELLINGS.
      (1)   AUTO COURT, HOTEL, MOTEL, MOTOR COURT, TRAVEL TRAILER COURT. The
combination or group of two or more dwelling units occupying a building site or
area under one ownership, used for the purpose of furnishing transient living
accommodations.
      (2)   DUPLEX. A building designed, built, rented or leased for occupancy
by two families living independently of each other.
      (3)   MULTIPLE-FAMILY DWELLING or APARTMENT HOUSE. Any building or
portion thereof which is designed, built, rented, leased, let or hired out to
be occupied or which is occupied as the home or residence of three or more
families or persons living independently of each other and doing their own
cooking within the premises, which shall include townhouses or condominiums.
      (4)   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK. A place of business specifically
operating for the use of recreational vehicles that can stay overnight or a
maximum of 30 days in allotted spaces and is open seasonally where water and
sewer services are not available year-round.
      (5)   SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING. A building designed for or occupied by one
family for living or sleeping purposes, and having one kitchen or set of
cooking facilities.
      (6)   TRAILER HOUSE or MOBILE HOME. Any vehicle used or so constructed as
to permit its being used as a conveyance upon the public streets or highways
and constructed in such a manner as will permit occupancy thereof as a dwelling
or sleeping place for one or more persons.
   MG. Million gallons.
   MGD. Million gallons per day.
   PARTS PER MILLION. A weight-to-weight ratio. The PARTS PER MILLION
multiplied by the factor 8.345 shall be equivalent to pounds per million
gallons of water.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation,
group or other entity.
   PRIVATE WATER SYSTEM. A water system serving two or more buildings,
residences or properties, constructed by private contract outside of the public
right-of-way and remaining under private ownership and jurisdiction and which
shall be maintained by the private owners. PRIVATE WATER SYSTEMS shall be
designed, constructed and maintained by the private owners to the same design,
construction and maintenance standards as are public water systems.
   PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM. A water system provided by or subject to the
jurisdiction of the city. It shall also include approved water systems within
the city boundaries that serve one or more persons and obtain their water
supply from the city water system, even though the water system may not have
been constructed with city funds. All public water mains shall be located in
dedicated public rights-of- way or easements. Public water mains shall be at
least six inches in diameter.
   REPLACEMENT. Any expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories or appurtenances which are necessary during the service life of the
water system to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works were
designed and constructed. The term OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE includes
REPLACEMENT.
   SERVICE CHARGE. The charge levied on all users of the water system for the
purpose of repayment of city indebtedness for the construction and installation
of the system and for its efficient maintenance and operation. In establishing
such rates and charges, the city has taken into account the cost and value of
the system, operation and maintenance expenses, possible delinquencies, proper
allowance for depreciation, contingencies and any amounts necessary to retire
all bonds payable from net revenues and the reserve required for these.
   SERVICE CONNECTION. A water line connected to the water main.
   SERVICE LINE. The water line from the city water meter to the structure
using the water. This line is on private property and is the responsibility of
the owner.
   WATER. Potable water meeting the requirements of the state for public water
systems.
   WATER DISTRIBUTION AND SUPPLY SYSTEM. All facilities for transporting,
pumping, storing and pressurizing of water, and includes water main as well as
the supply system.
   WATER MAIN. The pipe laid in a street, road, alley or easement and running
approximately parallel to the street, road, alley or easement for the
distribution of water to the customers and which is owned, operated, controlled
and maintained by the city.
   WATER METER. A device which is calibrated and constructed to measure the
exact amount of water that flows through the device in total gallons. The WATER
METER, when used, shall include the actual meter plus yoke, remote read-out
device and meter box, if required.
   WATER SERVICE LINE. The extension from the city water main hot tap to the
city water meter or shutoff valve by the water meter. It is usually within the
public right-of-way.
   WATER SUPERINTENDENT. The Public Works Superintendent of the city.
   WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM. An assemblage of creeks, rivers, wells, pumps, devices,
structures, equipment and tanks for providing water for domestic, commercial or
industrial uses.
   WATER SYSTEM. A water main line that conveys potable water to a residence,
commercial user, industry or other establishment for consumptive use,
irrigation, process or similar uses.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-1) (Ord. 92-549, passed 3-18-1992)
§ 50.02 CONNECTION TO WATER SYSTEM REQUIRED.
   Every existing premises within the boundaries of the city that is occupied
or occupiable by any person or as a commercial business, shall be connected to
the public water system if they are within 300 feet of an existing city water
main. The owner or person in charge of such land shall make or cause to be made
such connection through the application process before such land is occupied
for a dwelling or commercial building. The property owner shall have the meter
installed at his or her expense. The city shall make the hot tap connection to
its main line and install the water service line to the city water meter for
new construction. The property owner shall pay for all required excavation,
backfill, street repair and all other service line and connection costs per the
fee schedule as set by resolution.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-2) (Ord. 92-549, passed 3-18-1992; Ord. 15-811, passed 11-
19-2015)
§ 50.03 REFUSAL OF USE OF SYSTEM.
   The city may prohibit the connection to the public water system for any user
that does not comply with the limitations set forth in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-3) (Ord. 92-549, passed 3-18-1992; Ord. 15-811, passed 11-
19-2015)
§ 50.04 DUTIES OF PUBLIC WORKS SUPERINTENDENT REGARDING SERVICE LINES.
   The Public Works Superintendent is hereby empowered, and it is hereby made
his or her duty, in all cases where there is a public water supply system
within 300 feet to notify every owner or person in charge of land or premises,
requiring a service connection as specified in §
50.01 of this code, to comply with those provisions, a lessee of land shall be
deemed to be in charge.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-8) (Ord. 92-549, 3-18-1992; Ord. 15-811, passed 11-19-2015)
§ 50.05 CITATION; APPEARANCE.
   Whenever it is determined by any police officer or other duly authorized
officer that any person(s) have violated any provisions of this chapter or
Chapter 52 of this title, the officer shall provide in quadruplicate and serve
upon such person(s) a written citation containing a notice to appear in a
designated court of competent jurisdiction within the city. This citation shall
contain the name and address of the person charged, the offense charged, the
time and place when and where the offense charged occurred and the time when
the person charged shall appear in court, and such other pertinent information
as may be necessary; and such person(s) shall appear in court within five days
after the citation is issued and served. The issuance of a citation shall not
be the exclusive method of summoning offenders hereunder.
(Prior Code, 8-1-29) (Ord. 92-549, passed 3-18-1992) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.06 FAILURE TO APPEAR UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person(s) to fail to or neglect to appear in
response to and as required by the citation regardless of the disposition of
the charge upon which such citation was originally issued. Appearance in court
shall be deemed complied with upon appearance by the person(s) cited or their
attorneys.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-30) (Ord. 92-549, passed 3-18-1992) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.07 LIABILITY.
   This chapter and
Chapter 52 of this title shall not be construed to hold the city responsible
for any damage to any water user by reason of a stoppage or interruption of the
water supply caused by scarcity of water, accidents to works or mains,
alterations, additions, repairs or from other unavoidable causes to persons or
property. The city shall also not be held liable for damage to persons or
property by reason of the inspection or testing herein, or the failure to
inspect or test or by reason of approval of any cross-connections.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-31) (Ord. 92-549, passed 3-18-1992)
WATER USE AND SERVICE
§ 50.20 INDEPENDENT WATER SERVICE LINE AND METER REQUIRED.
   (A)   The water main line and water service line(s) shall be so arranged
that there is a separate and independent water service line and meter to each
individual building, place of business or tract of land.
   (B)   After the effective date of the ordinance codified in this chapter, a
separate and independent water service line and meter shall be provided for
every new building connecting to the water system of the city. Separate service
lines and meters are not required for each trailer space in overnight trailer
courts, nor for each cabin in cabin courts; however, separate water service
lines and meters are required for trailer houses on individual lots or for
long-term trailer rental units in mobile home courts.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-4) (Ord. 92-549, passed 3-18-1992)
§ 50.21 EXISTING BRANCH SERVICE LINES.
   Where water service is now provided through one water service line to
several customers (branch service lines), the city, by resolution, may decline
to continue to provide water for the premises until separate water service
lines are provided at the owner’s expense. Where more than one dwelling is
served from one such service line, the established rate shall be charged for
each customer in the same manner as if each did, in fact, have an individual
water service line.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-5) (Ord. 92-549, passed 3-18-1992)
§ 50.22 WATER SERVICE LINE AND METER MAINTENANCE.
   All water users shall keep their individual water service lines in good
repair and shall keep them in such good condition that they shall not allow any
leakage from the city’s water system. The city shall be responsible for the
maintenance of the water meters.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-6) (Ord. 92-549, passed 3-18-1992)
§ 50.23 INJURY TO OR TAMPERING WITH WATER SYSTEM UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful to disturb, destroy, damage, adjust, molest, meddle or
otherwise interfere with any portion of the city water distribution or supply
system or its appurtenances, located on either public or private property.
Should any damage result, either intentionally or unintentionally, from
handling or otherwise tampering with the water system, the violator shall pay
for all costs incurred in connection with the repairs of the system and/or for
any damages that may result from the tampering with the system and may be
subject to other civil and criminal fines and penalties.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-7) (Ord. 92-549, passed 3-18-1992) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.24 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Installation or alteration of water system or service line. It shall
be unlawful to install or alter any water system or service line within the
city, or to tap onto or connect to any water line whether lateral or main,
without having first obtained from the city an approved utility application.
   (B)   Application for connection. An application for a connection to the
city water system shall be made to the city and no connection shall be made to
any water main without an application having been approved by the Public Works
Superintendent or his or her representative.
   (C)   Connection to public water main line. It shall be unlawful for any
person to excavate, uncover, make any connection with or opening into, use,
alter or disturb any public water main line or appurtenance thereof, without
first obtaining an approved utility application to perform the work from the
city.
   (D)   Excavation permit. No permit shall be granted to do water line work in
any street, alley or public easement until the applicant has first obtained an
excavation permit as required by the city.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-9) (Ord. 92-549, passed 3-18-1992; Ord. 15-811, passed 11-
19-2015) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.25 SERVICE LINE EXTENSION OR REPAIR PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Repair of service line. When any water service line or private water
system connected with any public water main is leaking, broken or out of order,
on private property (outside of any public right-of- way or easements) the
owner, agent or tenant of such premises shall repair the same at his or her own
expense. No person shall construct, re-lay, repair or extend any water service
connection or private water system until the person doing this work has
obtained the appropriate water permit for same.
   (B)   Extension of service. It shall be unlawful for any person to extend
any private service line beyond the limits of the building or property for
which approval has been given without submitting a new utility application for
the desired extension. The existence of a water permit shall in no way be
construed as making permissible any work for which an excavation permit may be
required by the city.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-10) (Ord. 92-549, passed 3-18-1992; Ord. 15-811, passed 11-
19-2015) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.26 WATER SERVICE LINES; INSTALLATION, MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Installation and maintenance by city. When an application is submitted
for a water service line and has been approved, the water tap at the main line
shall be installed by the city from the main water line to the meter. The
service line from the main water line to the meter and all associated
excavation, backfill, street repair and piping shall be completed by the city
at the property owner’s expense. Thereafter, or after the water service line
has been installed, each water service line within the public right-of-way or
easement shall be maintained by the city at its expense and kept within and
under its exclusive control and jurisdiction.
   (B)   Installation by contract. Water service lines may also be installed by
contract in conjunction with city-sponsored projects or when, in the opinion of
the Public Works Superintendent, it is in the city’s best interest to have or
allow the water service lines to be installed by other than city personnel.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-11) (Ord. 92-549, passed 3-18-1992; Ord. 15-811, passed 11-
19-2015)
§ 50.27 WATER METERS; INSTALLATION, MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Cost. The city shall provide for a fee set by resolution to all
property owners connecting to the water system an appropriately sized water
meter, yoke, remote readout and meter box. The total fee being calculated from
the work described on the utility application.
   (B)   Readouts. Whenever possible, the water meter readout shall be
installed at the curb or in the sidewalk adjacent to the city’s right-of-way.
In all other circumstances, the water meter remote readout shall be placed on
an exterior wall of the building at least five feet above ground and in a
location next to a commonly used or maintained entrance way such that the
remote readout will be accessible to the city’s meter reader at all times
during both summer and winter conditions.
   (C)   Malfunctioning meters. If the meter is determined to be malfunctioning
by the city after proper inspection by the Public Works Superintendent, it
shall be the city’s responsibility to provide the property owner with a new
water meter and/or remote readout facilities as replacements for the
malfunctioning units. It shall thereafter be the city’s responsibility to
replace or repair the malfunctioning meter and/or remote readout facilities on
the owner’s private property.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-12) (Ord. 92-549, passed 3-18-1992; Ord. 15-811, passed 11-
19-2015)
§ 50.28 RIGHT TO REVOKE PERMISSION TO CONNECT.
   Permission given to connect to the water main shall be upon the express
condition that the Public Works Superintendent may for good cause revoke the
same and person making such connection or his or her successor in interest
shall have no right to claim any damage in consequence of such permission being
revoked.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-13) (Ord. 92-549, passed 3-18-1992)
§ 50.29 WATER SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION, PLANS, SPECIFICATIONS AND INSPECTION.
   (A)   Inspection. All construction or reconstruction of public, private and
water service lines shall be in accordance with the city standards and subject
to inspection by the city.
   (B)   Plans and drawings required. Plan and profile drawings stamped by a
professional engineer licensed by the state shall be prepared for all new water
mains (whether public or private) and for all water main extensions,
reconstructions or renovations; and all such plan and profile drawings must be
reviewed and approved by the Public Works Superintendent and the state’s
Division of Environmental Quality before any construction work on the water
lines is started.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-14) (Ord. 92-549, passed 3-18-1992; Ord. 15-811, passed 11-
19-2015)
§ 50.30 RIGHT TO ENTER PREMISES FOR INSPECTION.
   The Public Works Superintendent and the city representative assigned to read
the water meters shall have the right to enter upon any premises connected with
the public water system at all reasonable hours to determine that there is
compliance with the provisions of this chapter. If conflict is noted, the owner
of the premises or his or her agent shall be directed to alter, repair or
reconstruct the water facilities to conform to the requirements of this chapter
within 15 days.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-15) (Ord. 92-549, passed 3-18-1992)
§ 50.31 EXTENSION OF WATER MAINS WITHIN CITY.
   The Public Works Superintendent shall be authorized to construct or cause to
be constructed extensions to the water system if one of the following
conditions exists.
   (A)   The annual anticipated revenue made available to the city from the
customers to be immediately served by such extension is not less than one-tenth
of the actual cost to the city of this extension.
   (B)   The Public Works Superintendent declares that the water main extension
is needed for the overall benefit and improvement of the entire water
distribution system.
   (C)   The city approves a contract for the construction of the extension
with a party or parties desiring water service. Provided, however, that
subdividers or developers within the city shall construct at their own expense
all water mains within their subdivisions or developments.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-16) (Ord. 92-549, passed 3-18-1992; Ord. 15-811, passed 11-
19-2015)
WATER SYSTEM DESIGN
§ 50.45 MATERIALS AND INSTALLATIONS.
   (A)   Main lines. All water main lines, valves, fire hydrants and fitting
materials and their installation shall be in accordance with city standard
specifications for the construction of water system improvements and the
applicable standard drawings depicting various water line installation details.
   (B)   Service lines. All water service line materials and their installation
shall be in accordance with the city standard specifications for the
construction of water system improvements and the applicable standard drawings
depicting the various water service line installation details.
   (C)   Quality of materials. All water system materials shall be of the
class, strength and thickness necessary to accommodate or provide for the depth
of cover over the pipe, the anticipated working pressure in the pipe, the type
of material and bedding around the pipe, and the type, magnitude and extent of
the external loads being applied to the pipe.
   (D)   City approval. All materials must be approved by the Public Works
Superintendent prior to their installation.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-24) (Ord. 92-549, passed 3-18-1992)
§ 50.46 DESIGN.
   (A)   Professional engineer required. The plans for all water lines, booster
stations and the like shall be designed, signed and sealed by a registered
professional engineer licensed in the state.
   (B)   Compliance. All water lines, booster stations and the like shall be
designed in accordance with the state’s Department of Environmental Quality
requirements.
   (C)   Minimum size. Minimum water main size shall be six-inch diameter.
Larger sizes shall be as required by the city’s overall water system master
plan or as are needed to provide adequate water-carrying capacity for the area
(and surrounding developable area) being developed and/or annexed to the city.
Minimum building service line size shall be three-fourths inch in diameter.
   (D)   Materials.
      (1)   Pipe, fittings, valves and fire hydrants shall conform to the
latest standards issued by the AWWA, if such standards exist, and be acceptable
to the city. In the absence of such standards, materials meeting applicable
product standards and acceptable to the city may be selected. Special attention
shall be given to selecting pipe materials which will protect against both
internal and external pipe corrosion.
      (2)   Packing and jointing materials used in the joints of pipes shall
meet the standards of the AWWA and the city. Pipe having mechanical joints or
slip-on joints with rubber gaskets is preferred.
   (E)   Water main design.
      (1)   Pressure. All water mains, including those not designed to provide
fire protection, shall be sized after a hydraulic analysis based on flow
demands and pressure requirements. The system shall be designed to maintain a
minimum pressure of 20 psi at ground level at all points in the distribution
system under all conditions of flow. The normal working pressure in the
distribution system should be approximately 60 psi and not less than 35 psi.
      (2)   Diameter. The minimum size of water main for providing fire
protection and serving fire hydrants shall be six-inch diameter. Larger size
mains will be required if necessary to allow the withdrawal of the required
fire flow while maintaining the minimum residual pressure specified in division
(E)(1) above.
      (3)   Fire protection. When fire protection is to be provided, system
design should be such that fire flows and facilities are in accordance with the
requirements of the state’s Insurance Services Office.
      (4)   Small mains. Any departure from minimum requirements shall be
justified by hydraulic analysis and future water use, and can be considered
only in special circumstances.
      (5)   Hydrants. Water mains not designed to carry fireflows shall not
have fire hydrants connected to them.
      (6)   Dead ends. Dead ends shall be minimized by looping of all mains
whenever practical.
      (7)   Flushing. Where dead-end mains occur, they shall be provided with a
fire hydrant if flow and pressure are sufficient, or with an approved flushing
hydrant or blow-off for flushing purposes. Flushing devices should be sized to
provide flows which will give a velocity of at least two and five-tenths feet
per second in the water main being flushed. No flushing device shall be
directly connected to any sewer.
   (F)   Valves. Sufficient valves shall be provided on water mains so that
inconvenience and sanitary hazards will be minimized during repairs. Valves
should be located at not more than 500-foot intervals in commercial districts
and at not more than one block or 800-foot intervals in other districts.
   (G)   Hydrants.
      (1)   Location and spacing. Hydrants should be provided at each street
intersection and at intermediate points between intersections as recommended by
the state’s Insurance Service Office. Generally, hydrant space may range from
350 feet to 600 feet depending on the area being served.
      (2)   Valves and nozzles. Fire hydrants should have a bottom valve size
of at least five inches, one pumper nozzle of four and one-half inches and two
nozzles of two and one-half inches.
      (3)   Hydrant leads. The hydrant shall be a minimum of six inches in
diameter. Auxiliary valves shall be installed in all hydrant leads.
      (4)   Drainage. Hydrant drains should be open. A gravel pocket or dry
well shall be provided unless the natural soils will provide adequate drainage.
Hydrant drains shall not be connected to or located within ten feet of sanitary
sewers or storm drains.
   (H)   Air relief valves; valve, meter and blow-off chamber.
      (1)   Air relief valves. At high points in water mains where air can
accumulate, provisions should be made to remove the air by means of hydrants or
air relief valves. Automatic air relief valves shall not be used in situations
where flooding of the manhole or chamber may occur.
      (2)   Air relief valve piping. The open end of an air relief pipe from
automatic valves should be extended to at least one foot above grade and
provided with a screened, downward-facing elbow. The pipe from a manually-
operated valve should be extended to the top of the pit.
      (3)   Chamber drainage. Chambers, pits or manholes containing valves,
blow-offs, meters or other such appurtenances to a distribution system, shall
not be connected directly to any storm drain or sanitary sewer, nor shall blow-
offs or air relief valves be connected directly to any sewer. Such chambers or
pits shall be drained to the surface of the ground where they are not subject
to flooding by surface water or to absorption pits underground.
   (I)   Installation of mains.
      (1)   Standards. Specifications shall incorporate the provision of the
AWWA standards and/or manufacturer’s recommended installation procedures.
      (2)   Bedding. A continuous and uniform bedding shall be provided in the
trench for all buried pipe. Backfill material shall be tamped in layers around
the pipe and to a sufficient height above the pipe to adequately support and
protect the pipe. Stones found in the trench shall be removed to a depth of at
least six inches below the bottom of the pipe.
      (3)   Cover. In general, water lines shall be sufficiently deep so as to
provide frost protection. Water lines shall have at least six feet of cover
(from the top of water line pipe to the ground or street surface) unless a
special design is approved by the Public Works Superintendent.
      (4)   Blocking. All tees, bends, plugs and hydrants shall be provided
with reaction blocking, tie rods or joints designed to prevent movement.
      (5)   Pressure and leakage testing. All types of installed pipe shall be
pressure tested and leakage tested in accordance with the latest edition of
AWWA Standard C600.
      (6)   Disinfection. All new, cleaned or repaired water mains shall be
disinfected in accordance with AWWA Standard C601. The specifications shall
include detailed procedures for the adequate flushing, disinfection and
microbiological testing of all water mains.
   (J)   Separation of water mains, sanitary sewers and storm sewers.
      (1)   General. The following factors should be considered in providing
adequate separation:
         (a)   Materials and type of joints for water and sewer pipes;
         (b)   Soil conditions;
         (c)   Service and branch connections into the water main and sewer
line;
         (d)   Compensating variations in the horizontal and vertical
separations;
         (e)   Space for repair and alterations of water and sewer pipes; and
         (f)   Off-setting of pipes around manholes.
      (2)   Parallel installation. Water mains shall be laid at least ten feet
horizontally from any existing or proposed sewer. The distance shall be
measured edge to edge. In cases where it is not practical to maintain a ten
foot separation, the reviewing authority may allow deviation on a case-by-case
basis, if supported by data from the design engineer. Such deviation may allow
installation of the water main closer to a sewer; provided, that the water main
is laid in a separate trench or on an undisturbed earth shelf located on one
side of the sewer at such an elevation that the bottom of the water main is at
least 18 inches above the top of the sewer.
      (3)   Crossings. Water mains crossing sewers shall be laid to provide a
minimum vertical distance of 18 inches between the outside of the water main
and the outside of the sewer. This shall be the case where the water main is
either above or below the sewer. At crossings, one full length of water pipe
shall be located so both joints will be as far from the sewer as possible.
Special structural support for the water and sewer pipes may be required.
      (4)   Exception. The city must specifically approve any variance from the
requirements of divisions (J)(2) and (J)(3) above when it is impossible to
obtain the specified separation distances.
      (5)   Force mains. There shall be at least ten-foot horizontal separation
between water mains and sanitary sewer force mains. There shall be an 18-inch
vertical separation at crossings as required in division (J)(3) above.
      (6)   Sewer manholes. No water pipe shall pass through or come in contact
with any part of a sewer manhole.
   (K)   Surface water crossings. Surface water crossings, whether over- or
under-water, present special problems. The reviewing authority should be
consulted before final plans are prepared.
      (1)   Above-water crossing. The pipe shall be adequately supported and
anchored, protected from damage and freezing and accessible for repair or
replacement.
      (2)   Under-water crossings. A minimum cover of five feet shall be
provided over the pipe. When crossing watercourses which are greater than 15
feet in width, the following shall be provided.
         (a)   The pipe shall be of special construction, having flexible
watertight joints.
         (b)   Valves shall be provided at both ends of water crossings so that
the section can be isolated for testing or repair; the valves shall be easily
accessible, and not subject to flooding, and the valve closest to the supply
source shall be in a manhole.
         (c)   Permanent taps shall be made on each side of the valve within
the manhole to allow insertion of a small meter to determine leakage and for
sampling purposes.
   (L)   Cross-connections and interconnections.
      (1)   Cross-connections. There shall be no connection between the
distribution system and any pipes, pumps, hydrants or tanks whereby unsafe
water or other contaminating materials may be discharged or drawn into the
system.
      (2)   Cooling water. Neither steam condensate nor cooling water from
engine jackets or other heat exchange devices shall be returned to the potable
water supply.
   (M)   Water services and plumbing.
      (1)   Plumbing. Water services and plumbing shall conform to relevant
local and/or state plumbing codes.
      (2)   Booster pumps. Individual booster pumps shall not be allowed for
any individual service from the public water supply mains.
   (N)   Location of water lines and storm drains. Sanitary water lines and
water lines shall, wherever possible, be located on opposite sides of the
street. Preferably, water lines shall be located 13 feet west or north of the
street center line and the sanitary water at 13 feet east or south of the
street center line. When storm drains are needed, these shall preferably be
located along the street center line. The locations and dimensions referenced
in this division (N) may be varied to accommodate unusual circumstances.
   (O)   Requirements for drawings. All drawings shall be on linen or Mylar in
ink and of such quality that they clearly show the dimensions, locations, sizes
and the like of all facilities represented thereon. All main lines, valves,
fire hydrants, building service lines and the like shall be clearly shown and
identified by name and by station or other means of horizontal location. Water
lines shall be shown in both plan and profile unless the length of this water
line or water line extension is so short that the Public Works Superintendent
waives this requirement. If a profile of the water line is not provided, it
shall be located in the vertical plane by elevations on the flow line of the
pipe at intervals as the Public Works Superintendent may require. Drawings
shall be drawn on a scale of one inch equals 50 feet unless the amount of
detail, topography and the like necessitate their being drawn on a larger scale
(i.e., one inch equals 30 feet) to provide the clarity and completeness needed
on the drawings.
   (P)   Approval of design. The design of all water lines and water line plans
must be approved by the Public Works Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-25) (Ord. 92-549, passed 3-18-1992; Ord. 15-811, passed 11-
19-2015)
§ 50.47 AS-BUILT DRAWINGS AND ENGINEER’S CERTIFICATION.
   (A)   Drawings. As-built or record drawings of water line plans shall be
prepared by a professional engineer and the corrected original drawings or a
duplicate Mylar copy of the corrected original drawing(s) shall be provided to
the city.
   (B)   Certification by engineer. As-built plans shall include a
certification thereon signed by the registered professional engineer in charge
of the work that the as-built drawings of the water lines are true and correct
and that the engineer has inspected the construction of the water line
installation and that the materials and installation of the same were done in
conformance with the city standard specifications for the construction of water
line improvements.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-26) (Ord. 92-549, passed 3-18-1992)
§ 50.48 SUBDIVISION DEVELOPER’S OR PROPERTY OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY FOR WATER
LINES.
   (A)   Construction. The owner or developer of any piece of property or tract
of land is responsible for the construction of the water line (or for the water
line costs) along any of the property sides or frontages of the property along
which a water line is needed for the overall completeness and continuity of the
city’s water main system. If it is a large tract of land, the owner or
developer shall also be responsible for the necessary and required system of
water lines within the interior of the tract of land. The owner or developer of
any piece of property shall construct all needed water lines (of the approved
size) within and along all sides of frontages of any piece of property prior to
the time any building constructed thereon is occupied or utilized unless phased
construction of the water main system is specifically allowed or provided for
in the annexation or development agreement. In lieu of actually constructing
the required water line(s), the property owner or developer may deposit
adequate monies with the city to fully cover the cost(s) of the required water
line construction.
   (B)   Line over six-inch diameter. The owner or developer of any property or
subdivision will normally be responsible only for the cost of up to six-inch
diameter water line. The additional cost of providing a water line of a size
greater than six inches will normally be a city responsibility. The city will
reimburse the developer for the extra cost of the additional water line size
(over the six-inch diameter size referenced in this division) as set forth in
the annexation or development agreement between the developer and the city.
Provided further, however, that if any proposed subdivision or development is
of such size or magnitude that it requires or necessitates a water main larger
than a six- inch diameter line or if the type of development is such as to
produce a water flow in excess of the capacity of a six-inch diameter water
line, then the owner or developer of the subdivision or development shall be
responsible for the entire cost of whatever size of water line is needed to
accommodate the development.
   (C)   Development on one side of street. If the property owner or developer
owns or is developing the property on only one side (as compared to both sides)
of any street, alley or easement where a water line is located or required, the
owner/developer shall be responsible for only one-half of the cost of the water
line while the property owner on the other side of the street, alley or
easement shall be responsible for the other half of the cost of the water line
construction. However, in the absence of any mutual agreement between the
property owners, the city may participate with the first owner or developer to
the extent of paying for one-half the cost of a six-inch diameter water line
across the referenced property frontage. The second property owner will
thereafter be responsible for reimbursing the city for his or her half of the
costs of this water line construction at the time he or she (the second
property owner or developer) begins to develop or build upon his or her
property that is adjacent to the water line installed by the first property
owner.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-27) (Ord. 92-549, passed 3-18-1992)
§ 50.49 FLOODPLAIN LIMITATIONS.
   The following limitations are imposed on all water line replacements and
connections within the floodplain areas of the city as set forth on the maps
prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   (A)   New structures. The city shall not allow new structures built within
the 100-year floodplain to be connected to the city water system unless or
until the new structure shall meet the construction/building requirements of
the state Floodplain Management and National Flood Insurance Program.
   (B)   Replacements. The city shall make pipeline replacements within the
100-year floodplain designed so as not to encourage growth within the 100-year
floodplain.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-28) (Ord. 92-549, passed 3-18-1992)
WATER RATES AND CHARGES
§ 50.60 SERVICE CALL CHARGE.
   (A)   Service charges. The city may require a service charge in an amount
not to exceed the actual cost to the city, for service calls which are only for
the convenience and benefit of the customer.
   (B)   Turning water services on and off.
      (1)   In an emergency, the city shall turn off the water for the initial
response at no charge to the property owner. For the original emergency, the
water will be turned back on, during normal business hours, once only, at no
cost.
      (2)   Additional trips during normal business hours, to turn the water on
or off, shall be charged a fee per visit as set by resolution. Additional
emergency trips to turn the water off or on after normal business hours will be
charged a fee as set by resolution.
      (3)   For normal repair and maintenance of water service, there will be
no charge for the first turn off and return to service trip. Each succeeding
trip will be charged at the rate per visit to be set by resolution.
      (4)   Outside normal business hours, there will be no service provided to
turn the water on or off, except in an emergency.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-17) (Ord. 92-549, passed 3-18-1992; Ord. 01-617, passed 2-
21-2001; Ord. 15-811, passed 11-19-2015)
§ 50.61 MONTHLY WATER USER FEES.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   User fee. Each water user shall be levied a monthly water user fee
for the privilege of utilizing water from the city water system. The water user
fee shall be levied on all users of the water to cover the actual or estimated
cost of operation, maintenance, replacement and financing of the city’s water
system facilities. All water users and property owners who have water service
shall be levied a water user fee beginning March 1, 1992, with their first
payment being due April 1, 1992, for the first month of service. Billings will
be levied regularly after March 1, 1992 at intervals set by the city Council,
but no more often than monthly. In the event an owner fails to connect to the
system, he or she will be assessed a monthly user base fee.
      (2)   Rate. The actual monthly water user rate fee to be billed to each
property owner or customer shall be determined by the addition of the
calculated monthly base rate fee and the calculated monthly water usage fee. A
description of the base rate fee and water usage fees to be assessed by this
chapter shall be described in the subsequent divisions of this section.
   (B)   Base rate fees. The water base rate fee for each user (or user class)
shall be based on the user’s potential water consumption in comparison to a
standard equivalent connection defined below. Each user (or user class) shall
be assigned a number of equivalent connections to be multiplied by a constant
monthly water base rate factor to determine the base monthly fee. Special
equivalent connections below do not apply, shall be individually calculated as
provided below. The constant monthly water base rate factor per equivalent
connection shall hereafter be set by a separate ordinance defining water user
connection and usage fees. The monthly user base fee is, therefore, calculated
by multiplying the number of equivalent connections assessed to each property
times the constant monthly water base rate factor. The monthly base fee
(residential equivalent unit) for the city may be amended by resolution.
      (1)   Equivalent connection definition. One equivalent connection shall
be defined as a single-family dwelling unit or a user who will experience
equivalent benefits and monthly water usage. It is estimated that an equivalent
user or connection in the city will use approximately 15,000 gallons of water
per month. The basic equivalent (a single-family dwelling unit) shall be
subject to revision if population, water usage, and/or other information
indicates flow rates significantly different from that defined herein.
Revisions to the basic equivalent connection criteria shall normally only be
made upon the recommendation of a registered professional engineer.
      (2)   Equivalent connection determination. The number of equivalent
connections to be assigned each user and/or user class shall be in accordance
with the following equivalent connection schedule. Assignment of equivalent
connections shall apply for one year until the next annual user charge review.
Users so indicated or not included in this schedule shall be considered special
users and shall be evaluated separately as provided below. Any of the users in
the following schedule may be classified as special users if information on
their water usage indicates a need to do so. The number of equivalent
connections for a single user having more than one classification of equivalent
use shall be calculated by adding the sum of all user classifications to a
total number of equivalent connections. The minimum monthly water user charge
shall be based on one equivalent connection.
      (3)   Special user definition. For any user whose classification is not
detailed on the equivalent connection schedule, the city shall determine his or
her equivalent connection on the basis of his or her average monthly water
usage. The number of equivalent connections shall be determined by dividing the
total average monthly flow by a factor of 15,000 gallons per month. This
calculated equivalent number of connections may be adjusted by the city after
the city has recorded the actual water usage over the first year.
   (C)   Special user rate. A copy of the list of special users monthly base
rate charge shall be kept on file at all times in the office of the Clerk. The
rate for each user shall be determined by the actual size of meter installed,
or the size meter required for this type of service in the Uniform Plumbing
Code, as adopted by the city, whichever is larger.
   (D)   Water usage fees. In addition to the monthly base rate fee as defined
in division (B) above, each water user shall be charged a monthly water usage
rate that will be calculated by multiplying the number of gallons of water used
each month from the meter reading times a gallonage charge. The gallonage
charge shall be that rate per 1,000 gallons of water that was set by ordinance,
hereafter, amended by resolution. The water usage fee for usage shall be
calculated per thousand gallons of usage. Water meters shall be read monthly.
In the event a meter cannot be read each month, because of weather related
conditions, or meter failure, or if the city requires residents to run water to
prevent freeze-ups of main lines, the meter reading will be estimated and
charged according to the average usage of the preceding three months, or in the
event of no available history of the preceding months, the billing shall be set
according to the special user rate defined in division (C) above.
   (E)   Review and revision of rates. The water connection and usage fees
shall, as a minimum, be reviewed annually and when required, updated by
resolution of the city to reflect actual costs of operation, maintenance,
replacement and financing of the water system.
   (F)   User request for rate change. Any water user who feels his or her
water charge is unjust and inequitable as applied to his or her premises within
the spirit and intent of the foregoing provisions, may make written application
to the city requesting a review of his or her user charge. This written request
shall, where necessary, show the actual or estimated average flow water in
comparison with the values upon which the charge is based, including how the
measurements or estimates were made. Any flow measurements shall be approved in
detail by the city and/or its Public Works Superintendent. Review of the
request by the city shall determine if it is substantiated or not, including
recommended further study of the matter for the city and/or user by a
registered professional engineer.
   (G)   Maximum cap limitation. There shall be a maximum cap which was set by
ordinance and may be amended by resolution per household unit (hookup) for the
period of one monthly billing cycle to allow for repairs of unknown water leaks
and unknown water usage per calendar year.
   (H)   Waiver of payment application. When any person determines his or her
home, business or the like is destroyed and/or uninhabitable for an extended
time due to circumstances beyond his control such as fire, flood, wind or some
other act of God, he or she may apply in writing to the Utility Clerk for a
waiver of payment of his or her city monthly water service fee and city monthly
sewer fee. The waiver must be approved by the City Council. Approval is at the
City Council’s discretion and is not automatic based upon the fact that a
building is destroyed and/or uninhabitable. The waiver shall not exceed six
months’ time period. This time period may be extended upon further application.
Criteria to be considered by the City Council shall include:
      (1)   The cause of the damage;
      (2)   The extent of the damage;
      (3)   The property owner’s intent as to whether or not he or she plans to
rebuild;
      (4)   Estimated time period to rebuild or repair damage; and
      (5)   City services are not available.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-18) (Ord. 92-549, passed 3-18-1992; Ord. 92-553, passed 9-
16-1992; Ord. 97-590, passed 4-2-1997; Ord. 97-598, passed 10-15-1997; Ord. 98-
603, passed 8-19-1998; Ord. 02-624, passed 2-20-2002; Ord. 04-662, passed 2-4-
2004; Ord. 07-714, passed 8-15-2007; Ord. 08-726, passed 2-6-2008; Ord. 09-733,
passed 4-15-2009; Ord. 15-811, passed 11-19-2015)
§ 50.62 BILLING PROCEDURE AND PERIODS.
   (A)   Rate. Accounts shall be charged for water service in accordance with
the rate determination found in §
50.61 of this code or as such may hereinafter be amended and revised by the
city.
   (B)   Monthly statement. The city shall furnish to each property owner,
landlord, tenant or agent, a monthly statement of the amount due for water
service for that month. The failure of any water user to receive notice or
statement will in no way affect the obligation of the user to remit monthly
payment as required.
   (C)   Initial billing. The initial billing for premises occupied less than
one month shall be charged only for that portion of the month during which the
premises were occupied.
   (D)   Deposit required.
      (1)   Each owner, tenant or lessee of property, before utility services
are furnished, must pay a refundable deposit. The amount collected may be
amended by resolution of the City Council.
      (2)   All such deposits shall be placed in a reserve account managed by
the Treasurer/Finance Director.
      (3)   Refundable deposits may be transferred to another physical address
on the city utility system if current bill is paid in full and upon written
request from the owner, tenant or lessee of notice of transfer of the account
to a different address.
      (4)   If city utility bills have been paid in full and on time for the
last 12 consecutive months, a credit will be added to the account in the amount
of the deposit.
      (5)   In the event that an account becomes in arrears for a period longer
than 60 days, the deposit will be applied to the amount in arrears. Before the
service to the owner, tenant or lessee resumes, the amount in arrears must be
paid in full and a new deposit shall be submitted to the city. If the deposit
has previously been credited to the account in arrears, a new deposit and the
amount in arrears shall be submitted before services are restored.
      (6)   Upon vacating the premises, the city will be notified immediately.
The owner, tenant or lessee will, at that time, submit a written request, which
shall be furnished by the city, for a refund and furnish a forwarding address.
The refundable deposit will than be transferred to the appropriate Utility Fund
of the city and credited to the account. The balance of the account, if any,
shall be refunded to the person making the deposit, his or her heir or a
personal representative within 30 days of the written request. No interest will
be paid on funds to be returned. If such refund cannot be made within three
months because of the unknown whereabouts of the person making the deposit, the
balance of the deposit shall be placed in the appropriate Utility Fund.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-19) (Ord. 92-549, passed 3-18-1992; Ord. 05-700, passed 10-
5-2005)
§ 50.63 DUE DATE.
   Bills rendered for water service are payable upon receipt and become past
due the twentieth day of the month. When the past due date falls on a legal
holiday or on a day when city offices are not open for business, the next
regular business day is considered the past due date. When remittances are made
by mail, bills shall be deemed paid upon receipt.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-20) (Ord. 92-549, passed 3-18-1992; Ord. 13-787, passed 2-
20-2013)
§ 50.64 DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS.
   (A)   Notice. When the delinquent portion of utility bills are not paid by
the eighteenth of the following month, the city shall discontinue water service
to such delinquent customers without any further notice. In case service is
discontinued for delinquency, it shall not be restored until the delinquency is
paid in addition to a fee which shall be set by resolution for discontinuing
and restoring service. After payment in full has been received by the city, the
service shall be restored within 24 hours excluding weekends and holidays. A
service charge of 1.5% will be added to the unpaid balance at the end of each
month.
   (B)   Failure to pay. In the event that a delinquent customer fails to pay
his or her bill within the time set forth above, the city may discontinue city
water service and enter upon the property for accomplishing such purposes. In
cases where the property is occupied by a tenant, and the tenant moves out, the
account must be paid in full before the city will restore and/or transfer water
service for the property. This holds the tenant and homeowner equally
responsible for the outstanding account.
   (C)   Disputing bill. Any customer disputing the correctness of his or her
bill shall have a right to a hearing, at which time he or she may be
represented in person and by counsel or any other person of his or her
choosing, and may present orally or in writing his or her complaint and
contentions to the city official in charge of utility billing. This official
shall be authorized to order that the customer’s service not be discontinued
and shall have the authority to make a final determination of the customer’s
complaint.
   (D)   Hearing and disconnection parameters. Requests for delays or waivers
of payment will not be entertained; only questions of proper and correct
billing will be considered. In the absence of payment of the bill rendered or
resort to the hearing procedure provided in division (C) above, service will be
discontinued at the time specified, but in no event until the charges have been
due and unpaid for at least 30 days.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-21) (Ord. 92-549, passed 3-18-1992; Ord. 13-787, passed 2-
28-2013; Ord. 15-797, passed 2-26-2015)
§ 50.65 WATER SERVICE DISCONTINUANCE.
   When any person determines that his or her home, business or the like is
going to be vacant, not used or shut down for an extended period of time, he or
she shall notify the Utility Clerk. Under these circumstances, the Public Works
Superintendent shall shut off the water service to the facilities. When the
home, business or the like is re-occupied, the Public Works Superintendent
shall be notified by the Utility Clerk, and he or she shall restore water
service once again to the facilities with a charge as set by resolution being
levied for resumption of the service. Since there is a significant potential
for freezing and thus damage to the service line in the event of a lengthy shut
down period, the property owner shall be responsible at his or her expense for
any water service line repairs that may be needed to repair the water service
line that is located on city right-of-way properties and also any associated
repairs that are needed on his or her private property including the cost of
replacing the water meter, meter readout and the like if it becomes necessary
to do so. Every residential and commercial connection to the city water
distribution and supply system shall pay the minimum monthly base charge, set
by the City Council in accordance with §
50.61 of this code, for each month, or part thereof, for every month that water
treatment services are available to the property by connection. The monthly
minimum base charge shall only be waived upon complete disconnection from the
city water distribution and supply system. All requests for disconnection must
be approved by the City Council. The fee for reconnection, shall be the same as
the new connection fee as set forth in §
53.061 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-22) (Ord. 92-554, passed 10-21-1992; Ord. 04-680, passed 12-
1-2004; Ord. 15-811, passed 11-19-2015)
§ 50.66 WATER SYSTEM IMPROVEMENT FUND.
   There is hereby established a Water System Improvement Fund to be maintained
by the Finance Director/Treasurer in managing the fiscal affairs of the city.
All revenues derived from the charging of any fees, charges, rates and the
like, as such are set forth herein shall be deposited in the fund and shall be
disbursed only for the purposes of paying existing or future indebtedness
connected with or relating to maintaining, repairing, studying, controlling,
enlarging, extending, enhancing or improving the water system of the city.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-23) (Ord. 92-549, passed 3-18-1992)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of an
infraction and, upon conviction thereunder, may be subject to penalty as
provided in §
10.99 of this code. Each day the violation occurs shall be a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-32) (Ord. 92-549, passed 3-18-1992; Ord. 15-811, passed 11-
19-2015)
CHAPTER 51: WATER IRRIGATION
Section
   
51.01   Days of water use
   
51.02   Sprinkler systems; restrictive devices
 
   
51.99   Penalty
§ 51.01 DAYS OF WATER USE.
   It shall be unlawful for any inhabitant, resident or water user of the city
to cause or permit the use of municipal domestic water, for which the
individual resident or water user is charged by the city for the use of the
water, for irrigation and/or sprinkling except on the days set forth herein.
   (A)   Even-numbered days. All such water users so using this water on
premises or property identified on the official map of the city with an address
ending in an even number shall be permitted to so use this water on even-
numbered calendar days.
   (B)   Odd-numbered days. All such water users so using this water on
premises or property identified on the official map of the city with an address
ending in an odd number shall be permitted to so use this water on odd-numbered
calendar days.
   (C)   Thirty-first day of month. It shall be unlawful for any inhabitant,
resident or water user to irrigate and/or sprinkle on the thirty-first day of
any month.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-1) (Ord. 85-485, passed 6-3-1985) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.02 SPRINKLER SYSTEMS; RESTRICTIVE DEVICES.
   It shall be unlawful for any inhabitant, resident or water user of the city
to cause or permit the use of municipal domestic water for which the individual
resident or water user is charged by the city for the use of the water, for
irrigation and/or sprinkling as set forth in §
51.01 of this code, except in the manner as set forth below.
   (A)   Hoses. Only one hose is permitted to be used at any single time and
this hose used for irrigation and/or sprinkling shall have attached to it a
restrictive device.
   (B)   Sprinkler systems.
      (1)   Hours of use. Notwithstanding the above, it shall be lawful for an
inhabitant, resident or water user of the city to cause, or permit the use of
municipal domestic water for which this individual resident or water user is
charged by the city for the use of this water, for irrigation and/or sprinkling
by use of a sprinkler system between the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. on
the date permitted for such use under §
51.01 of this code. For purposes of this section, a SPRINKLER SYSTEM is defined
as an irrigation system utilizing two or more solid set sprinkler devices per
service line and being serviced primarily from an underground piping system.
      (2)   Discharge. During the hours of operation the sprinkler system
should not discharge more than 4,300 gallons of water. This is equivalent of
one sprinkler used for 24 hours using the equation of 3 gpm x 60 minutes x 24
hours.
      (3)   Anti-siphon valves. It shall be required that anti-siphon valves
for sprinkler systems connected to potable water systems be installed.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-2) (Ord. 85-485, passed 6-3-1985) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to commit any act or fail to perform any
requirement which is prohibited or required by this chapter, and the violation
is hereby declared to be an infraction and is subject to penalty as provided in
§
10.99 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-3) (Ord. 85-485, passed 6-3-1985; Ord. 15-811, passed 11-19-
2015)
CHAPTER 52: CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL
Section
   
52.01   Water supply protection
   
52.02   Use of backflow devices
   
52.03   Cross-connection inspection
   
52.04   Installation permits for cross-connection control devices
   
52.05   Additional remedies
§ 52.01 WATER SUPPLY PROTECTION.
   No water service connection to any premises shall be installed or continued
in the city unless the water supply is protected by backflow prevention devices
as may be required by this chapter, state code and all standards, rules and
regulations of the state, the state’s Division of Environment and any other
federal, state, county or city authority or agency thereof. The installation or
maintenance of a cross-connection which will endanger the water quality of the
potable water supply of the city shall be unlawful and is prohibited. Any such
cross-connection now existing or hereafter installed is hereby declared to be a
public nuisance and the same shall be abated. The control or elimination of
cross-connection shall be in accordance with this chapter, state code and all
standards, rules and regulations of the state, the state’s Division of
Environment and any other federal, state, county or city authority or agency
thereof, together with the latest edition of appropriate manuals of standard
practice pertaining to cross-connection control enacted by the city and any
applicable county, state and federal authorities and agencies. The city shall
have the authority to establish requirements more stringent than state
regulations if it deems that the conditions so dictate.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-1) (Ord. 92-549, passed 3-18-1992)
§ 52.02 USE OF BACKFLOW DEVICES.
   (A)   Backflow prevention device required. Backflow prevention devices shall
be installed in connection with water service connections or within any
premises where, in the judgment of the city, the nature and extent of the
activities, or the materials stored on the premises, would present an immediate
and dangerous hazard to health and/or be deleterious to the quality of the
water should a cross-connection occur, even though such cross-connection does
not exist at the time. The backflow prevention devices shall be installed under
circumstances including but not limited to the following.
      (1)   Auxiliary water supply. Premises having an auxiliary water supply
that are connected to lawn irrigation system, swimming pool or is otherwise not
in compliance with state drinking water standards, rules and regulations of the
state’s Division of Environment and any other federal, state, county or city
authority or agency thereof and is acceptable to the city.
      (2)   Internal cross-connections. Premises having internal cross-
connections that are not correctable or intricate plumbing arrangements which
make it impracticable to ascertain whether or not cross-connections exist.
      (3)   Restricted entry. Premises where entry is restricted so that
inspections for cross-connections cannot be made with sufficient frequency or
at sufficiently short notice to ensure that cross-connections do not exist.
      (4)   History of cross-connection. Premises having a repeated history of
cross-connections being established or reestablished.
      (5)   Substances under pressure. Premises on which any substance is
handled under pressure so as to permit entry into the city water supply or
where a cross-connection could reasonably be expected to occur. This shall
include the handling of process waters and cooling waters.
      (6)   Toxic materials. Premises where materials of a toxic nature are
handled in such a way that if back siphonage should occur, a serious health
hazard might result.
      (7)   Types of facilities. The following types of facilities will fall
into one of the above categories where a backflow prevention device is required
to protect the city water supply. A backflow prevention device shall be
installed at these facilities unless the city and applicable state, county and
federal authorities and agencies determine that no hazard exists:
         (a)   Hospitals, mortuaries, clinics;
         (b)   Laboratories, including school laboratories;
         (c)   Metal plating industries;
         (d)   Sewage treatment plants;
         (e)   Food or beverage processing plants;
         (f)   Chemical plants using a water process;
         (g)   Petroleum processing or storage plants;
         (h)   Car washes;
         (i)   Dry cleaners; and
         (j)   Other premises as specified by the city where backflow
prevention devices are required to protect the city water supply.
   (B)   Type of protective device. The type of protective device required
shall depend on the degree of hazard which exists.
      (1)   An air-gap separation or a reduced pressure principle backflow
prevention device shall be installed where the city water supply may be
contaminated with sewage, industrial waste of a toxic nature or other
contaminant which could cause a health or system hazard.
      (2)   In the case of a substance which may be objectionable but not
hazardous to health, a double check valve assembly, air prevention device shall
be installed.
   (C)   Location. Backflow prevention devices required by this chapter shall
be installed at the property line of the premises, or at a location designated
by the city. The device shall be located so as to be readily accessible for
maintenance and testing, and furthermore, where no part of the device will be
submerged.
   (D)   Approval and supervision by city. Backflow prevention devices required
by this chapter shall be installed under the supervision of, and with the
approval of the city.
   (E)   Additional approval. Any protective device required by this chapter
shall be approved by the city, applicable state, county and federal authorities
and agencies. These devices shall be furnished and installed by and at the
expense of the customer.
   (F)   Inspection and testing. Backflow prevention devices installed pursuant
to this chapter shall be inspected and tested annually, or more often if
necessary. Inspections, tests and maintenance shall be at the customer’s
expense, and, if requested by the city, by a certified tester retained and paid
by the customer. Whenever the devices are found to be defective, they shall be
repaired, overhauled or replaced at the customer’s expense. Inspections, tests,
repairs and records thereof shall be accomplished in accordance with all
standards, rules and regulations of this chapter, state code and all standards,
rules and regulations of the state, the state’s Department of Health and
Welfare and any other federal, state, county or city authority or agency
thereof by certified testers retained and paid by the customer.
   (G)   Underground sprinkling device. No underground sprinkling device will
be installed without adequate backflow prevention devices at the point from
which water for irrigation is taken from the city water supply.
   (H)   Noncompliance. Failure of the customer to cooperate in the
installation, maintenance, testing or inspection of backflow prevention devices
required by this chapter, state code and all standards, rules and regulations
of the state, the state’s Department of Health and Welfare and any other
federal, state, county or city authority or agency thereof shall be grounds for
termination of water service to the premises, or, in the alternative, the
installation of an air-gap separation at the customer’s expense.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-2) (Ord. 92-549, passed 3-18-1992)
§ 52.03 CROSS-CONNECTION INSPECTION.
   (A)   No water shall be delivered to any structure hereafter built within
the city until the same shall have been inspected by the city for possible
cross-connections and been approved as being free of the same.
   (B)   Any construction for industrial or other purposes which is classified
as hazardous facilities pursuant to §
52.02(A)(7) of this code, where it is reasonable to anticipate cross-
connections, or as determined by the city, shall be protected by the
installation of one or more backflow prevention devices at the point of service
from the city water supply or any other location designated by the city and
applicable county, state and federal authorities and agencies.
   (C)   Inspections may be made periodically of all buildings, structures or
improvements of any nature now receiving water through the city’s system, for
the purpose of ascertaining whether cross-connections exist. Such inspections
shall be made by the city or applicable county, state and federal authorities
and agencies.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-3) (Ord. 92-549, passed 3-18-1992)
§ 52.04 INSTALLATION PERMITS FOR CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL DEVICES.
   If cross-connection control device(s) are found to be necessary, the owner
of the property served must apply to the city for a specific installation
permit.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-4) (Ord. 92-549, passed 3-18-1992)
§ 52.05 ADDITIONAL REMEDIES.
   In the event an improper cross-connection is not corrected within the time
limits set by the city or in the event the city is refused access to any
property for the purpose of determining whether or not cross-connections exist,
the city may cease delivery of water to the property until the deficiency is
corrected to the city’s satisfaction. In addition, the city without waiving any
terms of this chapter may, but shall not be required to, effect the necessary
repairs or installations at the expense of the property owner and refuse
delivery of water to the property until the cost thereof shall have been paid.
Violations of this chapter are hereby declared to be a nuisance, and the city,
after notice to the customer or property owner to remove or correct the
violation, may prevent, remove and abate the same at the expense of the party
creating or maintaining the same, in which event the city may levy a special
assessment as provided in state code on the land or premises whereon the
nuisance is situated to defray the cost or to reimburse the city for the cost
of abating the same.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-5) (Ord. 92-549, passed 3-18-1992) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 53: SEWER REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
53.001   Definitions
   
53.002   Connection to sanitary sewer required
   
53.003   Unpolluted water
   
53.004   Prohibited discharges
   
53.005   Approval required for wastewater
   
53.006   Refusal of use of system
   
53.007   Citation; appearance
   
53.008   Failure to appear unlawful
   
53.009   Liability
Sewer Use and Service
   
53.020   Sewer service line requirement and maintenance
   
53.021   Injury to or tampering with sanitary sewer system unlawful
   
53.022   Interceptor or removal facilities required to remove harmful
ingredients
   
53.023   Duties of wastewater operator regarding side sewers
   
53.024   Permits required
   
53.025   Side sewer repair, extension and inspection
   
53.026   Sewer service line; installation, maintenance
   
53.027   Right to revoke permission
   
53.028   Sewer construction plans, specifications and inspection
   
53.029   Right to enter premises for inspection
   
53.030   Industrial wastes
   
53.031   Special agreements
   
53.032   Extensions
Sewer System Design
   
53.045   Materials and installation
   
53.046   Design
   
53.047   As-built drawings and engineer’s certification
   
53.048   Subdivision developer’s or property owner’s responsibility
Sewer User Charges
   
53.060   System of charges
   
53.061   Sewer connection fee
   
53.062   Sewer main construction charge
   
53.063   Service line installation fee
   
53.064   Service call charges
   
53.065   Monthly sewer rates
   
53.066   Metered service
   
53.067   Billing procedure and period
   
53.068   Due date
   
53.069   Delinquent accounts
   
53.070   Sewer service discontinuance fee
   
53.071   Wastewater Collection and Treatment System Improvement Fund
 
   
53.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPROVING AUTHORITY. The wastewater operator, as appointed by the city or
his or her duly authorized deputy, agent or representative.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen, expressed in parts
per million by weight, utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter
under standard laboratory determinations made in accordance with procedures set
forth in Standard Methods.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the drainage from soil, waste and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the side sewer which begins
two feet outside the outer face of the building wall.
   CHLORINE REQUIREMENT. The amount of chlorine, in parts per million by
weight, which must be added to the sewage to produce a specified residual
chlorine content, or to meet the requirements of some other objective, in
accordance with procedures set forth in Standard Methods.
   CITY. The City of Salmon, Idaho.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer receiving both surface runoff (storm drainage) and
wastewater (sanitary sewage).
   COMMERCIAL BUILDING. Any structure built for the support, shelter or
enclosure of persons, animals or chattels, or property of any kind or for any
type of business or enterprises or for any other purposes not otherwise
described or covered below under DWELLINGS.
   COMMERCIAL USER. All persons not specifically classified as domestic or as
an industrial waste contributor.
   DWELLINGS.
      (1)   AUTO COURT, HOTEL, MOTEL, MOTOR COURT, TRAVEL TRAILER COURT. The
combination or group of two or more dwelling units occupying a building site or
area under one ownership, used for the purpose of furnishing transient living
accommodations.
      (2)   DUPLEX. A building designed, built, rented or leased for occupancy
by two families living independently of each other.
      (3)   MULTIPLE-FAMILY DWELLING or APARTMENT HOUSE. Any building or
portion thereof which is designed, built, rented, leased, let or hired out to
be occupied or which is occupied as the home or residence of three or more
families or persons living independently of each other and doing their own
cooking within the premises, which shall include townhouses or condominiums.
      (4)   SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING. A building designed for or occupied by one
family for living or sleeping purposes, and having one kitchen or set of
cooking facilities.
      (5)   TRAILER HOUSE or MOBILE HOME. Any vehicle used or so constructed as
to permit its being used as a conveyance upon the public streets or highways
and constructed in such a manner as will permit occupancy thereof as a dwelling
or sleeping place for one or more persons.
   GARBAGE. The residue from the preparation and dispensing of food, and from
the handling, storage and sale of food products and produce.
   GROUND GARBAGE. The residue from the preparation, cooking and dispensing of
food that has been shredded to such degree that all particles will be carried
freely in suspension under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimensions.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Any flow discharged to the wastewater treatment system
identified in the Standard Industrial Classification Manual, 1972, Office of
the Management Budget, as amended and supplemented under the following
divisions:
      (1)   Division A: Agriculture, Forestry and Fishing;
      (2)   Division B: Mining;
      (3)   Division D: Manufacturing;
      (4)   Division E: Transportation, Communications, Electric, Gas and
Sanitation Service; and
      (5)   Division I: Services.
   MG. Million gallons.
   MGD. Million gallons per day.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface or ground water developed by naturally occurring process of
nature.
   PH. The logarithm (base-10) of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion
concentration expressed in moles per liter and is a measure of the acidity or
alkalinity of a solution. It shall be determined by one of the procedures
outlined in Standard Methods.
   PARTS PER MILLION. A weight-to-weight ratio. The PARTS PER MILLION value
multiplied by the factor 8.345 shall be equivalent to pounds per million
gallons of water.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation,
group or other entity.
   PRIVATE SEWER. A sewer serving two or more buildings, residences or
properties, constructed by private contract outside of the public right-of-way
and remaining under private ownership and jurisdiction and which shall be
designed, constructed and maintained by the private owners to the same design,
construction and maintenance standards as are public sewers.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer provided by or subject to the jurisdiction of the
city. It shall also include sewers within or outside the city boundaries that
serve one or more persons and ultimately discharge into the city’s sanitary or
combined sewer system, even though those sewers may not have been constructed
with city funds. All PUBLIC SEWERS shall be located in dedicated public rights-
of-way or easements. PUBLIC SEWERS shall be at least eight inches in diameter.
   REPLACEMENT. Any expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories or appurtenances which are necessary during the service life of the
treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works
were designed and constructed. The term OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE includes
REPLACEMENT.
   SANITARY SEWAGE. Wastes that are derived principally from dwellings,
business buildings, institutions and the like, exclusive of storm and surface
waters and industrial wastes.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer that conveys sanitary sewage or industrial wastes,
or a combination of the two, and into which storm, surface and ground water or
unpolluted industrial wastes are not intentionally admitted.
   SERVICE CHARGE. The charge levied on all users of the sewage system for the
purpose of repayment of city indebtedness for the construction and installation
of the system and for its efficient maintenance and operation, and in
establishing such rates and charges the city has taken into account the cost
and value of the system, operation and maintenance expenses, possible
delinquencies, proper allowance for depreciation, contingencies and any amounts
necessary to retire all bonds payable from net revenues and the reserve
required for these.
   SERVICE CONNECTION. A sewer line connected to the sewer main.
   SEWAGE. Wastewater.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT. Wastewater treatment plant or other like facilities.
   SEWER. Any pipe or conduit used for conveying wastewater or any other waste
liquids, including storm, surface and ground water drainage.
   SEWER MAIN. The pipe laid in a street, road, alley or easement and running
approximately parallel to the street, road, alley or easement for the
collection of wastewater from the customers, and which is owned, operated,
controlled and maintained by the city.
   SIDE SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer and is
sometimes referred to as the sewer service connection or sewer service line.
   STANDARD SEWAGE. Sewage and acceptable wastes that are within specifications
regarding pH, BOD, dissolved oxygen, suspended solids and grease.
   STORM DRAIN. Any pipe or conduit conveying storm, surface and ground water
drainage, but excluding sewage and industrial wastes.
   STORM WATER RUNOFF. The portion of the rainfall that is drained into the
sewers.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS (SS). Solids that either float on the surface of, or in
suspension in water, sewage or industrial waste and which are removable by a
laboratory filtration device. Quantitative determination of SUSPENDED SOLIDS
shall be made in accordance with procedures set forth in Standard Methods.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Any water or liquid containing none of the following: free
or emulsified grease or oil; acids or alkalis, substances that may impart taste
and odor or color characteristics; toxic or poisonous substances in
suspensions, colloidal state or solution; odorous or otherwise obnoxious gases.
It shall contain not more than 30 parts per million each of suspended solids or
biochemical oxygen demand. Analytical determination shall be made in accordance
with procedures set forth in Standard Methods.
   WASTEWATER. The water-carried human, animal or household wastes in a public
or private sewer, and may include ground water infiltration, surface drainage
and industrial wastes.
   WASTEWATER COLLECTION AND TREATMENT SYSTEM.
      (1)   Also termed SEWAGE COLLECTION AND TREATMENT SYSTEM.
      (2)   All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing of
domestic, commercial and industrial waste, and includes sewers as well as the
wastewater treatment plant.
   WASTEWATER OPERATOR. The wastewater operator of the city.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT. An assemblage of devices, structures, equipment
and holding ponds or lagoons for treating domestic, commercial and industrial
waste.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-1) (Ord. 92-554, passed 10-21-1992)
§ 53.002 CONNECTION TO SANITARY SEWER REQUIRED.
   Every parcel of land or premises within the boundaries of the city, improved
for occupancy and occupied or used by any person, or as a commercial business,
shall be connected to the public sanitary sewer system unless exempted by the
City Council in writing. The owner or person in charge of such land shall make
or cause to be made, such connection within 90 days after receiving official
notice from the city to so connect. All charges associated with the laying of
pipe from the home or facilities to be served to the city’s mains and all other
costs incurred in connecting to the mains shall be borne by the property owner.
All such connections to the city’s mains shall be properly designed and
constructed in conformity with requirements specified by the city. If a parcel
of land is not within 300 feet of a sewer, connection is optional.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-2) (Ord. 92-554, passed 10-21-1992)
§ 53.003 UNPOLLUTED WATER.
   (A) Prohibited from sanitary sewer. It shall be unlawful for any person to
discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water, ground water, roof runoff,
subsurface drainage, cooling water or other unpolluted water to any sanitary
sewer without having received written permission from the wastewater operator
to take such action.
   (B)   Discharged to storm drain. Storm water shall be discharged to such
sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm drains, or to
a natural outlet approved by the wastewater operator. Industrial cooling water
or unpolluted process water may be discharged upon approval of the wastewater
operator to a storm drain, combined sewers or natural outlet.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-3) (Ord. 92-554, passed 10-21-1992)
§ 53.004 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   Except as hereinafter provided, no person shall discharge or cause to be
discharged any of the following described wastewater to the wastewater
collection and treatment system:
   (A)   Any solids, liquids or gases which may, by themselves or by
interaction with other substances, cause fire or explosive hazards or in any
other way be injurious to person, property or the operation of the wastewater
collection and treatment system;
   (B)   Any noxious or malodorous solids, liquids or gases which either singly
or by interaction with other substances are capable of creating a public
nuisance or hazard to life or preventing entry into sewers for their
maintenance or repair;
   (C)   Any solids, greases, waxes, slurries or viscous material of such
character or in such quantity that it, in the opinion of the wastewater
operator, may cause an obstruction to the flow in the sewer, or otherwise
interfere with the proper functioning of the wastewater collection treatment
plant;
   (D)   Any toxic substance, chemical elements or compounds in quantities
sufficient to impair the operation or efficiency of the wastewater treatment
facilities and cause the effluent thereof to exceed state Board of Health water
requirements;
   (E)   Any liquids having a pH lower than five and five-tenths or higher than
nine or having any corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazards to
structures, equipment or personnel of the wastewater collection and treatment
system;
   (F)   Any radioactive isotopes without obtaining a special permit from the
wastewater operator;
   (G)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature greater than 140°F;
   (H)   Any garbage that has not been properly ground; and
   (I)   Any ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, paunch manure, hair or other material capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers or other interference with proper
operation of the wastewater collection treatment system.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-4) (Ord. 92-554, passed 10-21-1992) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.005 APPROVAL REQUIRED FOR WASTEWATER.
   Review and acceptance of the wastewater operator shall be obtained prior to
discharge into the public sewers of any water or wastes having:
   (A)   A total of more than 30 pounds of suspended solids in any one day;
   (B)   A total of more than 30 pounds of BOD in any one day; or
   (C)   An average flow of one one-hundredth mgd or more.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-5) (Ord. 92-554, passed 10-21-1992)
§ 53.006 REFUSAL OF USE OF SYSTEM.
   The wastewater operator may prohibit the discharge into the public sewer of
sewage that does not comply with the limitations set forth in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-6) (Ord. 92-554, passed 10-21-1992)
§ 53.007 CITATION; APPEARANCE.
   Whenever it is, determined by any police officer or other duly authorized
officer that any person has violated any provision of this chapter, the officer
shall provide, in quadruplicate, and serve upon such person a written citation
containing a notice to appear in a designated court of competent jurisdiction
within the city. This citation shall contain the name and address of the person
charged, the offense charged, the time and place when and where the offense
charged occurred, the time when the person charged shall appear in court and
such other pertinent information as may be necessary; and such person shall
appear in court within five days after such citation is issued and served. The
issuance of a citation shall be the exclusive method of summoning offenders
hereunder.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-36) (Ord. 92-554, passed 10-21-1992) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.008 FAILURE TO APPEAR UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail or neglect to appear in response
to and as required by the citation regardless of the disposition of the charge
upon which such citation was originally issued. Appearance in court shall be
deemed complied with upon appearance by the person cited or his or her
attorney.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-37) (Ord. 92-554, passed 10-21-1992) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.009 LIABILITY.
   This chapter shall not be construed to hold the city responsible for any
damage to any sewer user by reason of an interruption in the sewer collection
system by reason of accidents to works or mains, alterations, additions,
repairs or from other unavoidable causes to persons or property. The city shall
also not be held liable for damage to persons or property by reason of the
inspection or testing herein, or the failure to inspect or test or by reason of
approval of any cross-connections.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-38) (Ord. 92-554, passed 10-21-1992)
SEWER USE AND SERVICE
§ 53.020 SEWER SERVICE LINE REQUIREMENT AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Independent sewer service line required.
      (1)   The sewer main line and sewer service line(s) shall be so arranged
that there is a separate and independent sewer service line to each individual
building, place of business or tract of land.
      (2)   After the effective date of the ordinance codified in this chapter,
a separate and independent side sewer (building service line) shall be provided
for every new building connecting to the sanitary sewer system of the city.
Separate side sewers are not required for each trailer space in overnight
trailer courts, nor for each cabin in cabin courts; however, separate side
sewers (sewer service lines) are required for trailer houses or individual lots
or for long-term trailer rental units in mobile home courts.
   (B)   Existing branch service lines. Where sewer service is now provided
through one sewer service line to several customers (branch service lines), the
city, by resolution of its Council, may decline to continue to accept sewage
from the premises until separate sewer service lines are provided at the
owner’s expense. Where more than one dwelling is served from one such service
line, the established rate shall be charged for each customer in the same
manner as if each did, in fact, have an individual sewer service line.
   (C)   Sewer service line maintenance. All sewer users shall keep their
individual service lines in good repair and shall keep them in such good
condition that they shall not allow excessive amounts of ground water to enter
into the sewer system.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-7) (Ord. 92-554, passed 10-21-1992)
§ 53.021 INJURY TO OR TAMPERING WITH SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful to disturb, destroy, damage, adjust, molest, meddle or
otherwise interfere with any portion of the city sewage collection treatment
system or its appurtenances, located on either public or private property.
Should any damage result, either intentionally or unintentionally, from
handling or otherwise tampering with or plugging the sewer system, the violator
shall pay for all costs incurred in connection with the repairs of the system
and/or for any damages that may result from the tampering with or plugging of
the sewer system and may be subject to other civil and criminal fines and
penalties. It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit any substance which
may tend to obstruct the flow of the sewer, in any sewer opening.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-8) (Ord. 92-554, passed 10-21-1992) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.022 INTERCEPTOR OR REMOVAL FACILITIES REQUIRED TO REMOVE HARMFUL
INGREDIENTS.
   Grease, oil and sand interceptors or other necessary removal facilities
shall be installed on the premises when, in the opinion of the wastewater
operator, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes
containing grease in excessive amounts, high concentration of blood, fruit,
vegetable or grain liquors, milk, wastes or any flammable wastes, sand and
other harmful ingredients. All interceptors or removal facilities shall be of a
type and capacity approved by the wastewater operator and shall also be located
as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. When
installed, all grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be maintained by the
owner or occupant, at his or her expense, in continuously efficient operation
at all times.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-9) (Ord. 92-554, passed 10-21-1992)
§ 53.023 DUTIES OF WASTEWATER OPERATOR REGARDING SIDE SEWERS.
   The wastewater operator is hereby empowered, and it is hereby made his or
her duty, in all cases where there is a public sanitary sewer within 300 feet
to notify every owner or person in charge of land, or premises, requiring a
sanitary sewer building connection as specified in §
53.002 of this code to comply with the provisions of that section within 90
days or cease to use or occupy the land. A lessee of land shall be deemed to be
in charge.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-10) (Ord. 92-554, passed 10-21-1992)
§ 53.024 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Installation or alteration of sanitary sewer line. It shall be
unlawful to install or alter or to tap onto or connect to any sanitary sewer
line whether lateral, main or interceptor, without having first obtained from
the city a permit therefor.
   (B)   Application for connection. An application for connection to the city
sewer system shall be made at City Hall and no connection shall be made to any
sewer main without a valid permit therefor having been issued by the city. The
existence of a sewer permit shall in no way be construed as making permissible
any work for which an excavation permit may be required by the city.
   (C)   Excavation permit. No permit shall be granted to do sewer work in any
street, alley or public easement until the applicant shall have first obtained
an excavation permit as required by the city.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-11) (Ord. 92-554, passed 10-21-1992; Ord. 15-811, passed 11-
19-2015) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.025 SIDE SEWER REPAIR, EXTENSION AND INSPECTION.
   (A)   Repair.
      (1)   Responsibility.
         (a)   When any side sewer or private sewer connected with any public
sewer becomes inoperable on private property (outside of any public right-of-
way or easement), the owner, agent or tenant of such premises shall repair the
same at his or her own expense. No person shall finish the construction,
relaying, repair or extension of any side sewer or private sewer until the work
has been inspected by the city.
         (b)   Portions of side sewers within the public right-of-way or
easement shall be repaired by the city when they become inoperable due to a
dilapidated pipe, separations, bellies, collapses, breaks, root intrusion or
ice.
      (2)   Access required. Side sewers or private sewer lines shall have a
clean-out or access point located outside of any structure to allow for
rodding, cleaning and inspecting of the line. If no clean-out or access point
is available, then the owner, agent or tenant shall install one at his or her
expense.
      (3)   Burden of proof. When any side sewer or private sewer connected
with any public sewer line becomes obstructed, it shall be the responsibility
of the owner, agent or tenant of such premises to rod, clean and inspect the
line at his or her own expense to determine the cause of the obstruction.
         (a)   If the cause of the obstruction is on private property (outside
of any public right-of-way or easement), it shall be the responsibility of the
owner, agent or tenant to repair or replace at his or her own expense.
         (b)   If the cause of the failure is found to be in the public right-
of-way or easement, it shall be the responsibility of the city to repair or
replace at the city’s expense. If a foreign object is found to be the cause of
the obstruction within the right-of-way or easement, the city will repair or
replace as needed and shall charge the owner, agent or tenant for the repair
cost.
   (B)   Extension. It shall be unlawful for any person to extend any private
sewer or side sewer beyond the limits of the building or property without the
approval and inspection of the city.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-12) (Ord. 92-554, passed 10-21-1992) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.026 SEWER SERVICE LINE; INSTALLATION, MAINTENANCE
   (A)   Installation by city. When approval and inspection of a sewer service
line (side sewer) has been granted, the sewer tap at the sewer main and the
sewer service line from the sewer main to the property line shall be installed
by the city at the expense of the person or business desiring sewer service,
but thereafter the sewer service line within the public right-of-way or
easement shall be maintained by the Sewer Department at its expense and kept
within and under its exclusive control and jurisdiction.
   (B)   Installation by other than city personnel. All sewer service lines
(side sewers) within any public right-of-way or easements shall be constructed
by the city; except that sewer service lines in any new subdivisions may be
installed as part of the construction of the new sewer collection system within
this subdivision; and provided, further, that these service lines are
constructed, inspected, tested and certified as being in conformance with the
city standard drawings and standard specifications governing the construction
of sewer service lines. Sewer service lines may also be installed by contract
in conjunction with city sponsored projects or when, in the opinion of the
wastewater operator, it is in the city’s best interest to have or allow the
sewer service lines to be installed by other than city personnel.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-13) (Ord. 92-554, passed 10-21-1992)
§ 53.027 RIGHT TO REVOKE PERMISSION.
   Permission given to connect sewers and drains shall be upon the express
condition that the wastewater operator may for good cause revoke the same and
the person making such connection, or his or her successor in interest, shall
have no right to claim any damage in consequence of such permission being
revoked.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-14) (Ord. 92-554, passed 10-21-1992)
§ 53.028 SEWER CONSTRUCTION PLANS, SPECIFICATIONS AND INSPECTION.
   All construction or reconstruction of public, private and side sewers shall
be in accordance with the city standard drawings and standard specifications
and subject to inspection by the city. Plan and profile drawings shall be
prepared for all new sewer mains (whether public or private) and for all
sanitary sewer extensions, reconstructions or renovations; and all such plan
and profile drawings must be reviewed and approved by the Public Works
Superintendent and the state’s Department of Health and Welfare before any
construction work on the sewer lines is started.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-15) (Ord. 92-554, passed 10-21-1992)
§ 53.029 RIGHT TO ENTER PREMISES FOR INSPECTION.
   (A)   Inspection. The wastewater operator shall have the right to enter upon
any premises connected with any public sewer at all reasonable hours to
determine that there is compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Conflict. If conflict is noted, the owner of the premises or his or
her agent shall be directed to alter, repair or reconstruct the sewer
facilities to conform to the requirements of this chapter within 15 days.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-16) (Ord. 92-554, passed 10-21-1992)
§ 53.030 INDUSTRIAL WASTES.
   (A)   Each person or firm desiring to make a connection to the public sewer
for the purpose of discharging industrial wastes thereto shall prepare and file
with the Public Works Superintendent a report that shall include actual or
predicted data relating to the quantity and characteristics of the waste to be
discharged. Private treatment facilities may be authorized by the city;
provided, that all federal, state and local laws and regulations are fully
complied with.
   (B)   Industrial waste charges may be based upon the amount of flow,
biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) and suspended solids or any combination thereof
recommended by the Public Works Superintendent or this chapter.
   (C)   The sewage collection and treatment charges for industrial waste shall
completely pay for all collection and treatment costs associated with wastes.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-17) (Ord. 92-554, passed 10-21-1992)
§ 53.031 SPECIAL AGREEMENTS.
   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed as prohibiting any
special agreement or arrangement between the city and any person or
organization whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may
be admitted to the wastewater collection treatment system either before or
after pretreatment; provided, that there is no impairment of the functioning of
the wastewater treatment system by reason of the admission of such wastes, and
no extra costs are incurred by the city without recompense by this person or
organization.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-18) (Ord. 92-554, passed 10-21-1992)
§ 53.032 EXTENSIONS.
   (A)   Within the city. The wastewater operator shall be authorized to
construct, or cause to be constructed extensions to the sewer system if one of
the following conditions exists.
      (1)   The annual anticipated revenue made available to the city from the
customers to be immediately served by such extension is not less than one-tenth
of the actual cost to the city for the construction of this extension.
      (2)   The city approves a development agreement for the construction of
the extension with a party or parties desiring sewer service. Provided,
however, that subdividers or developers within or adjacent to the city shall
construct at their own expense all sewer mains within their subdivisions or
developments except that the city will be responsible for those sewer line
costs set forth in §
53.048 of this code.
   (B)   Contiguous to city. In areas contiguous to the city that may be
annexed to the city, the city may require such area to be annexed before sewer
service is provided. Prior to annexation the city shall require the execution
and approval of an annexation agreement which shall detail the conditions for
sewer service.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-19) (Ord. 92-554, passed 10-21-1992; Ord. 04-679, passed 12-
1-2004)
SEWER SYSTEM DESIGN
§ 53.045 MATERIALS AND INSTALLATION.
   (A)   Main lines. All sanitary sewer main lines and storm drain main line
materials, manholes, inlet boxes, trench drains and the like, and their
installation shall be in accordance with the city standard specifications of
the construction of sanitary sewer and storm sewers and the applicable standard
drawings depicting various sewer service line installation details.
   (B)   Service lines. All sewer service line materials and their installation
shall be in accordance with the city standard specifications for the
construction of sanitary sewers and storm sewers and the applicable standard
drawings depicting the various sewer service line installation details.
   (C)   Quality. All sewer system materials shall be of the class, strength,
thickness and the like necessary to accommodate or provide for the depth of
cover over the pipe, the type of material and bedding around the pipe and the
type, magnitude and extent of the external loads being applied to the pipe.
   (D)   City approval. All materials must be approved by the Public Works
Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-32) (Ord. 92-554, passed 10-21-1992)
§ 53.046 DESIGN.
   (A)   Plans signed by registered professional engineer. The plans for all
sewer lines, sewage lift stations, sewage treatment facilities and the like
shall be designed, signed and sealed by a registered professional engineer
licensed in the state.
   (B)   Compliance with state’s Health Department requirements. All sewer
lines, lift stations, sewage treatment facilities and the like shall be
designed in accordance with state’s Health Department requirements.
   (C)   Size and capacity. Minimum sanitary sewer main size shall be eight-
inch diameter. Minimum storm drain size shall be eight-inch diameter. Larger
sizes shall be as required by the city’s overall sewer system master plan or as
needed to provide adequate sewage carrying capacity for the area (and
surrounding developable area) being developed and/or annexed to the city.
Minimum service line size shall be four-inch diameter.
   (D)   Depth. In general, sewers shall be sufficiently deep so as to receive
sewage from basements and to prevent freezing. Sewer lines shall have at least
three feet of cover (from the top of sewer line pipe to the ground or street
surface), unless a special design is approved by the Public Works
Superintendent whereby the sewer line is protected from freezing by special
means or methods and the sewer is protected from heaving by the installation of
crushed gravel backfill material under, around and over the pipe.
   (E)   Slope.
      (1)   All sewer mains shall be designed and constructed to provide mean
velocities, when flowing full, of not less than two feet per second (fps). All
sewer service lines (side sewers) shall be designed and constructed to provide
mean velocities, when flowing full of not less than three feet per second. The
following are minimum slopes which should be provided, however, slopes greater
than these are desirable.
Sewer Size Minimum Slope in Feet per 100 Feet
4-inch     2.00
6-inch     1.00
8-inch     0.40
10-inch    0.33
12-inch    0.31
15-inch    0.15
18-inch    0.12
21-inch    0.10
24-inch    0.08
27-inch    0.067
30-inch    0.058
33-inch    0.046
 
      (2)   Under special conditions, if detailed justifiable reasons are
given, slopes slightly less than those required above (i.e., to provide two or
three fps velocity when flowing full) may be permitted. Such decreased slopes
will only be considered where the depth of flow will be three-tenths of the
diameter or greater for the design average flow. Whenever such decreased slopes
are proposed, the design engineer must furnish with his or her report the
computations of the depths of flow in such pipes at the minimum and average
rates of flow for a typical day.
      (3)   Sewers shall be laid with uniform slopes between manholes, i.e., a
manhole shall be constructed at each point where the sewer line slope or grade
changes.
   (F)   Location of manholes. Manholes shall be located no more than 400 feet
apart on lines 15 inches in diameter or smaller. Manholes may be located up to
600 feet apart on lines larger than 15 inches in diameter. Manholes shall be
installed at locations where sewer line eight inches in diameter or larger
intersect, join together or make a bend. All dead-end sewer lines shall have a
manhole installed on the end thereof.
   (G)   Sewer mainline drop through manholes. The following of the main sewer
line as it enters and leaves any manhole shall be dropped as follows:
 
Mainline Bend of Drop of
0 to 10 degrees  (Regular pipe slope)
11 to 45 degrees 0.05
46 to 90 degrees 0.10 feet
 
   (H)   Lateral sewer line connections at manholes. Lateral sanitary sewer
lines shall not enter a manhole at an elevation appreciably higher than the
sewer main line. The flowline(s) of any lateral shall be positioned within the
manhole as follows.
      (1)   The flowline of the main sewer line shall be at least five one-
hundredths foot below the flowline of any of the lateral sewer lines entering
the manhole. Where the diameter of the main line and the lateral line shall
differ by less than five-tenths foot, the top of the lateral line shall be
positioned even with the top of the main line on its high (inlet) side.
      (2)   Where the diameters of the main and lateral differ by five-tenths
of a foot or more, the eight-tenths depth points of the two sewer line inverts
shall be positioned at the same elevation.
      (3)   Where a lateral sewer line would enter a manhole at an elevation of
three feet or more above the main sewer line, drop manhole construction shall
be utilized to locate or position the flowline of the lateral line (in relation
to that of the main line) as indicated above.
      (4)   Where a lateral line would enter a manhole at an elevation of less
than three feet above the main sewer line, the grade or slope of the lateral
shall be adjusted so that its flowline is located (in relation to that of the
main line) as indicated above.
      (5)   Individual building service lines may not enter manholes, except
that no more than two individual building service lines may enter a dead-end
manhole (a manhole on the upstream and permanent end of a sewer line); and
provided further, that the individual building service lines must enter the
manhole at such elevation that the top of the service line is level with the
top to the sewer main line and that the poured-in-place concrete floor of the
manhole brings the flowlines of the service lines into the flowline of the main
line in a smooth continuous manner.
   (I)   Location of water and sewer lines and storm drains. Sanitary sewer
lines and water lines shall, whenever possible, be located 13 feet west or
north of the street center line and the sanitary sewer at 13 feet east or south
of the street center line. Where storm drains are needed, these shall
preferably be located along the street center line. The locations and
dimensions referenced in this division (I) may be varied to accommodate unusual
circumstances; however, a ten-foot (out-to-out) horizontal separation between
water line facilities and sewer facilities (either sanitary or storm) and an
18-inch (out-to-out) vertical separation between these facilities shall always
be maintained unless a specific variance to this requirement is obtained from
the Public Works Superintendent. The applicable separation requirements of the
state’s Health Department shall also be complied with.
   (J)   Drawings. All drawing shall be on linen or Mylar in pencil or ink and
of such quality that they clearly show the dimensions, locations, sizes and the
like, of all facilities represented thereon. All sewer line manholes, inlet
boxes, building service lines and the like, shall be clearly shown and
identified by name and by station or other means of horizontal location. Sewer
lines shall be shown in both plan and profile unless the length of the sewer
line or sewer extension is so short that the Public Works Superintendent waives
this requirement. If a profile of the sewer line is not provided, it shall be
located in the vertical plane by elevations on the flowline of the pipe at all
manholes, inlet boxes and the like, and at other such locations and intervals
as the Public Works Superintendent may require. Drawings shall be drawn on a
scale of one inch equals 100 feet unless the amount of detail, topography and
the like, necessitates their being drawn on a larger scale (i.e., one inch
equals 50 feet or one inch equals 40 feet) to provide the clarity and
completeness needed on their drawings.
   (K)   Design. The design of all sewer lines and all sewer line plans must be
approved by the Public Works Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-33) (Ord. 92-554, passed 10-21-1992)
§ 53.047 AS-BUILT DRAWINGS AND ENGINEER’S CERTIFICATION.
   (A)   Drawings. As-built or record drawings of sewer line plans shall be
prepared by a professional engineer and the corrected original drawings or a
duplicate Mylar copy of the corrected original drawing(s) shall be provided to
the city.
   (B)   Certification by engineer. As-built plans shall include a
certification thereon signed by the registered professional engineer in charge
of the work that the as-built drawings of the sewer lines are true and correct
and that he or she (the registered professional engineer) has inspected the
construction of the sewer line installation and that the materials and
installation of same were all done in conformance with the city standard
specifications for the construction of sanitary sewers and storm sewers.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-34) (Ord. 92-554, passed 10-21-1992)
§ 53.048 SUBDIVISION DEVELOPER’S OR PROPERTY OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Sewer lines.
      (1)   Owner or developer, construction responsibility.
         (a)   The owner or developer of any piece of property or tract of land
is responsible for the construction of the sewer line (or for the sewer line
costs) along any of the property sides or frontages of the property along which
a sewer line is needed for the overall completeness and continuity of the
city’s sewer main system. If it is a large tract of land, the owner or
developer shall also be responsible for the necessary and required system of
sewer lines within the interior of the tract of land.
         (b)   The owner or developer of any piece of property shall construct
all needed sewer lines (of the approved size) within and along all sides or
frontages of any piece of property prior to the time any building constructed
thereon is occupied or utilized unless phased construction of the sewer main
system is specifically allowed or provided for in the annexation or development
agreement. In lieu of actually constructing the required sewer line or sewer
lines, the property owner or developer may deposit adequate monies with the
city to fully cover the cost(s) of the required sewer line construction.
      (2)   City responsibility.
         (a)   The owner or developer of any property or subdivision will
normally be responsible only for the cost of up to an eight-inch diameter
sanitary sewer line. The additional cost of providing a sanitary sewer line of
a size greater than eight inches will normally be a city responsibility. The
city will reimburse the developer for the extra cost of the additional sanitary
sewer line size (over the eight-inch diameter size reference above) as set
forth in the annexation or development agreement between the developer and the
city. Provided further, however, that if any proposed subdivision or
development is of such size or magnitude that it requires or necessitates a
sewer size larger than an eight-inch diameter line or if the type of
development is such as to produce a wastewater flow in excess of the capacity
of an eight-inch diameter sewer line, then the owner or developer of the
subdivision or development shall be responsible for the entire cost of whatever
size of sewer line is needed to accommodate such development.
         (b)   The additional cost of providing any extra sewer line depth
required by the city (over and above the sewer line depth required to
adequately serve the owner’s or developer’s property when assuming at least a
12-foot sewer line depth at the uppermost end of the sewer line extended
through or along the property) will be a city responsibility and the city will
reimburse the owner or developer for the cost of the extra depth of sewer line
as agreed upon and as set forth in the annexation or development agreement
between the developer and the city.
      (3)   Sharing of costs.
         (a)   If the property owner or developer owns or is developing the
property on only one side (as compared to both sides) of any street, alley or
easement where a sewer line is located or required, he or she shall be
responsible for only one-half of the cost of the sewer line, while the property
owner on the other side of the street, alley or easement shall be responsible
for the other half of the cost of the sewer line construction. However, in the
absence of any mutual agreement between the property owners, the city may
participate with the first owner or developer to the extent of paying for one-
half the cost of any eight-inch diameter sewer line access to the property
frontage. The second property owner will thereafter be responsible for
reimbursing the city for his or her half of the costs of this sewer line
construction at the time he or she (the second property owner or developer)
begins to develop or build upon this property that is adjacent to the sewer
line installed by the first property owner.
         (b)   Provided further, however, that if the length of the sewer line
construction in which the city would be participating (as referred to above)
exceeds 1,000 lineal feet, the city may decline to participate in the cost of
this sewer line construction except to pay for the extra cost differential
between the size and depth of sewer line required to serve the development and
the actual size and depth of line that the city designates shall be installed
to meet the requirements of its sewer system master plan. When this situation
or set of circumstances exists, the property owner or developer who first
initiates or actually begins the development of his or her property, shall be
responsible for “front ending” the entire cost of the sewer line construction
and for actually constructing the sewer line. The second (or other) property
owner(s) will thereafter be responsible for reimbursing the property owner for
his or her share of the costs of the sewer along with his or her frontage at
the time the other adjacent property owners or developers, begin(s) to develop
or build upon his or her property adjacent to the sewer line installed by the
first property owner. In the absence of any agreement between the first
property owner or developers covering the cost of the sewer line(s), the
referenced other adjacent owners or developers shall pay to the city per lineal
foot (or such other amount as the city may hereinafter establish and adopt by
resolution) for the length of sewer line across his or her frontage. The city,
in turn, will reimburse this same amount to the first party, which
reimbursement shall be deemed adequate and appropriate compensation for his or
her share of the cost of the sewer line.
   (B)   Sewage lift station. Sewer mains shall be kept as deep as practicable
to keep sewage lift stations to the smallest number possible. When a sewage
lift station and its related facilities is required, it and the sewer main
system directing sewage to it shall generally be designed for an entire
definable area and not just to serve a single property owner or developer. The
cost and maintenance of the sewage lift station shall be the responsibility of
the developer or owner. Upon acceptance and approval by the city, the city will
be responsible for maintenance.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-35) (Ord. 92-554, passed 10-21-1992; Ord. 15-811, passed 11-
19-2015)
SEWER USER CHARGES
§ 53.060 SYSTEM OF CHARGES.
   All systems of charges and fees to users, within the city, shall assure that
each recipient of wastewater collection and treatment services will pay its
proportionate share of the costs of operation and maintenance (including
equipment replacement) of any waste collection and treatment services provided
by the city.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-20) (Ord. 92-554, passed 10-21-1992)
§ 53.061 SEWER CONNECTION FEE.
   (A)   Rates. Before any sewer connection permit is issued for the
installation of any sewer service connection (side sewer), the person making
the application therefor shall pay to the city, a sewer connection fee as set
by resolution for each sewer connection per dwelling unit (single-family,
duplexes and multiple living units if served by separate service lines), per
mobile home lot if located in mobile home courts or mobile home subdivisions,
per motel, cabin courts or travel trailer courts and per commercial building.
The rate is applicable to a standard four-inch connection. Any request for a
different size connection will have a rate charged as determined by the Public
Works Committee with approval by the City Council. Industrial facilities
connection rates will also be established individually.
   (B)   Exception. The above-referenced sewer connection fee will not apply to
or be charged against the reconstruction of any existing sewer service line
serving any existing dwelling, building, etc., unless the developer or owner is
constructing a different sized line. It is intended that this sewer connection
fee be charged only where a new building is being constructed upon previously
undeveloped property or in instances when larger sized connections are needed
due to business expansion. These fees may be changed from time to time, by
resolution of the city as such changes are deemed necessary.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-21) (Ord. 92-554, passed 10-21-1992; Ord. 15-811, passed 11-
19-2015)
§ 53.062 SEWER MAIN CONSTRUCTION CHARGE.
   (A)   Rate. Hereafter, any person, before obtaining a permit to connect to
any public sanitary sewer, whether lateral, main or interceptor, shall pay a
sewer main charge therefor, at a rate per front foot of property to be served
by the permit. This sewer main construction charge shall be in addition to any
other connection fees or permits required. Provided, however, that no sewer
main construction charge shall be required if the sewer service connection is
within a subdivision having been platted since 1975 and within which the
sanitary sewer system has been constructed at the expense of the developer of
the subdivision. This charge may be changed from time to time by resolution of
the city as such change is deemed necessary.
   (B)   Property being annexed. The sewer main construction charge in division
(A) above applies only to property within the city limits. The sewer main
construction charge for property being annexed to the city shall be set forth
in the annexation agreement.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-22) (Ord. 92-554, passed 10-21-1992; Ord. 15-811, passed 11-
19-2015)
§ 53.063 SERVICE LINE INSTALLATION FEE.
   (A)   Rate. At the time an applicant applies for city sewer service, a
service line installation fee shall be charged. The service line installation
fee is to cover the costs incurred by the city in installing the sewer service
line from, and including the sewer tap at the main to the property line. The
service line installation fee for the various sizes of service lines shall
include a sewer saddle and repair of asphalt street surfacing per square foot.
   (B)   Review of fees and costs. Fees and costs shall be reviewed annually
and revised by resolution of the city so that the fees and costs adequately
cover the costs actually incurred by the city in installing these service
lines.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-23) (Ord. 92-554, passed 10-21-1992; Ord. 15-811, passed 11-
19-2015)
§ 53.064 SERVICE CALL CHARGES.
   The city may require a service charge in an amount not to exceed the actual
costs to the city, for service calls which are only for the convenience and
benefit of the customer.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-24) (Ord. 92-554, passed 10-21-1992; Ord. 15-811, passed 11-
19-2015)
§ 53.065 MONTHLY SEWER RATES.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   This treatment work is primarily dependent and will use the
equivalent user concept. The equivalent user system has been set up based on
flow.
      (2)   A sewer user charge shall be levied on all users of the sewage
collection and treatment facilities, to cover the actual or estimated cost of
operation, maintenance, replacement and financing of this facility. The user
charge system shall distribute these costs to each user or user class in
approximate portion to such user’s contribution to the total wastewater load of
such facilities.
   (B)   Basis for rates. The sewer user rates for each user (or user class)
shall be based on the user’s contribution to the total wastewater loading of
the treatment facilities in comparison to a standard equivalent user as defined
below. Each user (or user class) shall be assigned an equivalent user number to
be multiplied by a constant monthly factor to determine the basic user monthly
rate. Special users contributing sewage of excessive flow and/or strength, for
which the tabulated equivalent users below do not apply, shall be individually
calculated as provided below. The constant monthly cost factor shall be set by
resolution of the city.
   (C)   Equivalent user. One equivalent user shall be defined as contributing
210 gallons per day of wastewater containing not more than seven-tenths pounds
of five-day BOD and five-tenths pounds of suspended solids. The equivalent user
flow has been developed from population and sewage usage records which indicate
an average single dwelling unit has three and five-tenths people contributing
70 gallons per day per person. Standard engineering data indicates two-tenths
pounds of five-day BOD and 14 one-hundredths pounds of suspended solids
respectively per person per day. The basic equivalent user shall be subject to
revision if population, water usage, sewage volume and/or other information
indicates flow and/or strength significantly different from that defined
herein. Revisions of the basic equivalent user criteria shall normally only be
made upon the recommendation of a registered professional engineer.
   (D)   Equivalent user schedule. The number of equivalent users to be
assigned each user and/or user class shall be in accordance with the following
equivalent user schedule. Assignment of equivalent users shall apply for one
year until the next annual user charge review. Users so indicated or not
included in this schedule shall be considered special users and shall be
evaluated separately as sewage contributed by any of the following users is in
excess in provided below. If the information indicates that the strength of
comparison with the allowable limits listed above, then a surcharge shall be
levied against such users as provided below. Any of the users in the following
schedule may be classified as special users if information on their
contribution flow and/or strength indicates a need to do so. A single user
having more than one classification of use shall be the sum of the fees. The
minimum monthly sewer user charge shall be one equivalent user.
Equivalent User Schedule (1.0 Minimum)
Classification Equivalent Users
Equivalent User Schedule (1.0 Minimum)
Classification                         Equivalent Users
Beauty shop/barber shop                1.0 per business
Bowling alley                          0.5 per alley
Car washes                             1.0 per bay
Churches                               1.0 church & parish
   plus                             1.0 gym
Daycare/kindergarten                   0.0278 per student
Duplex                                 1.0 per unit
Grade school                           0.034 per student
Laundromats                            0.5 per machine
Lodges and halls                       1.0 per 300 seats
Lounges                                0.056 per seat
Motel/hotel                            0.23 per room
Multi-family with washer facilities    1.0 per unit
Multi-family without washer facilities 0.67 per unit
Permanent mobile home                  1.0 per unit
Professional offices                   1.0 1-13 employees
                                       1.5 14-20 employees
                                       2.0 21-26 employees
Recreational vehicle park              0.13 per RV space
Restaurants                             
   3 meal/day                       0.17 per seat
   2 meal/day                       0.11 per seat
   1 meal/day                       0.056 per seat
Retail-commercial                      1.0 1-15 employees
                                       1.5 16-22 employees
                                       2.0 23-30 employees
Secondary school                       0.053 per student
Single-family                          1.0 per house
Theater                                0.02 per seats
 
      (1)   Residential users. Single-family homes, duplexes, multi-family
units, apartments, mobile home parks;
      (2)   Business and professional offices. Retail commercial, professional
retail service;
      (3)   Commercial. Laundromats, service stations, restaurants, daycare,
mortuary, hotels, motels and the like;
      (4)   Institutional. Churches, lodges, schools; and
      (5)   Industrial. Those producing a finished product which involves the
disposing of a waste material to the sewage system.
   (E)   Surcharge for excessive strength. When any user contributes wastewater
having an average BOD and/or suspended loading in excess of the designated
allowable limits hereinafter designated, a surcharge shall be levied against
such user. This surcharge shall be based on the average degree of excessive
loading, and applied as a percentage of the basic user charge as provided in
the above schedule, or otherwise for special users. The BOD and suspended
solids loading shall be determined from estimates or tests made by city
officials or its Public Works Superintendent. A copy of the list of users
surcharged, the characteristics of their sewage and the surcharge for each
shall be kept on file at all times in the office of the Clerk. The user’s
monthly surcharge shall be computed by use of the following equation.
      US = [(b/B)-1 + (s/S)-11 x(UMC)]
      (1)   US represents the user’s monthly surcharge to be added to the basic
user’s monthly charge;
      (2)   UMC represents the basic user’s monthly charge (for treatment only)
and shall not be less than one;
      (3)   b represents the average BOD loading above which is a user’s
wastewater contribution, expressed in parts per million;
      (4)   B represents the allowable limit of BOD loading above which a
user’s surcharge shall be levied, hereby designated as being 200 parts per
million;
      (5)   s represents the average suspended solids loading of the user’s
wastewater contribution, expressed in parts per million; and
      (6)   S represents the allowable limit of suspended solids loading above
which a user’s surcharge shall be levied, hereby designated as being 140 parts
per million.
   (F)   Special users. If, in addition to excessive strength, a user is
determined to add flow to the wastewater treatment facilities in excess of
6,500 gallons per month, the above formula shall be increased by a factor of
total flow divided by 6,500 gallons per month multiplied by one equivalent
user. In order to determine the flow of this special user, the city may monitor
sewage and water flow in order to determine total flow. The value of UMC used
in the formula above will be the same value as assigned single dwelling units.
A copy of the list of special users, the characteristics of their sewage and
the special user’s monthly charge shall be kept on file at all times in the
office of the Clerk.
   (G)   Review and revisions of rates. The sewer user charges shall, at a
minimum, be reviewed annually and updated by resolution of the city to reflect
actual costs of operation, maintenance, replacement and financing of the sewage
collection and treatment facilities. Any revisions of the user charges shall be
based on actual operation, maintenance, replacement and financing expenses,
and/or on significant changes in the total number of equivalent users, the
total daily flow, the total daily BOD, and/or the total suspended solids. The
city may install flow measuring devices and/or collect wastewater samples at
any time in any user’s service line to determine actual usage as a basis for
revisions of the user’s charge. Revisions due only to changes in expenses and
user class shall be made by the city. Revisions involving user’s flow, BOD and/
or suspended solids shall normally only be made upon the recommendation of a
registered professional engineer. All changes in user charges applicable to
this chapter shall be computed by the methods outlined herein.
   (H)   User request for rate change. Any sewer user, who feels his or her
user charge is unjust and inequitable as applied to his or her premises within
the spirit and intent of the foregoing provisions, may make written application
to the city requesting a review of the user charge. This written request shall,
where necessary, show the actual or estimated average flow and strength of his
or her wastewater in comparison with the values upon which the change is based,
including how the measurements or estimates were made. Any flow measurements
and/or testing of wastewater shall be approved in detail by the city and/or its
Public Works Superintendent. Review of the request by the city shall determine
if it is substantiated or not, including recommended further study of the
matter for the city and/or user by a registered professional engineer.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-25) (Ord. 92-554, passed 10-21-1992)
§ 53.066 METERED SERVICE.
   Whenever the city shall deem it appropriate and in the best interests of the
city and its citizens to require a user to have the sewer and/or water service
to his or her facilities metered to more appropriately determine the amount of
service provided such user by the system, the city may by resolution require
the user to install a meter and/or meters which will accurately measure the
service provided; and the city may further establish by resolution the rates to
be charged for such service as will properly pay the fair share of the services
provided such user. The cost of the meter and its installation shall be borne
by the user.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-26) (Ord. 92-554, passed 10-21-1992)
§ 53.067 BILLING PROCEDURE AND PERIOD.
   (A)   Rate. Accounts shall be charged a rate in accordance with the rate
schedule found in §
53.065 of this code or as such may hereinafter be amended and revised by the
city and may be included separately or in conjunction with the monthly water
bill.
   (B)   Monthly statement. The Clerk shall furnish to each property owner,
landlord, tenant or agent, a monthly statement of the amount due for sewer
service for that month. The failure of any service user to receive notice or
statement will in no way affect the obligation of the user to remit monthly as
required.
   (C)   Initial billing. The initial billing for premises occupied less than
one month shall be charged only for that portion of the month during which the
premises were occupied.
   (D)   Deposit required.
      (1)   Each owner, tenant or lessee of property, before utility services
are furnished, shall pay a refundable deposit. The amount collected may be
amended by resolution of the City Council.
      (2)   All such deposits shall be placed in a reserve account managed by
the Treasurer/Finance Director.
      (3)   Refundable deposits may be transferred to another physical address
on the city utility system if current bill is paid in full and upon written
request from the owner, tenant or lessee of notice of transfer of the account
to a different address.
      (4)   If city utility bills have been paid in full and on time for the
last 12 consecutive months, a credit will be added to the account in the amount
of the deposit.
      (5)   In the event that an account becomes into arrears for a period of
longer than 60 days, the deposit will be applied to the amount in arrears.
Before the service to the owner, tenant or lessee resumes, the amount in
arrears must be paid in full and a new deposit shall be submitted to the city.
      (6)   Upon vacating the premises, the city will be notified immediately.
The owner, tenant or lessee will, at that time, submit a written request, which
shall be furnished by the city, for a refund and furnish a forwarding address.
The refundable deposit will then be transferred to the appropriate Utility Fund
of the city and credited to the account. The balance of the account, if any,
shall be refunded to the person making the deposit, his or her heir or a
personal representative within 30 days of the written request.
      (7)    No interest will be paid on funds to be returned. If such refund
cannot be made within three months because of the unknown whereabouts of the
person making the deposit, the balance of the deposit shall be placed in the
appropriate utility fund.
   (E)   Waiver of payment. When any person determines his or her home,
business and the like is destroyed and/or uninhabitable for an extended time
due to circumstances beyond his control such as fire, flood, wind or some other
act of God, he or she may apply in writing to the Utility Clerk for a waiver of
payment of his or her city monthly water service fee and city monthly sewer
fee. This waiver must be approved by the City Council. Approval is at the City
Council’s discretion and is not automatic based upon the fact that a building
is destroyed and/or uninhabitable. This waiver shall not exceed six months’
time period. The time period may be extended upon further application. Criteria
to be considered by the City Council shall include:
      (1)   The cause of the damage;
      (2)   The extent of the damage;
      (3)   The property owner’s intent as to whether or not he or she plans to
rebuild;
      (4)   Estimated time period to rebuild or repair damage; and
      (5)   City services are not available.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-27) (Ord. 92-554, passed 10-21-1992; Ord. 05-700, passed 10-
5-2005; Ord. 15-811, passed 11-19-2015)
§ 53.068 DUE DATE.
   Bills rendered for sewer service are payable upon receipt and become past
due 25 days from the date on which rendered. When the past due date falls on a
legal holiday or on a date when city offices are not open for business, the
next regular business day is considered the past due date. When remittances are
made by mail, bills shall be deemed paid upon receipt.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-28) (Ord. 92-554, passed 10-21-1992; Ord. 15-811, passed 11-
19-2015)
§ 53.069 DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS.
   (A)   When the delinquent portion of utility bills are not paid by the
eighteenth of the following month, the city shall discontinue water service to
such delinquent customers without any further notice. In case service is
discontinued for delinquency, it shall not be restored until the delinquency is
paid in addition to a fee which shall be set by resolution for discontinuing
and restoring service. After payment in full has been received by the city, the
service shall be restored within 24 hours excluding weekends and holidays. A
service charge of 1.5% will be added to the unpaid balance at the end of each
month.
   (B)   In the event that a delinquent customer fails to pay his or her bill
within the time set forth above, the city may discontinue water service or
remove or close sewer connections, and enter upon property for accomplishing
such purposes. In cases where the property is occupied by a tenant, and the
tenant moves out, the account must be paid in full before the city will restore
and/or transfer water service for the property. This holds the tenant and
homeowner equally responsible for the outstanding account.
   (C)   The expense of digging up and plugging the sewer service line as well
as the expense of restoring the sewer line back to an operable condition is the
responsibility of the property owner.
   (D)   Any customer disputing the correctness of his or her bill shall have a
right to a hearing, at which time he or she may be represented in person and by
counsel or any other person of his or her choosing, and may present orally or
in writing his or her complaint and contentions to the city official in charge
of utility billing. This official shall be authorized to order that the
customer’s service not be discontinued and shall have the authority to make a
final determination of the customer’s complaint.
   (E)   Requests for delays or waivers of payment will not be entertained;
only questions of proper and correct billing will be considered. In the absence
of payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing procedure provided in
division (D) above, service will be discontinued at the time specified, but in
no event until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30 days.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-29) (Ord. 92-554, passed 10-21-1992; Ord. 15-811, passed 11-
19-2015)
§ 53.070 SEWER SERVICE DISCONTINUANCE FEE.
   When any person determines that his or her home, business and the like is
going to be vacant, not used or shut down for an extended period of time, he or
she may notify the city. Every residential and commercial connection to the
city wastewater collection and treatment system shall pay the minimum monthly
base charge, set by the City Council in accordance with §
53.065 of this code, for each month, or part thereof, for every month that
wastewater disposal and treatment services are available to the property by
connection. The monthly minimum base charge shall only be waived upon complete
disconnection from the city wastewater collection and treatment system. All
requests for disconnection must be approved by the City Council. The fee for
reconnection shall be the same as the new connection fee as set forth in §
53.061 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-30) (Ord. 92-554, passed 10-21-1992; Ord. 04-679, passed 12-
1-2004)
§ 53.071 WASTEWATER COLLECTION AND TREATMENT SYSTEM IMPROVEMENT FUND.
   There is hereby established a Wastewater Collection and Treatment
Improvement Fund to be maintained by the Finance Director/Treasurer in managing
the fiscal affairs of the city. All revenues derived from the charging of any
fees, charges, rates and the like as such are set forth herein shall be
deposited in this fund and shall be disbursed only for the purposes of paying
existing or future indebtedness connected with or relating to maintaining,
repairing, studying, controlling, enlarging, extending, enhancing or improving
the wastewater collection and treatment system of the city.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-31) (Ord. 92-554, passed 10-21-1992)
§ 53.999 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of an
infraction and, upon conviction thereof, may be subject to penalty as provided
in §
10.99 of this code. Each day the violation occurs shall be a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-39) (Ord. 92-554, passed 10-21-1992)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC RULES
      
71.   PARKING RULES
      
72.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC RULES
Section
   
70.01   State laws adopted
   
70.02   Certain vehicles restricted
   
70.03   Speed limits
   
70.04   Funeral and other processions
   
70.05   Stopping for loading or unloading only
   
70.06   Bus regulations
   
70.07   Prohibited and restricted acts
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 STATE LAWS ADOPTED.
   A certain document, three copies of which are on file in the office of the
Clerk, and designated as Idaho Motor Vehicle Laws, Rules of the Road, Chapters
1, 2, 6, 7, 8, 13 and 14, Idaho Code Title 49, published by authority of the
Department of Law Enforcement, Boise, Idaho, is hereby adopted as the Motor
Vehicle Code of the city for the regulation of motor vehicles within the city.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-1)
§ 70.02 CERTAIN VEHICLES RESTRICTED.
   (A)   Load restrictions. When signs are erected by authority of the City
Council giving notice thereof, it shall be unlawful for any person to operate
any vehicle with a gross weight in excess of the amounts specified.
   (B)   Use restrictions.
      (1)   The Chief of Police or designee and the Public Works Department is
hereby authorized to determine and designate those heavily traveled streets
upon which shall be prohibited the use of the roadway by motor-driven cycles,
bicycles, horse-drawn vehicles or other nonmotorized traffic and shall erect
appropriate signs giving notice thereof.
      (2)   When signs are so erected giving notice thereof, it shall be
unlawful for any person to disobey the restrictions stated on such signs.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-2) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 SPEED LIMITS.
   Every person operating a motor vehicle on the public streets or alleys of
the city shall drive the same in a careful and prudent manner, and, unless
otherwise posted, the speed of the vehicle shall not exceed 20 mph in general;
and, along school grounds, shall not exceed 15 mph; and, in a public park,
shall not exceed ten mph; and, in no case, at a rate of speed that will
endanger the property of another for the life and limb of a person.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-3) (Ord. 73-390, passed 1-22-1973; Ord. 07-711, passed 2-7-
2007) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.04 FUNERAL AND OTHER PROCESSIONS.
   (A)   Driving through funeral or other procession. It shall be unlawful for
a driver of a vehicle to drive between vehicles comprising a funeral or other
authorized procession while they are in motion and when such vehicles are
conspicuously designated.
   (B)   Drivers in a procession. Each driver in a funeral or other procession
shall drive as near to the right-hand edge of the roadway as practical and
shall follow the vehicle ahead as close as is practical and safe.
   (C)   Funeral processions to be identified. A funeral composed of a
procession of vehicles shall be identified as such by police or funeral home
escort with headlights of all vehicles in the procession turned on or by such
other method designated by the Chief of Police or designee.
   (D)   Permits required for parades and processions. It shall be unlawful for
any funeral procession or parade containing persons or vehicles to occupy,
march or proceed along any street except in accordance with a permit issued by
the Chief of Police or designee and the City Council and such other regulations
as are set forth.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-4) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 STOPPING FOR LOADING OR UNLOADING ONLY.
   (A)   Curb zone designation. The Chief of Police or designee and Public
Works Department is hereby authorized to determine the location of passenger
and freight curb loading zones and the Public Works Department shall place and
maintain appropriate signs indicating the same and stating the hours during
which the provisions of this section are applicable.
   (B)   Curb loading zones permits. The Chief of Police or designee and Public
Works Department shall not hereafter designate or sign any curb loading zone
upon special request of any person unless such person makes application for a
permit for such zone and for two signs to indicate the ends of each such zone.
This permit fee shall be as set and designated by the City Council.
   (C)   Standing in passenger curb loading zone. It shall be unlawful for any
person to stop, stand or park a vehicle for any purpose or period of time other
than for the expeditious loading or unloading of passengers in any place marked
as a passenger curb loading zone during the hours when the regulations
applicable to such curb loading zone are effective and then only for a period
not to exceed three minutes.
   (D)   Standing in freight curb loading zone. It shall be unlawful for any
person to stop, stand or park a vehicle for any purpose or length of time other
than for the expeditious unloading and delivery or pickup and loading of
materials in any place marked as a freight curb loading zone during hours when
the provisions applicable to such zones are in effect. In no case shall the
stop for loading or unloading of materials exceed 30 minutes.
   (E)   Public carrier stop and stands designations. The Chief of Police or
designee and Public Works Department is hereby authorized and required to
establish bus stops, bus stands, taxicab stands and stands for other passenger
common-carrier motor vehicles on such public streets in such places and in such
manner as the Chief of Police or designee and Public Works Department shall
determine to be of the greatest benefit and convenience to the public and every
such bus stop, bus stand, taxicab stand or other stands shall be designated by
appropriate signs.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-5) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.06 BUS REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Stopping, standing and parking.
      (1)   The operator of a bus shall not stand or park such vehicle upon any
street at any place other than at a bus stand so designated.
      (2)   The operator of a bus shall not stop such vehicle upon any street
at any place for the purpose of loading or unloading passengers or their
baggage other than at a bus stop, bus stand or passenger loading zone so
designated except in case of an emergency.
      (3)   The operator of a bus shall enter a bus stop, bus stand or
passenger loading zone on a public street in such a manner that the bus when
stopped to load or unload passengers or baggage shall be in a position with the
right front wheel of such vehicle not farther than 18 inches from the curb and
the bus approximately parallel to the curb so as not to impede unduly the
movement of other vehicular traffic.
   (B)   Restricted use of bus stands. It shall be unlawful for any person to
stop, stand or park a vehicle other than a bus in a bus stand, except that the
driver of a passenger vehicle may temporarily stop therein for the purpose of
and while actually engaged in loading or unloading passengers when such
stopping does not interfere with any bus.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-6) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.07 PROHIBITED AND RESTRICTED ACTS.
   (A)   Following fire apparatus prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any
driver of any vehicle other than one on official business to follow any fire
apparatus traveling in response to a fire alarm closer than 500 feet or drive
or park such vehicle within the block where fire apparatus has stopped in
answer to a fire alarm.
   (B)   Crossing fire hose. It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or
permit any vehicle to be driven over any unprotected hose of the Fire
Department when laid down on any street or private driveway to be used at any
fire or alarm of fire without the consent of the Fire Department official in
command.
   (C)   Vehicles on sidewalks. It shall be unlawful for the driver of a
vehicle to drive within any sidewalk area except at a permanent or temporary
driveway. No vehicle shall be parked within any sidewalk area.
   (D)   Limitations on backing. It shall be unlawful for any driver of a
vehicle to back the same unless such movement can be made with reasonable
safety and without interfering with other traffic.
   (E)   Riding on motorcycles. A person operating a motorcycle shall ride only
upon a permanent and regular seat attached thereto, and such operator shall not
carry any other person nor shall any other person ride on a motorcycle unless
such motorcycle is designed to carry more than one person.
   (F)   Clinging to vehicles. It shall be unlawful for any person riding upon
a bicycle, coaster, roller skates, sled or toy vehicle to attach the same or
himself or herself to any vehicle upon a roadway.
   (G)   Use of privately-owned property to avoid signs. It shall be unlawful
for any person to use privately-owned property for the purpose of avoiding
compliance with the traffic signs and signals within the city limits. Nothing
in this chapter, however, shall be construed to prevent or prohibit the lawful
use of the premises.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-7) (Ord. 68-368, passed 3-4-1968) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any violation of any of the provisions of the Idaho Motor Vehicle Laws
as adopted in §
70.01 of this chapter shall be subject to penalty as provided in §
10.99 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-8)
CHAPTER 71: PARKING RULES
Section
   
71.01   Standing or parking close to curb
   
71.02   Angle parking
   
71.03   Parking prohibited in specific places
   
71.04   Obstructing traffic
   
71.05   Prohibited parking
   
71.06   Parking time limited
   
71.07   Parking adjacent to schools
   
71.08   Parking on narrow streets
   
71.09   Parking on one-way streets
   
71.10   Lights on parked vehicles
   
71.11   Leaving vehicle unattended
   
71.12   Parking spaces for persons with disabilities
   
71.13   Parking tickets and procedures
 
   
71.99   Penalty
§ 71.01 STANDING OR PARKING CLOSE TO CURB.
   (A)   Parallel parking. Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, every
vehicle stopped or parked upon a roadway where there are adjacent curbs shall
be so stopped or parked with the right-hand wheels of such vehicle parallel to
and within 18 inches of the right-hand curb.
   (B)   Permit for loading or unloading at angle to curb.
      (1)   The Chief of Police or designee is authorized to issue special
permits for the backing of a vehicle to the curb for the purpose of loading or
unloading merchandise or materials subject to the terms and conditions of such
permit. Such permits may be issued either to the owner or lessee of real
property or to the owner of the vehicle.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any permittee or other person to violate
any of the special terms or conditions of any such permit.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-1) (Ord. 80-447, passed 11-3-1980) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02 ANGLE PARKING.
   The Chief of Police or designee shall determine upon what streets angle
parking shall be permitted and the Public Works Department shall mark or sign
such streets. On those streets which have been signed or marked for angle
parking, no person shall park or stand a vehicle other than at the angle to the
curb or edge of the roadway indicated by such markings.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-2) (Ord. 80-447, passed 11-3-1980)
§ 71.03 PARKING PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIC PLACES.
   (A)   Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic, or in
compliance with law or the directions of a police officer or official traffic-
control device, no person shall:
      (1)   Stop, stand or park a vehicle;
         (a)   On a sidewalk or parkway;
         (b)   Within an intersection;
         (c)   On a crosswalk;
         (d)   Within five feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
         (e)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
         (f)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway or
within a highway tunnel;
         (g)   At any place where signs posted at the direction or under the
authority of the Chief of Police or designee prohibits such stopping; or
         (h)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless the
Chief of Police or designee and Public Works Department has indicated a
different length of a zone by signs or markings.
      (2)   Stand or park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except
momentarily to pick up or discharge a passenger or passengers:
         (a)   In front of a public or private driveway;
         (b)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
         (c)   Within 14 feet of a corner, except at an intersection where a
traffic control signal is in operation;
         (d)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station and
on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75
feet of the entrance when properly signposted;
         (e)   Within 14 feet upon the approach to any flashing signal, stop
sign, yield sign or traffic control signal located at the side of a roadway; or
         (f)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge
or curb of a street.
      (3)   Park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except temporarily for the
purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading merchandise or
passengers:
         (a)   At any place where official signs prohibit parking; or
         (b)   Along any yellow painted curb.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to move a vehicle not lawfully
under his or her control into any such prohibited area or away from a curb such
distance as is unlawful.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-3) (Ord. 80-447, passed 11-3-1980) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04 OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   No person shall park any vehicle upon a street or highway in such a manner
or under such conditions as to leave available less than 12 feet of such
roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-4) (Ord. 80-447, passed 11-3-1980) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.05 PROHIBITED PARKING.
   (A)   Parking in alleys. No person shall park a vehicle within an alley.
   (B)   Extended parking. No person shall park a vehicle upon any street,
alley or public property for a period of 72 hours or longer.
   (C)   Business district.
      (1)   All night parking. The Chief of Police or designee is hereby
authorized to direct the Public Works Department to erect signs prohibiting all
night parking upon any street within the business district of the city.
      (2)   Truck parking. Parking of trucks and/or truck trailers is hereby
prohibited within the business district.
   (D)   Parking for certain purposes. It shall be unlawful for any person to
park a vehicle upon any roadway for the principal purpose of:
      (1)   Displaying such vehicle for sale; or
      (2)   Washing, greasing or repairing such vehicle except repairs
necessitated by any emergency.
   (E)   Parking prohibited during certain hours. The Chief of Police or
designee is hereby authorized to determine and designate by proper signs placed
in which the stopping, standing or parking of vehicles during certain hours of
the day would create a hazardous condition or would cause unusual delay to
traffic. When signs prohibiting parking are erected as authorized herein, no
person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle in any such designated place.
   (F)   Parking near hazardous or congested places.
      (1)   The Chief of Police or designee is hereby authorized to determine
and designate by proper signs, places not exceeding 100 feet in length in which
the stopping, standing or parking of vehicles would create an especially
hazardous condition or would cause unusual delay in traffic.
      (2)   When official signs are erected at hazardous or congested places as
authorized herein, it shall be unlawful for any person to stop, stand or park a
vehicle in any such designated place.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-5) (Ord. 80-447, passed 11-3-1980) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.06 PARKING TIME LIMITED.
   The Chief of Police or designee is hereby authorized to determine places in
which there is public demand or necessity for short-term parking and to
designate such places by proper signs indicating the time limit for parking.
When such signs are erected as authorized herein, no person shall stop, stand
or park a vehicle in such designated place for a time longer than indicated by
such signs.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-6) (Ord. 80-447, passed 11-3-1980) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.07 PARKING ADJACENT TO SCHOOLS.
   (A)   The Chief of Police or designee is hereby authorized to have signs
erected indicating no parking upon either or both sides of any street adjacent
to any school property when such parking would, in the Chief’s opinion,
interfere with traffic or create a hazardous situation.
   (B)   When official signs are erected indicating no parking upon either side
of a street adjacent to any school property as authorized herein, it shall be
unlawful for any person to park a vehicle in any such designated place.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-7) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.08 PARKING ON NARROW STREETS.
   (A)   The Chief of Police or designee is hereby authorized to have signs
erected indicating no parking upon any street when the width of the roadway
does not exceed 20 feet or upon one side of a street as indicated by such signs
when the width of the roadway does not exceed 30 feet.
   (B)   When official signs prohibiting parking are erected upon narrow
streets as authorized herein, it shall be unlawful for any person to park a
vehicle upon any such street in violation of any such signs. (Prior Code, § 6-
2-8) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.09 PARKING ON ONE-WAY STREETS.
   (A)   The Chief of Police or designee is authorized to have signs erected
upon the left-hand side of any one-way street to prohibit the standing or
parking of vehicles and when such signs are in place, it shall be unlawful for
any person to stand or park a vehicle upon such left-hand side of the street.
   (B)   In the event a highway includes two or more separate roadways and
traffic is restricted to one direction upon any such roadway, it shall be
unlawful for any person to stand or park a vehicle upon the left-hand side of
such one-way roadway unless signs are erected to permit such standing or
parking. The Chief of Police or designee is authorized to determine when
standing or parking may be permitted upon the left-hand side of any such one-
way roadway and to have signs erected giving notice thereof.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-9) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.10 LIGHTS ON PARKED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Whenever a vehicle is lawfully parked at nighttime upon any street
within a business or residence district, no lights need be displayed upon such
parked vehicle.
   (B)   Whenever a vehicle is parked upon a street or highway outside of a
business or residence district during the hours between one-half hour after
sunset and one-half hour before sunrise, such vehicle shall be equipped with
one or more lamps which shall exhibit a white light on the roadway side visible
from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the vehicle and a red light visible
from a distance of 500 feet to the rear.
   (C)   Any lighted headlamps upon a parked vehicle shall be depressed or
dimmed.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-10) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.11 LEAVING VEHICLE UNATTENDED.
   No person having control or charge of a vehicle shall allow such vehicle to
stand on any street unattended without stopping the motor of the vehicle and
effectively setting the brakes thereon.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-11) (Ord. 80-447, passed 11-3-1980)
§ 71.12 PARKING SPACES FOR PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES.
   (A)   The city and owners of private property open to public use may
designate parking zones and spaces to be used exclusively by vehicles
displaying a special license plate for a person with a disability, or a special
card as prescribed in Idaho Code 49-410. Any parking zones and spaces so
designated shall conform to the following requirements.
      (1)   Parking will conform to the requirements of Federal Pub. Law No.
101-336, Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et
seq.
      (2)   One parking space shall be designated for every 35 spaces available
on each downtown street block. These parking spaces shall be parallel with the
sidewalk where parallel parking is required, or at an angle to the sidewalk
where angle parking is required. Should angle parking be used, the parking
spaces so designated for use by a person with a disability shall conform to the
Federal Americans with Disabilities Act. All accessible parking spaces shall be
near curb cuts and ramps for wheelchair and other mechanical device usage. For
the purposes of this section, the term DOWNTOWN means the business center of
the city as designated by the City Council. The term STREET BLOCK means that
portion of a city street between consecutive parallel intersections.
      (3)   For each designated parking space or area, there shall be posted
immediately adjacent to, and visible from each stall or space, a sign, which is
at least 36 inches above the ground, consisting of the international
accessibility symbol as shown in Idaho Code 49-410.
      (4)   Should the city desire to modify any of the requirements of
divisions (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section, the City Council may do so by
ordinance, after complying with the following requirements.
         (a)   The City Council, or any other body designated by the City
Council by ordinance, shall receive a recommendation from a board, commission
or committee created in conformity with Idaho Code 50-210, of which at least
one-half of the members shall be persons with a disability as defined in Idaho
Code 49-117.
         (b)   The city shall cause notice of public hearing on the proposed
ordinance modifying the standards specified in divisions (A)(1) or (A)(2)
above, to be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the city at
least 14 days before the public hearing.
   (B)   Parking a vehicle or the standing of a vehicle in a space reserved for
a person with a disability, which space is signed in conformance with the
requirements specified in division (A)(3) above, is prohibited, unless a
vehicle is momentarily in the space for the purpose of allowing a person with a
disability to enter or leave the vehicle, or unless special license plates or
card or temporary card for a person with a disability is displayed on the
vehicle.
   (C)   Law enforcement officials are empowered to enter upon private property
open to public use to enforce the provisions of this section.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-12) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.13 PARKING TICKETS AND PROCEDURES.
   The Police Department shall have authority to issue parking tickets as
follows.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Police Department upon observing a vehicle
parked, standing or stopped in violation of the provisions of this chapter, to
leave at or upon such vehicle a notice that such vehicle has been parked or
stopped in violation of the provisions of this chapter. Among other things, the
notice shall bear the date and hour of leaving the same at or upon the vehicle,
make of the vehicle, and its license number, the specific code section violated
and the amount of the fine, instructing the owner or operator of such vehicle
to report to the Clerk’s office. The notice herein mentioned shall be filed as
follows: one copy shall be retained by the police officer leaving such ticket
upon a vehicle, one copy shall be filed with the Clerk’s office.
   (B)   In order to eliminate burdening courts with violations of ordinances
and to eliminate insofar as possible public inconvenience, each person
receiving a parking ticket under this chapter left upon his or her vehicle
shall:
      (1)   Within seven days of the time of such notice, pay to the Clerk’s
office in full satisfaction of such violation, a fee to be set by resolution
for each notice left upon his or her vehicle; and
      (2)   Within ten days from the date of the parking violation ticket, if
same has not been paid within the seven days above prescribed, pay to the
Clerk’s office an additional fee for each such notice left upon his or her
vehicle, the additional fee as set by resolution for each ticket being deemed
necessary to defray administrative and clerical expenses. Payments may be made
either in person or by mail. The failure of any operator to report and/or make
such payments to the Clerk’s office within the times prescribed above shall
render the operator thereof subject to penalties as provided by §
71.99 of this chapter.
   (C)   If any vehicle is found stopped, standing or parked in any manner
violative of the provisions of this chapter and the identity cannot be
determined, the owner or person or corporation in whose name the vehicle is
registered or the named lessee in a rental or lease agreement of the vehicle
shall be held prima facie responsible for the violation.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-13) (Ord. 80-447, passed 11-3-1980)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate or fail to comply with any of the
provisions of this chapter or who shall counsel, aid or abet any such violation
or failure to comply, shall be deemed guilty of an infraction and shall be
subject to penalty as provided in §
10.99 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-14)
   (B)   The registered owner of a vehicle parked in violation of the
provisions in §
71.12(B) is guilty of an infraction, and punishable as provided in §
10.99 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-12)
(Ord. 80-447, passed 11-3-1980)
CHAPTER 72: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Snowmobiles
   
72.01   Definitions
   
72.02   Equipment
   
72.03   Operation requirements and restrictions
 
   
72.99   Penalty
SNOWMOBILES
§ 72.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The term SNOWMOBILE shall mean any self-propelled vehicle under 1,000 pounds
unladened gross weight, designed primarily for travel on snow or ice or over
natural terrain, which may be steered by tracks, skis or runners, and which is
not otherwise registered or licensed under the laws of the state.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-1)
§ 72.02 EQUIPMENT.
   No snowmobile shall be operated in the city unless it is equipped with the
following:
   (A)   Headlamps. At least one and not more than two headlamps sufficient to
render clearly discernible persons and vehicles at a distance of 250 feet
ahead;
   (B)   Tail lamps. Tail lamps, which when lighted shall emit a red light
plainly visible at a distance of 250 feet to the rear;
   (C)   Brake. At least one brake which may be operated by hand or foot; and
   (D)   Muffler. A muffler in good working order and in constant operation to
prevent excessive or unusual noise and annoying smoke; and no person shall use
a muffler cutout, by-pass or similar device.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-2) (Ord. 86-491, passed 10-6-1986) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03 OPERATION REQUIREMENTS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Operation on sidewalks prohibited. It shall be unlawful to drive,
operate or park a snowmobile on any sidewalk in the city.
   (B)   Speed. No snowmobile shall be operated at a speed in excess of ten mph
in the city.
   (C)   Capacity. No snowmobile shall carry passengers or weights in excess of
the capacity recommended by the manufacturer thereof.
   (D)   Towing. No sled, toboggan, trailer or any other device shall be towed
by a snowmobile except by means of a rigid tow bar connecting the same to such
device.
   (E)   Towing person on skis. No person on skis shall be towed behind a
snowmobile.
   (F)   Intoxicating liquor. It shall be unlawful to drive or operate a
snowmobile while under the influence of intoxicating liquor.
   (G)   Designated streets. No person shall operate, drive or park a
snowmobile in or upon any street except as may be designated by resolution by
the City Council and so designated on a map maintained in City Hall.
   (H)   Careless operation. No person shall operate a snowmobile carelessly
and heedlessly, or without due caution and circumspection and at a speed or in
a manner as to endanger or be likely to endanger any person or property.
   (I)   Traffic controls. All snowmobiles shall conform to all vehicular
traffic controls.
   (J)   Manner of operation. All snowmobiles shall be operated only in single
file on the extreme right-hand side of the street, and in groups of not less
than four snowmobiles.
   (K)   Ingress and egress. Operation of snowmobiles on the streets of the
city shall be limited to ingress and egress to and from the city; that city
streets are not to be used as a place of recreation for snowmobiles.
   (L)   Hours of operation. No snowmobile shall be operated within the city
limits after 10:00 p.m. except for the purpose of going directly to or from the
place of residence of the operator of such snowmobile or to its place of
storage.
   (M)   Driver’s license. No person shall operate a snowmobile on the city
streets without a valid driver’s license per Idaho Code 49-303.
   (N)   Age limitation. No person, unless he or she is a certified licensed
driver, shall drive or operate a snowmobile in the city.
   (O)   Allowing operation by underage person. It shall be unlawful for any
person to knowingly permit, allow or encourage the operation or driving of a
snowmobile by a person that is not a certified licensed driver.
   (P)   Liability insurance. All persons operating a snowmobile shall have
proof of snowmobile liability insurance available for display when required to
show same.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-3) (Ord. 86-491, passed 10-6-1986) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person convicted of a violation of §§
72.02 through
72.03 shall be subject to penalty as provided in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-4) (Ord. 86-491, passed 10-6-1986)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
      
91.   CEMETERIES
      
92.   ANIMALS
      
93.   PARKS AND RECREATION
CHAPTER 90: HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
Garbage and Refuse
   
90.01   Containers and disposal
   
90.02   Burning prohibited
Self-contained Portable Toilets
   
90.15   Definitions
   
90.16   Allowed uses
   
90.17   Prohibited uses
   
90.18   Maintenance requirements
   
90.19   Americans with Disabilities Act requirements
   
90.20   Application for waiver
   
90.21   Effect on existing self-contained portable toilets
Nuisances
   
90.35   Nuisances prohibited
   
90.36   Definitions
   
90.37   Nuisances a misdemeanor
   
90.38   Abatement
   
90.39   Notice of abatement and method of service
   
90.40   Abatement by city
   
90.41   Collection of cost of abatement
   
90.42   Request for hearing and appeal
Abandoned and Inoperative Vehicles
   
90.55   Title
   
90.56   Definitions
   
90.57   Storing, parking or leaving vehicles prohibited; exceptions
   
90.58   Investigation of premises
   
90.59   Notice to remove
   
90.60   Responsibility for removal
   
90.61   Notice procedures
   
90.62   Request for hearing
   
90.63   Removal of vehicle from property
   
90.64   Disposition of vehicles
   
90.65   Redemption of impounded vehicles
   
90.66   Immunity from damages
   
90.67   Liability of owner or occupant
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GARBAGE AND REFUSE
§ 90.01 CONTAINERS AND DISPOSAL.
   Each and every family dwelling unit located in the city shall dispose of all
putrescible, wet and loose garbage in a container with specifications as set
from time to time by the Council.
   (A)   Specifications. The container shall be equipped with tight fitting
lids and shall be leak proof.
   (B)   Litter prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person to litter
property, and the area around garbage containers shall be kept clean and free
of litter and pests, which shall be the responsibility of the owner of the
container.
   (C)   Compliance required. All residents shall have six months from the date
of this subchapter to meet the requirements of divisions (A) and (B) above
concerning garbage containers.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-1) (Ord. 77-420, passed 12-19-1977) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.02 BURNING PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any resident of the city to burn garbage, rubbish,
decaying matter, dead animals or refuse of any kind; excepting, however, leaves
and needles dropped by trees, limbs, splinters and bark from wood cutting and
splitting and weeds and other vegetation, when in a safe place and in
compliance with all state and county regulations.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-2) (Ord. 74-397, passed 6-3-1974; Ord. 19-836, passed 5-15-
2019) Penalty, see §
90.99
SELF-CONTAINED PORTABLE TOILETS
§ 90.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADA PORTABLE TOILET. Portable toilet meeting Americans with Disabilities Act
(ADA) requirements that ensure access to and accommodations for the built
environment for people with disabilities.
   LONG-TERM USE. Any use of one or more self-contained portable toilets for a
period of more than ten consecutive calendar days.
   SELF-CONTAINED PORTABLE TOILETS. One or more commercially manufactured or
assembled self-contained toilet facility that is portable and is not designed
or intended for connection to a sewer system with a standard connection.
   SITE. Any property or properties, consisting of one or more lots, whether
developed or undeveloped, that make up an individual location. Examples of a
SITE include but are not limited to a parking lot or lots, a business location
consisting of one or more buildings, and a residential property consisting of
one or more lots.
   TEMPORARY USE. Any use of one or more self-contained portable toilets for a
period of ten calendar days or less.
   USE. The presence of one or more self-contained portable toilets on a site
which are intended for use, even if not actually being used. This would include
periods when the toilets are physically secured for security or maintenance
periods. The storage of self-contained portable toilets at a commercial
facility or business which are not intended to be used is not considered a USE
under this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-1)
§ 90.16 ALLOWED USES.
   (A)   Nothing in this subchapter shall prohibit any use of self-contained
portable toilets that is required by another code or statute. Unless otherwise
authorized by another code or statute, self-contained portable toilets shall be
prohibited except as provided for herein.
   (B)   The use of self-contained portable toilets shall be allowed within the
city boundaries subject to the following limitations.
      (1)   The temporary use of self-contained portable toilets for active
construction, rehabilitation projects, special events, interruption of sewer
service for emergencies or planned upgrades/repairs and at sites or facilities
that are not permanently inhabited and do not have installed toilet facilities
such as city parks is allowed.
      (2)   The long-term use of self-contained portable toilets for active
construction, rehabilitation projects, interruption of sewer service for
emergencies or planned upgrades/repairs and at sites or facilities that are not
permanently inhabited and do not have installed toilet facilities such as city
parks is allowed, subject to approval in accordance with §
90.20 of this code.
   (C)   The use of self-contained portable toilets shall be allowed in the
residential zoning districts subject to the following limitations.
      (1)   The temporary use of self-contained portable toilets for active
construction, rehabilitation projects and interruption of sewer service for
emergencies or planned upgrades/repairs is allowed. The use of self-contained
portable toilets, limited to four calendar days or less, for special events
such as wedding receptions or family reunions on private property is allowed.
      (2)   The long-term use of self-contained portable toilets for active
construction, rehabilitation projects and interruption of sewer service for
emergencies or planned upgrades/repairs, is allowed, subject to approval in
accordance with §
90.20 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-2)
§ 90.17 PROHIBITED USES.
   (A)   The use of self-contained portable toilets in lieu of connection of a
site or facility to the city’s sanitary sewer system is prohibited.
   (B)   The use of self-contained portable toilets for the purpose of
providing sewer service to a site or facility when sewer and water service has
been discontinued due to delinquency of the utility account is prohibited.
   (C)   The use of privately manufactured or constructed self-contained
portable toilets is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-3) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.18 MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   It is the responsibility of the property owner of the site where self-
contained portable toilets are located to ensure compliance with the
maintenance requirements in this section. For special events that obtain a
permit from the city, it is the event coordinator’s responsibility to ensure
compliance with the maintenance requirements in this section.
   (B)   The following maintenance requirements shall apply to all uses of
self-contained portable toilets.
      (1)   For temporary and long-term uses, in addition to the requirements
of §
90.17 of this code, the self-contained portable toilets must be in good working
condition without any broken surfaces or leaks. Doors must be in good working
condition and must be able to be securely latched while in use. The toilet(s)
must be monitored and/or permanently secured, or serviced by a licensed
disposal contractor if the holding tank becomes full during the period of use.
The site around the portable toilets must remain clear of trash and debris at
all times.
      (2)   For all uses, in addition to the other requirements of this
section, the following shall apply to the use of self-contained portable
toilets. Toilet(s) shall be located on the site so as to be free from
obstruction from, nor present an obstruction to, existing structures or
driveways. The toilet(s) shall be located in such a manner as to not be
potentially impacted by site conditions such as slopes, ditches or prevailing
winds. Toilet(s) located in residential zones shall be located to provide the
maximum practical screening from roads and adjacent properties as the site
allows.
      (3)   It is the property owner/event operator’s responsibility to ensure
that toilet(s) are not used in a dangerous or inappropriate manner. This may be
accomplished by monitoring or securing the toilet(s) during periods of
inactivity, such as night time and weekend hours, or by other effective means
as appropriate.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-4) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.19 AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT REQUIREMENTS.
   Where multiple single user portable toilets are clustered at a single
location, no more than 5% of the toilet units at each cluster shall be required
to comply with § 603: Clearances, Turning Space and Door Swing of the ADA
Standards for Accessible Design. Portable toilet units complying with § 603
shall be identified by the International Symbol of Accessibility.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-5)
§ 90.20 APPLICATION FOR WAIVER.
   (A)   A request for the waiver of one or more conditions of this subchapter
may be made by any affected party. The request shall be in writing in the form
of a letter addressed to the City Council. The letter must indicate the
condition or conditions from which a waiver is being requested, the basis for
the request and the action requested. The Council shall review the request and
recommendations from appropriate staff at a regular meeting.
   (B)   The Council may deny or grant a waiver, either partial or fully, from
one or more conditions of this subchapter where it finds the strict application
of the condition(s) would create one or more of the following conditions:
      (1)   It is not practicable based on the circumstances of the event,
activity or physical conditions of the site;
      (2)   It would create an unusual hardship to the applicant that is not
common to similar events, activities or sites;
      (3)   It would not create an unsafe condition, nuisance or hazard, either
on site or to adjacent properties; or
      (4)   The waiver is not simply for the convenience of the applicant,
especially in circumstances where other similar events, activities or sites
have complied with the conditions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-6)
§ 90.21 EFFECT ON EXISTING SELF-CONTAINED PORTABLE TOILETS.
   Any self-contained portable toilet currently either located on a site or in
a manner which is in violation of the provisions of this subchapter shall be
removed within 30 days of the effective date of the ordinance codified in this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-7) Penalty, see §
90.99
NUISANCES
§ 90.35 NUISANCES PROHIBITED.
   The creation or maintenance of a nuisance is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-1) (Ord. 83-466, passed 9-6-1983) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.36 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
Whatever is injurious to the senses, or an obstruction to the free use of
property, so as essentially to interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life
or property, is a NUISANCE.
   (B)   Examples of NUISANCES are:
      (1)   Diseased animals running at large. All diseased animals running at
large;
      (2)   Stagnant water. All ponds or pools of stagnant water;
      (3)   Carcasses. Carcasses of animals not disposed of within 24 hours
after death as provided by law;
      (4)   Refuse accumulation. Accumulations of refuse;
      (5)   Motor vehicles, disassembled. Allowing any disabled, partially
assembled or disassembled motor vehicle to remain upon public or private
property for more than 30 days;
      (6)   Pollution. The pollution of any public well or cistern, stream,
lake, canal or body of water by sewage, creamery or industrial wastes, or other
substances;
      (7)   Noxious weeds. All noxious weeds and other rank growth upon public
or private property;
      (8)   Unsafe buildings. All buildings, walls and other structures which
have been damaged by fire, decay or otherwise to an extent exceeding one-half
their original value, and which are so situated as to endanger the safety of
the public;
      (9)   Explosives, inflammable liquids. All explosives, inflammable
liquids and other dangerous substances stored in any manner or in any amount
other than that provided by ordinance;
      (10)   Noise, unnecessary; vibrations, annoying. All unnecessary noises
and annoying vibrations;
      (11)   Obstructions, excavations. Physical or visual obstructions and
excavations affecting the ordinary use by the public of streets, alleys,
sidewalks or public grounds except under such conditions as are provided by
ordinance;
      (12)   Uses gathering large crowds. Any use of property abutting on a
public street or sidewalk or any use of a public street or sidewalk which
causes large crowds of people to gather, obstructing traffic and free use of
the streets or sidewalks;
      (13)   Junk, accumulations. Accumulations of discarded or junked items
creating an unsightly appearance;
      (14)   Abandoned refrigerators. All abandoned, unattended or discarded
ice boxes, refrigerator or other container which has a door or lid, snap lock
or other locking device which may not be released from the inside, upon public
or private property;
      (15)   Unlawful conditions or use of property. Any unreasonable or
unlawful condition or use of premises or of building exteriors which by reason
of its appearance, as viewed at ground level from public streets or from
neighboring premises, is detrimental to the property of others;
      (16)   Smoke, noxious fumes. Dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas and soot or
cinders in unreasonable quantities; and
      (17)   Fire hazards. All places in such a state of disrepair as to
constitute a fire hazard, an attractive nuisance or a hazard of any sort. The
specific nuisances enumerated herein shall not be construed as in any way
limiting the definition of a public nuisance, but shall be construed as powers
enumerated in addition to those conferred by the general definition.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-2) (Ord. 83-466, passed 9-6-1983; Ord. 21-849, passed 5-19-
2021)
§ 90.37 NUISANCES A MISDEMEANOR.
   Anyone violating any of the provisions of this subchapter shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor crime. (Prior Code, § 4-2-3) (Ord. 21-849, passed 5-19-2021)
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.38 ABATEMENT.
   In lieu of and/or in addition to the above criminal provisions, any
appointed city official or city building inspector may cause to be served upon
the owner, agent or occupant of the property on which a city nuisance, a
written notice to abate or to request a hearing as provided in §
90.41 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-6) (Ord. 21-849, passed 5-19-2021)
§ 90.39 NOTICE OF ABATEMENT AND METHOD OF SERVICE.
   (A)   The notice to abate shall be served personally, where practical, or by
certified United States mail, or by posting such notice to abate on the
premises. Return of service shall be made as provided by law for returns of
personal service.
   (B)   The notice to abate shall contain:
      (1)    Order to abate or request for hearing. An order to abate the
nuisance or request a hearing as provided by §
90.40 of this code within a stated time which shall be reasonable under the
circumstances;
      (2)   Location. Location of nuisance if stationary;
      (3)   Description. Description of what constitutes the nuisance;
      (4)   Acts necessary. Statement of act or acts necessary to abate the
nuisance; and
      (5)   Abatement by city. Statement that if the nuisance is not abated as
directed and no request for hearing is made within the time prescribed, the
city will abate it and assess the cost against such a person.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-7) (Ord. 83-466, passed 9-6-1983; Ord. 21-849, passed 5-19-
2021)
§ 90.40 ABATEMENT BY CITY.
   If the person so notified neglects or fails to abate the nuisance as
directed, the Mayor, or other officers initiating the notice, may cause the
nuisance to be abated, keeping an accurate account of the expense incurred. The
expense account shall be fully itemized, verified and filed with the Clerk.
Such expenses shall be paid by the city.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-8) (Ord. 83-466, passed 9-6-1983; Ord. 21-849, passed 5-19-
2021)
§ 90.41 COLLECTION OF COST OF ABATEMENT.
   The Clerk shall mail a statement of the total cost to the person failing to
abide by the notice to abate and if the amount shown by the statement has not
been paid within one month, he or she shall pursue the levy of an assessment as
provided by Idaho Code 50-334 and 50-1008.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-9) (Ord. 83-466, passed 9-6-1983; Ord. 21-849, passed 5-19-
2021)
§ 90.42 REQUEST FOR HEARING AND APPEAL.
   (A)   Request for hearing. Any person ordered to abate a nuisance may
request a hearing. This request must be made in writing and delivered to the
Clerk within ten days of service to abate. The hearing will be held before the
City Administrator and/or other person as appointed by the Mayor. The hearing
shall be recorded. The Attorney shall present the evidence on behalf of the
city. The burden of proof shall be upon the city. The standard of evidence
shall be preponderance of the evidence.
   (B)   Decision of hearing officer; appeal. At the conclusion of the hearing,
the hearing officer shall render a written decision as to whether a nuisance
exists. If he or she finds that a nuisance exists, he or she must order it
abated within an additional time which must be reasonable under the
circumstances. An appeal from this decision may be had by immediately filing a
written notice with the hearing officer. This appeal will be heard before the
City Council at a time and place fixed by the Council. The findings of the
Council shall be conclusive and, if a nuisance is found to exist, it shall be
abated within a time reasonable under the circumstances.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-10) (Ord. 83-466, passed 9-6-1983; Ord. 21-849, passed 5-19-
2021)
ABANDONED AND INOPERATIVE VEHICLES
§ 90.55 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Abandoned, Wrecked,
Dismantled or Inoperative Motor Vehicle Ordinance of the City”.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-1)
§ 90.56 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. When not
inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense include the
future, words in the plural number include the singular number and words in the
singular number include the plural number. The word shall is always mandatory
and not merely directory.
   CITY. The City of Salmon, Idaho.
   JUNKED VEHICLE. Any vehicle, as defined herein, which does not have lawfully
affixed thereto both an unexpired license plate or plates and a current safety
inspection certificate if such is required by law and the condition of which is
wrecked, dismantled, partially dismantled, inoperative, abandoned or discarded.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any real property within the city which is privately owned
and which is not public property as defined in this section.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any street, which shall include the entire width between
the boundary lines of every way publicly maintained for the purposes of
vehicular travel, and shall also mean any other publicly-owned property or
facility.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a street or highway and shall include, but not be
limited to, automobiles, buses, motorbikes, motorcycles, motor scooters,
trucks, tractors, go-carts, golf carts, campers and trailers and railroad
engines, rolling stock, cabooses and utility cars.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-2)
§ 90.57 STORING, PARKING OR LEAVING VEHICLES PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Prohibited. No person shall park, store, leave or permit the parking,
storing or leaving of any vehicle of any kind which is in an abandoned,
wrecked, dismantled, inoperative, rusted, junked or partially dismantled
condition, whether attended or not, upon any public property within the city
for a period of time in excess of 72 hours. The presence of an abandoned,
wrecked, dismantled, inoperative, rusted, junked or partially dismantled
vehicle or parts thereof on public property is hereby declared a public
nuisance which may be abated as such in accordance with the provisions of this
subchapter.
   (B)   Public nuisance declared. It shall be unlawful for any person owning
or having custody of any abandoned, wrecked, dismantled, inoperative, rusted,
junked or partially dismantled vehicle to store or permit any such vehicle or
accessories to remain on any private property within the city for a period of
more than 30 days after the receipt of a notice requiring such removal, and it
shall be further unlawful for any person owning any private property within the
city to store or to permit to remain any such vehicle or accessories on his or
her property for more than a like period. Such storage is declared to be a
public nuisance and may be abated as such in accordance with the provisions of
this subchapter.
   (C)   Exclusion. This section shall not apply to any vehicle or vehicle
accessories stored within an enclosed building or enclosed behind a privacy
fence where such vehicles or accessories are not visible from any public
property or adjacent private property or on the premises of a business
enterprise operated in a lawful place and manner when necessary to the
operation of such business enterprise, in a storage place or depository
maintained in a lawful place and manner or seasonal use vehicles such as
snowmobiles, motorcycles, motor scooters and nonmotorized campers, or to any
motor vehicle in operable condition specifically adapted or designed for
operation on drag strips or raceways or any vehicle retained by the owner for
antique collection purposes. Such business enterprises shall include auto junk
yards, auto repair and auto body shops but shall not include automobile service
stations or tire, battery and accessory sales stores.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-3) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.58 INVESTIGATION OF PREMISES.
   Any city police officer or the County Sheriff or one of his or her duly
constituted deputies and/or any authorized city employee or agent on routine
inspection or upon receipt of a complaint may investigate a suspected
abandoned, wrecked, dismantled, inoperative, rusted, junked or partially
dismantled vehicle or vehicle accessories and record the make, model, style and
identification numbers and its situation.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-4)
§ 90.59 NOTICE TO REMOVE.
   (A)   Notice to property owner or occupant. Whenever it comes to the
attention of the city that any nuisance (junked vehicle), as defined in §
90.56 of this code, exists in the city, a notice, in writing, shall be served
upon the occupant of the land where the nuisance exists or, in case there is no
such occupant, then upon the owner of the property or his or her agent,
notifying them of the existence of the nuisance and requesting its removal in
the time specified in this chapter.
   (B)   Affixing notice to vehicle. In the case of vehicles in violation of §
90.57 of this code, such notice shall be affixed to the vehicle in a
conspicuous place and manner.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-5)
§ 90.60 RESPONSIBILITY FOR REMOVAL.
   Upon proper notice and opportunity to be heard, the owner of the abandoned,
wrecked, dismantled or inoperative vehicle and the owner or occupant of the
private property on which the same is located, either or all of them, shall be
responsible for its removal. In the event of removal and disposition by the
city, the owner or occupant of the private property where the same is located
shall be liable for the expenses incurred.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-6)
§ 90.61 NOTICE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Action on violation.
      (1)   If action is to be taken for a violation of §
90.57(B) of this code, the city shall give notice of removal to the owner or
occupant of the private property where it is located at least 30 days before
the time compliance is required. It shall constitute sufficient notice when a
copy of same is posted in a conspicuous place upon the private property on
which the vehicle is located, and duplicate copies are sent by registered or
certified mail to the owner or occupant of the private property at his or her
last known address.
      (2)   If action is to be taken for a violation of §
90.57(A) of this code, removal of the violating vehicle shall not occur until
after the end of the third full working day after notice has been posted upon
the offending vehicle.
   (B)   Contents of notice. The notice shall contain a request for removal
within the time specified in this chapter, and the notice shall advise that
upon failure to comply with the notice to remove, the city or its designee
shall undertake such removal with the cost of removal to be levied against the
owner or occupant of the property.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-7)
§ 90.62 REQUEST FOR HEARING.
   The persons to whom the notices are directed, or their duly authorized
agents, may file a written request for hearing before the Mayor and City
Council within the 30-day period of compliance prescribed in §
90.57(B) of this code for the purpose of defending the charges by the city.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-8)
§ 90.63 REMOVAL OF VEHICLE FROM PROPERTY.
   (A)   Removal by law enforcement. If the violation of §
90.57 of this subchapter described in the notice has not been remedied within
the 30-day period of compliance, or in the event a notice requesting a hearing
is timely filed, a hearing is had and the existence of the violation is
affirmed by the Mayor and City Council, the city police or the County Sheriff
or his or her designee shall have the right to take possession of the targeted
vehicle and remove it from the premises. It shall be unlawful for any person to
interfere with, hinder or refuse to allow such person to enter upon private
property for the purpose of removing a vehicle under the provisions of this
subchapter.
   (B)   Notice of impoundment. Within 48 hours of the removal of any vehicle
pursuant to the provisions in division (A) above, the city shall give notice to
the registered owner of the vehicle, if known, and also to the owner or
occupant of the private property from which the vehicle was removed that the
vehicle has been impounded and stored for violation of this subchapter. This
notice shall give the location of where the vehicle is stored and the costs
incurred by the city for removal.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-9) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.64 DISPOSITION OF VEHICLES.
   Upon removing a vehicle under the provisions of this subchapter, the city
shall cause the vehicle to be disposed of in accordance with the provisions of
Idaho Code 49 Ch. 18, entitled Abandoned Motor Vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-10)
§ 90.65 REDEMPTION OF IMPOUNDED VEHICLES.
   The owner of any vehicle seized under the provisions of this subchapter may
redeem such vehicle at any time after its removal but prior to the release,
sale or destruction thereof on proof of ownership and payment to the city of
such sums for the actual and reasonable cost of removal and sale advertisement,
as well as accrued storage fees, set by resolution.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-11)
§ 90.66 IMMUNITY FROM DAMAGES.
   The Sheriff, Deputy Sheriff and any police officer, towing service owner,
operator or employee shall not be held to answer or be liable for damage in any
action brought by the registered owner or his or her legal representative or
any person legally entitled to the possession of a vehicle removed and
impounded, when the vehicle was processed and sold or disposed of as provided
by this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-12)
§ 90.67 LIABILITY OF OWNER OR OCCUPANT.
   Upon the failure of the owner or occupant of property from which vehicle
have been removed pursuant to this subchapter to pay the unrecovered expenses
incurred in such removal, a lien shall be placed upon the property for the
unrecovered amount of such expense. Such lien shall be placed by the recording
of a notice of lien in the office of the County Recorder, with a copy of the
notice of lien to be mailed to the property owner at his or her last known
address.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-13)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Violation. Violation of §§
90.16 through
90.21 of this chapter shall be declared to constitute a public nuisance and
shall be processed in accordance with the applicable sections of §§
90.35 through
90.42.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-8)
   (C)   (1)   Criminal penalty. Anyone guilty of violating any of the
provisions of §§
90.35 through
90.42 shall, upon conviction, be subject to penalty as provided in §
10.99 of this code. Every day any condition is allowed to exist which is a
violation of this chapter shall be a distinct and separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-4)
      (2)   Civil penalty. The City Council and/or Mayor may instruct the
Attorney, or his or her agent, to institute a civil action in the district
court to enforce compliance with this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-5)
   (D)   Any person violating any provision of §§
90.57 through
90.67 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction,
shall be subject to penalty as provided in §
10.99 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-14)
(Ord. 19-840, passed 8-7-2019; Ord. 21-849, passed 5-19-2021)
CHAPTER 91: CEMETERIES
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Conveyance of cemetery plots and niches
   
91.03   Interment standards
   
91.04   Plot and niche use
   
91.05   General use of the cemetery
   
91.06   Cemetery administration
   
91.07   General disclaimers and reservations
   
91.08   Fees
   
91.09   Payments
General Regulations and Policies
   
91.20   Subject to laws
   
91.21   Fees
   
91.22   Holidays and Sundays
   
91.23   Authorization to inter or for disinterment
   
91.24   Location of plot or niche
   
91.25   No interment permitted unless property paid for and transit permit
received
   
91.26   Control of work by the city
   
91.27   Gratuities prohibited
   
91.28   Interment of more than one body
   
91.29   Removal to other plot or niche
   
91.30   Payment of service charges
 
   
91.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Funeral procession regulations, see §
70.04
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTIVATE. To create a grave or open a niche for human remains or cremains.
   CEMETERY. The city burial park for human interments.
   CITY. The City of Salmon, Idaho.
   CLERK. The Clerk of the city.
   COLUMBARIUM. A stand-alone wall with niches to hold urns containing human
cremains.
   COUNTY. Lemhi County.
   CREMAINS. The cremated remains of a single human body, in a container
suitable for interment.
   DISINTERMENT. The removal of human remains and containers from a grave or
niche.
   GRAVE. Excavation for burial of human remains.
   HEAD OF PLOT. The west end of the cemetery plot.
   INFANT GRAVE. Excavation for burial of human infant remains where the coffin
length will not exceed four feet.
   INFANT PLOT. A three-foot by six-foot defined space for an infant grave.
   INTERMENT. The burial of human remains within a grave or placement of
cremains in a niche.
   MARKER. A monument, flat marker, tablet, headstone or tombstone.
   NICHE. A display vault in a wall or structure specifically designed to hold
cremation urns.
   NONRESIDENT. Any individual who does not live within the official city
boundaries.
   PETS. Dogs, cats, ferrets or other animals or reptiles kept within the home
for domestic purposes.
   PLOT. A defined space for a grave.
   RESIDENT. Any individual who currently resides within the official city
boundaries and has proof of residing within city boundaries for a period of at
least six months.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-1) (Ord. 06-709, passed 3-21-2007; Ord. 09-732, passed 2-
18-2009; Ord. 19-842, passed 11-6-2019)
§ 91.02 CONVEYANCE OF CEMETERY PLOTS AND NICHES.
   (A)   General conveyance.
      (1)   Under authority of Idaho Code 50-320, the city shall convey
cemetery plots and niches for burial rights by deeds signed by the Mayor and
countersigned by the Clerk, to individuals who pay a fee therefor. Such deeds
shall be in the form of a minimum of one plot or niche per deed, which shall be
recorded in the office of the County Recorder without further acknowledgment.
      (2)   Each deed shall contain the language “this deed is subject to the
current Salmon City Code in affect at the time of purchase”. The deed shall
also contain interment options as allowed in the current city code. Such deeds
shall vest in the owner, his or her heirs and assigns, a right in fee simple to
the plots and niches for the sole purpose of interment. The rights of heirs and
assigns to interment in plots and niches conveyed by deeds shall be determined
as set forth hereinafter.
      (3)   Ownership of burial rights may be transferred only as specified
hereinafter. All burial rights owners shall be subject to the city code herein.
The deed of burial rights and any amendments thereto shall be the sole
agreement between the city and the plot and/or niche owner, his or her heirs
and assigns.
   (B)   Procedure for conveyance of cemetery plots and niches.
      (1)   A deed shall be issued for each plot and niche sold for burial
rights in the cemetery. An application form, accompanied by the appropriate
fee, shall be filled out prior to issuance of the deed, indicating the name of
the party or parties to whom the plot and/or niche is being sold and the name
in which the deed to the plot and/or niche is to be issued. Right to use a plot
or niche for interment shall not be granted until all appropriate fees have
been paid and the necessary deed obtained.
      (2)   However, in the case of a licensed mortuary’s request in writing,
via e-mail or by certified mail for a plot or niche, the application may be
filled out by the city staff on behalf of the mortuary, listing the mortuary as
the requesting party, with the name of the deceased to be placed on the deed as
owner and the mortuary billed monthly for all such plots and niches requested
the previous month. If such payments are not kept current, the Clerk may refuse
to issue further deeds and may prohibit interment until payment in full has
been received.
      (3)   Deeds shall be issued by the office of the Clerk in the name
specified on the application. All deeds shall be recorded with the County
Clerk.
   (C)   Rights of interment. The person whose name is subscribed on the deed
as the owner shall have the right to be interred in the plot or niche specified
on the deed, unless a legal transfer of ownership pursuant to this city code
was made prior to his or her demise. The owner shall also have the right to
specify, by means of a will or other legal document, that an additional
interment be allowed in this plot or niche subject to the provisions set forth
elsewhere in the city code. If the owner is interred elsewhere, the plot or
niche otherwise reserved for his or her interment shall be available to his or
her heirs and assigns in the order of their demise, subject to proof of
assignment or inheritance being presented to the city. Such heirs and assigns
shall also have the right to transfer ownership, subject to presentations of
proof of assignment or inheritance. Transfer of ownership must meet criteria as
set forth in division (D) below. Plots or niches can be used only for the
purposes as provided by this city code.
   (D)   Transfers, assignment. Burial rights may be transferred to those
persons eligible to be original purchasers of burial spaces or niches. If a
resident wishes to transfer burial rights to a nonresident the difference in
fees plus recording fees will be charged according to the current rate. A
resident that loses residency due to nursing home care shall not lose resident
burial fee rights. No transfer or assignment of any plot or niche or interest
therein shall be valid until a new burial permit is issued, recorded and the
original permit is terminated. Such transfer or assignment permit shall be
recorded in the office of the County Clerk. If the legal holder of a cemetery
deed wishes to sell burial rights back to the city, he or she must establish
proof of ownership. The seller shall execute a deed giving rights to burial
back to the city. Buyback amounts with a fixed minimum shall be set by
resolution. If maintenance and recording fees were paid at the time of
purchase, they shall not be refunded.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-2) (Ord. 06-709, passed 3-21-2007; Ord. 09-732, passed 2-
18-2009; Ord. 10-766, passed 11-3-2010; Ord. 17-826, passed 9-20-2017; Ord. 19-
842, passed 11-6-2019)
§ 91.03 INTERMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Caskets and cremains containers. All caskets laid in opened graves in
the cemetery shall be placed either in concrete or metal vaults in accordance
with industry standards. The container for cremated remains to be inurned in a
niche in the columbarium shall be of material approved by the city and shall be
of a size suitable for the niche. No cardboard boxes will be permitted in a
niche.
   (B)   Markers. All interments shall include a marker as defined in this
subchapter. The placement of markers or monuments as herein required is to be
at the head of each plot. Such markers are to be placed on a concrete base that
shall be a minimum of four inches thick. The concrete base shall be constructed
so no less than six inches of concrete borders the marker and/or any other
permanent object such as vases, statues or any other ornamental items. The
concrete base shall be constructed to specifications set by the city and shall
be flush with the surface of the ground. There shall be no more than two
markers per plot, with the exception of a single military marker as defined
below. If two markers are placed on one plot, they must be placed side by side
at the head of the plot and mounted on a single concrete base as stipulated
above. If there is an existing embedded monument that cannot be removed from
its base, a second base shall be added. It must be placed in line with,
abutting and beside the existing base. If a military marker is placed on the
plot, it may be placed at the head of the plot (not to exceed two markers) or
placed six feet from the head of the plot. Any military marker placed not at
the head of the plot shall be flush with the surface of the ground and bordered
with six inches of concrete and a minimum of four inches thick. No marker(s) or
its accompanying items shall exceed the measurements of the plot(s) purchased.
Concrete forms shall be inspected by the sexton prior to the pouring of
concrete. All placements of markers shall be approved by the cemetery sexton
prior to actual placement.
   (C)   Niche covers. Upon placement of cremains in a niche an engraving shall
be required for identification purposes. In order to maintain the columbarium
in a uniform manner, the city will arrange for the engraving of the niche
cover. Only name, birth date and death dates will be allowed. To recognize
veterans, one line will be available for the veterans service upon proof of
honorable discharge. A military emblem or plaque may also be applied to the
niche cover. Application of the emblem will be arranged by the city. Only one
font pattern will be allowed on all niche covers. An engraving fee will be
assessed at the time of the engraving at the current rate. Engraving of the
niche cover is allowed before interment of the cremains. A temporary
replacement cover will be installed by the city until the engraved cover is
returned.
   (D)   Ashes. Ashes may be spread on a purchased plot subject to the
conveyance and assignment standards set forth in §
91.02 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-3) (Ord. 06-709, passed 3-21-2007; Ord. 09-732, passed 2-
18-2009; Ord. 10-754, passed 5-5-2010; Ord. 19-842, passed 11-6-2019)
§ 91.04 PLOT AND NICHE USE.
   (A)   Floral regulations.
      (1)   The city shall have the authority to remove all floral designs,
flowers, weeds, trees, shrubs, plants or herbage of any kind from the cemetery
as soon as, in the judgment of the sexton, they become unsightly, dangerous,
detrimental or diseased, or when they do not conform to the standards
maintained. Vases or items taped, glued or stuck to the niches or walls are not
allowed.
      (2)   Shrubs or ornamental trees less than four feet in height at
maturity may be placed at the head of the plot. The owner will be responsible
for the planting and initial care of such shrubs or ornamental trees.
      (3)   The city shall not be liable for lost, misplaced or broken flower
vases. The city shall not be responsible for plants, herbage or plantings of
any kind damaged by the elements, thieves, vandals or by other causes beyond
its control.
      (4)   The city reserves the right to regulate the method of decorating
graves so that a uniform beauty may be maintained.
      (5)   The city reserves the right to prevent the removal or destruction
of wild flowers, trees, shrubs, plants or herbage of any kind unless it gives
its consent.
   (B)   Ornament regulations. No glass objects of any kind are allowed.
Permanent objects such as vases, statues or any other ornamental items will
only be allowed at the head of the grave as provided by §
91.03 of this code.
   (C)   Prohibited structures. No person shall erect or maintain any fence,
corner post, coping, hedge or boundary of any kind upon any plot in the
cemetery. No person shall grade the ground of any plot in the cemetery, except
under the supervision of the sexton. The sexton shall, whenever requested,
furnish the true lines of the plot according to the official markers, and shall
prevent and prohibit any grading thereof that might destroy symmetry of the
land.
   (D)   Subdivision of plots or niches. The subdivision of plots or niches is
not allowed, and no one shall be interred in any plot or niche not having any
interest therein, except by written consent of the city and of all parties
interested in such plot or niche.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-4) (Ord. 06-709, passed 3-21-2007; Ord. 09-732, passed 2-
18-2009; Ord. 19-842, passed 11-6-2019) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05 GENERAL USE OF THE CEMETERY.
   (A)   Improprieties. It is of the utmost importance that there shall be
strict observance of all of the proprieties of the cemetery, whether embraced
in the city code or not, as no improprieties shall be allowed, and the city
shall have the power to prevent improper assemblages.
   (B)   Use of walks. Persons within the cemetery grounds shall use the
avenues, walks, alleys and roads provided as much as possible.
   (C)   Safety. The city shall owe no duty to the plot owner to keep the
property, or the memorial thereon, in a reasonably safe condition.
   (D)   Children. Children under 15 years shall not be permitted within the
cemetery or its buildings unless accompanied by an adult.
   (E)   Hunting. No hunting is allowed in the cemetery.
   (F)   Smoking. Expectorating or smoking within any of the cemetery buildings
is prohibited.
   (G)   Littering. The throwing of rubbish on the drives and paths, or any
part of the ground, or in the buildings, is prohibited. Receptacles for waste
material are located at convenient places.
   (H)   Motorized vehicles. Motorized vehicles shall not be driven through the
grounds at a speed greater than the posted speed limit and must always be kept
on the right-hand side of the cemetery roadway. Motorized vehicles are not
allowed to park or to come to a full stop in front of an open grave unless such
vehicles are in attendance at the funeral. Motorized vehicles are not allowed
to drive on any grass areas unless approved by the sexton.
   (I)   Peddling or soliciting. Peddling of flowers or plants, or soliciting
the sale of any commodity, is prohibited within the confines of the cemetery.
Solicitation of any kind is strictly forbidden at any time in the cemetery
without the approval of the city.
   (J)   Firearms. No firearms shall be permitted within the cemetery except on
special permit from the sexton. The American Legion and other military, police
and fire organizations that routinely perform interment ceremonies requiring
the use of firearms shall be exempt from this section.
   (K)   Pets. Pets shall not be allowed on the cemetery grounds or in any
buildings.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-5) (Ord. 05-691, passed 1-19-2005; Ord. 09-732, passed 2-
18-2009) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06 CEMETERY ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Admission to cemetery. The city reserves the right to refuse admission
to anyone not a plot or niche owner or relative of a person interred in the
cemetery, and to refuse the use of any of the cemetery facilities at any time
to any persons whom the management may deem objectionable to the best interests
of the cemetery.
   (B)   Dates and times cemetery is open. The cemetery will be open seven days
a week between the hours of 8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.
   (C)   Authority of sexton. All funeral processions upon reaching the
cemetery shall be under the supervision of the sexton. The sexton and such
other employees as the city may designate are empowered to enforce this code
and to exclude from the cemetery any person violating the same. The sexton and
his or her assistants shall have charge of the grounds and buildings at all
times.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-6) (Ord. 09-732, passed 2-18-2009; Ord. 19-842, passed 11-
6-2019)
§ 91.07 GENERAL DISCLAIMERS AND RESERVATIONS.
   (A)   Disclaimers.
      (1)   Loss of damage. Whether or not guards are used, the city disclaims
all responsibility for loss or damage caused by the elements, an act of God,
common enemy, thieves, vandals, strikers, malicious mischief-makers,
explosions, unavoidable accidents, invasions, insurrections, riots or order of
any military or civil authority, whether the damage is direct or collateral.
      (2)   Telephoned or verbal orders. The city shall not accept any order
given by telephone. Orders shall be in writing, via e-mail or by certified
mail. The city shall not be held responsible for any mistake occurring from the
want of precise and proper instructions as to the particular plot or niche,
size and location in a plot or niche where interment is desired.
      (3)   Delays caused by protests. The city shall in no way be liable for
any delay in the interment of a body where a protest to the interment has been
made, or where this code has not been complied with.
      (4)   Embalming or identification. The city shall not be liable for the
interment permit nor for the identity of the person sought to be interred; nor
shall the city be liable in any way for the embalming of the body.
      (5)   Removal. The city shall exercise due care in making disinterment
and removal, but it shall assume no liability for damage to any casket or
burial case or urn incurred in making disinterment and removal.
   (B)   Reservations.
      (1)   Roadways and replatting. The right and privilege to resurvey,
enlarge, diminish, replat, alter in shape or size or otherwise to change all or
any part of the property mapped and platted, including the right to lay out,
establish, close, eliminate or otherwise modify or change the location of
roads, walks or drives, and to file amended maps or plots thereof, and to use
the same for the erection of buildings or for any purposes or uses connected
with, incidental to or convenient for the care, preservation or preparation for
the disposal or interment of human dead bodies, or other cemetery purposes,
together with easements and rights of way over and through the premises, and
the right of installing, maintaining and operating pipelines, conduits or
drains for sprinklers, drainage, electric or communication lines or for any
other purpose is expressly reserved.
      (2)   Easement-right of interment. No easement or right of interment is
granted to any plot owner in any road, drive, alley or walk within the
cemetery, but such road, alley or walk may be used as a means of access to the
cemetery or buildings as long as the city devotes it to that purpose.
      (3)   Notice provisions. The right is reserved by the city to insist upon
at least 24 hours’ notice before any interment, and to at least one week’s
notice prior to any disinterment or removal.
      (4)   Correction of errors. The city reserves, and shall have the right
to correct any errors that may be made by it either in making interments,
disinterment or removals, or in the description, transfer or conveyance and
substituting and conveying in lieu thereof other interment property of equal
value and similar location as far as possible, or as may be selected by the
city, or by refunding the amount of money paid on account of the purchase. In
the event the error shall involve the interment of the remains of any person in
such property, the city reserves, and shall have the right to remove and re-
inter the remains to such other property of equal value and similar location as
may be substituted and conveyed in lieu thereof. The city shall also have the
right to correct any errors made by city personnel.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-8) (Ord. 09-732, passed 2-18-2009; Ord. 19-842, passed 11-
6-2019)
§ 91.08 FEES.
   (A)   Cemetery fees and charges shall be set and adopted each fiscal year by
resolution of the City Council and copies of the resolutions shall be kept on
file and made available in the office of the Clerk.
   (B)   Fees established by this code and set by resolution shall be:
      (1)   Resident fees.
         (a)   Infant cemetery plot;
         (b)   Standard cemetery plot;
         (c)   Cremation interment;
         (d)   Infant interment;
         (e)   Standard interment;
         (f)   Weekend interment;
         (g)   Outside normal working hours as set forth in §
91.06(B);
         (h)   Disinterment;
         (i)   Disinterment of cremains; and
         (j)   Recording fees.
      (2)   Nonresident fees.
         (a)   Infant cemetery plot;
         (b)   Infant plot maintenance endowment;
         (c)   Standard cemetery plot;
         (d)   Standard plot maintenance endowment;
         (e)   Cremation interment;
         (f)   Infant interment;
         (g)   Standard interment;
         (h)   Weekend interment;
         (i)   Disinterment;
         (j)   Disinterment of cremains;
         (k)   Outside normal working hours; and
         (l)   Recording fees.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-9) (Ord. 06-709, passed 3-21-2007; Ord. 09-732, passed 2-
18-2009; Ord. 10-766, passed 11-3-2010)
§ 91.09 PAYMENTS.
   Payment plans for the purchase of cemetery plots or niches are provided with
the following conditions:
   (A)   Monthly payment schedule for a period not to exceed 24 months;
   (B)   A handling and administrative fee of 5% of the purchase price will be
added to the base purchase price;
   (C)   Purchaser may pay the balance at any time during the payment term;
   (D)   Balance must be paid in full prior to activating the plot or niche;
and
   (E)   When payments are not made within ten days from the past due date, the
city shall issue a written notice of delinquency and possible termination of
the purchase plan. When bills are not paid within 25 days from the past due
date, the city will terminate the payment plan, the purchaser will forfeit the
cemetery plot and/or niche, and there will be no refund of previous payments.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-10) (Ord. 06-709, passed 3-21-2007; Ord. 09-732, passed 2-
18-2009; Ord. 19-842, passed 11-6-2019)
GENERAL REGULATIONS AND POLICIES
§ 91.20 SUBJECT TO LAWS.
   Besides being subject to this chapter, all interments, disinterment and
removals are made subject to the orders and laws of the properly constituted
authorities of the city, county and state.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-7)
§ 91.21 FEES.
   Fees will be set by resolution by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-7)
§ 91.22 HOLIDAYS AND SUNDAYS.
   No interment, disinterment, removal or interment service shall be permitted
on Sundays or any holiday observed by the city. When a holiday mentioned in
this section falls, or is legally observed, on a Saturday or Monday, funerals
will be received on the last business day preceding the holiday up to 12:00
p.m., but no further or final disposition will be made.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-7) (Ord. 09-732, passed 2-18-2009; Ord. 16-815, passed 6-1-
2016)
§ 91.23 AUTHORIZATION TO INTER OR FOR DISINTERMENT.
   (A)   Authorization to inter. The city may open a grave in a plot or niche
for the purpose of interment upon receipt of a burial transit permit or
equivalent document, as required by Idaho Code 54-1120, and payment of all fees
upon proper written authorization by any plot or niche owner of record made out
on forms approved by the city and duly filed in its office, unless there are
written instructions to the contrary already on file in the office. No
interment may occur without the owner or mortuary first scheduling such a
request with the city. Requirements for the presence of funeral director or
designated official during interments are set forth by the state statute or
county ordinance at the time of interment.
   (B)   Authorization for disinterment. No disinterment shall take place
without presenting the proper approval as required by the state and
arrangements for the disinterment made with the cemetery sexton at least one
week prior to the disinterment. No disinterment of cremains in a columbarium
niche will be allowed on weekends or holidays as defined in §
91.22 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-7) (Ord. 09-732, passed 2-18-2009; Ord. 06-709, passed 3-
21-2007; Ord. 19-842, passed 11-6-2019)
 
§ 91.24 LOCATION OF PLOT OR NICHE.
   If instructions from the plot owner cannot be obtained, or are indefinite,
or when for any reason the plot or niche cannot be opened where specified, the
city may, in its discretion, open it in such location in the plot or
columbarium as it deems best and proper, so as not to delay the funeral; and
the city shall not be liable in damages for any error so made.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-7) (Ord. 09-732, passed 2-18-2009; Ord. 19-842, passed 11-
6-2019)
§ 91.25 NO INTERMENT PERMITTED UNLESS PROPERTY PAID FOR AND TRANSIT PERMIT
RECEIVED.
   (A)   No interment shall be permitted or marker placed or niche engraved in
or on any plot or niche not fully paid for, except by special emergency
arrangement. Such exceptions shall be by written consent of the Clerk and under
the terms specified by the city.
   (B)   Prior to interment, an authorization for final disposition-transit
permit or equivalent document must be received by the office of the Clerk. If
circumstances do not allow for documentation to be left at city offices, the
permit may be left with the cemetery sexton at the time of interment.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-7) (Ord. 09-732, passed 2-18-2009; Ord. 19-842, passed 11-
6-2019)
§ 91.26 CONTROL OF WORK BY THE CITY.
   (A)   All landscaping, improvements, alterations and care on plots shall be
under the direction of and subject to the consent and approval of the sexton.
All trees, shrubs and herbage of any kind may be planted, trimmed, cut or
removed by the city.
   (B)   All openings and closing of graves and niches, and all interments,
disinterment and removals shall be provided for by the city.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-7) (Ord. 09-732, passed 2-18-2009; Ord. 19-842, passed 11-
6-2019)
§ 91.27 GRATUITIES PROHIBITED.
   No person, while employed by the city, shall receive any fee, gratuity or
commission, except from the city, either directly or indirectly, under penalty
of immediate dismissal.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-7) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.28 INTERMENT OF MORE THAN ONE BODY.
   (A)   Multiple interments as provided herein may be allowed for members of a
niche or plot owner’s immediate family, heirs or assigns, subject to
presentation of proof in writing to the city that the owner gave permission for
the additional interment. No such additional use of an owner’s plot or niche
shall be permitted without documentation of this written permission.
   (B)   Multiple interments shall be allowed as follows.
      (1)   Cemetery plots sold prior to December 1, 2006.
         (a)   Activated. A maximum of four interments shall be allowed in any
given activated plot consisting of solely one of the following combinations:
            1.   One body plus three cremains;
            2.   Four cremains; or
            3.   One infant body or two infant cremains in an infant plot.
         (b)   Non-activated. All non-activated plots are subject to the
current city code in affect at the time of activation.
      (2)   Cemetery plots sold after December 1, 2006. A maximum of two
interments shall be allowed in any given plot consisting solely of one of the
following combinations:
         (a)   One body plus one cremains;
         (b)   Two cremains; or
         (c)   One infant body or two infant cremains in an infant plot.
      (3)   New plots sold after February 26, 2009.
         (a)   All plots sold after February 26, 2009 shall be subject to and
will be posted with the current city code in affect at the time of purchase.
         (b)   Proper identification shall be made of such interment or
interments on no more than two regulation markers, with the exception of a
military marker, as set forth in §
91.03 of this code. Military markers may be attached to the regulation marker
or as defined in §
91.03 of this code. All names of those interred in the grave shall be
identified on the markers.
      (4)   Columbarium niches. A maximum of two human cremains shall be
allowed in any given niche. All names of those interred in the niche shall be
identified on the niche cover.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-7) (Ord. 06-709, passed 3-21-2007; Ord. 10-754, passed 5-5-
2010; Ord. 19-842, passed 11-6-2019)
§ 91.29 REMOVAL TO OTHER PLOT OR NICHE.
   A body may be disinterred from its original grave or niche and interred in
another plot or niche in the cemetery, when there has been an exchange or
purchase for that purpose.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-7) (Ord. 06-709, passed 3-21-2007; Ord. 09-732, passed 2-
18-2009; Ord. 19-842, passed 11-6-2019)
§ 91.30 PAYMENT OF SERVICE CHARGES.
   The charges for the cemetery services must be paid at the time of the
issuance of the order of interment, disinterment or removal. Online banking
payments shall be accepted from funeral directors if payment is no more than 14
working days from activation of a cemetery plot or niche. Fees in addition to
normal interment as set forth in §
91.08 of this code, shall be billed to the owner and made payable according to
the current payment policy of the city.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-7) (Ord. 06-709, passed 3-21-2007; Ord. 09-732, passed 2-
18-2009; Ord. 15-798, passed 3-4-2015; Ord. 19-842, passed 11-6-2019)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   Any violation of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor and punishable as a
general offense, as defined in §
130.01 of this code, by a fine not exceeding $300 or by imprisonment not
exceeding 30 days.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-11) (Ord. 99-609, passed 8-9-1999; Ord. 06-709, passed 3-
21-2007)
CHAPTER 92: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Animals running at large prohibited
   
92.02   Poultry running at large prohibited
   
92.03   Impounding of animals; fee
   
92.04   Notice and sale of animals
   
92.05   Revenue from sale
   
92.06   Freeing impounded animals prohibited
   
92.07   Vicious animals
Dogs
   
92.20   Definitions
   
92.21   Licensing
   
92.22   Leash requirements
   
92.23   Muzzling
   
92.24   Rabies; notice
   
92.25   Prohibited acts
   
92.26   Nuisance
   
92.27   Impoundment procedures
   
92.28   Unclaimed or infected animals; disposition
   
92.29   Authority of Animal Control Officer
Livestock; Wild Animals
   
92.40   Permit
   
92.41   Running at large prohibited
   
92.42   Cruelty to animals prohibited
   
92.43   Impoundment
 
   
92.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
   No animal shall be permitted to run at large in the city at any time during
the year; and it shall be unlawful for anyone to herd or drive any animal
through the streets without having the animal under control by means of a rope,
strap or other device by which it may be led, unless such animal is being
driven in harness or hauled.
(Prior Code, § 5-3A-1) (Ord. 99-608, passed 4-8-1999) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.02 POULTRY RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep fowl or poultry unless such fowl
or poultry are at all times kept upon such person’s own premises.
(Prior Code, § 5-3A-2) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 IMPOUNDING OF ANIMALS; FEE.
   If any animal shall be found running at large contrary to the provisions of
this subchapter, it is hereby made the duty of the Chief of Police or his or
her designee to take up and confine the same at the county’s Humane Society and
such animal taken up and confined shall not be released until the owner or
person entitled to the possession thereof shall pay to the county’s Humane
Society a fee for impounding and boarding the animal. Such fees shall be
retained by the county’s Humane Society and shall be established by resolution
of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 5-3A-3) (Ord. 99-608, passed 4-8-1999)
§ 92.04 NOTICE AND SALE OF ANIMALS.
   If the owner or person entitled to the possession of an animal does not pay
the charges and take it away within five days from the time it is taken into
custody, the Chief of Police or his or her designee may sell such animal at
public auction after having given at least five days’ notice of the time and
place of such sale by publishing or by posting this notice in five public
places in the city as well as serving a copy of this notice upon the owner or
possessor, if known, of the animal. Such animal may be redeemed at any time
before the date of sale by payment to the officer in charge or his or her
assistant of any fees, expenses and charges herein provided.
(Prior Code, § 5-3A-4)
§ 92.05 REVENUE FROM SALE.
   In case any animal sold pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter be
sold for more than is sufficient to pay the fees and charges aforesaid, such
excess shall, by the officer or his or her assistant making the sale, be
deposited with the Clerk, who shall pay such excess, under an order of the City
Council, to the owner of such animal or animals or to the person entitled to
the possession of the same upon claim and proper proof within one year from
date of the sale.
(Prior Code, § 5-3A-5)
§ 92.06 FREEING IMPOUNDED ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to break open or in any manner, directly or indirectly,
aid or assist in the breaking open any pen or enclosure with intent of
releasing any animal confined therein.
(Prior Code, § 5-3A-6) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.07 VICIOUS ANIMALS.
   Idaho Code 25-2810 shall apply in cases of vicious animals.
(Prior Code, § 5-3A-7) (Ord. 15-809, passed 10-7-2015)
DOGS
§ 92.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AT LARGE. Off the premises of the owners, not confined in a vehicle and not
under control by leash sufficiently strong to prevent the dog from escaping
from the owner or someone representing the owner.
   BREEDING or COMMERCIAL KENNEL. A place where the owner or occupant of the
property keeps at least two but not more than five dogs over the age of eight
months and is engaged in the business of breeding dogs for sale.
   DOG. Animals of the canine family both male and female.
   NONCOMMERCIAL. A noncommercial kennel at a private residence where at least
four but not more than five dogs over the age of eight months are kept. (See
exemption in § 92.21(C)(12).)
   OWNER. Any person or persons, firm, association or corporation owning,
keeping or harboring a dog within the corporate limits of the city.
   PRIMARY ENCLOSURE. Any outside run or pen used to contain dogs.
   SHELTER. Any building or structure used to shelter dogs from inclement
weather, preserve their body heat and keep them dry.
(Prior Code, § 5-3B-1) (Ord. 93-568, passed 11-3-1993; Ord. 04-663, passed 7-
21-2004; Ord. 05-694, passed 7-6-2005)
§ 92.21 LICENSING.
   (A)   Dog license required.
      (1)   License required; fee. On or before January 1 each year, all owners
or keepers of dogs over four months of age kept, harbored or maintained shall
procure a license from the Clerk and pay the assessed fee, which fee shall be
set by resolution of the City Council.
      (2)   Proof of rabies vaccination. The owner shall present at the time
application is made for such license, written proof of rabies vaccination
including the age, color, sex and breed of the dog, the date of vaccination and
the duration of immunity.
      (3)   Exceptions. The provisions of this division (A) shall not be
intended to apply to dogs whose owners are nonresidents temporarily within the
city nor to dogs brought into the city for the purpose of participating in any
dog show nor to seeing eye dogs properly trained to assist blind persons and
such dogs are actually being used by blind persons for the purpose of aiding
them in going from place to place.
   (B)   Tag and collar. Upon payment of the license fee, the owner of a dog
will be issued a license certificate and metallic tag. Every owner shall be
required to provide each dog with a collar to which the license tag must be
affixed and worn constantly. In case a dog tag is lost or destroyed, a
duplicate will be issued by the Clerk upon presentation of a receipt showing
the payment of the license fee for the current year, and the payment of a fee
that shall be set by resolution for each duplicate. Dog tags shall not be
transferable from one dog to another and no refunds shall be made on any dog
license fee because of death of the dog or the owner’s leaving the city before
expiration of the license period.
   (C)   General licensing.
      (1)   License required. It shall be unlawful to keep, maintain, harbor or
possess upon the premises of any household or business any number of dogs that
fall within the kennel definitions of §
92.20 of this code unless and until the owner or person in charge thereof shall
have obtained a kennel license. In no event shall any dog kennel owner keep
more than five adult dogs over the age of eight months on the licensed
premises. The fee for such kennel license shall be fixed by resolution of the
City Council and shall be issued only after compliance with existing zoning
requirements and approval of the City Council and the county’s Humane Society.
The fee is in addition to the tag and collar fee outlined in division (B)
above. No license to operate a kennel shall be issued to anyone who has been
convicted of cruelty to animals.
      (2)   License valid for. The dog kennel license is valid for 12 months
from the date of issue. Application for a renewal license must be received by
the city at least 60 days prior to the expiration of the license.
      (3)   Application for license. The application for a kennel license must
contain a written statement from a licensed veterinarian stating that all
animals listed on the kennel license application are current on all shots and
are in good health with no contagious diseases and that every animal is
receiving adequate care. Once the Clerk has received the application, the Clerk
will set a public hearing at the next regularly scheduled City Council meeting
in order to receive public input.
      (4)   Renewal. If after one year no complaints are documented, the Clerk
shall have the authority to renew the application without notice and hearing.
Should there be documented complaints against the particular kennel, the
original licensing procedure must be followed.
      (5)   Public notices. All notices to the public, including but not
limited to, advertisements, flyers, posters and all other media venues, of
animals for sale shall contain the kennel license number required under this
ordinance.
      (6)   Exemptions. The county’s Humane Society Animal Shelter shall be
exempt from all kennel license fees. Veterinary hospitals and grooming
establishments shall be exempt from all license fees unless engaged in
commercial breeding.
      (7)   Kennels as primary enclosures and shelters. All outside runs, pens
or other containment areas shall be screened from view. There shall be a
minimum of 15 feet side and rear set setback for runs, pens or other
containment areas and no animals shall be housed within the front yard setback
area. All buildings or structures shall conform to state and local building and
zoning codes and will be kept clean, dry and in sanitary condition. All
interior building or structure surfaces shall be constructed and maintained so
that they are water resistant, have sufficient bedding material and can easily
be sanitized. All outside runs, pens or other containment areas shall be
maintained in a manner to protect the dogs from direct sunlight, allow for
adequate ventilation and temperature control and be constructed in a manner to
provide for proper containment of the animal. Dogs may not be housed on a
temporary or permanent basis in a drum or barrel, regardless of the material of
which the drum or barrel is constructed.
      (8)   Kennel structure specifications. The interior height of all
structures shall be at least six inches higher than the head of the tallest dog
in the shelter when it is in normal standing position. Primary enclosures shall
be constructed and maintained to provide sufficient space to allow each dog to
turn about freely and to stand erect, sit and lie down in a comfortable normal
position. The structure shall afford each dog sheltered therein at least 25
square feet for a dog weighing 25 pounds or less, 50 square feet for a dog
weighing between 26 and 45 pounds and 100 square feet for a dog weighing more
than 45 pounds. Each bitch with nursing puppies shall be provided with an
additional amount of floor space, based on her breed and behavioral
characteristics, and in accordance with generally accepted husbandry practices
as determined in advance and in writing by the attending veterinarian.
      (9)   Food, water and bedding requirements. Dogs kept in kennels shall be
fed at least once a day. The food shall be free from contamination, shall be
wholesome, palatable and of sufficient quantity and nutritive value to meet the
normal daily requirement for the condition and size of the dogs, unless the
owner has a written letter from a licensed veterinarian stating otherwise.
Fresh water is to be available at all times. Water receptacles shall be mounted
or secured in a manner that prevents tipping. Food and water receptacles shall
be accessible to dogs kept in the kennel and shall be located to avoid
contamination. All bedding shall be kept clean, dry and free of contamination
and excreta.
      (10)   Sanitation.
         (a)   Excreta shall be removed from the primary enclosure and shelter,
including any floor area or ground surface on a daily basis including under the
shelter.
         (b)   Primary enclosures, shelters and under shelters shall be
sanitized and disinfected a minimum of once daily and as often as necessary to
prevent an accumulation of debris or excreta or a disease hazard.
         (c)   A dog may not be placed in a primary enclosure or shelter
previously occupied unless the enclosure or shelter has been sanitized.
      (11)   Violation. It shall be unlawful for any person to commit any act
or fail to perform any requirement which is prohibited or required by this
section. The violation may result in revocation of the kennel license and/or
impoundment of animals at the owner’s cost. Violations are hereby declared to
be an infraction.
      (12)   Noncommercial kennels. A noncommercial kennel owner having more
dogs than this ordinance allows at the time of the enactment of this subchapter
and who affirms the same within 45 days from the effective date of this
ordinance with the Clerk, may keep the number of dogs as a noncommercial kennel
upon the following conditions: these dogs may not be replaced at death or
removal for any other cause. Eventually the number of dogs shall be reduced to
not more than five dogs. The owner must be licensed.
   (D)   Unlicensed dogs. It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, harbor,
maintain or feed any dog for which no license fee has been paid, or upon which
no tag has been placed. The Animal Control Officer shall have the authority to
take up and impound any dog not so licensed and tagged.
(Prior Code, § 5-3B-2) (Ord. 87-509, passed 6-1-1987; Ord. 99-608, passed 4-8-
1999; Ord. 04-663, passed 7-21-2004; Ord. 05-694, passed 7-6-2005; Ord. 15-809,
passed 10-7-2015) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.22 LEASH REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Leash required. It shall be unlawful for any dog to run loose off of
the owner’s property or other private property where the dog is normally kept.
When any dog is off of its owner’s property or other private property where the
dog is kept, the dog shall be properly secured by a leash in the hands of a
person able to control the dog. It shall be unlawful for any dog owner or party
in control of any dog to allow the dog to run loose off of the owner’s property
or to fail to have his or her dog properly secured by a leash when on public
property.
   (B)   Failure to have leash. Any dog or cat not secured by a leash, or not
securely confined upon privately owned property, or in a city-owned park area
designated as allowing dogs to run free and so marked by signs installed by the
city, may be taken and impounded by the Animal Control Officer.
(Prior Code, § 5-3B-3) (Ord. 87-509, passed 6-1-1987; Ord. 99-608, passed 4-8-
1999) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.23 MUZZLING.
   Whenever it becomes necessary to safeguard the public from the dangers of
hydrophobia, the Mayor, if he or she deems necessary shall issue a proclamation
ordering every person owning or keeping a dog to confine securely on his or her
premises unless such dog shall have on a muzzle of sufficient strength to
prevent its biting any person. Any unmuzzled dog running at large during the
time of the proclamation shall be seized and impounded, unless noticeably
infected with rabies. All dogs so noticeably infected with rabies and
displaying vicious propensities shall be killed by the order of the Chief of
Police without notice to the owner. Dogs impounded during the first two days of
such proclamation shall, if claimed within five days, be released to the owner,
unless infected with rabies, upon payment of the impounding charges provided
for herein. If unclaimed after that period, such dog may be summarily
destroyed.
(Prior Code, § 5-3B-4) (Ord. 87-509, passed 6-1-1987)
§ 92.24 RABIES; NOTICE.
   (A)   Suspicion of rabies. If a dog is believed to have rabies or has been
bitten by a dog suspected of having rabies, such dog shall be confined and
shall be placed under the observation of a veterinarian at the expense of the
owner for a period of two weeks. The owner shall notify the Animal Control
Officer of the fact that his or her dog has been exposed to rabies and at his
or her discretion the Animal Control Officer is empowered to have such dog
removed from the owner’s premises to a veterinary hospital and there placed
under observation for a period of two weeks at the expense of the owner.
   (B)   Removal from city prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person
knowing or suspecting a dog has rabies to allow such dog to be taken off his or
her premises or beyond the limits of the city without the written permission of
the Animal Control Officer or Chief of Police or his or her designee. Every
owner, or other person, upon ascertaining a dog is rabid shall immediately
notify the Animal Control Officer or a police officer who shall either remove
the dog to the animal shelter or summarily destroy it.
(Prior Code, § 5-3B-5) (Ord. 87-509, passed 6-1-1987) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.25 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   Running at large. It shall be unlawful for the owner, keeper, harborer
or any other person having the care, custody or control of any dog to permit
such dog to run at large within the city at any time.
   (B)   Dogs in city park. It shall be unlawful for dogs to be in the city
park at any time out of any vehicle whether on or off a leash, tether or tie.
   (C)   Dogs unrestrained in parked vehicle or conveyance. It shall be
unlawful for any dog to be allowed in any parked vehicle or conveyance unless
restrained in such a fashion to prevent the animal from extending beyond the
confine of the vehicle or conveyance or from posing a danger to pedestrians.
(Prior Code, § 5-3B-6) (Ord. 87-509, passed 6-1-1987; Ord. 03-652, passed 8-6-
2003) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.26 NUISANCE.
   (A)   Destruction of property. No owner will allow a dog or cat to become a
nuisance or destroy property of others, and any police officer or the Animal
Control Officer may notify an owner upon investigation of a sworn complaint
against the owner of any animal that its animal is a nuisance or has destroyed
property other than the owner’s, that the owner or person in control of its
animal must confine its animal to leash or kennel.
   (B)   Biting, chasing or barking. A dog that bites or chases persons not
trespassing on the property of, or injuring or attempting to injure the person,
family or property of the owner may be declared a public nuisance. In addition
any dog that chases vehicles in public streets, or howls, yelps or barks for
prolonged periods, or by any other means causes annoyance or disturbances may
be declared a public nuisance.
   (C)   Harboring nuisance prohibited. It is unlawful for any person to own,
harbor, keep or maintain any such nuisance animal.
   (D)   Filing of complaint. Any person aggrieved by a nuisance animal may
file a complaint in the magistrate court charging the owner with a violation of
this section.
   (E)   Authority of Animal Control Officer. The Animal Control Officer shall
have the authority to take up and impound any dog or cat declared a nuisance by
the magistrate court.
   (F)   Violation. It shall be unlawful for any person to commit any act or
fail to perform any requirement which is prohibited or required by this section
and its violation is hereby declared to be an infraction.
(Prior Code, § 5-3B-7) (Ord. 93-568, passed 11-3-1993; Ord. 99-608, passed 4-8-
1999; Ord. 15-809, passed 10-7-2015) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.27 IMPOUNDMENT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Unlicensed, untagged dog running at large. It shall be the duty of the
Animal Control Officer to impound dogs not wearing a license tag or dogs with
tags that are running at large.
   (B)   Licensed, tagged dog running at large. Whenever any dog wearing a
license tag is impounded, the Animal Control Officer shall immediately notify
the owner thereof. No dog shall be released to the owner until payment of all
monies due to the animal shelter as prescribed by resolution of the City
Council.
(Prior Code, § 5-3B-8) (Ord. 87-509, passed 6-1-1987)
§ 92.28 UNCLAIMED OR INFECTED ANIMALS; DISPOSITION.
   (A)   Retention of animals. It shall be the duty of the Animal Control
Officer to keep all animals so impounded for a period of three days.
   (B)   Unredeemed animals. If, at the expiration of three days from the date
of notice to the owner, the animal shall not have been redeemed, it may be
destroyed. Any animal which appears to be suffering from rabies or affected
with hydrophobia, mange or other infectious or dangerous disease shall not be
released but may be forthwith destroyed.
(Prior Code, § 5-3B-9) (Ord. 99-608, passed 4-8-1999)
§ 92.29 AUTHORITY OF ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER.
   The Animal Control Officer shall have the right to arrest and cause to be
arrested any person, and to serve summons, warrants of arrest and notices to
appear upon any person who violates any provisions of this subchapter or laws
of the city relating to dogs or other animals; and the Animal Control Officer
shall have all necessary police powers incident to such authority.
(Prior Code, § 5-3B-10) (Ord. 87-509, passed 6-1-1987) Penalty, see §
92.99
LIVESTOCK; WILD ANIMALS
§ 92.40 PERMIT.
   (A)   Permit required. It shall be unlawful for any person to keep any wild
animal, wild bird or reptile without a proper license, tag or permit issued by
the state’s Department of Fish and Game. It shall be unlawful for any person to
keep any mink, male goat over the age of six months or pig, under any
circumstances. No person shall possess, own or harbor a miniature potbellied
pig unless and until obtaining a license from the city for such animal in
accordance with this subchapter. Only two miniature potbellied pigs may be
maintained or licensed at any single address or premises. The license may be
issued upon payment of the license fee, proof of required vaccinations and upon
proving compliance with the standards established by this code. Any such
potbellied pig shall be subject to the care, control and licensing requirements
established for dogs by the city code. PERSON includes for purposes of this
subchapter any individual, firm, corporation, trust, any other organized group
or any government.
   (B)   Regulations. Areas where animals are kept shall be maintained so as
not to create a nuisance impacting neighboring properties with noise, odors,
insects or dust. Square footage per lot area for keeping livestock must meet
requirements as stated in the city’s development code.
   (C)   Application; fee. Persons desiring a license, tag or permit in order
to keep wild animals, wild birds or reptiles shall apply for an application
with the state’s Department of Fish and Game and present a copy of the permit
to the Clerk.
   (D)   Term. The term of a permit for wild animals, wild birds or reptiles
shall be determined by the state’s Department of Fish and Game.
   (E)   Exception. The provisions of this subchapter shall not be intended to
apply to animals whose owners are nonresidents temporarily in the city, nor to
animals brought to the city and kept therein for purposes of rodeo, fair,
livestock show, exhibition or any other recognized performance. TEMPORARY shall
be defined as not to exceed ten days in a calendar year.
(Prior Code, § 5-3C-1) (Ord. 83-472, passed 12-19-1983; Ord. 86-497, passed 6-
2-1986; Ord. 08-729, passed 6-4-2008; Ord. 16-818, passed 11-16-2016) Penalty,
see §
92.99
§ 92.41 RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person owning livestock or having control or
possession of livestock to allow the same to run at large within the city.
(Prior Code, § 5-3C-2) (Ord. 83-472, passed 12-19-1983) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.42 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   No owner or custodian of an animal shall fail to provide such animal with
good and wholesome food and water, proper shelter and protection from the
elements, veterinary care and humane care and treatment sufficient to maintain
its animal in good health.
(Prior Code, § 5-3C-3) (Ord. 83-472, passed 12-19-1983) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.43 IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Notice, redemption, fee. All animals kept or maintained in a manner
unlawful under this subchapter shall be impounded by the city and maintained in
a humane manner. The city shall notify the owner or custodian of the animal
impounded of the impoundment, and its owner or custodian may recover possession
of its animal upon payment to the city of fees and costs as set forth in this
subchapter or otherwise. Notice shall be served personally, where practical, by
certified United States mail, or by posting such notice to abate on the
premises. Return of service shall be made as provided by law for returns of
personal service.
   (B)   Failure to redeem. Upon failure by the owner or custodian to pay fees
and costs as required, or to take possession of such animals within five days
after service of notice, the animal may be disposed of by delivering its animal
to any person who will pay the fees and costs, by destroying such animal in a
humane manner or by selling the animal at public auction to satisfy costs of
impoundment. Receipts in excess of impoundment costs shall be paid to the owner
or custodian.
   (C)   Recovery of possession. One claiming possession of an impounded animal
may recover possession by exhibiting satisfactory proof of ownership and paying
the fees set by the Humane Society with City Council approval.
(Prior Code, § 5-3C-4) (Ord. 83-472, passed 12-19-1983) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to commit any act or fail to
perform any requirement which is prohibited or required by §§
92.20 through
92.29, and the violation is hereby declared to be an infraction.
(Prior Code, § 5-3B-11)
   (C)   Anyone violating any of the provisions of §§
92.40 through
92.43 shall, upon conviction, be subject to penalty as provided in §
10.99 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 5-3C-5)
(Ord. 83-472, passed 12-19-1983; Ord. 87-509, passed 6-1-1987; Ord. 15-809,
passed 10-7-2015)
CHAPTER 93: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
93.01   Definitions
   
93.02   Hours
   
93.03   Speed limit
   
93.04   Pet control
   
93.05   Camping
   
93.06   Bicycles and motorized vehicles
   
93.07   Concessions and special events
   
93.08   Fees
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY PARKS. All city-owned, leased and managed property used for the purpose
of parks and recreation.
   ISLAND PARK. The strip of land forming an island surrounded by split
channels of the Salmon River within the city limits of the city (after crossing
channel onto island).
(Prior Code, § 7-2-1) (Ord. 02-639, passed 11-6-2002)
§ 93.02 HOURS.
   The hours for use of city parks shall be from 6:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m. Any
other use shall require permission from the office of the Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-2) (Ord. 79-431, passed 7-16-1979; Ord. 04-669, passed 6-2-
2004)
§ 93.03 SPEED LIMIT.
   The maximum speed limit for city parks for any motorized vehicle in its park
shall be ten mph.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-3) (Ord. 79-431, passed 7-16-1979; Ord. 04-669, passed 6-2-
2004)
§ 93.04 PET CONTROL.
   (A)   Pets are allowed on Island Park except for the hours of 11:30 a.m. to
1:30 p.m. daily. Pets are allowed at the Sacajawea Interpretive, Cultural and
Educational Center on a leash. No pets shall be allowed in any other city
parks. The City Council shall have the authority to waive its restriction for
special events held on city parks.
   (B)   Restricted leash requirements on the island. It shall be lawful for an
owner to walk and exercise his or her dog (limit two) on Island Park without a
leash. The owner or his or her agent must accompany the dog and be able to
restrain the dog if necessary. This limited leash restriction shall not be in
effect on days special events are scheduled on the island. Unleashed dogs will
not be allowed on the island on days of special events. No dogs of fierce,
dangerous or vicious propensities shall be allowed on the island.
   (C)   Accompaniment and clean up. The owner or agent of the dog must be with
the dog off the leash at all times. The owner or agent must clean up all
excrement left by the dog and remove the same from the island and the Sacajawea
Center.
   (D)   Damages. Any damage to persons or property by a dog or dogs on the
island or at the Sacajawea Center shall be the sole responsibility of the owner
or agent.
   (E)   City water pump station. No owner or agent shall allow a dog or dogs
to enter and/or swim in the west channel of the Salmon River within 100 feet of
the city’s water pump station.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-4) (Ord. 02-639, passed 11-6-2002; Ord. 07-711, passed 2-7-
2007) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.05 CAMPING.
   (A)   Permit required. Camping in city parks is prohibited with the
exception of the Sacajawea Interpretive, Cultural and Educational Center.
Camping at the Sacajawea Interpretive, Cultural and Educational Center will be
allowed only for educational groups or individuals that are participating in a
Sacajawea Center Program that has been approved by the Sacajawea Center
Director where overnight camping is part of the program. Two recreational
vehicle sites west of the Police Department may only be used by volunteers
working at least 20 hours each week on site at the Sacajawea Center after
passing a background check and submitting a use and volunteer agreement. One
recreational vehicle site by the main entrance of the Sacajawea Center may only
be used by Tribal members who are presenting educational or interpretive
programs specifically for the Center. The Mayor of the city has the authority
to grant permission to allow limited camping in all city parks or property; for
emergency or security personnel only. No other permits for camping will be
issued.
   (B)   Fees. The fee for camping in city parks shall be set by resolution by
the City Council. The organization obtaining the permit from the city shall be
responsible for payment of the fees to the city. The City Council shall have
the authority to waive camping fees.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-5) (Ord. 79-431, passed 7-16-1979; Ord. 04-669, passed 6-2-
2004; Ord. 15-803, passed 9-2-2015) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.06 BICYCLES AND MOTORIZED VEHICLES.
   Bicycles and motorized vehicles may be used in designated areas only in city
parks.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-6) (Ord. 79-431, passed 7-16-1979; Ord. 04-669, passed 6-2-
2004)
§ 93.07 CONCESSIONS AND SPECIAL EVENTS.
   (A)   General. No person shall sell or offer for sale any food, beverage,
candy or goods of any kind, within a public park, except for persons operating
under a concession agreement approved by the Council or except for persons
operating at a special event as determined by the Clerk for which specific
approval of limited duration has been given by the Clerk.
   (B)   Limited concession operations. No individual or group may operate a
concession that violates Idaho Code 18-4103 or any other state statute within
or on any city park.
   (C)   Special events concession primacy. When any of the city parks have
been approved by the Clerk for special events, the entity that has reserved the
park has primacy for operation of concessions at that location. Individuals or
groups that are not part of the special event, must seek the approval of the
initial party for dual occupancy if for the purpose of concession. In order to
avoid damage to buried sprinkler systems, parking or driving on the grass
within city parks is only allowed in designated areas which shall be determined
by the city.
   (D)   Fee. Any entity or individual desiring to conduct operation of
concessions or a special event on or within city parks, must pay a fee as part
of the concession agreement or special event request. The fee for such
agreement shall be fixed by resolution of the City Council. The City Council
shall have the authority to waive camping fees.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-7) (Ord. 03-651, passed 6-6-2003; Ord. 04-669, passed 6-2-
2004; Ord. 19-837, passed 5-15-2019) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.08 FEES.
   All other fees associated with operations, administration and maintenance of
city parks shall be fixed by resolution of the City Council. These fees will
include but are not limited to the rate and fee schedule for the Sacajawea
Interpretive, Cultural and Educational Center and for all other city parks.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-8) (Ord. 04-669, passed 6-2-2004; Ord. 07-711, passed 2-7-
2007; Ord. 08-728, passed 4-16-2008; Ord. 15-810, passed 10-7-2015)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the sections of this chapter shall be guilty of
an infraction and subject to penalty as provided in §
10.99 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-9) (Ord. 79-431, passed 7-16-1979; Ord. 04-669, passed 6-2-
2004; Ord. 15-810, passed 10-7-2015)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
      
111.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
112.   JUNK DEALERS
      
113.   ITINERANT MERCHANTS AND VENDORS
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
Section
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   License required
   
110.03   Exemptions
   
110.04   Application and standards for license
   
110.05   License and fee
   
110.06   Regulation of licensed businesses
   
110.07   Change of location
   
110.08   Prohibition against doing business without a license
   
110.09   Right of appeal
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS or OCCUPATION. All activities, trades and pursuits conducted or
engaged in for profit, including without limitation wholesale businesses,
retail businesses, personal service businesses and professions and businesses
conducted as home occupations in any and all situations where suppliers,
vendors, customers, clients and/or members of the general public visit or
frequent the premises where the business or occupation is conducted or the work
performed.
   CITY. The City of Salmon, Idaho.
   CLERK. The Clerk of the city.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership, company, corporation, joint
venture, association or other business entity.
   PREMISES. All real property and structures thereon in or upon which any
business or occupation is conducted.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-1)
§ 110.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   A business license shall be required for any of the following:
      (1)   Any person operating a storefront in the city limits;
      (2)   Any person conducting a home business within the city limits;
      (3)   Any person conducting a trade to serve the local community;
      (4)   Any building contractor working on construction sites or projects
in the city, even if his or her home office is not in the city; or
      (5)   Any person operating a short-term (vacation rental or lodging) for
less than 30 days.
   (B)   Any person conducting such a business or engaged in such an occupation
shall apply for the required business license by filling out an application
provided by the Clerk. A separate business license, even if operated from the
same address, shall be required for each branch establishment, type and/or
separate location of a business.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-2) (Ord. 04-670, passed 7-7-2004; Ord. 19-834, passed 2-20-
2019)
§ 110.03 EXEMPTIONS.
   None of the provisions of this chapter shall apply to any agency of the
United States Government and political subdivisions of the state, including
counties, school districts, sewer districts, fire districts and other special
districts. Charitable entities and organizations and religious organizations
shall be exempt. Traveling salespersons, commercial travelers or the like who
exclusively or primarily sell to, or solicit orders for future delivery from
local retailers, local businesses, local governments, local schools, local
wholesale firms or solicited orders from local customers shall be exempt. All
businesses or occupations owned and operated by individuals under the age of 18
years of age shall be exempt.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-3) (Ord. 04-670, passed 7-7-2004; Ord. 04-674, passed 8-18-
2004; Ord. 19-834, passed 2-20-2019)
§ 110.04 APPLICATION AND STANDARDS FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   An application shall be submitted to the city in writing, signed and
sworn to by the applicant upon the most current application form furnished by
the city.
   (B)   A license shall be issued only to applicants who meet the following
requirements.
      (1)   License fee. The license fee identified in §
110.05 of this chapter has been paid in full.
      (2)   Compliance with building and zoning requirements. The business and
premises for which the application is made are not in violation of any building
and/or zoning regulations.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-4) (Ord. 04-670, passed 7-7-2004; Ord. 19-834, passed 2-20-
2019)
§ 110.05 LICENSE AND FEE.
   A business license and fee for the administrative costs of processing
applications and issuing licenses shall be fixed by resolution of the City
Council. The reduced fee shall also be fixed by resolution of the City Council.
The fees shall be paid by the applicant at the time of making application for
the required business license and shall be renewed annually by January 1.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-5) (Ord. 04-670, passed 7-7-2004; Ord. 04-674, passed 8-18-
2004; Ord. 18-833, passed 12-5-2018)
§ 110.06 REGULATION OF LICENSED BUSINESSES.
   Although nothing in this chapter shall be interpreted to prohibit the
conduct of a lawful trade or business, the right shall be and remain at all
times vested in the Mayor and City Council to deny an application, or revoke or
cancel any license for fraud or misrepresentation in this procurement, or for
any fraudulent, deceptive, misleading, illegal or other sham business tactic
performed against the public in the city.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-6) (Ord. 04-670, passed 7-7-2004; Ord. 04-674, passed 8-18-
2004)
§ 110.07 CHANGE OF LOCATION.
   No licensee shall change the location of a licensed business without having
applied for and received a new business license pursuant to the terms of this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-7) (Ord. 04-670, passed 7-7-2004) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.08 PROHIBITION AGAINST DOING BUSINESS WITHOUT A LICENSE.
   No person shall engage in any business or occupation within the boundaries
of the city without first having obtained a business license as required by
this chapter. All business licenses required in this chapter shall be displayed
on the business premises in a location clearly visible to the general public.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-8) (Ord. 04-670, passed 7-7-2004; Ord. 19-834, passed 2-20-
2019) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.09 RIGHT OF APPEAL.
   Any person aggrieved by a decision of the Clerk, or other official or
employee of the city, as to the issuance of a license in accordance herewith
shall have the right to appeal to the City Council by filing a written appeal
with the Clerk within 15 days following the date of the action or decision
giving rise to the appeal.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-9) (Ord. 04-670, passed 7-7-2004)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Civil liability. The Attorney shall, at the direction of the City
Council, institute civil suit in the name of the city to enforce compliance
with the provisions of this chapter by injunctive relief, declaratory relief or
other civil remedy. No civil judgment, or any act by the city or the violator
shall bar or prevent a criminal prosecution for each and every violation of
this chapter.
   (B)   Criminal liability. A person who violates any provision of this
chapter or operates a business or occupation for which a license is required by
this chapter without having first obtained a license, as herein provided, shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction, shall be subject to a fine of
up to $300.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-10) (Ord. 04-670, passed 7-7-2004; Ord. 04-674, passed 8-18-
2004; Ord. 19-834, passed 2-20-2019)
CHAPTER 111: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   Adoption of state laws
   
111.02   Wine by the drink
Liquor by the Drink
   
111.15   License required
   
111.16   Application for license
   
111.17   Location restrictions, applicant
   
111.18   Conditions of license; fee
   
111.19   Hours of sale of liquor
   
111.20   Access to premises
   
111.21   Prohibited sales and conduct
   
111.22   License revocation; hearing
Beer Regulations
   
111.35   License required
   
111.36   Application for license
   
111.37   License classification and fees
   
111.38   Review of application
   
111.39   License period; grant or denial of application
   
111.40   Record of proceedings
   
111.41   Limitations and conditions of license
   
111.42   Hearings and appeals on license denials, suspension or revocation
 
   
111.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Open alcoholic beverages; possession, consumption, transportation, see §
130.08
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.01 ADOPTION OF STATE LAWS.
   (A)   Adoption. There are hereby adopted for the purpose of governing the
licensing, sale and use of alcoholic beverages within the city, the laws of the
state, being particularly Idaho Code Title 23, as presently in effect or as may
hereafter be amended by the legislature. The same is hereby adopted and
incorporated as an ordinance of the city as fully as though set forth at length
herein.
   (B)   Copies on file. Three copies of these statutes, together with all
amendments thereto, all duly certified by the Clerk, shall be kept on file in
the office of the Clerk for use and examination of and by the public.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-1)
§ 111.02 WINE BY THE DRINK.
   (A)   Any person holding a valid and subsisting city and state retail beer
license may procure from the city a license for the retail sale of wine,
authorizing wine to be sold by the drink in such premises during the same hours
and under the same ordinances, rules and regulations as govern the sale of beer
in such premises.
(Prior Code, § 3-1C-1)
   (B)   Such licenses shall run from September 1 to August 31 of each year,
and the license fee therefor shall be as set by the City Council, not to exceed
the maximum allowed by state law.
(Prior Code, § 3-1C-2)
LIQUOR BY THE DRINK
§ 111.15 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be lawful to sell liquor by the drink as provided by the laws of
this state, provided a license shall first be obtained as provided in this
chapter and the rules and regulations and provisions concerning the licensing
and operation of a place of business for the sale of liquor are adhered to as
herein provided.
(Prior Code, § 3-1A-1) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.16 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Required information. Before there shall be any lawful sale of liquor
by the drink, an application by the proposed licensee must be made for such
license and filed with the Clerk in form and manner herein provided. Such
application shall provide for the name of the applicant, the location of the
proposed business and such other information as may be prescribed and required
by the Mayor and City Council. At the time the application is filed, the
applicant shall also present the license issued by the state and the county for
the sale of liquor by the drink at retail. No license will be issued until a
license is first obtained from the state and the county.
   (B)   Approval. All applications shall be reviewed by the Clerk and the
Police Chief. Upon approval of the application and receipt of the license fee,
which is to be paid at the time of filing of the application, a license will be
issued to the applicant. If it is determined that further review is warranted,
the renewal/new application shall be forwarded to the City Council for
discussion at its next regular City Council meeting.
(Prior Code, § 3-1A-2) (Ord. 17-828, passed 12-6-2017)
§ 111.17 LOCATION RESTRICTIONS, APPLICANT.
   No license shall be issued for the sale of liquor by the drink to any person
not qualified for a license under state law nor upon any premises in any
neighborhood which is predominantly residential nor within 300 feet of any
school, church or other place of public worship.
(Prior Code, § 3-1A-3)
§ 111.18 CONDITIONS OF LICENSE; FEE.
   (A)   License fee. The license fee required of any applicant for the sale of
liquor by the drink shall be as set by the City Council, not to exceed the
maximum allowed by state law, payable in advance. The payment shall be made
with the application for the balance of the term of license as set by Idaho
Code Title 23.
   (B)   Term of license, renewals. All licenses issued shall expire at 12:00
a.m. on August 31 of each calendar year. Renewals may be granted upon
application if the record of the applicant is satisfactory to the Clerk and
Police Chief and in accordance with the provisions of the law and this
subchapter and upon payment of the fee referenced in division (A) above for the
ensuing year. Any operation under an expired license shall constitute a
violation of this subchapter, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed
for each such day of operation.
   (C)   License transferable. Licenses issued under the provisions of this
section may be transferred with the consent of the Clerk and Police Chief.
(Prior Code, § 3-1A-4) (Ord. 17-828, passed 12-6-2017) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.19 HOURS OF SALE OF LIQUOR.
   (A)   No liquor shall be sold, offered for sale or given away upon any
licensed premises, and all liquor not in sealed bottles must be locked in a
separate room or cabinet during the following hours:
      (1)   Sunday, Memorial Day, Thanksgiving and Christmas from 1:00 a.m. to
10:00 a.m. the following day; provided, however, that on any Sunday not
otherwise being a prescribed holiday, it shall be lawful for a licensee having
banquet area or meeting room facilities, separate and apart from the usual
dispensing area (barroom) and separate and apart from a normal public dining
room unless such dining room is closed to the public, to therein dispense
liquor between the hours of 2:00 p.m. and 11:00 p.m. to bona fide participants
of banquets, receptions or conventions for consumption only within the confines
of such banquet area or meeting room facility; and
      (2)   On any other day between 1:00 a.m. and 10:00 a.m.
   (B)   There is no prohibition against the sale of liquor by the drink during
general, primary or city elections unless the city enacts an ordinance
prohibiting such sales.
   (C)   Any patron present on the licensed premises after the sale of liquor
has stopped as provided in division (A) above shall have a reasonable time, not
to exceed 30 minutes, to consume any beverages already served.
   (D)   Any person who consumes or intentionally permits the consumption of
any alcoholic beverage upon licensed premises after the time provided for in
division (C) above shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (E)   It shall be the duty of every person who is employed at or upon a
licensed premises or who owns or manages a licensed premises and is present
upon the licensed premises during the hours and at the time set forth in
division (A) above to lock up and keep locked up in a locked room or locked
cabinet all unsealed containers of liquor during the hours and at the times set
forth in division (A) above, and any such person who fails to perform the duty
provided herein shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 3-1A-5) (Ord. 15-806, passed 9-2-2015) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.20 ACCESS TO PREMISES.
   All peace officers appointed by the state or the city or the county shall
have free access at all times to the licensed premises, and any information
touching the manner and method of the operation of the premises or the sale of
liquor may be submitted to the Mayor and City Council as a result of the
investigation made of the licensee.
(Prior Code, § 3-1A-6)
§ 111.21 PROHIBITED SALES AND CONDUCT.
   The following are declared as prohibited acts, and any violation of the
provisions of this section shall be considered and shall likewise be grounds
for the cancellation and revocation of the license.
   (A)   Underage, intoxicated or disorderly persons. No sale of liquor shall
be made to:
      (1)   Any person under the age of 21 years; or
      (2)   Any person actually, apparently or obviously intoxicated.
   (B)   Gambling. No gambling of any kind or character shall be operated upon
the premises, and no gambling device shall be maintained thereon.
(Prior Code, § 3-1A-7) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.22 LICENSE REVOCATION; HEARING.
   If any licensee or employee of a liquor by the drink establishment violates
any of the provisions of this subchapter or is convicted of the violation of
any of the provisions of state law, the Mayor and City Council are hereby
authorized and empowered to revoke the license issued to the licensee.
Provided, however, that when it is brought to the attention of the Mayor and
City Council that a violation has taken place, before revoking such license,
they shall cause notice to be served upon the licensee setting forth in general
terms the violation or violations claimed to have been committed, and such
notice shall provide a time for hearing thereon by the Mayor and City Council,
which date of hearing shall be not less than five days nor more than ten days
from the date of the service of notice that the provisions of this section or
the provisions of the laws of the state have been violated. The Mayor and City
Council shall revoke such license, and no refund of any unused portion of the
license fee shall be made to the licensee. Should the Director of the
Department of Law Enforcement of the state revoke any license issued by such
Director, the licensee shall automatically have the license issued by the city
revoked and no refund of any fee paid shall be made.
(Prior Code, § 3-1A-8) Penalty, see §
111.99
BEER REGULATIONS
§ 111.35 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell beer at retail within the city
without first obtaining a license therefor as herein provided. The license
requirement contained herein shall include the sale of draught beer, bottled or
canned beer to be consumed on the premises.
(Prior Code, § 3-1B-1) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.36 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   All applications for licenses shall be in writing, filed with the Clerk and
accompanied by the affidavit of the applicant showing such applicant to be
qualified by this subchapter and by the laws of the state to receive a license.
Such application must state the place of business with respect to which the
license is to be issued and must be accompanied by the license fee. Provided,
however, that before a license shall be issued, the licensee must have procured
a license from the proper official of the state and the county.
(Prior Code, § 3-1B-2)
§ 111.37 LICENSE CLASSIFICATION AND FEES.
   (A)   Fees. License fees shall be as set by the City Council, not to exceed
the maximum allowed by state law.
   (B)   Classifications of licenses. There are basically two types of
licenses, one for bottled or canned beer, to be consumed on or off the
premises; and the other for bottled, canned and draught beer to be consumed on
the licensed premises only.
(Prior Code, § 3-1B-3)
§ 111.38 REVIEW OF APPLICATION.
   No license shall be granted hereunder until there has been a review of the
application by the Clerk and Police Chief. Upon approval of the application and
receipt of the license fee, which is to be paid at the time of filing the
application, a license will be issued to the applicant. If it is determined
that further review is warranted, the renewal/new application shall be
forwarded to the City Council for discussion at their next regular City Council
meeting.
(Prior Code, § 3-1B-4) (Ord. 17-828, passed 12-6-2017)
§ 111.39 LICENSE PERIOD; GRANT OR DENIAL OF APPLICATION.
   (A)   All licenses shall be granted by the for a period of one year
beginning September 1 and ending August 31. A full year’s license fee shall be
collected after September 1. If forwarded to the City Council for review, City
Council shall grant or deny the application within 60 days of the time it is
filed with the Clerk.
   (B)   Whenever the Mayor and City Council deny an application, they shall
specify, in writing:
      (1)   The reason for the denial; and
      (2)   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain the
license, transfer or renewal thereof. All licenses shall be issued by the
Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 3-1B-5) (Ord. 17-828, passed 12-6-2017)
§ 111.40 RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS.
   (A)   Retention of record; transcription. Upon written request and within
the time period provided for retention of the record, any person may have the
record transcribed at his or her expense.
   (B)   Minutes. The Mayor and City Council shall also provide for the keeping
of the minutes of the proceedings. Minutes shall be retained indefinitely or as
otherwise provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 3-1B-6)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Idaho Code 50-907
§ 111.41 LIMITATIONS AND CONDITIONS OF LICENSE.
   (A)   License for one location only. The license fee shall permit the sale
of such beer in but one place of business, such place of business to be
designated in the license issued.
   (B)   Transfer of license. Such license may be transferred with the consent
of the Mayor and City Council.
   (C)   License to be posted. It shall be the duty of the licensee to keep
such license posted in a conspicuous place in the place of business for which
the license is granted.
   (D)   Hours of sale. No person licensed by the city shall sell or serve any
beer during hours not allowed under the laws of the state.
(Prior Code, § 3-1B-7) Penalty, see §
111.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Idaho Code 23-1012
§ 111.42 HEARINGS AND APPEALS ON LICENSE DENIALS, SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION.
   Prior to any revocation or suspension of a license or upon the denial of a
license, the licensee shall be afforded a hearing according to Idaho Code 23-
1016. If the decision is to revoke or suspend a license or to deny an
application, the licensee or applicant shall have the right to appeal in
accordance with Idaho Code 23-1016.
(Prior Code, § 3-1B-8)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any violation of §
111.02 shall be declared a misdemeanor and the offender shall be subject to
penalties as provided in §
10.99 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 3-1C-3)
   (C)   Any violation of §§
111.35 through
111.42 shall be declared a misdemeanor and the offender shall be subject to
penalties as provided in §
10.99 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 3-1B-9)
CHAPTER 112: JUNK DEALERS
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Junk enclosed within building or fence
   
112.03   Noncompliance a nuisance
   
112.04   Storage of junk
   
112.05   Standards
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   JUNK. Any worn out, castoff or discarded article or material which is ready
for destruction or has been collected or stored for salvage or conversion to
some other use.
   JUNK CAR. Any used car or motor vehicle not in the process of reconditioning
which has been abandoned for use as a motor vehicle on a public highway and
which is in unsafe operating condition and shall have remained in such
condition for a period in excess of 30 days. Portions of JUNK CARS, such as
hoods, fenders, radiators, rims, motors and the like, not being utilized for
the repair of a motor vehicle shall be considered as junk.
   JUNK DEALER. Includes any person engaged in the processing or collecting of
junk, waste, discarded or salvaged materials, machinery or equipment, including
automobile wrecking and dismantling.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-1) (Ord. 68-370, passed 11-4-1968)
§ 112.02 JUNK ENCLOSED WITHIN BUILDING OR FENCE.
   All material classified as junk, including motor vehicle and/or motor
vehicle bodies shall be maintained either in a building or shall be enclosed by
a site obscuring fence not less than six feet high or in accordance with the
city’s development code.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-3) (Ord. 68-370, passed 11-4-1968) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.03 NONCOMPLIANCE A NUISANCE.
   The failure of any person to comply with the provisions of this chapter
shall be constituted as a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-4) (Ord. 68-370, passed 11-4-1968)
§ 112.04 STORAGE OF JUNK.
   No person shall deposit, store, maintain, collect or permit the storage,
deposit, maintenance or collection of any junk or junk cars in unenclosed areas
on his or her premises or any premises under his or her control which are
unenclosed open areas or in any other place within the city except as expressly
provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-5) (Ord. 68-370, passed 11-4-1968) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.05 STANDARDS.
   Any person doing business as a junk dealer shall at all times maintain such
place of business in a sightly and sanitary manner.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-1) (Ord. 68-370, passed 11-4-1968) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate any provision of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and on conviction thereof shall be subject to penalty
as provided in §
10.99 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-6) (Ord. 68-370, passed 11-4-1968)
CHAPTER 113: ITINERANT MERCHANTS AND VENDORS
Section
   
113.01   Purpose
   
113.02   Definitions
   
113.03   Application, required information
   
113.04   Licensing; issuance, investigation
   
113.05   License fee
   
113.06   Invitation to peddle or solicit required
   
113.07   Prohibited acts
   
113.08   License revocation
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to assist in protecting consumers who
purchase goods in the city by requiring that all itinerant merchants and
vendors, as defined in §
113.02 of this chapter, register with the Clerk before commencing business
within the city. In addition, it is the policy of the city to promote the
protection of the public health and safety, and to promote the economic base
and general welfare of the community by the regulation of off-site itinerant
merchants and vendors operating inside the city.
   (B)   Reasonable regulation of off-site itinerant merchant or vendors is
necessary to ensure that any stand or structure design and construction for
purpose of off-site vending is safe, orderly and harmonious with the appearance
and character of the neighborhood and the city, and provides for safe and
adequate pedestrian and vehicular traffic.
   (C)   Reasonable regulation of off-site itinerant merchants or vendors is
necessary to protect and conserve the economic base of the community, including
property values.
   (D)   The regulations contained in this chapter are not intended to prohibit
or hamper speech which is protected by the first amendment, but merely to
regulate specific activities which are commercial in nature.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-1) (Ord. 83-470, passed 11-7-1983; Ord. 18-830, passed 6-20-
2018)
§ 113.02 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT. Any person who engages in, does or transacts any
temporary or transient business in the city and who, for the purpose of
carrying on such business, occupies any location for a period of less than 125
days unless such person is one or more of the following:
         (a)   An individual who is a permanent resident of the city who is
conducting such business activity as owner or consignee of the goods, wares or
merchandise being sold or offered for sale;
         (b)   A principal or an agent of a person, firm or corporation whose
principal has been continuously engaged in business within the city for the
preceding two calendar months;
         (c)   An agent of a business properly licensed or exempt from
licensing under this chapter;
         (d)   A member of a tax exempt charitable, fraternal, civic or
religious organization selling or offering to sell goods, wares or merchandise
on behalf of the organization for tax exempt purposes of the organization as
defined by the Internal Revenue Code, which provides proof of authority to act
on behalf of the tax exempt organization;
         (e)   A person selling used furniture, household goods, sporting
equipment or clothing of his or her family during a period not to exceed 48
hours;
         (f)   A guardian, conservator or personal representative selling
personal assets of the decedent or ward;
         (g)   Those exempt from requiring a vendor’s permit are school age
children selling various fundraising items including, but not limited to,
scouting organizations and school-sponsored sporting or music events;
         (h)   A person holding a vendor’s permit or license which is part of
another licensed street carnival or event during a special event issued by the
organizers of such carnival or event, shall not be required to hold a permit
issued by the city under this section; or
         (i)   A person who is a part of a craft fair, bazaar or carnival shall
not be required to hold a permit issued by the city under this section.
   VENDOR. A city resident who operates in an itinerant fashion, such as moving
from place to place.
   (B)   The city’s or event organizer’s permit shall in the case of a vendor
be posted upon the stand at all times when the stand is open for business. The
activities conducted by the vendor must conform to the description in the
application for the permit. No sign shall be on or about a vendor’s stand
making any statement that is untrue or is at variance from the application; for
one example: A sign shall not state local produce if either in fact or
according to the application the produce was not grown on land in the county.
If a statement made in the application for a vendor’s license is false, or if a
statement made by a sign at a vendor’s stand is false, the permit shall be
void.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-2) (Ord. 83-470, passed 11-7-1983; Ord. 18-830, passed 6-20-
2018)
§ 113.03 APPLICATION, REQUIRED INFORMATION.
   No person shall do business as a vendor or an itinerant merchant as defined
in §
113.02 of this chapter within the city without first obtaining a permit and
paying a license fee for the permit from the Clerk. Excluded are vendors or
itinerant merchants of farmers’ markets and sales representatives. The
application for such permit shall be filed with the Clerk during normal
business hours not less than 72 hours prior to the first day upon which sales
are intended to occur. An application for such license shall be made to the
Clerk in such form and manner as provided by the Clerk’s office. The
application form shall be established by resolution and updated from time to
time by resolution.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-3) (Ord. 18-830, passed 6-20-2018) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.04 LICENSING; ISSUANCE, INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   Issuance. Upon receipt of the completed registration form and the
appropriate license fee, the Clerk shall review the application to see if the
required information has been provided. If the application has been properly
submitted, the Clerk will issue a license indicating the dates for which the
vendor or itinerant merchant is authorized to do business in the city, and the
license shall constitute proof that the vendor or itinerant merchant named on
the license is authorized to do business within the city during the dates
indicated on the license.
   (B)   Investigation. The Clerk shall file one copy of the application and
receipt in the office of the Clerk and shall forward a copy of the application
and license to the Chief of Police who may conduct such investigation of the
applicant as the Chief or the Chief’s authorized agent may deem appropriate for
the protection of consumers within the city.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-4) (Ord. 83-470, passed 11-7-1983; Ord. 18-830, passed 6-20-
2018)
§ 113.05 LICENSE FEE.
   (A)   Fee. Each applicant shall pay to the Clerk, at the time of submission
of an application for a vendor’s license or an itinerant merchant license, the
fee as having been set by resolution and approved by the City Council.
   (B)   Extension. An applicant who wishes to extend his or her license for
additional days may do so after such license has been issued, by tendering the
fee for such additional days to the Clerk prior to the expiration of the
license. A new application shall not be required of the applicant if there have
been no material changes in the information supplied when the license was first
issued. Upon receipt of this fee, the Clerk shall issue a new license extending
the time period by the number of days for which payment has been received and
shall file a copy in the Clerk’s office and forward a copy to the Chief of
Police.
   (C)   Form of payment. The Clerk shall have the right to refuse to accept
personal or business checks in payment of registration fees and may insist upon
cash or a cashier’s check of a local bank or a postal money order.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-5) (Ord. 86-502, passed 11-3-1986; Ord. 18-830, passed 6-20-
2018)
§ 113.06 INVITATION TO PEDDLE OR SOLICIT REQUIRED.
   The practice of going in and upon private residences in the city by
solicitors, peddlers, hawkers, itinerant merchants and transient vendors of
merchandise, not having been requested or invited so to do by the owner or
occupant of the private residences, for the purpose of soliciting orders for
the sale of goods, wares and merchandise, and/or for the purpose of disposing
of and/or peddling or hawking the same, is hereby declared to be a nuisance,
and punishable as such nuisance as a misdemeanor, excluding fund-raisers for
non-profit organizations for area youth.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-6) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.07 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of a
vendor or an itinerant merchant as defined in this chapter, unless such person
has registered as a vendor or an itinerant merchant for the dates in which the
business activity is being conducted and has received a receipt showing payment
of the license fee for the applicable dates.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to act as an agent or employee of
an itinerant merchant who is not properly registered and licensed under this
chapter for the days in which such person conducts or attempts to conduct
business for such principal. It shall be the duty of each such agent to
determine whether the principal is in fact authorized to do business as an
itinerant merchant by inquiring at the office of the Clerk, and the agent shall
not be excused for violating this chapter by reason of the fact that he or she
received erroneous information from any other source.
   (C)   A person may be charged in the alternative with violating divisions
(A) or (B) above, but such person may not be convicted both as a principal and
agent in the same transaction. If a reasonable doubt is raised as to the
person’s status as an agent or employee of an unlicensed principal, such person
shall be presumed to be a principal.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to submit false information on an
application for an itinerant merchant license.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-7) (Ord. 83-470, passed 11-7-1983; Ord. 18-830, passed 6-20-
2018) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.08 LICENSE REVOCATION.
   The Clerk may revoke a license and registration receipt of an itinerant
merchant upon discovering a materially false representation of fact on the
application or upon dishonor of a check received in payment of license fees.
Revocation shall be deemed effective 24 hours after notice if mailed to the
permanent business address of the principal, as shown on the application, by
certified mail with return receipt requested, postage prepaid or by actual
notice to the itinerant merchant or any agent of the itinerant merchant,
whichever occurs first.
(Prior Code, § 113.08) (Ord. 83-470, passed 11-7-1983)
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of any portion of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor. Upon
conviction of a violation of this chapter, the defendant shall be subject to
penalty as provided in §
10.99 of this code. The conviction of an agent for violation of this chapter
shall not bar conviction of the principal nor shall conviction of a principal
bar the conviction of an agent, if a person is charged.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-9) (Ord. 83-470, passed 11-7-1983)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Code adopted
   
130.02   Issuance of citations
   
130.03   Encouraging delinquency
   
130.04   Loudspeakers or sound trucks
   
130.05   Playing ball on streets prohibited
   
130.06   Water flowing upon streets
   
130.07   Discharge of firearms prohibited
   
130.08   Open alcoholic beverages, intoxicating inhalants; possession,
consumption, transportation
   
130.09   Disturbing the peace
   
130.10   Curfew
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 CODE ADOPTED.
   Pursuant to the provisions of Idaho Code 50-901, there is hereby adopted
Idaho Code 18, being the criminal laws of the state, establishing principles of
liability for conduct; establishing general principles of justification for
conduct; defining offenses involving danger to persons; defining offenses
against property; defining offenses against the family; defining offenses
against public administration; defining offenses against public order and
decency; establishing a uniform system of penalties, including fines,
forfeitures and imprisonment; and establishing criteria for imposing sentences
upon those convicted of an offense, and the laws shall be and the same are
hereby adopted as the criminal code of the city. One copy of the laws shall be
on file in the office of the Clerk for reference to and inspection by the
general public.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-1)
§ 130.02 ISSUANCE OF CITATIONS.
   Upon a violation of any provision of this chapter or the laws hereinabove
adopted, the arresting officer shall execute the citation in the following
manner: Violation of Salmon City Code, §
130.01 (being in particular Title 18-(applicable code)___, of the Idaho Code).
(Prior Code, § 5-2-2)
§ 130.03 ENCOURAGING DELINQUENCY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, by any act or neglect, to encourage,
aid or cause a child to come within the purview of the juvenile authorities;
and it shall likewise be unlawful for any person, after notice that a driver’s
license of any child has been suspended or revoked, to permit such child to
operate a motor vehicle during the period that such driver’s license is
suspended.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-3) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04 LOUDSPEAKERS OR SOUND TRUCKS.
   It shall be unlawful to play, operate or use any device known as a sound
truck, loudspeaker or sound amplifier, radio or phonograph, with loudspeaker or
sound amplifier or any instrument of any kind or character which emits loud and
raucous noises and is attached to and upon any vehicle unless such person in
charge of such vehicle shall have first applied to and received permission from
the Chief of Police to operate any such vehicle so equipped.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-4) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.05 PLAYING BALL ON STREETS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to play ball or throw any ball to and
from upon any public thoroughfare in the city.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-5) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.06 WATER FLOWING UPON STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow any water to flow into or upon
any public thoroughfares.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-6) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.07 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Wherever the term FIREARMS is used in this section, the term shall
mean any instrument used in the propulsion of shot, shell or bullets or other
harmful objects by the action of gunpowder within it, or by the action of
compressed air within it, or by the power of springs and including what are
commonly known as air rifles and BB guns.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge firearms of any kind
within the limits of the municipality; provided, however, that this shall not
apply to police officers in the discharge of their duties.
   (C)   The governing body may, at any time, upon receipt of proper
application, grant permits to shooting galleries, gun clubs and others for
shooting in fixed localities and under specified rules. Such permits shall be
in writing attested by the Clerk, upon approval of the City Council, conforming
to such requirements as the governing body shall demand, and the permit thus
issued shall be subject to revocation at any time by action of the governing
body and/or the Chief of Police.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-7) (Ord. 12-783, passed 6-20-2012) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.08 OPEN ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES, INTOXICATING INHALANTS; POSSESSION,
CONSUMPTION, TRANSPORTATION.
   (A)   Possession, consumption and transportation of open alcoholic beverages
and intoxicating inhalants is prohibited on the public areas and rights-of-way
within the city. It shall be unlawful for any person to become or attempt to
become intoxicated by inhaling the fumes of gasoline, toluene or any other
solvent or product containing any such solvent.
   (B)   Any person who is in public and intoxicated at a level that presents a
danger to themselves and/or others or creates a disturbance of the peace shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any person to consume any of the following: beer,
wine or other alcoholic beverage or liquor, or any liquid or solid, patented or
not, containing alcohol, spirits or wine, either on foot or by other means of
locomotion, on any of the public rights-of-way or public areas of the city.
PUBLIC AREAS shall include parking areas and lots, sidewalks, building traffic
areas, loading and unloading areas, alleys, public easements, rivers and
ditches, rights-of-way for public utilities, school grounds, parking areas
along and adjacent to public streets and similar such areas of public use. This
section shall be interpreted to exclude limited consumption of alcoholic
beverages by individuals in city parks, ballfields, hockey rinks, city golf
course and other places incidental to private social gatherings.
   (D)   It is unlawful for any person to breathe, inhale or drink any
compound, liquid, chemical or other substance containing toluol, hexane,
trichloroethylene, acetone, toluene, ethyl acetate, methylethyl ketone,
tricholoathane, isopropanol methyl isobutyl ketone, methyl cellosolve acetate,
cyclohexanone, pentachlorophenol, petroleum ether, benzene, ethylene
dichloride, trifluorethane, tetrafluorethane, difluorethane or any other toxic
or intoxicating substance while present on the public areas or public rights-
of-way within the city, as the same are set out hereinabove, whether on foot or
by other means of locomotion.
   (E)   It is unlawful for any person to break open, or allow to be broken or
opened, any container of beer, wine or other alcoholic beverage; or to possess
any container of beer, wine or alcoholic beverage whose lid or cap is not
securely fastened or, in the case of canned beverages, whose top has been
popped open, while the person is present, either on foot or by other means of
locomotion, upon the public streets or public areas of the city as the same are
set out hereinabove.
   (F)   Exceptions for consumption during special events may be requested from
the sponsoring agency at the office of the Clerk at least 72 hours prior to the
event and the Police Chief is hereby authorized to review the request or deny
the permit application. If alcohol is being sold, the application must be
accompanied by a catering permit or nonprofit beer and/or wine permit issued by
the state. If approved, the permit shall then be issued by the Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-8) (Ord. 12-784, passed 6-27-2012; Ord. 18-832, passed 10-3-
2018) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.09 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   Every person who maliciously and willfully disturbs the peace or quiet of
any neighborhood, family or person, by loud or unusual noise, or by tumultuous
or offensive conduct, or by threatening, traducing, quarreling, challenging to
fight or fighting or fires any gun or pistol, is guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-9) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.10 CURFEW.
   (A)   (1)   From and after the effective date hereof, it shall be unlawful
for any person of the age of 17 years or younger to loiter, stroll or drive
upon the streets, alleys, avenues, parks or other places within the city after
the hour of 11:00 p.m. and before the hour of 5:00 a.m. unless accompanied by a
parent, legal guardian or other adult person having authority to accompany the
person or unless the minor person is en route directly to or from an authorized
activity in division (C) below.
      (2)   Any police officer or other law enforcement officer is hereby
authorized and empowered to take charge of any person 17 years of age or under
violating the provisions of this division (A), and it shall be the duty of such
officers to take such person into custody, and notify immediately the parent,
legal guardian or adult person having the care and custody of such minor of the
violations of the terms of this division (A) and to inform the person that the
minor will be held in an authorized holding facility or any other lawful place
of detention until called for by such parent, legal guardian or legal
custodian.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-1)
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any parent, legal guardian or other
adult person having legal care and custody of any minor person of the age of 17
years or younger to allow or permit such person to act in violation of the
provisions of this division (B) unless exempted under division (C) below.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful and shall be considered a separate offense
under this division (B) provision for any parent, legal guardian or other adult
person having the legal care and custody of any person of the age of 17 years
or younger to refuse, after being notified to do so by the police or law
enforcement officer, to come immediately to the place of custody and take
charge of such minor.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-2)
   (C)   It is an exemption to a violation under this section that the person
engaged in the prohibited conduct while:
      (1)   Accompanied by the minor’s parent or guardian;
      (2)   On an errand at the direction of the minor’s parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
      (3)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      (4)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
      (5)   Involved in an emergency;
      (6)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor’s residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
Police Department about the minor’s presence;
      (7)   Attending an official school, religious or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city, a civic organization
or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to
or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an official school,
religious or other recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by
the city, a civic organization or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor;
      (8)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
      (9)   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority removed
in accordance with state law.
(Ord. 95-584, passed 8-2-1995) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any minor person 17 years or younger, any parent, legal guardian or
other person having legal care and custody of such minor person violating the
provisions of §
130.10 of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to
penalty as provided in §
10.99 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-2) (Ord. 95-584, passed 8-2-1995)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   GENERAL PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT
      
151.   BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
      
152.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
153.   STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
      
154.   TREES
CHAPTER 150: GENERAL PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT
Section
   
150.01   Comprehensive Plan
   
150.02   Area of city impact
   
150.03   Development Code
§ 150.01 COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
   (A)   Adoption. Pursuant to Idaho Code 67-6509(c), the city adopts by
reference that certain document entitled the “Salmon Comprehensive Plan” as the
official Comprehensive Plan for the city.
   (B)   Signatures; copies on file. The Comprehensive Plan shall be signed by
the Mayor and City Council and kept on file with the Clerk and be made
available to the public at reasonable times for viewing at the Clerk’s office.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-1) (Ord. 92-547, passed 2-19-1992)
§ 150.02 AREA OF CITY IMPACT.
   (A)   Area of city impact boundaries. The area of city impact for the city
is established within the boundaries illustrated on the map attached to Ord.
94-578 on file in the office of the Clerk, which is hereby made a part of this
chapter.
   (B)   Comprehensive Plan for the Salmon area of city impact.
      (1)   The county’s Comprehensive Plan, including future amendments, shall
apply within the area of city impact established by this section.
      (2)   The county’s Comprehensive Plan shall provide that subdivision and
land development within the area of city impact established by this section
proceed sequentially (or nearly so) outward from the city limits.
   (C)   Zoning for the area of city impact. The county’s Development Code,
including future amendments, shall apply within the area of city impact
established by this section, except as provided in division (D) below.
   (D)   Subdivision for the area of city impact. The city’s Development Code,
including future amendments, shall apply to all proposed subdivisions within
the area of city impact established by this section.
   (E)   Notice of development activity and reciprocal notice of changes in
plans.
      (1)   The county shall provide the city with written notice of all
proposed zoning changes, subdivisions and other significant land development
activity proposed within the area of city impact established by this section.
      (2)   The city shall provide one copy of all changes in its Comprehensive
Plan and Development Code to the county and the county shall reciprocate in
kind.
   (F)   Transfer of jurisdictions. Any developer may, upon filing a complete
and properly prepared petition for annexation to the city, request that
planning, zoning and building code jurisdiction be immediately transferred to
the city, in advance of the actual approval of the annexation. This request
shall be made, in writing, to the county’s Zoning Administrator, who shall
independently confirm that the request for annexation has been properly filed
and notify the city’s Zoning Administrator of the transfer.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-2) (Ord. 94-578, passed 12-7-1994)
§ 150.03 DEVELOPMENT CODE.
   (A)   Adoption. Pursuant to Idaho Code 67-6511, the city adopts by reference
that certain document entitled the “Salmon Development Code” as the official
zoning and subdivision regulations of the city. This Development Code consists
of the following chapters:
      (1)   Chapter I. Establishes the purpose of the chapter pursuant to the
Local Land Use Planning Act to promote the health, safety and general welfare
of the people of the state;
      (2)   Chapter II. Provides for the duties of the City Planning and Zoning
Commission, the City Zoning Administrator and Floodplain Administrator;
      (3)   Chapter III. Establishes general provisions, continuation, repair
or maintenance, change in and/or additions to nonconforming uses, nonconforming
signs and nonconforming lots or parcels;
      (4)   Chapter IV. Requires a permit for all land development and building
activity in the city and establishes procedures for the administration of this
chapter, including the procedures for processing permit applications and the
hearing procedures;
      (5)   Chapter V. Creates zoning districts and overlay zoning districts
for use in the city and adopts an official map for these districts;
      (6)   Chapter VI. Establishes the purpose of each zoning district and
lists the uses permitted in each district. Establishes performance standards
for land and building activity in the city. Certain performance standards apply
to all developments, while others apply only to developments for which a
special use is required;
      (7)   Chapter VII. The special use permit procedure implements the
Comprehensive Plan by requiring a public review of specific uses and
developments to assure compatibility with applicable performance standards;
      (8)   Chapter VIII. Provides procedures and criteria for the division of
land and development;
      (9)   Chapter IX. A Planned Unit Development allows a measure of design
flexibility by permitting variation of the distribution of land use density,
variation of building placement standards, individual lot area, lot frontage
requirements, access requirements and variation of other performance standards
required within a zoning district or combination of zoning districts when a
development is planned in its entirety and when the variations can be
demonstrated to benefit the development for those who will reside and conduct
business affairs within the proposed development and for the community in
general. The intent of the PUD process is to allow innovation in design that
should prove superior to compliance with standard development requirements that
are not the product of site-specific integrated design;
      (10)   Chapter X. Establishes performance standards for all development
activity in the city;
      (11)   Chapter XI. Provides regulations for the placement of manufactured
homes and development of manufactured home parks;
      (12)   Chapter XII. Defines tools to require that an owner or developer
make a written commitment concerning the use or development of a subject parcel
and may include provisions governing the creation, form, recording,
modification, enforcement and termination of conditional commitments;
      (13)   Chapter XIII. Support the use of signs to be maintained in a safe
and attractive condition, to promote public health, safety and welfare of the
community. To preserve, promote and enhance the city’s scenic and commercial
environment;
      (14)   Chapter XIV. To assure that negative impact of special uses is
mitigated through the use of buffering. The purpose of landscaping is to
enhance the esthetic values and appearance of the properties within the city;
      (15)   Chapter XV. To protect and promote the public health, safety and
welfare of the public by establishing regulations and a process of review for
exterior lighting;
      (16)   Chapter XVI. To provide for orderly allocation of land into the
city limits and provide assurances that the annexation of land into the city
limits will not have an adverse effect on the city’s ability to provide and
maintain a high level of municipal service. That there will not be an adverse
effect on the existing infrastructure, will not have an adverse fiscal impact
to the city and will provide and maintain a high level of municipal service;
      (17)   Chapter XVII. To identify floodplains and minimum floodplain
development standards to minimize flood hazards and protect human life, health
and property;
      (18)   Chapter XVIII. To prevent traffic congestion on public streets by
requiring provision of adequate off-street parking and loading areas;
      (19)   Chapter XIX. To provide standards for the construction or
reconstruction of roads;
      (20)   Chapter XX. To control the development within the area of city
impact;
      (21)   Appendix A. Provides models for the hearing notices required by
ordinance;
      (22)   Appendix B. Provides uses for zoning districts; and
      (23)   Appendix C. Provides definitions for important terms.
   (B)   Copies on file. The full text of the city’s Development Code will be
kept on file by the Clerk and be made available to the public at reasonable
times for viewing at the Clerk’s office.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-3) (Ord. 92-561, passed 12-16-1992; Ord. 95-580, passed 1-
18-1995; Ord. 96-586, passed 10-7-1996; Ord. 97-589, passed 2-5-1997; Ord. 97-
595, passed 9-17-1997; Ord. 98-602, passed 4-15-1998; Ord. 2000-613, passed 7-
5-2000; Ord. 2001-621, passed 9-5-2001; Ord. 2002-628, passed 3-20-2002; Ord.
02-648, passed 2-5-2003; Ord. 04-668, passed 4-21-2004; Ord. 06-703, passed 7-
5-2006; Ord. 07-721, passed 10-17-2007; Ord. 07-722, passed 10-17-2007; Ord.
17-819, passed 3-1-2017; Ord. 17-822, passed 6-21-2017; Ord. 17-825, passed 8-
16-2017)
CHAPTER 151: BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
Section
   
151.01   Adoption of codes by reference
   
151.02   Administration of codes
   
151.03   Building permits required
 
   
151.99   Penalty
§ 151.01 ADOPTION OF CODES BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   Code adoption. The approved editions of the following nationally
recognized codes, as adopted by the state or the state’s Building Code Board,
are adopted as the official building codes of the city, except as provided in
§§
151.02 and
151.03:
      (1)   Building Code;
      (2)   Residential Code, parts I-IV and IX;
      (3)   Energy Conservation Code;
      (4)   Fire Code;
      (5)   Mechanical Code;
      (6)   Fuel Gas Code;
      (7)   Uniform Code for the Abatement of Dangerous Buildings, ICBO;
      (8)   Uniform Sign Code, ICBO; and
      (9)   Uniform Building Code Fee Schedule, ICBO.
   (B)   Successive versions. The adopted versions of the foregoing codes shall
be deemed superseded by successive versions of such codes as they are adopted
or approved by the state’s Building Code Board effective on the date any such
codes are made effective by the Building Code Board.
   (C)   Exemption. Idaho Code 39-4116(4), agricultural building exemption.
      (1)   Definitions.
         (a)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
            AGRICULTURAL BUILDING. A structure that is designed and constructed
for one or more of the following purposes:
               a.   Livestock shelters or buildings, including shade
structures;
               b.   Poultry buildings or shelter;
               c.   Barns;
               d.   Horticultural structures, including detached production
greenhouses and crop protection shelters;
               e.   Grain silos; or
               f.   Stables.
         EQUIPMENT AND MACHINERY USED EXCLUSIVELY IN AGRICULTURE. Farm
implements and other equipment and machinery that are used exclusively on land
actively devoted to agriculture and are not used on public highways except as
necessary for access to land actively devoted to agriculture.
         LAND ACTIVELY DEVOTED TO AGRICULTURE. Real property meeting the
eligibility criteria for appraisal, assessment and taxation as agricultural
property as set forth in Idaho Code 63-604.
         (b)   The definitions in division (C)(1)(a) above shall supersede any
definitions of these terms that are contained in the state’s building code.
      (2)   Exemption from building code requirements. A building that meets
the definition of agricultural building contained in division (C)(1)(a) above
shall be exempt from the requirements of the building codes enumerated in Idaho
Code 39-4103, and the rules promulgated by the state’s Building Code Board, to
the extent such exemption is provided in Idaho Code 39-4116, provided that both
of the following criteria are met.
         (a)   The building is used solely for one or more of the purposes
listed in division (c)(1)(a) above; and
         (b)   The property on which the building is sited has been determined
by the County Assessor to be land actively devoted to agriculture.
      (3)   Requirements applicable to agricultural buildings. Notwithstanding
any other provision of this chapter, the following requirements shall apply to
agricultural buildings.
         (a)   An agricultural building shall not be:
            1.   Used as a place of human habitation;
            2.   Used as a place of employment where agricultural products are
processed, treated or packaged;
            3.   Open to use by the public;
            4.   A shop and/or machinery repair building;
            5.   A garage or building used for storage of personal use vehicles
and/or vehicles licensed for use on public roads; or
            6.   Sheds that are connected to public utilities and/or on
permanent foundations that are used as shop or garages.
         (b)   All agricultural buildings shall conform to the minimum
placement standards established pursuant to the city’s Development Code.
         (c)   All agricultural buildings shall conform with the minimum snow,
wind, frost, seismic and all other engineering requirements of this code for
safety reasons.
         (d)   The owner of and agricultural building shall obtain a site
permit for the building from the city’s Building Department.
   (D)   Copies on file. Three copies, paper or electronic, of these codes, as
adopted in division (A) above, shall be and remain on file in the office of the
Building Department for use and examination by the public.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-1) (Ord. 15-813, passed 11-19-2015)
§ 151.02 ADMINISTRATION OF CODES.
   The administration of these codes and related ordinances herein or hereafter
adopted shall be carried out by such person or agency as the City Council may,
by resolution or ordinance, designate.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-2)
§ 151.03 BUILDING PERMITS REQUIRED.
   Unless exempted by the Building Code, no person shall erect, construct,
enlarge, alter, repair, improve, remove, convert or demolish any building or
structure within the city without first obtaining a building permit, which
permit shall be the evidence of the authority of the person to commence
construction. Such permit shall be issued only upon payment of the required
fees and upon authorization of the person or agency designated to administer
the code and this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-3) (Ord. 09-735, passed 3-4-2009) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   Unless otherwise prescribed, violations of this chapter or the various codes
as herein adopted constitute an infraction and shall be subject to penalty as
provided in §
10.99 of this code. In addition to such penalties or in lieu thereof, at the
election of the city, any or all city utilities services, including
electricity, water, sewage and garbage disposal, may be denied or terminated to
any new construction of a structure for which the building permit herein
required has not been obtained.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-4)
CHAPTER 152: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Statutory authorization
   
152.02   Findings of fact
   
152.03   Statement of purpose
   
152.04   Objectives, methods of reducing flood losses
   
152.05   Definitions
   
152.06   Lands to which chapter applies
   
152.07   Basis for special flood hazard areas
   
152.08   Floodplain development permit
   
152.09   Compliance
   
152.10   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
152.11   Interpretation
   
152.12   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
152.13   Effect of provisions
Administration and Enforcement
   
152.25   Floodplain Administrator
   
152.26   Application, permit and certification
   
152.27   Corrective procedures
   
152.28   Variances
Flood Hazard Reduction
   
152.40   General standards
   
152.41   Specific standards
   
152.42   Floodplains without established base flood elevations
   
152.43   Riverine floodplains with base flood elevations but without
established floodways or flood fringe areas
   
152.44   Floodways and flood fringe areas
   
152.45   Areas of shallow flooding
 
   
152.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The state legislature, pursuant to Idaho Code 46-1020 through 46-1024,
authorizes local governments to adopt floodplain management ordinances that
identify floodplains and minimum floodplain development standards to minimize
flood hazards and protect human life, health and property.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-1)
§ 152.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the city are subject to periodic inundation
that results in:
      (1)   Loss of life and property;
      (2)   Health and safety hazards;
      (3)   Disruption of commerce and governmental services;
      (4)   Extraordinary public expenditures for flood relief and protection;
and
      (5)   Impairment of the tax base, all of which adversely affect the
public health, safety and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by structures in flood hazard areas,
which are inadequately elevated, flood-proofed or otherwise unprotected from
flood damages, and by the cumulative effect of obstructions in floodplains
causing increases in flood heights and velocities.
   (C)   Local government units have the primary responsibility for planning,
adopting and enforcing land use regulations to accomplish proper floodplain
management.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-1)
§ 152.03 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to promote public health, safety and general
welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood conditions in
specific areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Protect human life, health and property;
   (B)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water
purification and sewage treatment plants, water and gas mains, electric,
telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located in floodplains;
   (C)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood-prone areas;
   (D)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (E)   Minimize the need for rescue and emergency services associated with
flooding, generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (F)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (G)   Ensure potential buyers are notified the property is in an area of
special flood hazard; and
   (H)   Ensure those who occupy the areas of special flood hazard assume
responsibility for his or her actions.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-1)
§ 152.04 OBJECTIVES, METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES.
   In order to accomplish its purpose, this chapter includes methods and
provisions to:
   (A)   Require that development which is vulnerable to floods, including
structures and facilities necessary for the general health, safety and welfare
of citizens, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (B)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety and
property due to water or erosion hazards, or which increase flood heights,
velocities or erosion;
   (C)   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase flood damage or erosion;
   (D)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers that will
unnaturally divert flood waters or that may increase flood hazards to other
lands; and
   (E)   Preserve and restore natural floodplains, stream channels and natural
protective barriers which carry and store flood waters.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-1) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE). A structure on the same lot or
parcel as a principal structure, the use of which is incidental and subordinate
to the incidental and subordinate to the principal structure.
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING BUILDING). An extension or increase in the floor
area or height of a building or structure.
   APPEAL. A request for review of the Floodplain Administrator’s
interpretation of provisions of this chapter or request for a variance.
   AREA OF SHALLOW (FLOODING). A designated AO, AH, AR/AO or AR/AH zone on a
community’s Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with a 1% or greater annual chance
of flooding to an average depth of one to three feet where a clearly defined
channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable and where
velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is characterized by ponding or
sheet flow.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. See SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA).
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). A determination by the Federal Insurance
Administrator of the water surface elevations of the base flood, that is, the
flood level that has a 1% or greater chance of occurrence in any given year.
When the BFE has not been provided in a special flood hazard area, it may be
obtained from engineering studies available from a federal, state or other
source using FEMA-approved engineering methodologies. This elevation, when
combined with the freeboard, establishes the flood protection elevation.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor sub grade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BUILDING. See STRUCTURE.
   CRITICAL FACILITIES. Facilities that are vital to flood response activities
or critical to the health and safety of the public before, during and after a
flood, such as a hospital, emergency operations center, electric substation,
police station, fire station, nursing home, school, vehicle and equipment
storage facility or shelter; and facilities that, if flooded, would make the
flood problem and its impacts much worse, such as a hazardous materials
facility, power generation facility, water utility or wastewater treatment
plant.
   DATUM. The vertical datum is a base measurement point (or set of points)
from which all elevations are determined. Historically, that common set of
points was the National Geodetic Vertical Datum of 1929 (NGVD29). The vertical
datum currently adopted by the federal government as a basis for measuring
heights is the North American Vertical Datum of 1988 (NAVD88).
   DEVELOPMENT.
      (1)   Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
      (2)   Per Idaho Code 46-1021, DEVELOPMENT means any human-made change to
improved or unimproved real estate, including, but not limited to, the
construction of buildings, structures or accessory structures, or the
construction of additions or substantial improvements to buildings, structures
or accessory structures; the placement of mobile homes; mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations; and the deposition
or extraction of materials; specifically including the construction of dikes,
berms and levees. The term DEVELOPMENT does not include the operation,
cleaning, maintenance or repair of any ditch, canal, lateral, drain, diversion
structure or other irrigation or drainage works that is performed or authorized
by the owner thereof pursuant to lawful rights and obligations.
   DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITY. Any activity defined as development which will
necessitate a floodplain development permit; such as: the construction of
buildings, structures or accessory structures; additions or substantial
improvements to existing structures; bulkheads, retaining walls, piers and
pools; the placement of mobile homes; or the deposition or extraction of
materials; the construction or elevation of dikes, berms and levees.
   DIGITAL FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (DFIRM). The digital official map of a
community, issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency, on which both the
special flood hazard areas and the risk premium zones applicable to the
community are delineated.
   ELEVATED BUILDING. For insurance purposes, a non-basement building which has
its lowest elevated floor raised above ground level by foundation walls, shear
walls, posts, piers, pilings or columns.
   ELEVATION CERTIFICATE. An important administrative tool of the NFIP. It is
used to determine the proper flood insurance premium rate; it is used to
document elevation information necessary to ensure compliance with community
floodplain management regulations; and it may be used to support a request for
a Letter of Map Amendment (LOMA) or Letter of Map Revision based on fill (LOMR-
F).
   ENCLOSURE. An area enclosed by solid walls below the BFE/FPE or an area
formed when any space below the BFE/FPE is enclosed on all sides by walls or
partitions. Insect screening or open wood lattice used to surround space below
the BFE/RFPE is not considered an ENCLOSURE.
   ENCROACHMENT. The advance or infringement of uses, fill, excavation,
buildings, structures or development into a floodplain, which may impede or
alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION. For the purposes of determining rates, structures for
which the start of construction commenced before the effective date of the FIRM
or before January 1, 1975, for FIRMs effective before that date. EXISTING
CONSTRUCTION may also be referred to as EXISTING STRUCTURES.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION. A
manufactured home park or subdivision where the construction of facilities for
servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets and final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed
before the effective date of the original floodplain management regulations
adopted by the community, May 14, 1984.
   EXISTING STRUCTURES. See EXISTING CONSTRUCTION.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufacturing homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FLOOD or FLOODING.
      (1)   A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from:
         (a)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters;
         (b)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters
from any source; or
         (c)   Mudslides (i.e., mudflows) which are proximately caused by
flooding as defined in division (1)(b) above and are akin to a river of liquid
and flowing mud on the surfaces of normally dry land areas, as when earth is
carried by a current of water and deposited along the path of the current.
      (2)   The collapse or subsidence of land along the shore of a lake or
other body of water as a result of erosion or undermining caused by waves or
currents of water exceeding anticipated cyclical levels or suddenly caused by
an unusually high water level in a natural body of water, accompanied by a
severe storm, or by an unanticipated force of nature, such as flash flood or an
abnormal tidal surge, or by some similarly unusual and unforeseeable event
which results in FLOODING as defined in division (1)(a) above.
      (3)   Per Idaho Code 46-1021, FLOOD means a general or temporary
condition of partial or complete inundation of normally dry land areas caused
by the overflow or rise of rivers, streams or lakes or the unusual and rapid
accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOOD ELEVATION DETERMINATION. See BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE).
   FLOOD ELEVATION STUDY. See FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS).
   FLOOD FRINGE. Per Idaho Code 46-1021, FLOOD FRINGE is that portion of the
floodplain outside of the floodway covered by floodwaters during the regulatory
flood.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM). An official map of a community, issued by
the Federal Insurance Administrator, where the boundaries of the flood,
mudslide (i.e., mudflow) related erosion areas having special hazards have been
designated as zones A, M and/or E.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE   MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, on which
the Federal Insurance Administrator has delineated both the special hazard
areas and the risk premium zones applicable to the community. A FIRM that has
been made available digitally is called a Digital Flood Insurance Rate Map
(DFIRM).
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). An examination, evaluation and determination of
flood hazards and, if appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations; or
an examination, evaluation and determination of mudslide (i.e., mudflow) and/or
flood-related erosion hazards.
   FLOOD ZONE. A geographical area shown on a Flood Hazard Boundary Map (FHBM)
or Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) that reflects the severity or type of
flooding in the area.
   FLOODPLAIN or FLOOD-PRONE AREA.
      (1)   Any land area susceptible to being inundated by water from any
source. (See FLOODING).
      (2)   Per Idaho Code 46-1021, FLOODPLAIN is the land that has been or may
be covered by floodwaters, or is surrounded by floodwater and inaccessible,
during the occurrence of the regulatory flood. The riverine floodplain includes
the floodway and the flood fringe.
   FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR. The individual appointed to administer and enforce
the floodplain management regulations.
   FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT. Any type of permit that is required in
conformance with the provisions of this chapter, prior to the commencement of
any development activity.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT.
      (1)   The operation of an overall program of corrective and preventive
measures for reducing flood damage, including but not limited to emergency
preparedness plans, flood control works and floodplain management regulations.
      (2)   Per Idaho Code 46-1021, FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT is the analysis and
integration of the entire range of measures that can be used to prevent, reduce
or mitigate flood damage in a given location, and that can protect and preserve
the natural, environmental, historical and cultural values of the floodplain.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. Zoning ordinances, subdivision
regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances
(such as a floodplain ordinance, grading ordinance and erosion control
ordinance) and other applications of police power. The term describes such
state or local regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide standards
for the purpose of flood damage prevention and reduction.
   FLOODPROOFING.
      (1)   Any combination of structural and non-structural additions, changes
or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to real
estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities, structures and
their contents.
      (2)   Per Idaho Code 46-1021, FLOODPROOFING is the modifications of
structures, their sites, building contents and water and sanitary facilities,
to keep water out or reduce the effects of water entry.
   FLOOD PROTECTION. The base flood elevation plus the freeboard.
      (1)   In special flood hazard areas where base flood elevations (BFEs)
have been determined, this elevation shall be the BFE plus one and one-half
feet of freeboard.
      (2)   In special flood hazard areas where no BFE has been established,
this elevation shall be at least one and one-half feet above the highest
adjacent grade.
      (3)   Per Idaho Code 46-1021, FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION is an elevation
that shall correspond to the elevation of the 1% chance flood (100-year flood)
plus any increased flood elevation due to floodway encroachment, plus any
required freeboard.
   FLOOD PROTECTION SYSTEM. Physical structural works for which funds have been
authorized, appropriated and expended and which have been constructed
specifically to modify flooding in order to reduce the extent of the area
within a community subject to a special flood hazard and the extent of the
depths of associated flooding. Such a system typically includes dams,
reservoirs, levees or dikes. These specialized flood modifying works are those
constructed in conformance with sound engineering standards.
   FLOODWAY.
      (1)   The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation.
      (2)   Per Idaho Code 46-1021, FLOODWAY is the channel of the river or
stream and those portions of the floodplain adjoining the channel required to
discharge and store the floodwater or flood flows associated with the
regulatory flood.
   FREEBOARD.
      (1)   A factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level
for the purposes of floodplain management. FREEBOARD tends to compensate for
the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than
the height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such
as wave action, obstructed bridge openings, debris and ice jams and the
hydrologic effects of urbanization in a watershed. The base flood elevation
(BFE) plus the freeboard establishes the flood protection elevation (FPE).
FREEBOARD shall be one and one-half feet.
      (2)   Per Idaho Code 46-1021, FREEBOARD represents a factor of safety
usually expressed in terms of a certain amount of feet above a calculated flood
level. FREEBOARD shall compensate for the many unknown factors that contribute
to flood heights greater than the height calculated. These unknown factors
include, but are not limited to, ice jams, debris accumulation, wave action,
obstruction of bridge openings and floodways, the effects of urbanization on
the hydrology of the watershed, loss of flood storage areas due to development
and the sedimentation of a river or stream bed.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE. A facility that cannot be used for its intended
purpose unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water, such
as a docking or port facility necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo
or passengers, shipbuilding or ship repair facilities. The term does not
include long-term storage, manufacture, sales or service facilities.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE (HAG). The highest natural elevation of the ground
surface prior to construction, adjacent to the proposed walls of a structure.
Refer to the FEMA Elevation Certificate for HAG related to building elevation
information.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. A structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the U.S. Department of Interior) or preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or to a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places and
determined as eligible by states with historic preservation programs which have
been approved by the Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places and
determined as eligible by communities with historic preservation programs that
have been certified either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC). A general term used to refer to the several
types of revisions and amendments to FEMA maps that can be accomplished by
letter. They include Letter of Map Amendment (LOMA), Letter of Map Revision
(LOMR) and Letter of Map Revision based on Fill (LOMR-F).
      (1)   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). An official amendment, by letter,
to an effective National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) map. A LOMA establishes
a property’s location in relation to the special flood hazard area (SFHA).
LOMAs are usually issued because a property has been inadvertently mapped as
being in the floodplain but is actually on natural high ground above the base
flood elevation.
      (2)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). FEMA’s modification to an effective
Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) or a Flood Boundary and Floodway Map (FBFM) or
both. LOMRs are generally based on the implementation of physical measures that
affect the hydrologic or hydraulic characteristics of a flooding source and
thus result in the modification of the existing regulatory floodway, the
effective base flood elevations (BFEs), or the special flood hazard area
(SFHA). The LOMR officially revises the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) or
Flood Boundary and Floodway Map (FBFM), and sometimes the Flood Insurance Study
(FIS) report, and when appropriate, includes a description of the
modifications. The LOMR is generally accompanied by an annotated copy of the
affected portions of the FIRM, FBFM or FIS report.
      (3)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL (LOMR-F). FEMA’s modification
of the special flood hazard area (SFHA) shown on the Flood Insurance Rate Map
(FIRM) based on the placement of fill outside the existing regulatory floodway.
The LOMR-F does not change the FIRM, FBFM or FIS report.
      (4)   CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION (CLOMR). A formal review and
comment as to whether a proposed flood protection project or other project
complies with the minimum NFIP requirements for such projects with respect to
delineation of special flood hazard areas. A CLOMR does not revise the
effective Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) or Flood Insurance Study (FIS). Upon
submission and approval of certified as-built documentation, a Letter of Map
Revision (LOMR) may be issued by FEMA to revise the effective FIRM. Building
permits and/or flood development permits cannot be issued based on a CLOMR,
because a CLOMR does not change the NFIP map.
   LEVEE. A human-made structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed according to sound engineering practices, to contain, control or
divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary flooding.
   LEVEE SYSTEM. A flood protection system that consists of a levee or levees,
and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are
constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
   LOCAL GOVERNMENT. Per Idaho Code 46-1021, LOCAL GOVERNMENT, in the context
of this chapter, means any county or city having planning and zoning authority
to regulate land use within its jurisdiction.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE (LAG). The lowest point of the ground level next to
the structure. Refer to the FEMA Elevation Certificate for LAG related to
building elevation information.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR; provided, that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of 44 C.F.R. § 60.3 and this
chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, built
on a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a permanent
foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term MANUFACTURED HOME
does not include a recreational vehicle.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MARKET VALUE. The building value, not including the land value and that of
any accessory structures or other improvements on the lot. MARKET VALUE may be
established by independent certified appraisal; replacement cost depreciated
for age of building and quality of construction (actual cash value); or
adjusted tax assessed values.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL. For purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP),
the National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 or other datum (such as
North America Vertical Datum of 1988 - NAVD88) to which base flood elevations
(BFEs) shown on a community’s FIRM are referenced.
   MITIGATION. Per Idaho Code 46-1021, any action taken which will reduce the
impact, damage or cost of the next flood that occurs.
   MUDSLIDE. Describes a condition where there is a river, flow or inundation
of liquid mud down a hillside usually as a result of a dual condition of loss
of brush cover and the subsequent accumulation of water on the ground preceded
by a period of unusually heavy or sustained rain. A MUDSLIDE (i.e., mudflow)
may occur as a distinct phenomenon while a landslide is in progress, and will
be recognized as such by the Administrator only if the mudflow, and not the
landslide, is the proximate cause of damage that occurs.
   MUDSLIDE (MUDFLOW).   The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing mudslide (i.e., mudflow) damage, including but
not limited to emergency preparedness plans, mudslide control works and
floodplain management regulations.
   MUDSLIDE (MUDFLOW). An area with land surfaces and slopes of unconsolidated
material where the history, geology and climate indicate a potential for
mudflow.
   NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM (NFIP). A federal program created by
Congress to mitigate future flood losses nationwide through sound, community-
enforced building and zoning ordinances and to provide access to affordable,
federally backed flood insurance protection for property owners.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. For floodplain management purposes, a structure for which
the start of construction commenced on or after the effective date of a
floodplain management regulation adopted by a community and includes any
subsequent improvements to such structures. Any construction started after May
14, 1984 and before the effective start date of this floodplain management
ordinance is subject to the ordinance in effect at the time the permit was
issued, provided the start of construction was within 180 days of permit
issuance.
   NEW MANUFACTURED. A place where the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a
minimum the installation of utilities, the construction of streets and final
site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the
effective date of floodplain management regulations adopted by the community
December 4, 1984.
   PERSON. Per Idaho Code 46-1021, any individual, group of individuals,
corporation, partnership, association, political subdivision, public or private
agency or entity.
   POST-FIRM. Construction or other development for which the start of
construction occurred on or after the effective date of the initial Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM).
   PRE-FIRM. Construction or other development for which the start of
construction occurred before May 14, 1984, the effective date of the initial
Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM).
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle that is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   400 square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal
projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towed by a light duty
truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   REGULATORY FLOOD. Per Idaho Code 46-1021, a flood determined to be
representative of large floods known to have occurred in the state and which
may be expected to occur on a particular stream because of like physical
characteristics. The REGULATORY FLOOD is based upon a statistical analysis of
stream flow records available for the watershed or an analysis of rainfall and
runoff characteristics in the watershed. In inland areas, the flood frequency
of the REGULATORY FLOOD is once in every 100 years. This means that in any
given year there is a 1% chance that a regulatory flood may occur or be
exceeded.
   REGULATORY FLOODWAY. See FLOODWAY.
   REMEDY A VIOLATION. To bring the structure or other development into
compliance with state or local floodplain management regulations, or, if this
is not possible, to reduce the impacts of its non-compliance. Ways that impacts
may be reduced include protecting the structure or other affected development
from flood damages, implementing the enforcement provisions of the ordinance or
otherwise deterring future similar violations, or reducing federal financial
exposure with regard to the structure or other development.
   REPETITIVE LOSS STRUCTURE. An NFIP-insured structure that has had at least
two paid flood losses of more than $1,000 each in any ten-year period since
1978.
   RIVERINE. Relating to, formed by or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook and the like.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). The land in the floodplain within a
community subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year. For
purposes of these regulations, the term SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA is synonymous
in meaning with the phrase AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement, and means the date
the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement or other improvement
was within 180 days of the permit date. The actual START means either the first
placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the
pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of
columns or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a
manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not include land
preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the
installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a
basement, footings, piers or foundations or the erection of temporary forms;
nor does it include the installation on the property of accessory buildings,
such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main
structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION
means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part
of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions
of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage
tank that is principally above ground, as well as a manufactured home.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before-damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of its market value before the damage occurred. See SUBSTANTIAL
IMPROVEMENT. SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE also means flood-related damage sustained by a
structure on two separate occasions during a 10-year period for which the cost
of repairs at the time of each such flood event, on the average, equals or
exceeds 25% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the start of construction of the
improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred substantial
damage, regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include either:
      (1)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of a historic structure, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure and the alteration is approved by variance issued pursuant
to this chapter.
   TECHNICAL BULLETINS and TECHNICAL FACT SHEETS.
      (1)   FEMA publications that provide guidance concerning the building
performance standards of the NFIP, which are contained in 44 C.F.R. § 60.3. The
bulletins and fact sheets are intended for use primarily by state and local
officials responsible for interpreting and enforcing NFIP regulations and by
members of the development community, such as design professionals and
builders. New bulletins, as well as updates of existing bulletins, are issued
periodically as needed. The bulletins do not create regulations. Rather they
provide specific guidance for complying with the minimum requirements of
existing NFIP regulations.
      (2)   It should be noted that TECHNICAL BULLETINS and TECHNICAL FACT
SHEETS provide guidance on the minimum requirements of the NFIP regulations.
State or community requirements that exceed those of the NFIP take precedence.
Design professionals should contact the community officials to determine
whether more restrictive state or local regulations apply to the building or
site in question. All applicable standards of the state or local building code
must also be met for any building in a flood hazard area.
   TEMPERATURE CONTROLLED. Having the temperature regulated by a heating and/or
cooling system, built-in or appliance.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief by the governing body from a requirement of this
chapter.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the finished construction elevation certificate,
other certifications or other evidence of compliance required in 44 C.F.R. §
60.3(b)(5), (c)(4), (c)(10), (d)(3), (e)(2), (e)(4) or (e)(5) is presumed to be
in violation until such time as that documentation is provided.
   WATER SURFACE. The height, in relation to the National Geodetic Vertical
Datum (NGVD) of 1929 or the North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) of 1988 (or
other specified datum), of floods of various magnitudes and frequencies in the
floodplains of coastal or riverine areas.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
WATERCOURSE includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-2)
§ 152.06 LANDS TO WHICH CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all special flood hazard areas within the
jurisdiction of the city. Nothing in this chapter is intended to allow uses or
structures that are otherwise prohibited by the zoning ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-3)
§ 152.07 BASIS FOR SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS.
   (A)   The special flood hazard areas identified by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency in its Flood Insurance Study (FIS) for the city, dated
December 4, 1984, with accompanying Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRM) or Digital
Flood Insurance Rate Maps (DFIRM), and other supporting data, are adopted by
reference and declared a part of this chapter.
   (B)   The FIS and the FIRM are on file at the office of the Clerk at 200
Main Street, Salmon, Idaho 83467.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-3)
§ 152.08 FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A floodplain development permit shall be required in conformance with the
provisions of this chapter prior to the commencement of any development
activities within special flood hazard areas determined in accordance with the
provisions of §
152.41.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-3)
§ 152.09 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, extended, converted,
altered or developed in any way without full compliance with the terms of this
chapter and other applicable regulations.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-3)
§ 152.10 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This subchapter shall not in any way repeal, abrogate, impair or remove the
necessity of compliance with any other laws, ordinances, regulations,
easements, covenants or deed restrictions and the like. However, where this
chapter and another conflict or overlap, whichever imposes more stringent or
greater restrictions shall control.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-3)
§ 152.11 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-3)
§ 152.12 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. Larger floods can and will occur. Flood heights may be
increased by human-made or natural causes. This chapter does not imply that
land outside the special flood hazard areas or uses permitted within such areas
will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter shall not create
liability on the part of city or by any officer or employee thereof for flood
damages that result from reliance on this chapter or an administrative decision
lawfully made hereunder.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-3)
§ 152.13 EFFECT OF PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Effect on rights and liabilities under the existing Flood Damage
Prevention Ordinance. This chapter, in part, comes forward by re-enactment of
some of the provisions of the Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance enacted May 14,
1984, as amended, and it is not the intention to repeal but rather to re-enact
and continue to enforce without interruption of such existing provisions, so
that all rights and liabilities that have accrued thereunder are reserved and
may be enforced. The enactment of this ordinance shall not affect any action,
suit or proceeding instituted or pending. All provisions of the Flood Damage
Prevention Ordinance of the city enacted on May 14, 1984, as amended, which are
not reenacted herein are repealed.
   (B)   Effect upon outstanding floodplain development permits. Nothing herein
contained shall require any change in the plans, construction, size or
designated use of any development or any part thereof for which a floodplain
development permit has been granted by the Floodplain Administrator or his or
her authorized agents before the time of passage of this chapter. Provided,
however, that when construction is not begun under such outstanding permit
within a period of 180 days subsequent to the date of issuance of the
outstanding permit, construction or use shall be in conformity with the
provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-6)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 152.25 FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   Designation of Floodplain Administrator. The Planning and Zoning
Administrator hereinafter referred to as the Floodplain Administrator, is
hereby appointed to administer and implement the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator. The
Floodplain Administrator shall perform, but not be limited to, the following
duties:
      (1)   Review all floodplain development applications and issue permits
for all proposed development within special flood hazard areas to assure that
the requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
      (2)   Review all proposed development within special flood hazard areas
to assure that all necessary local, state and federal permits have been
received, including § 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments
of 1972, 33 U.S.C. § 1334;
      (3)   Notify adjacent communities and the Department of Water Resources
State Coordinator for the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) prior to any
alteration or relocation of a watercourse and submit evidence of such
notification to the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA);
      (4)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of the watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is maintained;
      (5)   Prevent encroachments into floodways and flood fringe areas unless
the certification and flood hazard reduction provisions of §
152.44 are met;
      (6)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of the
reference level (including basement) and all attendant utilities of all new and
substantially improved structures, in accordance with the provisions of §
152.27(C);
      (7)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which
all new and substantially improved structures and utilities have been
floodproofed, in accordance with the provisions of §
152.27(C);
      (8)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of all
public utilities in accordance with the provisions of §
152.27(C);
      (9)   When floodproofing is utilized for a particular structure, obtain
certifications from a registered professional engineer or architect in
accordance with the provisions of §§
152.27(C) and 152.41(B);
      (10)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of
boundaries of the special flood hazard areas, floodways or flood fringe areas
(for example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary
and actual field conditions), make the necessary interpretation. The person
contesting the location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity
to appeal the interpretation as provided in this subchapter;
      (11)   When base flood elevation (BFE) data has not been provided in
accordance with the provisions of §
152.07 of this code, obtain, review and reasonably utilize any BFE data, along
with floodway data or flood fringe area data available from a federal, state or
other source, including data developed pursuant to §
152.42(B), in order to administer the provisions of this chapter;
      (12)   When base flood elevation (BFE) data is provided but no floodway
or flood fringe area data has been provided in accordance with the provisions
of §
152.07 of this code, obtain, review and reasonably utilize any floodway data or
flood fringe area data available from a federal, state or other source in order
to administer the provisions of this chapter;
      (13)   When the lowest floor and the lowest adjacent grade of a structure
or the lowest ground elevation of a parcel in a special flood hazard area
(SFHA) is above the base flood elevation (BFE), advise the property owner of
the option to apply for a Letter of Map Amendment (LOMA) from FEMA;
      (14)   Permanently maintain all records that pertain to the
administration of this chapter and make these records available for public
inspection, recognizing that such information may be subject to the Privacy Act
of 1974, as amended;
      (15)   Make on-site inspections of work in progress. As the work pursuant
to a floodplain development permit progresses, the Floodplain Administrator
shall make as many inspections of the work as may be necessary to ensure that
the work is being done according to the provisions of the local ordinance and
the terms of the permit. In exercising this power, the Floodplain Administrator
has a right, upon presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises
within the jurisdiction of the community at any reasonable hour for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action;
      (16)   Issue stop-work orders as required. Whenever a building or part
thereof is being constructed, reconstructed, altered or repaired in violation
of this chapter, the Floodplain Administrator may order the work to be
immediately stopped. The stop-work order shall be in writing and directed to
the person doing or in charge of the work. The stop-work order shall state the
specific work to be stopped, the specific reason(s) for the stoppage, and the
condition(s) under which the work may be resumed. Violation of a stop-work
order constitutes a misdemeanor;
      (17)   Revoke floodplain development permits as required. The Floodplain
Administrator may revoke and require the return of the floodplain development
permit by notifying the permit holder in writing stating the reason(s) for the
revocation. Permits shall be revoked for any substantial departure from the
approved application, plans and specifications; for refusal or failure to
comply with the requirements of state or local laws; or for false statements or
misrepresentations made in securing the permit. Any floodplain development
permit mistakenly issued in violation of an applicable state or local law may
also be revoked;
      (18)   Make periodic inspections throughout the special flood hazard
areas within the jurisdiction of the community. The Floodplain Administrator
and each member of his or her inspections department shall have a right, upon
presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises within the
territorial jurisdiction of the department at any reasonable hour for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action;
      (19)   Follow through with corrective procedures of §
152.27;
      (20)   Review, provide input and make recommendations for variance
requests;
      (21)   Maintain a current map repository to include, but not limited to,
the FIS Report, FIRM and other official flood maps and studies adopted in
accordance with the provisions of §
152.07, including any revisions thereto including Letters of Map Change, issued
by FEMA. Notify the NFIP State Coordinator and FEMA of your community’s mapping
needs; and
      (22)   Coordinate revisions to FIS reports and FIRMs, including Letters
of Map Revision Based on Fill (LOMR-Fs) and Letters of Map Revision (LOMRs).
(Prior Code, § 11-1-4)
§ 152.26 APPLICATION, PERMIT AND CERTIFICATION.
   (A)   Application requirements. Application for a floodplain development
permit shall be made to the Floodplain Administrator prior to any development
activities located within special flood hazard areas. The following items shall
be presented to the Floodplain Administrator to apply for a floodplain
development permit:
      (1)   A plot plan drawn to scale which shall include, but shall not be
limited to, the following specific details of the proposed floodplain
development:
         (a)   The nature, location, dimensions and elevations of the area of
development or disturbance; existing and proposed structures, utility systems,
grading/pavement areas, fill materials, storage areas, drainage facilities and
other development;
         (b)   The boundary of the special flood hazard area as delineated on
the FIRM or other flood map as determined in §
152.07, or a statement that the entire lot is within the special flood hazard
area;
         (c)   The flood zone(s) designation of the proposed development area
as determined on the FIRM or other flood map as determined in §
152.07;
         (d)   The boundary of the floodway(s) or flood fringe area(s) as
determined in §
152.07;
         (e)   The base flood elevation (BFE) where provided as set forth in §§
152.07,
152.08 or
152.42; and
         (f)   The old and new location of any watercourse that will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development.
      (2)   Proposed elevation, and method thereof, of all development within a
special flood hazard area including but not limited to:
         (a)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level of the proposed
reference level (including basement) of all structures;
         (b)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any non-
residential structure in zones A, AE, AH, AO or A1-30 will be floodproofed; and
         (c)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any proposed
utility systems will be elevated or floodproofed.
      (3)   If floodproofing, a Floodproofing Certificate (FEMA Form 086-0-33)
with supporting data, an operational plan and an inspection and maintenance
plan that include, but are not limited to, installation, exercise and
maintenance of floodproofing measures;
      (4)   A foundation plan, drawn to scale, which shall include details of
the proposed foundation system to ensure all provisions of this chapter are
met. These details include but are not limited to:
         (a)   The proposed method of elevation, if applicable (i.e., fill,
solid foundation perimeter wall, solid backfilled foundation, open foundation
or on columns/posts/piers/piles/shear walls); and
         (b)   Openings to facilitate automatic equalization of hydrostatic
flood forces on walls in accordance with §
152.41(D)(1) through (D)(4) when solid foundation perimeter walls are used in
zones A, AE, AH, AO and A1-30.
      (5)   Usage details of any enclosed areas below the lowest floor;
      (6)   Plans and/or details for the protection of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems to be located and
constructed to minimize flood damage;
      (7)   Certification that all other local, state and federal permits
required prior to floodplain development permit issuance have been received;
      (8)   Documentation for placement of recreational vehicles and/or
temporary structures, when applicable, to ensure that the provisions of §
152.41(F) and (G) are met;
      (9)   A description of proposed watercourse alteration or relocation,
when applicable, including an engineering report on the effects of the proposed
project on the flood-carrying capacity of the watercourse and the effects to
properties located both upstream and downstream; and
      (10)   A map (if not shown on plot plan) showing the location of the
proposed watercourse alteration or relocation.
   (B)   Permit requirements. The floodplain development permit shall include,
but not be limited to:
      (1)   A complete description of all the development to be permitted under
the floodplain development permit (i.e., house, garage, pool, septic, bulkhead,
cabana, pole barn, chicken coop, pier, bridge, mining, dredging, filling,
grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of equipment or
materials and the like);
      (2)   The special flood hazard area determination for the proposed
development in accordance with available data specified in §
152.07;
      (3)   The flood protection elevation required for the reference level and
all attendant utilities;
      (4)   The flood protection elevation required for the protection of all
public utilities;
      (5)   All certification submittal requirements with timelines;
      (6)   A statement that no fill material or other development shall
encroach into the floodway or flood fringe area of any watercourse, as
applicable;
      (7)   The flood openings requirements, if in zones A, AE, AH, AO or A1-
30;
      (8)   A statement of the limitations of below BFE enclosure uses, if
applicable. (i.e., parking, building access and limited storage only); and
      (9)   A statement that all materials below BFE/FPE must be flood-
resistant materials.
   (C)   Certification requirements.
      (1)   Elevation certificates. A final as-built Finished Construction
Elevation Certificate (FEMA Form 86-0-33) is required after construction is
completed and prior to Certificate of Compliance/Occupancy issuance. It shall
be the duty of the permit holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator a
certification of final as-built construction of the elevation of the reference
level and all attendant utilities. The Floodplain Administrator shall review
the certificate data submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be
corrected by the permit holder immediately and prior to Certificate of
Compliance/Occupancy issuance. In some instances, another certification may be
required to certify corrected as-built construction. Failure to submit the
certification or failure to make required corrections shall be cause to
withhold the issuance of a Certificate of Compliance/Occupancy.
      (2)   Floodproofing certificates. If non-residential floodproofing is
used to meet the flood protection elevation requirements, a Floodproofing
Certificate (FEMA Form 086-0-34), with supporting data, an operational plan and
an inspection and maintenance plan are required prior to the actual start of
any new construction. It shall be the duty of the permit holder to submit to
the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the floodproofed design
elevation of the reference level and all attendant utilities, in relation to
mean sea level. Floodproofing certification shall be prepared by or under the
direct supervision of a professional engineer or architect and certified by
same. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate data, the
operational plan and the inspection and maintenance plan. Deficiencies detected
by such review shall be corrected by the applicant prior to permit approval.
Failure to submit the certification or failure to make required corrections
shall be cause to deny a floodplain development permit. Failure to construct in
accordance with the certified design shall be cause to withhold the issuance of
a Certificate of Compliance/Occupancy.
      (3)   Manufactured homes. If a manufactured home is placed within zone A,
AE, AH, AO or A1-30 and the elevation of the chassis is more than 36 inches in
height above grade, an engineered foundation certification is required in
accordance with the provisions of §
152.41(C)(2).
      (4)   Watercourses. If a watercourse is to be altered or relocated, the
following shall all be submitted by the permit applicant prior to issuance of a
floodplain development permit:
         (a)   A description of the extent of watercourse alteration or
relocation;
         (b)   A professional engineer’s certified report on the effects of the
proposed project on the flood-carrying capacity of the watercourse and the
effects to properties located both upstream and downstream;
         (c)   A map showing the location of the proposed watercourse
alteration or relocation; and
         (d)   An Idaho Stream Channel Alteration Permit approval shall be
provided by the applicant to the Floodplain Administrator.
      (5)   Certification exemptions. The following structures, if located
within zone A, AE, AH, AO or A1-30, are exempt from the elevation/floodproofing
certification requirements specified in divisions (C)(1) and (C)(2) above:
         (a)   Recreational vehicles meeting requirements of §
152.41(F)(1);
         (b)   Temporary structures meeting requirements of §
152.41(G); and
         (c)   Accessory structures less than 200 square feet meeting
requirements of §
152.41(H).
   (D)   Determinations for existing buildings and structures. For applications
for building permits to improve buildings and structures, including
alterations, movement, enlargement, replacement, repair, change of occupancy,
additions, rehabilitations, renovations, substantial improvements, repairs of
substantial damage and any other improvement of or work on such buildings and
structures, the Floodplain Administrator, in coordination with the Building
Official, shall:
      (1)   Estimate the market value, or require the applicant to obtain an
appraisal of the market value prepared by a qualified independent appraiser, of
the building or structure before the start of construction of the proposed
work. In the case of repair, the market value of the building or structure
shall be the market value before the damage occurred and before any repairs are
made;
      (2)   Compare the cost to perform the improvement, the cost to repair a
damaged building to its pre-damaged condition, or the combined costs of
improvements and repairs, if applicable, to the market value of the building or
structure;
      (3)   Determine and document whether the proposed work constitutes
substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage; and
      (4)   Notify the applicant if it is determined that the work constitutes
substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage and that compliance
with the flood-resistant construction requirements of the adopted Building Code
and this chapter is required.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-4)
§ 152.27 CORRECTIVE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Violations to be corrected. When the Floodplain Administrator finds
violations of applicable state and local laws, it shall be his or her duty to
notify the owner or occupant of the building of the violation. The owner or
occupant shall immediately remedy each of the violations of law cited in such
notification.
   (B)   Actions in event of failure to take corrective action. If the owner of
a building or property shall fail to take prompt corrective action, the
Floodplain Administrator shall give the owner written notice, by certified or
registered mail to the owner’s last known address or by personal service,
stating:
      (1)   The building or property is in violation of the floodplain
management regulations;
      (2)   A hearing will be held before the Floodplain Administrator at a
designated place and time, not later than ten days after the date of the
notice, at which time the owner shall be entitled to be heard in person or by
counsel and to present arguments and evidence pertaining to the matter; and
      (3)   Following the hearing, the Floodplain Administrator may issue an
order to alter, vacate or demolish the building or to remove fill as
applicable.
   (C)   Order to take corrective action. If, upon a hearing held pursuant to
the notice prescribed above, the Floodplain Administrator shall find that the
building or development is in violation of the Flood Damage Prevention
Ordinance, he or she shall issue an order in writing to the owner, requiring
the owner to remedy the violation within a specified time period, not less than
60 calendar days, nor more than 180 calendar days. Where the Floodplain
Administrator finds that there is imminent danger to life or other property, he
or she may order that corrective action be taken in such lesser period as may
be feasible.
   (D)   Appeal. Any owner who has received an order to take corrective action
may appeal the order to the local elected governing body by giving notice of
appeal in writing to the Floodplain Administrator and the clerk within ten days
following issuance of the final order. In the absence of an appeal, the order
of the Floodplain Administrator shall be final. The local governing body shall
hear an appeal within a reasonable time and may affirm, modify and affirm or
revoke the order.
   (E)   Failure to comply with order. If the owner of a building or property
fails to comply with an order to take corrective action for which no appeal has
been made or fails to comply with an order of the governing body following an
appeal, the owner shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished at the
discretion of the court.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-4) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.28 VARIANCES.
   (A)   The city or county Building Board of Appeals as established by the
city and county, hereinafter referred to as the “appeal board”, shall hear and
decide requests for variances from the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Variances may be issued for:
      (1)   The repair or rehabilitation of historic structures upon the
determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the
structure’s continued designation as a historic structure and that the variance
is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the
structure;
      (2)   Functionally dependent facilities, if determined to meet the
definition as stated in §
152.05, provided provisions of divisions (I)(2), (I)(3) and (I)(5) below, have
been satisfied, and such facilities are protected by methods that minimize
flood damages during the base flood and create no additional threats to public
safety; or
      (3)   Any other type of development, provided it meets the requirements
of this section.
   (C)   In passing upon variances, the appeal board shall consider all
technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in other
sections of this chapter and:
      (1)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (2)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (3)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (4)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      (5)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location as defined
under §
152.06 as a functionally dependent facility, where applicable;
      (6)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use;
      (7)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (8)   The relationship of the proposed use to the Comprehensive Plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      (9)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (10)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
      (11)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems and streets and
bridges.
   (D)   The applicant shall include a written report addressing each of the
above factors in divisions (C)(1) through (C)(11) above with his or her
application for a variance.
   (E)   Upon consideration of the factors listed above and the purposes of
this chapter, the appeal board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes and objectives of this
chapter.
   (F)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the base flood elevation (BFE) and the
elevation to which the structure is to be built and that such construction
below the BFE increases risks to life and property, and that the issuance of a
variance to construct a structure below the BFE will result in increased
premium rates for flood insurance up to $25 per $100 of insurance coverage.
Such notification shall be maintained with a record of all variance actions,
including justification for their issuance.
   (G)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of all appeal
actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency and
the state upon request.
   (H)   Conditions for variances are the follows.
      (1)   Variances shall not be issued when the variance will make the
structure in violation of other federal, state or local laws, regulations or
ordinances.
      (2)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway or
flood fringe area if the variance would result in any increase in flood levels
during the base flood discharge.
      (3)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      (4)   Variances shall only be issued prior to development permit
approval.
      (5)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety or
extraordinary public expense, create nuisance, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
   (I)   A variance may be issued for solid waste disposal facilities or sites,
hazardous waste management facilities, salvage yards and chemical storage
facilities that are located in special flood hazard areas provided that all of
the following conditions are met.
      (1)   The use serves a critical need in the community.
      (2)   No feasible location exists for the use outside the special flood
hazard area.
      (3)   The reference level of any structure is elevated or floodproofed to
at least the flood protection elevation.
      (4)   The use complies with all other applicable federal, state and local
laws.
   (J)   The city will notify the NFIP Coordinator of the state’s Department of
Water Resources of its intention to grant a variance at least 30 calendar days
prior to granting the variance.
   (K)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the appeal board may appeal
such decision to the court, as provided in Idaho Code 67-6535.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-4) Penalty, see §
152.99
FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 152.40 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all special flood hazard areas, the following provisions are required.
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be designed
(or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse and
lateral movement of the structure.
   (B)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage in accordance
with the Technical Bulletin 2, flood damage-resistant materials requirements
and available from the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   (C)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damages.
   (D)   All new and replacement electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing,
air conditioning equipment and other service facilities shall be designed and/
or located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of flooding to the flood protection elevation.
These include, but are not limited to, HVAC equipment, water softener units,
bath/kitchen fixtures, ductwork, electric/gas meter panels/boxes, utility/cable
boxes, hot water heaters and electric outlets/switches.
   (E)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
   (F)   All new and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into flood waters.
   (G)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (H)   A fully enclosed area, of new construction and substantially improved
structures, which is below the lowest floor shall:
      (1)   Be constructed entirely of flood-resistant materials at least to
the flood protection elevation; and
      (2)   Include, in zones A, AE, AH, AO and A1-30, flood openings to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on walls by allowing for the
entry and exit of floodwaters. To meet this requirement, the openings must
either be certified by a professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed
the following minimum design criteria:
         (a)   A minimum of two flood openings on different sides of each
enclosed area subject to flooding;
         (b)   The total net area of all flood openings must be at least one
square inch for each square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding;
         (c)   If a building has more than one enclosed area, each enclosed
area must have flood openings to allow floodwaters to automatically enter and
exit;
         (d)   The bottom of all required flood openings shall be no higher
than one foot above the interior or exterior adjacent grade;
         (e)   Flood openings may be equipped with screens, louvers or other
coverings or devices, provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions; and
         (f)   Enclosures made of flexible skirting are not considered
enclosures for regulatory purposes, and, therefore, do not require flood
openings. Masonry or wood underpinning, regardless of structural status, is
considered an enclosure and requires flood openings as outlined above.
   (I)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvements to a structure,
which is in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, shall meet the
requirements of new construction as contained in this chapter.
   (J)   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the repair, reconstruction or
replacement of a building or structure existing on the effective date of this
chapter and located totally or partially within the floodway, flood fringe area
or stream setback, provided there is no additional encroachment below the flood
protection elevation in the floodway, flood fringe area or stream setback, and
provided that such repair, reconstruction or replacement meets all of the other
requirements of this chapter.
   (K)   New solid waste disposal facilities and sites, hazardous waste
management facilities, salvage yards and chemical storage facilities shall not
be permitted, except by variance as specified in §
152.28 of this code. A structure or tank for chemical or fuel storage
incidental to an allowed use or to the operation of a water treatment plant or
wastewater treatment facility may be located in a special flood hazard area
only if the structure or tank is either elevated or floodproofed to at least
the flood protection elevation and certified in accordance with the provisions
of §
152.26 of this code.
   (L)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall be
consistent with the need to minimize flood damage and determined to be
reasonably safe from flooding.
   (M)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall have
public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water
systems located and constructed to minimize flood damage.
   (N)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall have
adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   (O)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall have
received all necessary permits from those governmental agencies for which
approval is required by federal or state law, including § 404 of the Federal
Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. § 1334.
   (P)   When a structure is partially located in a special flood hazard area,
the entire structure shall meet the requirements for new construction and
substantial improvements.
   (Q)   When a structure is located in multiple flood hazard zones or in a
flood hazard risk zone with multiple base flood elevations, the provisions for
the more restrictive flood hazard risk zone and the highest base flood
elevation (BFE) shall apply.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-5)
§ 152.41 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all special flood hazard areas where base flood elevation (BFE) data has
been provided, as set forth in §
152.07, or §
152.43 of this code, the following provisions, in addition to the provisions of
§
152.40 of this code, are required.
   (A)   Residential construction. New construction and substantial improvement
of any residential structure (including manufactured homes) shall have the
reference level, including basement, elevated no lower than the flood
protection elevation, as defined in §
152.05 of this code.
   (B)   Non-residential construction. New construction and substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial or other non-residential structure
shall have the reference level, including basement, elevated no lower than the
flood protection elevation, as defined in Article II of this ordinance.
Structures located in zones A, AE, AH, AO and A1-30 may be floodproofed to the
flood protection elevation in lieu of elevation provided that all areas of the
structure, together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, below the
flood protection elevation are watertight with walls substantially impermeable
to the passage of water, using structural components having the capability of
resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and the effect of buoyancy. For AH
and AO zones, the floodproofing elevation shall be in accordance with §
152.45 of this code. A registered professional engineer or architect shall
certify that the floodproofing standards of this division (B) are satisfied.
Such certification shall be provided to the Floodplain Administrator as set
forth in §
152.26(C), along with the operational plan and the inspection and maintenance
plan.
   (C)   Manufactured homes.
      (1)   New and replacement manufactured homes shall be elevated so that
the reference level of the manufactured home is no lower than the flood
protection elevation, as defined in §
152.05 of this code.
      (2)   Manufactured homes shall be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement, either
by certified engineered foundation system, or in accordance with the most
current edition of the state’s Manufactured Home Installation Standard in
accordance with Idaho Code 44-2201(2). Additionally, when the elevation would
be met by an elevation of the chassis 36 inches or less above the grade at the
site, the chassis shall be supported by reinforced piers or engineered
foundation. When the elevation of the chassis is above 36 inches in height, an
engineering certification is required.
      (3)   All enclosures or skirting below the lowest floor shall meet the
requirements of §
152.41(D).
      (4)   An evacuation plan must be developed for evacuation of all
residents of all new, substantially improved or substantially damaged
manufactured home parks or subdivisions located within flood-prone areas. This
plan shall be filed with and approved by the Floodplain Administrator and the
local Emergency Management Coordinator.
   (D)   Additions and/or improvements.
      (1)   Additions and/or improvements to pre-FIRM structures when the
addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications to
the existing structure are:
         (a)   Not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or improvements
must be designed to minimize flood damages and must not be any more non-
conforming than the existing structure; or
         (b)   A substantial improvement, both the existing structure and the
addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new
construction.
      (2)   Additions to post-FIRM structures that are a substantial
improvement with no modifications to the existing structure other than a
standard door in the common wall shall require only the addition to comply with
the standards for new construction.
      (3)   Additions and/or improvements to post-FIRM structures when the
addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications to
the existing structure are:
         (a)   Not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or improvements
only must comply with the standards for new construction; or
         (b)   A substantial improvement, both the existing structure and the
addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new
construction.
      (4)   Any combination of repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition
or improvement of a building or structure taking place during a five-year
period, the cumulative cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value
of the structure before the improvement or repair is started, must comply with
the standards for new construction. For each building or structure, the five-
year period begins on the date of the first improvement or repair of that
building or structure subsequent to the effective date of this chapter. If the
structure has sustained substantial damage, any repairs are considered
substantial improvement regardless of the actual repair work performed. The
requirement does not, however, include either:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a building required to correct
existing health, sanitary or safety code violations identified by the building
official and that are the minimum necessary to assume safe living conditions;
or
         (b)   Any alteration of a historic structure provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure.
   (E)   Recreational vehicles. Recreational vehicles shall be either:
      (1)   Temporary placement. Be on site for fewer than 180 consecutive days
or be fully licensed and ready for highway use (a recreational vehicle is ready
for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the
site only by quick disconnect type utilities and has no permanently attached
additions); or
      (2)   Permanent placement. Recreational vehicles that do not meet the
limitations of temporary placement shall meet all the requirements for new
construction, as set forth in §
152.40 of this code.
   (F)   Temporary non-residential structures. Prior to the issuance of a
floodplain development permit for a temporary structure, the applicant must
submit to the Floodplain Administrator a plan for the removal of such structure
(s) in the event of a flash flood or other type of flood warning notification.
The following information shall be submitted in writing to the Floodplain
Administrator for review and written approval:
      (1)   A specified time period for which the temporary use will be
permitted. Time specified may not exceed six months, renewable up to one year;
      (2)   The name, address and phone number of the individual responsible
for the removal of the temporary structure;
      (3)   The time frame prior to the event at which a structure will be
removed (i.e., immediately upon flood warning notification);
      (4)   A copy of the contract or other suitable instrument with the entity
responsible for physical removal of the structure; and
      (5)   Designation, accompanied by documentation, of a location outside
the special flood hazard area, to which the temporary structure will be moved.
   (G)   Accessory structures.
      (1)   When accessory structures (sheds, detached garages and the like)
are to be placed within a special flood hazard area, elevation or floodproofing
certifications are required for all accessory structures in accordance with §
152.26(C), and the following criteria shall be met:
         (a)   Accessory structures shall not be used for human habitation
(including working, sleeping, living, cooking or restroom areas);
         (b)   Accessory structures shall not be temperature-controlled;
         (c)   Accessory structures shall be designed to have low flood damage
potential;
         (d)   Accessory structures shall be constructed and placed on the
building site so as to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters;
         (e)   Accessory structures shall be firmly anchored in accordance with
the provisions of §
152.40(A);
         (f)   All service facilities, such as electrical, shall be installed
in accordance with the provisions of §
152.40(D); and
         (g)   Flood openings to facilitate automatic equalization of
hydrostatic flood forces shall be provided below flood protection elevation in
conformance with the provisions of §
152.41(D).
      (2)   An accessory structure with a footprint less than 200 square feet
and satisfies the criteria outlined in divisions (G)(1)(a) through (G)(1)(g)
above is not required to meet the elevation or floodproofing standards of §
152.41(B).
   (H)   Tanks. When gas and liquid storage tanks are to be placed within a
special flood hazard area, the following criteria shall be met:
      (1)   Underground tanks in flood hazard areas shall be anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement resulting from hydrodynamic and
hydrostatic loads during conditions of the base flood, including the effects of
buoyancy (assuming the tank is empty);
      (2)   Elevated above-ground tanks, in flood hazard areas shall be
attached to and elevated to or above the design flood elevation on a supporting
structure that is designed to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement
during conditions of the base flood. Tank-supporting structures shall meet the
foundation requirements of the applicable flood hazard area;
      (3)   Not elevated above-ground tanks, that do not meet the elevation
requirements of §
152.41(B) shall be permitted in flood hazard areas provided the tanks are
anchored or otherwise designed and constructed to prevent flotation, collapse
or lateral movement resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads during
conditions of the design flood, including the effects of buoyancy assuming the
tank is empty and the effects of flood-borne debris; and
      (4)   Tank inlets, fill openings, outlets and vents shall be:
         (a)   At or above the flood protection elevation or fitted with covers
designed to prevent the inflow of floodwater or outflow of the contents of the
tanks during conditions of the base flood; and
         (b)   Anchored to prevent lateral movement resulting from hydrodynamic
and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy, during conditions of
the base flood.
   (I)   Construction of below-grade crawlspace.
      (1)   The interior grade of a crawlspace must not be below the BFE and
must not be more than two feet below the exterior lowest adjacent grade (LAG).
      (2)   The height of the below-grade crawlspace, measured from the
interior grade of the crawlspace to the top of the crawlspace foundation wall,
must not exceed four feet at any point.
      (3)   There must be an adequate drainage system that removes floodwaters
from the interior area of the crawlspace. The enclosed area should be drained
within a reasonable time after a flood event.
      (4)   The velocity of floodwaters at the site should not exceed five feet
per second for any crawlspace.
         (a)   See Technical Bulletin 11 for further information.
         (b)   Caution: buildings that have below-grade crawlspaces will have
higher flood insurance premiums than buildings that have the preferred
crawlspace construction, with the interior elevation of the crawlspace soil at
or above the base flood elevation (BFE).
   (J)   Other development in regulated floodways and flood fringe.
      (1)   Fences that have the potential to block the passage of floodwaters,
such as stockade fences and wire mesh fences, in regulated floodways and flood
fringe shall meet the limitations of §
152.45 of this code.
      (2)   Retaining walls, bulkheads, sidewalks and driveways that involve
the placement of fill in regulated floodways and flood fringe shall meet the
limitations of §
152.45 of this code.
      (3)   Roads and watercourse crossings, including roads, bridges,
culverts, low-water crossings and similar means for vehicles or pedestrians to
travel from one side of a watercourse to the other side, which encroach into
regulated floodways and flood fringe, shall meet the limitations of §
152.45 of this code.
      (4)   Drilling water, oil and/or gas wells including fuel storage tanks,
apparatus and any equipment at the site that encroach into regulated floodways
and flood fringe shall meet the limitations of §
152.45 of this code.
      (5)   Docks, piers, boat ramps, marinas, moorings, decks, docking
facilities, port facilities, shipbuilding and ship repair facilities that
encroach into regulated floodways and flood fringe shall meet the limitations
of §
152.45 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-5)
§ 152.42 FLOODPLAINS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATIONS.
   Within the special flood hazard areas designated as zone A (also known as
unnumbered A zone) and established in §
152.07 of this code, where no base flood elevation (BFE) data has been provided
by FEMA, the following provisions, in addition to the provisions of §
152.40 of this code shall apply.
   (A)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements or new development shall be permitted, unless a determination of
the base flood elevation (BFE) is provided.
   (B)   The BFE used in determining the flood protection elevation (FPE) shall
be determined based on the following criteria.
      (1)   When base flood elevation (BFE) data is available from other
sources, all new construction and substantial improvements within such areas
shall also comply with all applicable provisions of this chapter and shall be
elevated or floodproofed in accordance with standards in §§
152.40 and
152.41 of this code.
      (2)   When floodway or flood fringe data is available from a federal,
state or other source, all new construction and substantial improvements within
floodway and flood fringe areas shall also comply with the requirements of §§
152.41 and
152.41 of this code.
      (3)   All subdivision, manufactured home park and other development
proposals shall provide base flood elevation (BFE) data if development is
greater than five acres or has more than 50 lots/manufactured home sites. Such
base flood elevation (BFE) data shall be adopted by reference in accordance
with §
152.07 and utilized in implementing this chapter. The applicant or developer
shall submit an application for a Conditional Letter of Map Revision (CLOMR)
prior to preliminary plat approval and have obtained a Letter of Map Revision
(LOMR) prior to any building permits for structures being issued. See FEMA 480
and/or FEMA 265 for further information
      (4)   When base flood elevation (BFE) data is not available from a
federal, state or other source as outlined above, the reference level shall be
elevated or floodproofed (non-residential) to or above the flood protection
elevation, as defined in §
152.05 of this code. All other applicable provisions of §
152.41 of this code shall also apply.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-5)
§ 152.43 RIVERINE FLOODPLAINS WITH BASE FLOOD ELEVATIONS BUT WITHOUT
ESTABLISHED FLOODWAYS OR FLOOD FRINGE AREAS.
   Along rivers and streams where base flood elevation (BFE) data is provided
by FEMA or is available from another source but neither floodway nor flood
fringe areas are identified for a special flood hazard area on the FIRM or in
the FIS report, the following requirements shall apply to all development
within such areas:
   (A)   Standards of §§
152.40 and
152.41; and
   (B)   Until a regulatory floodway or flood fringe area is designated, no
encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial improvements or
other development shall be permitted unless certification with supporting
technical data by a registered professional engineer is provided demonstrating
that the cumulative effect of the proposed development, when combined with all
other existing and anticipated development, will not increase the water surface
elevation of the base flood at any point within the community.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-5)
§ 152.44 FLOODWAYS AND FLOOD FRINGE AREAS.
   (A)   Areas designated as floodways or flood fringe areas are located within
the special flood hazard areas established in §
152.07. The floodways and flood fringe areas are extremely hazardous areas due
to the velocity of floodwaters that have erosion potential and carry debris and
potential projectiles.
   (B)   The following provisions, in addition to standards outlined in Article
V, Sections A and B, shall apply to all development within such areas.
      (1)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements and other developments shall be permitted unless:
         (a)   It is demonstrated that the proposed encroachment would not
result in any increase in the flood levels during the occurrence of the base
flood, based on hydrologic and hydraulic analyses performed in accordance with
standard engineering practice and presented to the Floodplain Administrator
prior to issuance of floodplain development permit; or
         (b)   A Conditional Letter of Map Revision (CLOMR) has been approved
by FEMA. A Letter of Map Revision (LOMR) must also be obtained within six
months of completion of the proposed encroachment.
      (2)   If §
152.45(A) is satisfied, all development shall comply with all applicable flood
hazard reduction provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   Manufactured homes may be permitted provided the following
provisions are met:
         (a)   The anchoring and the elevation standards of §
152.41(C); and
         (b)   The encroachment standards of §
152.45(A).
(Prior Code, § 11-1-5)
§ 152.45 AREAS OF SHALLOW FLOODING.
   (A)   Located within the special flood hazard areas established in §
152.07, are areas designated as shallow flooding areas. These areas have
special flood hazards associated with base flood depths of one to three feet
where a clearly defined channel does not exist and where the path of flooding
is unpredictable and indeterminate.
   (B)   In addition to §§
152.40 and
152.41, all new construction and substantial improvements shall meet the
following requirements.
      (1)   The reference level shall be elevated at least as high as the depth
number specified on the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM), in feet, plus a
freeboard of one and one-half feet, above the highest adjacent grade; or at
least one and one-half feet above the highest adjacent grade if no depth number
is specified.
      (2)   Non-residential structures may, in lieu of elevation, be
floodproofed to the same level as required in division (B)(1) above so that the
structure, together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, below that
level shall be watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage
of water and with structural components having the capability of resisting
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. Certification is
required in accordance with §§
152.26(C) and
152.41(B).
      (3)   Adequate drainage paths shall be provided around structures on
slopes to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed structures.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-5)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, extended, converted
or altered unless in full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other
applicable regulations.
   (B)   Violation of the provisions of §§
152.06 through
152.13 or failure to comply with any of their requirements, including violation
of conditions and safeguards established in connection with grants of variance
or special exceptions, shall constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates
this chapter or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall, upon
conviction thereof, be fined not more than $1,000 or imprisoned for not more
than 180 days or both. Each day the violation continues shall be considered a
separate offense. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the city from taking
such other lawful actions as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-3)
CHAPTER 153: STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
Section
General Provisions
   
153.01   Sidewalk construction and maintenance
   
153.02   Restricting flow of storm waters in streets
   
153.03   Barbed wire and electric fences
   
153.04   Street excavations
   
153.05   Snow, hail, sleet and ice removal
   
153.06   Vending on city streets/alleys or in city parking lots
Use of Public Ways
   
153.20   Bicycles, skateboards, scooters, unicycles, roller blades and wheeled
conveyances
   
153.21   Use in the Central Business District
   
153.22   Central Business District
   
153.23   Salmon pedestrian bridge
   
153.24   Exceptions
   
153.25   Passage
   
153.26   Effective date
Use of Salmon Valley Center
   
153.40   Meeting room fees
 
   
153.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Comprehensive Plan, see §
150.01
   Parks and Recreation, see
Ch. 93
   Public Works, see Title XV
   Trees, see
Ch. 154
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.01 SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Responsibility. The construction, repair and maintenance of sidewalks,
curbs and gutters located within the city limits is the responsibility of the
abutting property owner. All fees and costs associated with such construction,
maintenance and repair of sidewalks will be borne by the abutting property
owner. The power of the city to regulate repairs and maintenance is set forth
in Idaho Code 50-317.
   (B)   Notification. The Public Works Superintendent, upon determining that a
sidewalk is dangerous and unsafe, shall notify the abutting property owner of
the defects, the repairs required and a time period within which the repairs
must be completed. The notice shall require the repairs to be completed within
30 days of receipt of the notice by the property owner. If weather conditions
do not allow the repairs to be completed in a workmanlike manner, the time
period for completing the repairs may be extended upon a written extension
agreed to by the Public Works Superintendent. This notice shall be sent through
the U.S. Postal Service certified mail. In the event the certified mail is
refused or undeliverable, the city shall mail notice through first class mail
to the property owner. If the notice is mailed as first class mail, the
property owner will then have 35 days from the date of the notice to effect the
repairs or obtain an extension because of weather-related construction
problems.
   (C)   Assessment of costs. In the event the property owner does not complete
the repairs within the allotted time period, the city may repair, or cause to
be repaired, the sidewalk. In this instance, the city shall assess the costs of
such repairs to the property, as provided for in Idaho Code 50-1008.
   (D)   Specifications. The construction, repair and maintenance of sidewalks
shall conform to the standards set forth in the state’s Standards for Public
Works Construction.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-1) (Ord. 94-577, passed 11-2-1994; Ord. 15-810, passed 10-7-
2015)
§ 153.02 RESTRICTING FLOW OF STORM WATERS IN STREETS.
   (A)   No material or debris shall be allowed to be placed or allowed to
accumulate in a matter that will restrict the flow of storm waters.
   (B)   No persons shall cause debris to be placed in street gutters or on
street corners which results in the constriction and/or restriction of the flow
of storm waters.
   (C)   Debris will not accumulate that restricts the efficiency of the storm
drain system.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-2) (Ord. 84-481, passed 12-3-1984) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.03 BARBED WIRE AND ELECTRIC FENCES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect or maintain any electric fence
or any fence constructed in whole or in part of barbed wire or to use barbed
wire as a guard to any parking lot or parcel of land unless the barbed wire
shall commence at a height of at least six feet above the ground.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-3) (Ord. 65-360, passed 5-7-1965) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.04 STREET EXCAVATIONS.
   (A)   City authorization. It shall be unlawful for any person to break into
or in any manner interfere with or molest any paving, street, alley, water line
or sewer line within the corporate limits of the city unless first being duly
authorized by the city.
   (B)   Excavation permit. Any person, organization, company or entity wishing
to make any excavation within any public right-of-way or any public property
within the city limits shall first obtain an excavation permit from the city.
      (1)   Application, fee; utility placement. Application for such permits
shall be made to the city at City Hall. Such permits for excavation shall be
made not less than 48 hours prior to the beginning of such excavation. The
permit shall be approved by the Public Works Superintendent, or, in the
Superintendent’s absence, the Clerk.
         (a)   Each application for excavation shall be accompanied with a fee
that will be set by resolution. The application will not be processed until
this fee has been received by the city.
         (b)   The application shall contain the following information: the
name of person, organization or entity making application; type of utility to
be installed; exact location of utility to be installed, date of the start of
work; traffic-control plan, if required; depth of excavation; method of
restoration of project area; map of project area, if so required by the Public
Works Superintendent or Clerk.
         (c)   All utilities placed within public rights-of-way or on public
property shall be placed a minimum of two feet beneath the finished grade of
the area in which placed. Directly over the utility a magnetic locator strip,
at least four inches in width, color coded for the utility being placed, shall
be installed. The strip shall be installed 12 inches above the utility
placement.
         (d)   The person making the utility installation shall provide the
city with a drawing showing the actual location of the installation at the
completion of the project. Failure to do so shall result in no further permits
being granted until such time as the as-built drawings are submitted to the
city.
      (2)   Site condition. The site of the excavation shall be returned to an
as good or better condition. The repair of the excavation shall conform to the
standards established by the state’s Standards for Public Works Construction as
adopted by the city. All excess material shall be removed from the site.
Failure to make proper excavation repairs or return the site to its previous
condition will result in the city making the repairs and charging the person or
organization responsible for the repairs the cost of work performed by the
city. No further permits will be issued to this person or organization until
previous excavations have been successfully completed and all costs associated
with the repair have been paid.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-4) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.05 SNOW, HAIL, SLEET AND ICE REMOVAL.
   (A)   It shall be the property owner’s responsibility to remove snow, hail,
sleet and/or ice from sidewalks to allow citizens to use the sidewalks in a
safe manner.
   (B)   Absent written permission from the city, no person shall place snow,
hail, sleet and/or ice removed from private property upon any public sidewalk,
street or other public right-of-way with the exception of the Business District
where buildings abut the sidewalk.
   (C)   Snow, hail, sleet and/or ice from sidewalks in the Business District
area where buildings abut the sidewalk may be plowed, shoveled or blown into
the right-of-way of the abutting street. The Business District is defined as
Main Street including the Salmon River Bridge east to Challis Street.
   (D)   No person shall deposit or place any snow within two feet of or block
access to any fire hydrant.
   (E)   The property owner shall be issued formal notification of violations
to this chapter with an appropriate timeframe for corrective action prior to
issuance of an infraction citation.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-5) (Ord. 15-812, passed 12-17-2015) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.06 VENDING ON CITY STREETS/ALLEYS OR IN CITY PARKING LOTS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, VENDING shall be defined as engaging
in the sale of merchandise as one’s business or occupation or to dispose of by
sale.
   (B)   Vending is not permitted on city streets or alleys or in city parking
lots unless temporary closure of a specific street or alley or parking lot is
approved by City Council.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-6) (Ord. 19-837, passed 5-15-2019) Penalty, see §
153.99
USE OF PUBLIC WAYS
§ 153.20 BICYCLES, SKATEBOARDS, SCOOTERS, UNICYCLES, ROLLER BLADES AND WHEELED
CONVEYANCES.
   All bicycles, skateboards, scooters, unicycles, roller blades and wheeled
conveyances, operating within the city limits, are to be regulated by the
provisions of this subchapter and state code.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-1)
§ 153.21 USE IN THE CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   It shall be unlawful to ride a bicycle, skateboard, scooter, unicycle,
roller blades or wheeled conveyance (not including exceptions defined in §
153.24 of this code) any sidewalk in the Central Business District of the city
as defined in §
153.22 of this code. Any bicycle, skateboard, scooter, unicycle, roller blade
or wheeled conveyance being propelled on the sidewalk in the Central Business
District must be walked along side of and be in complete control, so as not to
injure any person or property. It shall be unlawful for motorized vehicles (not
including exceptions defined in §
153.24 of this code) to drive on or be parked on the pathway along Highway 28
running from Lemhi Street continuing into the city park unless exiting or
entering a driveway.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-2) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.22 CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   The Central Business District shall be defined as Main Street including the
Salmon River Bridge East to Challis Street.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-3)
§ 153.23 SALMON PEDESTRIAN BRIDGE.
   Bicycles, skateboards, scooters, unicycles, roller blades or wheeled
conveyances are allowed on the pedestrian bridge. Pedestrians shall be given
the right-of-way and control of such conveyances must be maintained at all
times so as not to injure any person or property. Motorized vehicles are
prohibited on the pedestrian bridge.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-4) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.24 EXCEPTIONS.
   This subchapter does not apply to wheelchairs, whether motorized or
propelled, used by someone who must use it because he or she is non-ambulatory,
nor shall this apply to baby carriages, child wagons, walkers, strollers or
snow or debris removal equipment.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-5)
§ 153.25 PASSAGE.
   The ordinance codified in this subchapter shall become effective upon the
passage, approval and publications as provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-7)
§ 153.26 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The ordinance codified in this subchapter shall be effective upon its
passage, approval and publication.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-10) (Ord. 06-710, passed 12-20-2006; Ord. 10-765, passed 9-
1-2010; Ord. 17-827, passed 10-4-2017)   
USE OF SALMON VALLEY CENTER
§ 153.40 MEETING ROOM FEES.
   Fees for the use of the Salmon Valley Center to cover the direct
administration, management and costs incurred will be set by resolution as
needed to cover the direct cost of services. The applicant shall pay the fees
to the city at the time the application is filed with the Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-1)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person violating §
153.02 shall be guilty of an infraction and subject to penalty as provided in §
10.99 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-2)
      (2)   Any violation of §
153.04 shall be deemed an infraction and the offender shall be subject to
penalties as provided in §
10.99 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-4)
      (3)   Any violation of §
153.05 shall be deemed an infraction and the offender shall be subject to
penalties as provided in §
10.99 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-5)
   (C)   Any violation of the provisions of §§
153.20 through
153.26 will be considered an infraction.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-6)
(Ord. 56-333, passed 3-19-1956; Ord. 84-481, passed 12-3-1984; Ord. 97-597,
passed 10-15-1997; Ord. 15-810, passed 10-7-2015; Ord. 15-812, passed 12-17-
2015)
CHAPTER 154: TREES
Section
   
154.01   Statement of purpose
   
154.02   Definitions
   
154.03   Tree Department
   
154.04   Protection of public trees
   
154.05   Required maintenance
   
154.06   Application to prune, plant or remove public trees
   
154.07   Compensatory payments
   
154.08   Topping prohibited
   
154.09   Nuisance trees
   
154.10   Work on city property
   
154.11   Emergencies
   
154.12   Appeals
 
   
154.99   Penalty
§ 154.01 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   (A)   This chapter establishes regulations and standards necessary to ensure
the city continues to realize the benefits provided by its community forest. It
is not intended to resolve or regulate disputes over private trees on private
property that do not affect general public safety.
   (B)   This chapter is enacted to:
      (1)   Protect public safety, health and welfare;
      (2)   Preserve and enhance the city’s environmental, economic and social
character with mature trees;
      (3)   Encourage site and utility planning, building and development
practices to prevent indiscriminate removal or destruction of trees and avoid
unnecessary disturbance to trees within the city;
      (4)   Maintain trees in a healthy, non-hazardous condition through
application of tree care standards contained in ANSI A300;
      (5)   Establish and maintain appropriate species diversity and age
classes in order to provide a stable and sustainable community forest; and
      (6)   Establish a process and schedule by which trees are to be planted,
pruned and removed.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-1)
§ 154.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANSI. American National Standards Institute, specifically standards for tree
care operations.
   COMMUNITY FOREST. Trees located on city-owned or city-controlled property.
   DRIP LINE. The area directly below the branches of a tree.
   PRIVATE TREE. A tree whose stem is located entirely on private property
within the city.
   PRUNING. The practice of cutting tree limbs according to standards in the
latest revision of the American National Standards Institute for Tree Care
Operations, a copy of which is on file with the city.
   PUBLIC TREE. A tree whose stem is located partly or wholly on public
property within the city.
   REMOVE. To cut down or damage any tree, deliberately or by omission, causing
the tree to die or become hazardous within three years.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of Public Works or person designated by
the Superintendent.
   TOPPING. Severe cutting back of limbs within a tree crown to buds, stubs or
laterals not large enough to assume a terminal role as defined in ANSI A300.
   TREE. Any self-supporting woody plant which has a well-defined stem with a
diameter of at least four inches at one and one-half feet from the ground; any
conspicuously flowering woody plant as designated by the Tree Department that
has a well-defined stem of at least two inches at four and one- half feet from
the ground; or any small seedling or sapling planted or protected specifically
to become a large tree as described above.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-2)
§ 154.03 TREE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   General. The city’s Tree Department shall serve as advisor to the City
Council for all matters relating to tree planting, community forestry planning
and the general care and maintenance of trees and shrubs within city limits.
   (B)   Duties. The Department shall:
      (1)   Work with concerned citizens, people employed in horticulture and
city staff to assist in the development of tree program policies;
      (2)   Manage community forestry events;
      (3)   Assist in the implementation of work plans, city tree inventories
and tree plantings;
      (4)   Serve as a citizens’ representative to city government; and
      (5)   Advocate for trees to obtain public support for the program.
   (C)   Members. The Tree Department, appointed by the Mayor, shall consist of
the Public Works Superintendent and the Parks Foreperson.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-3)
§ 154.04 PROTECTION OF PUBLIC TREES.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone not acting in an official capacity to:
   (A)   Damage, cut, carve, prune or remove a public tree;
   (B)   Attach any device or structure to a public tree;
   (C)   Allow any toxic substance to harm or damage a public tree;
   (D)   Set fire to or otherwise injure by fire a public tree;
   (E)   Damage any public tree through construction activities, including
excavation, placement of fill, compaction of soil or construction of any
structure, street, sidewalk, driveway, pavement or public utility within the
drip line of a public tree;
   (F)   Transplant a public tree; or
   (G)   Spray, inject or otherwise apply fertilizer or pesticide to a public
tree.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-4) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.05 REQUIRED MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Any owner of real property abutting a public right-of-way shall
maintain his or her private trees so that no tree obstructs or interferes with
the view to oncoming traffic or pedestrians, with the view of traffic signs or
signals or with the extension or maintenance of utility lines. The minimum
clearance shall be seven feet over sidewalk and 12 feet over streets. All
pruning must conform to ANSI standards for tree maintenance. Pruning standards
will be made available to all property owners through a variety of media and
always upon request.
   (B)   Any person who has received from the city a grant to occupy the
streets of the city for the purpose of erecting and maintaining poles, wires,
fixtures, brackets or supports, shall, upon written notification by the
Superintendent that such item is interfering with a public tree, prune the tree
or redesign or relocate its equipment at no expense to the city to remove the
interference. Work must be performed within 30 days of written notification.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-5)
§ 154.06 APPLICATION TO PRUNE, PLANT OR REMOVE PUBLIC TREES.
   (A)   To ensure that community tree selection and maintenance conforms to
city standards, no person shall prune, plant or remove a public tree without
receiving permission from the Superintendent. Application shall be in a form
prescribed by the Superintendent. The application shall include plans and
specifications showing the location, size, species and condition of all nearby
existing trees; the location, size and species of any trees to be planted; and
any existing or planned buildings, street lights, traffic signals or signs,
pavement, sidewalk, curb cut or public utilities. Such plans and specifications
shall be in such form and include such additional information as may be
required by the community forestry regulations. No species other than those
included on a list of approved trees shall be planted; all plantings shall
conform to the concept of “Right Tree, Right Place”. All pruning and planting
must conform to ANSI tree maintenance standards.
   (B)   Trees that must be removed shall be replaced by new planting except in
unusual circumstances. Wherever feasible, trees shall be planted near old and
dying trees in anticipation of their removal. Coordination of planting of
public trees with adjacent private landscaping is desirable. All trees to be
planted on public property shall be inspected and approved by the
Superintendent prior to and after planting.
   (C)   Applications shall be approved or disapproved in writing within ten
business days after filing; if the application is rejected, the applicant shall
be notified of the reason for the denial.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-6) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.07 COMPENSATORY PAYMENTS.
   In the event any person removes, destroys or damages any public tree except
as otherwise required by law, that person shall be required to replace such
tree with a tree(s) of equivalent dollar value on public property, unless
otherwise determined by the Superintendent. The value of a tree shall be
determined by the Superintendent in accordance with accepted plant appraisal
methods as set forth in the eighth edition of The Guide for Plant Appraisal,
published by the International Society of Arboriculture or the same as amended
from time to time. If no suitable location exists in the vicinity of the tree
removed or if the replacement tree(s) is of lesser value, the person causing
the tree to be removed shall make a compensatory payment to the city equal to
the difference in value between the tree removed and any replacement tree(s).
Any public tree that is determined by the Superintendent to be damaged, but not
sufficiently to justify its removal, shall be considered to be devalued. The
amount of devaluation shall be paid to the city by the person causing the
damage. Compensatory payments shall be paid into a fund established for that
purpose and restricted to use for community forestry programs. Nothing in this
section shall prohibit the city from negotiating agreements with other
governmental entities regarding penalties and compensatory payment for removal
damage or destruction of public trees.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-7) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.08 TOPPING PROHIBITED.
   No public employee or private citizen shall top or severely trim the
branches and/or trunk of a public tree in a manner that will substantially
reduce the overall size of the tree so as to destroy the symmetrical appearance
or natural shape of the tree. Only those pruning standards identified in ANSI
shall be acceptable for the care and maintenance of all public trees within
city limits.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-8) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.09 NUISANCE TREES.
   (A)   Any tree located on private or public property that obstructs a street
or sidewalk, or which suffers from a communicable disease or insect
infestation, as determined by the Superintendent, which threatens the public
welfare or the health of public trees shall be declared a public nuisance.
   (B)   When such a public nuisance exists, the Superintendent may cause a
notice to be delivered to the owner of the property on which the tree is
located. The notice shall specify what corrective work is necessary and shall
direct the owner to perform corrective work to eliminate the nuisance within a
specified time. If the work is not completed within the requisite time, the
Superintendent shall cause the tree to be pruned, treated or removed as
necessary to eliminate the public nuisance. The Superintendent shall collect
all expenses involved in such work from the person responsible for causing the
correction to be required.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-9) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.10 WORK ON CITY PROPERTY.
   The city’s Public Works Department shall be responsible for any community
forestry work done on city property, except in emergencies defined herein.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-10)
§ 154.11 EMERGENCIES.
   No application shall be required to remove any tree or part thereof which,
because of damage by fire, windstorm or other calamity, poses an imminent
threat to public health or safety or which obstructs any public way. In the
event of such emergency, the Superintendent may exempt operations necessary to
remove threats to public safety from the requirements of this chapter. The
Superintendent may determine that a public or private tree is extremely
hazardous and order it be immediately treated or removed to protect public
health and safety.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-11)
§ 154.12 APPEALS.
   All decisions of the Superintendent regarding private and public trees may
be appealed to the City Council. Such appeal shall be filed in writing within
15 days of the date of notification of the Superintendent’s decision. Action of
the Superintendent shall be stayed until the decision of the City Council is
rendered and the applicant notified.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-12)
§ 154.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter or who fails to comply
with a lawful order of the Superintendent shall be guilty of an infraction.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-13) (Ord. 15-810, passed 10-7-2015)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES AND AGREEMENTS
TABLE I: FRANCHISES AND AGREEMENTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
70-380   12-21-1970  Granting a electric service franchise to Idaho Power
                     Company.
                     Granting a sanitation service franchise to Lemhi Waste
                     Services, dba/Lemhi Sanitation Service for a term of five
                     years. Extending term of the sanitation service franchise
95-581   7-19-1995   to an additional five years and establishing specific
                     conditions for sanitation franchise including fees,
                     compliance, indemnity, liability insurance, assignment of
                     franchise, forfeiture, police power and extension of city
                     limits.
08-730   7-3-2008    Amendment to ordinance relating to sanitation franchise
                     within Development Code.
21-847   2-17-2021   Specifying terms and conditions governing exercise of
                     electric service franchise.
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Idaho Code
References to Prior Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO IDAHO CODE
Idaho Code Cite Code Section
Idaho Code Cite Code Section
18              130.01,
                130.02
18-111          10.12
18-1359e        31.04
18-4103         93.07
19-5101 et seq. 32.45
Title 23        111.01,
                111.18
23-1012         111.41
23-1016         111.42
25-2810         92.07
34 Ch. 18       35.03
34-106          35.05
39-4103         151.01
39-4116         151.01
39-4116(4)      151.01
44-2201(2)      152.41
46-1020         152.01
46-1021         152.05
Title 49        70.01
49 Ch. 18       90.64
49-117          71.12
49-303          72.03
49-410          71.12
50-9            10.03
50-210          71.12
50-317          153.01
50-320          91.02
50-334          90.41
50-401 et seq.  30.01,
                34.01
50-602 et seq.  30.02
50-901          130.01
50-901 et seq.  30.07
50-901A         33.05
50-907          111.40
50-1008         153.01
54-1120         91.23
63-604          151.01
67-6501 et seq. 32.05
67-6508         32.05
67-6511         150.03
67-6535         152.28
74-206          30.05
                
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code 2022 Code
Prior Code 2022 Code
1-4-1      10.99
1-4-2      10.99
1-4-2B     10.99
1-4-3      10.99
1-5-1      11.01
1-5-1A     11.02
1-5-1B     11.03
1-5-2      11.04
1-5-3      11.05
1-5-4      11.06
1-6-1      30.01
1-6-2      30.02
1-6-3      30.03
1-6-4      30.04
1-6-5      30.05
1-6-6      30.06
1-6-7      30.07
1-7-1      31.01
1-7-3      31.02
1-7-4      31.03
1-7-5      31.04
1-7A-1     31.15
1-7A-2     31.15
1-7A-3     31.15
1-7B-1     31.16
1-7B-2     31.16
1-7C-1     31.17
1-7C-2     31.17
1-7D-1     31.18
1-7D-2     31.18
1-7E-1     31.19
1-7E-2     31.19
1-8-1      33.01
1-8-2      33.02
1-8-3      33.03
1-8-4      33.04
1-8-5      33.05
1-8-6      33.06
1-8-7      33.07
1-8-8      33.08
1-9-1      34.01
1-9-2      34.02
1-9-3      34.03
1-10-1     35.01
1-10-2     35.02
1-10-3     35.03
1-10-4     35.04
1-10-5     35.05
1-11-1     150.01
1-11-2     150.02
1-11-3     150.03
2-1-1      32.01
2-1-2      32.02
2-1-3      32.03
2-1-4      32.04
2-1-5      32.05
2-3-1      32.20
2-3-2      32.21
2-3-3      32.22
2-3-4      32.23
2-3-5      32.24
2-3-6      32.25
2-3-7      32.26,
           32.99
3-1-1      111.01
3-1A-1     111.15
3-1A-2     111.16
3-1A-3     111.17
3-1A-4     111.18
3-1A-5     111.19
3-1A-6     111.20
3-1A-7     111.21
3-1A-8     111.22
3-1B-1     111.35
3-1B-2     111.36
3-1B-3     111.37
3-1B-4     111.38
3-1B-5     111.39
3-1B-6     111.40
3-1B-7     111.41
3-1B-8     111.42
3-1B-9     111.99
3-1C-1     111.02
3-1C-2     111.02
3-1C-3     111.99
3-2-1      113.01
3-2-2      113.02
3-2-3      113.03
3-2-4      113.04
3-2-5      113.05
3-2-6      113.06
3-2-7      113.07
3-2-9      113.99
3-3-1      112.01,
           112.05
3-3-3      112.02
3-3-4      112.03
3-3-5      112.04
3-3-6      112.99
3-4-1      110.01
3-4-2      110.02
3-4-3      110.03
3-4-4      110.04
3-4-5      110.05
3-4-6      110.06
3-4-7      110.07
3-4-8      110.08
3-4-9      110.09
3-4-10     110.99
4-2-1      90.35
4-2-2      90.36
4-2-3      90.37
4-2-4      90.99
4-2-5      90.99
4-2-6      90.38
4-2-7      90.39
4-2-8      90.40
4-2-9      90.41
4-2-10     90.42
4-3-1      90.01
4-3-2      90.02
4-4-1      90.15
4-4-2      90.16
4-4-3      90.17
4-4-4      90.18
4-4-5      90.19
4-4-6      90.20
4-4-7      90.21
4-4-8      90.99
5-1-1      32.40
5-1-2      32.41
5-1-3      32.42
5-1-4      32.43
5-1-5      32.44
5-1-6      32.45
5-2-1      130.01
5-2-2      130.02
5-2-3      130.03
5-2-4      130.04
5-2-5      130.05
5-2-6      130.06
5-2-7      130.07
5-2-8      130.08
5-2-9      130.09
5-3A-1     92.01
5-3A-2     92.02
5-3A-3     92.03
5-3A-4     92.04
5-3A-5     92.05
5-3A-6     92.06
5-3A-7     92.07
5-3B-1     92.20
5-3B-2     92.21
5-3B-3     92.22
5-3B-4     92.23
5-3B-5     92.24
5-3B-6     92.25
5-3B-7     92.26
5-3B-8     92.27
5-3B-9     92.28
5-3B-10    92.29
5-3B-11    92.99
5-3C-1     92.40
5-3C-2     92.41
5-3C-3     92.42
5-3C-4     92.43
5-3C-5     92.99
5-4-1      90.55
5-4-2      90.56
5-4-3      90.57
5-4-4      90.58
5-4-5      90.59
5-4-6      90.60
5-4-7      90.61
5-4-8      90.62
5-4-9      90.63
5-4-10     90.64
5-4-11     90.65
5-4-12     90.66
5-4-13     90.67
5-4-14     90.99
5-5-1      130.10
5-5-2      130.10,
           130.99
6-1-1      70.01
6-1-2      70.02
6-1-3      70.03
6-1-4      70.04
6-1-5      70.05
6-1-6      70.06
6-1-7      70.07
6-1-8      70.99
6-2-1      71.01
6-2-2      71.02
6-2-3      71.03
6-2-4      71.04
6-2-5      71.05
6-2-6      71.06
6-2-7      71.07
6-2-8      71.08
6-2-9      71.09
6-2-10     71.10
6-2-11     71.11
6-2-12     71.12,
           71.99
6-2-13     71.13
6-2-14     71.99
6-4-1      72.01
6-4-2      72.02
6-4-3      72.03
6-4-4      72.99
7-1-1      153.01
7-1-2      153.02,
           153.99
7-1-3      153.03
7-1-4      153.04,
           153.99
7-1-5      153.05,
           153.99
7-1-6      153.06
7-2-1      93.01
7-2-2      93.02
7-2-3      93.03
7-2-4      93.04
7-2-5      93.05
7-2-6      93.06
7-2-7      93.07
7-2-8      93.08
7-2-9      93.99
7-3-1      153.20
7-3-2      153.21
7-3-3      153.22
7-3-4      153.23
7-3-5      153.24
7-3-6      153.99
7-3-7      153.25
7-3-10     153.26
7-4-1      154.01
7-4-2      154.02
7-4-3      154.03
7-4-4      154.04
7-4-5      154.05
7-4-6      154.06
7-4-7      154.07
7-4-8      154.08
7-4-9      154.09
7-4-10     154.10
7-4-11     154.11
7-4-12     154.12
7-4-13     154.99
7-5-1      153.40
8-1-1      50.01
8-1-2      50.02
8-1-3      50.03
8-1-4      50.20
8-1-5      50.21
8-1-6      50.22
8-1-7      50.23
8-1-8      50.04
8-1-9      50.24
8-1-10     50.25
8-1-11     50.26
8-1-12     50.27 
8-1-13     50.28
8-1-14     50.29
8-1-15     50.30
8-1-16     50.31
8-1-17     50.60
8-1-18     50.61
8-1-19     50.62
8-1-20     50.63
8-1-21     50.64
8-1-22     50.65
8-1-23     50.66
8-1-24     50.45
8-1-25     50.46
8-1-26     50.47
8-1-27     50.48
8-1-28     50.49
8-1-29     50.05
8-1-30     50.06
8-1-31     50.07
8-1-32     50.99
8-2-1      52.01
8-2-2      52.02
8-2-3      52.03
8-2-4      52.04
8-2-5      52.05
8-3-1      51.01
8-3-2      51.02
8-3-3      51.99
8-4-1      53.001
8-4-2      53.002
8-4-3      53.003
8-4-4      53.004
8-4-5      53.005
8-4-6      53.006
8-4-7      53.020
8-4-8      53.021
8-4-9      53.022
8-4-10     53.023
8-4-11     53.024
8-4-12     53.025
8-4-13     53.026
8-4-14     53.027
8-4-15     53.028
8-4-16     53.029
8-4-17     53.030
8-4-18     53.031
8-4-19     53.032
8-4-20     53.060
8-4-21     53.061
8-4-22     53.062
8-4-23     53.063
8-4-24     53.064
8-4-25     53.065
8-4-26     53.066
8-4-27     53.067
8-4-28     53.068
8-4-29     53.069
8-4-30     53.070
8-4-31     53.071
8-4-32     53.045
8-4-33     53.046
8-4-34     53.047
8-4-35     53.048
8-4-36     53.007
8-4-37     53.008
8-4-38     53.009
8-4-39     53.999
10-1-1     151.01
10-1-2     151.02
10-1-3     151.03
10-1-4     151.99
11-1-1     152.01—
           152.04
11-1-2     152.05
           152.06—
11-1-3     152.12,
           152.99
11-1-4     152.25—
           152.28
11-1-5     152.40—
           152.45
11-1-6     152.13
12-1-1     91.01
12-1-2     91.02
12-1-3     91.03
12-1-4     91.04
12-1-5     91.05
12-1-6     91.06
12-1-7     91.20—
           91.30
12-1-8     91.07
12-1-9     91.08
12-1-10    91.09
12-1-11    91.99
           
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
56-333   3-19-1956   153.99
65-360   5-7-1965    153.03
68-368   3-4-1968    70.07
                     112.01—
68-370   11-4-1968   112.05,
                     112.99
70-380   12-21-1970  TSO, Table I
73-390   1-22-1973   70.03
74-397   6-3-1974    90.02
74-426   8-21-1974   32.20—
                     32.26
77-420   12-19-1977  90.01
                     35.01,
79-430   7-2-1979    35.02,
                     35.04
                     93.02,
                     93.03,
79-431   7-16-1979   93.05,
                     93.06,
                     110.02
                     32.01,
79-433   10-1-1979   32.03,
                     32.04
                     71.01—
                     71.06,
80-447   11-3-1980   71.11,
                     71.13,
                     71.99
                     90.35,
                     90.36,
83-466   9-6-1983    90.39,
                     90.40,
                     90.41,
                     90.42
                     113.01,
                     113.02,
83-470   11-7-1983   113.04,
                     113.07,
                     113.08,
                     113.99
                     92.40—
83-472   12-19-1983  92.43,
                     92.99
84-481   12-3-1984   153.02,
                     153.99
                     51.01,
85-485   6-3-1985    51.02,
                     51.99
86-497   6-2-1986    92.40
                     72.02,
86-491   10-6-1986   72.03,
                     72.99
86-502   11-3-1986   113.05
                     92.21—
                     92.25,
87-509   6-1-1987    92.27,
                     92.29,
                     92.99
88-519   2-16-1988   32.02
90-535   12-17-1990  30.05
                     33.01—
91-543   12-18-1991  33.04,
                     33.06—
                     33.08
91-544   12-18-1991  33.05
92-547   2-19-1992   150.01
                     50.01—
                     50.07,
                     50.20—
                     50.31,
                     50.45—
92-549   3-18-1992   50.49,
                     50.60—
                     50.64,
                     50.66,
                     50.99,
                     52.01—
                     52.05
92-553   9-16-1992   50.61
                     50.65,
                     53.001—
                     53.009,
                     53.021—
                     53.032,
92-554   10-21-1992  53.045—
                     53.048,
                     53.060—
                     53.067,
                     53.071,
                     53.999
                     32.02,
92-561   12-16-1992  32.05,
                     150.03
93-568   11-3-1993   92.20,
                     92.26
94-577   11-2-1994   153.01
94-578   12-7-1994   150.02
95-580   1-18-1995   150.03
95-581   7-19-1995   TSO, Table I
95-584   8-2-1995    130.10,
                     130.99
96-586   10-7-1996   150.03
97-589   2-5-1997    150.03
97-590   4-2-1997    50.61
97-595   9-17-1997   150.03
97-597   10-15-1997  153.99
97-598   10-15-1997  50.61
98-602   4-15-1998   150.03
98-603   8-19-1998   50.61
                     92.01,
                     92.03,
99-608   4-8-1999    92.21,
                     92.22,
                     92.28,
                     92.26
99-609   8-9-1999    91.99
2000-613 7-5-2000    150.03
01-617   2-21-2001   50.60
2001-621 9-5-2001    150.03
02-624   2-20-2002   50.61
2002-628 3-20-2002   150.03
02-629   4-3-2002    30.05
02-639   11-6-2002   93.01,
                     93.04
02-648   2-5-2003    150.03
03-651   6-6-2003    93.07
03-652   8-6-2003    92.25
04-662   2-4-2004    50.61
04-668   4-21-2004   150.03
                     93.02,
                     93.03,
04-669   6-2-2004    93.05—
                     93.08,
                     110.02
                     110.02—
04-670   7-7-2004    110.09,
                     110.99
04-663   7-21-2004   92.20,
                     92.21
                     110.03,
04-674   8-18-2004   110.05,
                     110.06,
                     110.99
04-679   12-1-2004   53.032,
                     53.070
04-680   12-1-2004   50.65
05-691   1-19-2005   91.05
05-694   7-6-2005    92.20,
                     92.21
05-700   10-5-2005   50.62,
                     53.067
06-703   7-5-2006    150.03
06-710   12-20-2006  153.26
                     70.03,
07-711   2-7-2007    93.04,
                     93.08
                     91.01—
                     91.04,
                     91.08,
06-709   3-21-2007   91.09,
                     91.23,
                     91.28,
                     91.29,
                     91.99
07-714   8-15-2007   50.61
07-721   10-17-2007  150.03
07-722   10-17-2007  150.03
08-726   2-6-2008    50.61
08-728   4-16-2008   93.08
08-729   6-4-2008    92.40
08-730   7-3-2008    TSO, Table I
                     91.01—
                     91.09,
09-732   2-18-2009   91.22—
                     92.26,
                     91.29
09-735   3-4-2009    151.03
09-733   4-15-2009   50.61
09-741   9-2-2009    34.03
10-754   5-5-2010    91.03,
                     91.28
10-764   8-18-2010   11.01
10-765   9-1-2010    153.26
10-767   10-20-2010  31.15
10-766   11-3-2010   91.02,
                     91.08
12-777   1-4-2012    11.05
12-783   6-20-2012   130.07
12-784   6-27-2012   130.08
13-787   2-20-2013   50.63,
                     50.64
15-797   2-26-2015   50.64
15-798   3-4-2015    91.30
                     35.01,
15-800   4-15-2015   35.02,
                     35.04,
                     35.05
15-803   9-2-2015    93.05
15-806   9-2-2015    111.19
15-804   9-16-2015   31.15—
                     31.17
                     32.40,
                     32.41,
15-809   10-7-2015   92.07,
                     92.21,
                     92.26,
                     92.99
                     93.08,
                     93.99,
15-810   10-7-2015   153.01,
                     153.99,
                     154.99
                     50.02—
                     50.04,
                     50.24,
                     50.25,
                     50.27,
                     50.29,
                     50.31,
                     50.46,
                     50.60,
15-811   11-19-2015  50.61,
                     50.65,
                     50.99,
                     51.99,
                     53.024,
                     53.048,
                     53.061—
                     53.064,
                     53.067—
                     53.069
15-813   11-19-2015  151.01
15-812   12-17-2015  153.05,
                     153.99
16-815   6-1-2016    91.22
16-818   11-16-2016  92.40
17-819   3-1-2017    150.03
17-822   6-21-2017   150.03
17-825   8-16-2017   150.03
17-826   9-20-2017   91.02
17-827   10-4-2017   153.26
                     111.16,
17-828   12-6-2017   111.18,
                     111.38,
                     111.39
18-830   6-20-2018   113.01—
                     113.05
18-832   10-3-2018   130.08
18-833   12-5-2018   110.05
                     110.02—
19-834   2-20-2019   110.04,
                     110.08,
                     110.99
19-836   5-15-2019   90.02
19-837   5-15-2019   93.07,
                     153.06
19-840   8-7-2019    90.99
                     91.01—
                     91.04,
                     91.06,
                     91.07,
19-842   11-6-2019   91.09,
                     91.23—
                     91.26,
                     91.28—
                     91.30
21-847   2-17-2021   TSO, Table I
                     90.36—
21-849   5-19-2021   90.42,
                     90.99
                    
 
