COUNTY CODE
of
SHOSHONE COUNTY
IDAHO
2001
Code current through:
Ord. 171, passed 5-21-2024
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
   This code of Shoshone County, as supplemented, contains ordinances up to and
including ordinance 171, passed May 21, 2024, and resolution 2011-23, passed
June 16, 2011. Ordinances of the County adopted after said ordinance supersede
the provisions of this code to the extent that they are in conflict or
inconsistent therewith. Consult the County office in order to ascertain whether
any particular provision of the code has been amended, superseded or repealed.
      American Legal Publishing
      Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they have not been incorporated into
the code and they may not show the original ordinances in their entirety.
Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions concerning
the ordinances listed.
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 118
   AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING THE SHOSHONE COUNTY, IDAHO CODE
    BE IT ORDAINED by the County Commissioners of Shoshone County, Idaho as
follows:
   Section 1: From and after the date of passage of this ordinance, the County
Code of Shoshone County, Idaho prepared by Sterling Codifiers, Inc. containing
the compilation of all ordinances of a general nature together with the changes
made to said ordinances, under the direction of the governing body of the
County, shall be accepted in all courts without question as the official code
and law of the County as enacted by the County Commissioners.
   Section 2: There is hereby adopted, as a method of perpetual codification,
the loose-leaf type of binding together with the continuous supplement service,
provided by Sterling Codifiers, Inc., whereby each newly adopted ordinance of a
general and permanent nature amending, altering, adding or deleting provisions
of the official County Code is identified by the proper catch line and is
inserted in the proper place in each of the official copies, one copy of which
shall be maintained in the office of the County Clerk, certified as to
correctness and available for inspection at any and all times that said office
is regularly open.
   Section 3: All ordinances of a general nature included in this official
County Code shall be considered as a continuation of said ordinance provision
and the fact that some provisions have been deliberately eliminated by the
governing body shall not serve to cause any interruption in the continuous
effectiveness of ordinances included in said official County Code. All
ordinances of a special nature, such as tax levy ordinances, bond ordinances,
franchises, vacating ordinances and annexation ordinances shall continue in
full force and effect unless specifically repealed or amended by ordinances or
by any provision of the County Code. Such ordinances are not intended to be
included in the official County Code.
   Section 4 :It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of such Code, or
to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such
Code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the County to be
misrepresented thereby.
   Section 5: All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith, are,
to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
   Section 6: This ordinance and the Code adopted by the same shall be recorded
and shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage, approval and
publication in an edition of the Shoshone County News Press.
   APPROVED this 16th day of April, 2001.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/42894d9bcda9faedb124d3a04c2c7067eefac044/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1123.png]
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL COUNTY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon the adoption by the board of county commissioners, this county code is
hereby declared to be and shall hereafter constitute the official county code
of Shoshone County, state of Idaho. This county code of ordinances shall be
known and cited as the SHOSHONE COUNTY CODE and is hereby published by
authority of the board of county commissioners and shall be supplemented to
incorporate the most recent legislation of the county as provided in section
1-1-3 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this county code by title in any legal documents. (2001 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
This county code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be
received without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of
this state as the ordinances of the county of general and permanent effect,
except the excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (2001 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending the county code shall set forth the title, chapter and
section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this county code. All
such amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this county code. Each such replacement page
shall be properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of
the county code. (2001 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this county code in such a manner that
the meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages
may be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by
the board of county commissioners. The clerk of the district court shall see
that the replacement pages are properly inserted in the official copies
maintained in the office of the clerk. Any person having custody of a copy of
the county code shall make every effort to maintain said code current as to the
most recent ordinances passed. Such person shall see to the immediate insertion
of new or replacement pages when such are delivered or made available to such
person through the office of the clerk of the district court. Said code books,
while in actual possession of officials and other interested persons, shall be
and remain the property of the county and shall be returned to the office of
the clerk of the district court when directed so to do by order of the board of
county commissioners. (2001 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Ways And Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the county passed prior to the adoption of this
county code are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this county
code or are by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to
the saving clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the
following ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances;
appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations;
franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances
establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public places;
improvements ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to elections;
ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the
county; and all special ordinances. (2001 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this county code or by virtue of the
preceding section, excepting as the county code may contain provisions for such
matters, in which case, this county code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (2001 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Prior Acts: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as
to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done,
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or
claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any
such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   Scope Of Section: This section shall extend to all repeals, either by
express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any
new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Actions Now Pending: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the county herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the county under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this county code. (2001 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this county code or any part thereof or any portion adopted by reference
herein is for any reason held to be unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective
by any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the
validity or effectiveness of the remaining portions of this code, or any part
thereof, or any portion adopted by reference herein. The board of county
commissioners hereby declares that it would have passed each section,
subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof
irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections, subsections,
subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases be declared
unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective. (2001 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: Definitions, General
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
   A.   Whenever any word in any section of this county code importing the
plural number is used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or
persons, any single matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included,
although distributive words may not have been used. When any subject matter,
party or person is referred to in this county code by words importing the
singular number only, or a particular gender, several matters, parties or
persons and the opposite gender and bodies corporate shall be deemed to be
included; provided, that these rules of construction shall not be applied to
any section of this county code which contains any express provision excluding
such construction or where the subject matter or context may be repugnant
thereto.
   B.   The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the county has been
changed in the content of this county code to "title", "chapter", "section"
and/or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and
clarification purposes only. Such change to the county's ordinances is not
meant to amend passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (2001
Code)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
BOARD: The board of county commissioners of Shoshone County, Idaho.
CLERK: The clerk of the district court, ex officio auditor, recorder, clerk to
the board of county commissioners.
CODE: The county code of Shoshone County.
COMMISSIONERS: The board of county commissioners, Shoshone County, Idaho.
COUNTY: The county of Shoshone, state of Idaho 1 .
EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this code to a county employee by
title only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of
Shoshone County".
GENDER: A word importing either the masculine or feminine gender only shall
extend and be applied to the other gender and to persons.
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive to the sensibilities of reasonable persons, or any
act or activity creating a hazard which threatens the health and welfare of
inhabitants of the county, or any activity which by its perpetuation can
reasonably be said to have a detrimental effect on the property of a person or
persons within the community.
OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this code.
OFFICERS: Whenever reference is made in this code to a county officer by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of Shoshone
County".
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Shall include every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
STREET: Shall include alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places and sidewalks.
TENANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who occupies
the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with others.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person, or in case such person is unable to write, by his
proper mark. (2001 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. I.C. § 31-125.
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of the county code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or
reenacted. (2001 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Application Of Provisions
1-4-3: Liability Of Officers
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY 1 :
   A.   Infraction: Except in cases where a different punishment is prescribed
by the ordinances of the county, every offense declared to be an infraction is
punishable only by a fixed penalty of one hundred dollars ($100.00) and no
imprisonment. (2001 Code)
   B.   Misdemeanor: Except in cases where a different punishment is prescribed
by the ordinances of the county, every offense declared to be a misdemeanor is
punishable by imprisonment in the county jail not to exceed six (6) months or
by a fine not exceeding one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), or by both such fine
and imprisonment, and in addition thereto, any person so convicted shall pay
such costs as the court may assess. (Ord. 14, 7-11-1977; amd. 2001 Code; Ord.
161, 8-12-2020)
 
Notes
1 1. I.C. §§ 18-111, 18-113, 31-714.
1-4-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Application Of Penalty: The penalty provided in this chapter shall be
applicable to every section of this code and ordinance of the county the same
as though it were a part of each and every separate section or ordinance. Any
person convicted of a violation of this county code or any ordinance of
Shoshone County where any duty is prescribed or obligation imposed, or where
any action which is of a continuing nature is forbidden or is declared to be
unlawful, shall, unless otherwise provided, be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
A separate offense shall be deemed committed for each day such duty or
obligation remains unperformed or such act continues, unless otherwise
specifically provided in this county code.
   B.   Imposition Of Penalty: In all cases where the same offense is made
punishable or is created by different clauses or sections of this county code,
the prosecuting attorney may elect under which to proceed; but not more than
one recovery shall be had against the same person for the same offense;
provided, that the revocation of a license or permit shall not be considered a
recovery or penalty so as to bar any other penalty being enforced.
   C.   Breach Of Provisions: Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to
do any act constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this county code
and there shall be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach,
the provisions of this chapter shall apply. (2001 Code)
1-4-3: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this county code designating the duties of any officer or
employee shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for
any fine or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the
intention of the board of county commissioners to impose such fine or penalty
on such officer or employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the
section creating the duty. (2001 Code)
CHAPTER 5
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
SECTION:
1-5-1: Board Established; Election And Terms Of Office
1-5-2: Qualifications
1-5-3: Bond
1-5-4: Organization; Meetings
1-5-5: Powers And Duties
1-5-1: BOARD ESTABLISHED; ELECTION AND TERMS OF OFFICE:
There is hereby established a board of county commissioners which shall consist
of three (3) members, one from each district in the county. At the general
election in 1936, two (2) members were elected for a term of two (2) years and
one member for a term of four (4) years; at each biennial election thereafter,
one member is to be elected for a term of two (2) years and one for a term of
four (4) years, it being further provided that at the general election in 1936,
the commissioner from county commissioner district No. 1 shall be elected for a
term of four (4) years, and that the four (4) year term shall be allotted
thereafter in rotation to districts No. 2, 3, and 1 1 . (2001 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. I.C. §§ 31-701, 31-703.
1-5-2: QUALIFICATIONS:
No person shall be elected to the board of county commissioners, unless such
person has attained the age of twenty one (21) years at the time of the
election, is a citizen of the United States and shall have resided in the
county one year next preceding his election and in the district which he
represents for a period of ninety (90) days next preceding his election 2 .
(2001 Code)
 
Notes
2 2. I.C. § 34-617.
1-5-3: BOND:
Each county commissioner shall execute an official bond in the sum of five
thousand dollars ($5,000.00) 3 . (2001 Code)
 
Notes
3 3. I.C. § 31-2015.
1-5-4: ORGANIZATION; MEETINGS:
   A.   Officers:
      1.   Chairman: The members of the board of county commissioners shall, at
their first regular meeting on the second Monday of January next after their
election, elect a chairman from their number.
      2.   Clerk 1 : The county auditor is ex officio clerk of the board of
county commissioners. The clerk of the board shall have the duties as set out
in Idaho Code section 31-708, as amended. (2001 Code)
   B.   Meetings:
      1.   Regular Meetings: The regular meetings of the board of county
commissioners shall be held at the county seat on Monday through Wednesday of
each week when operating under part-time status and Monday through Friday when
operating under full-time status. (Ord. 80, 2-27-1995)
      2.   Adjourned Meetings: Adjourned meetings may be provided for, fixed
and held for the transaction of business, by an order duly entered of record,
in which must be specified the character of business to be transacted at such
meetings, and none other than that specified must be transacted.
      3.   Special Meetings: If, at any time after the adjournment of a regular
meeting, the business of the county requires a meeting of the board of county
commissioners, a special meeting may be ordered by a majority of the board. The
order must be entered of record, and five (5) days' notice thereof must, by the
clerk, be given to each member not joining in the order. The order must specify
the business to be transacted, and none other than that specified must be
transacted at such special meeting.
      4.   Public Meetings: All meetings of the board of county commissioners
must be public, and the books, records and accounts must be kept at the office
of the clerk of the district court, open at all times for public inspection,
free of charge. The clerk of the board must give five (5) days' public notice
of all special or adjourned meetings, stating the business to be transacted, by
posting three (3) notices in conspicuous places, one of which shall be at the
county courthouse door.
   C.   Quorum; Procedures:
      1.   A majority of the board constitutes a quorum. The chairman must
preside at all meetings of the board of county commissioners, and in case of
his absence or inability to act, the members present must, by an order, select
one of their number to act as chairman temporarily.
      2.   Any member of the board or the clerk may administer oaths to any
person concerning any matter submitted to the board or connected with its
powers or duties. (2001 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection 1-6A-2A of this title for bond.
1-5-5: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The board of county commissioners shall have those powers and duties set out in
Idaho Code section 31-801 et seq., as amended. (2001 Code)
CHAPTER 6
COUNTY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
ARTICLE A. CLERK OF THE DISTRICT COURT
SECTION:
1-6A-1: Office Established; Election And Term
1-6A-2: Bonds
1-6A-3: Duties As Auditor And Recorder
1-6A-1: OFFICE ESTABLISHED; ELECTION AND TERM:
There is hereby established the office of the clerk of the district court who
shall be ex officio auditor and recorder and ex officio clerk of the board of
county commissioners 1 . The clerk of the district court shall be elected by
the qualified voters of the county at the time and in the manner prescribed by
law for the election of members of the legislature 2  and shall hold office for
a term of four (4) years 3 . (2001 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection
  1-5-4A2 of this title.
2 2. I.C. § 34-614.
3 3. Const. Idaho, art. 5, § 16.
1-6A-2: BONDS:
   A.   Clerk Of The District Court: The clerk of the district court shall
execute an official bond in the penal sum of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00)
with two (2) sufficient sureties, to be approved by the district judge,
conditioned that such person will faithfully perform the duties of such office
and at all times account for and pay over all monies in his or her hands as
clerk, and the penalty of such bond may, at any time, be increased by the
district judge. The clerk of the district court may require a bond from any
deputy clerk 4 .
   B.   County Recorder: The county recorder shall execute an official bond in
the sum of not less than five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) nor more than twenty
thousand dollars ($20,000.00) to be fixed by the board of county commissioners
and to cover the duties and liabilities as recorder, auditor and clerk of the
board 5 . (2001 Code)
 
Notes
4 4. I.C. § 31-2015.
5 5. I.C. § 31-2015.
1-6A-3: DUTIES AS AUDITOR AND RECORDER 1 :
   A.   County Auditor: The duties of the county auditor shall be as set forth
in Idaho Code section 31-2301 et seq., as amended.
   B.   County Recorder: The duties of the county recorder shall be as set
forth in Idaho Code section 31-2401 et seq., as amended. (2001 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection
  1-5-4A2 of this title for duties as clerk of the board of commissioners.
ARTICLE B. COUNTY TREASURER
SECTION:
1-6B-1: Office Established; Election And Term
1-6B-2: Bonds
1-6B-3: Duties
1-6B-1: OFFICE ESTABLISHED; ELECTION AND TERM:
There is hereby established the office of county treasurer who shall serve as
ex officio county tax collector. The treasurer shall be elected for a term of
four (4) years as provided by law 1 . (2001 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. Const. Idaho, art. 18, § 6.
1-6B-2: BONDS:
   A.   County Treasurer: The county treasurer shall execute an official bond
in an amount double the probable amount of money that may, at any time, come
into his hands as such treasurer, to be fixed by the board of county
commissioners; provided, if surety bond be given as provided in Idaho Code
section 41-2707, as amended, the bond need not exceed twenty five percent (25%)
of the probable amount that may be on hand at any one time, but in no case to
be less than ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) 2 .
   B.   Tax Collector: The official bond of the tax collector shall be not less
than two thousand dollars ($2,000.00) nor more than fifty thousand dollars
($50,000.00) to be fixed by the board of county commissioners 3 . (2001 Code)
 
Notes
2 2. I.C. § 31-2015.
3 3. I.C. § 31-2015.
1-6B-3: DUTIES:
   A.   Duties As County Treasurer: The duties of the county treasurer shall be
as set forth in Idaho Code section 31-2101 et seq., as amended.
   B.   Duties As Tax Collector: The duties of the county tax collector in
relation to the collection of revenue are prescribed in Idaho Code title 63, as
amended. (2001 Code)
ARTICLE C. COUNTY ASSESSOR
SECTION:
1-6C-1: Office Established; Election And Term
1-6C-2: Bond
1-6C-3: Duties
1-6C-1: OFFICE ESTABLISHED; ELECTION AND TERM:
There is hereby established the office of county assessor who shall be elected
for a term of four (4) years as provided by law 1 . (2001 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. Const. Idaho, art. 18, § 6.
1-6C-2: BOND:
The county assessor shall execute an official bond in the sum of five thousand
dollars ($5,000.00) 2 . (2001 Code)
 
Notes
2 2. I.C. § 31-2015.
1-6C-3: DUTIES:
The county assessor shall perform the duties prescribed in Idaho Code, title
63, as amended, relating to revenue 3 . (2001 Code)
 
Notes
3 3. I.C. § 31-2501.
ARTICLE D. COUNTY PROSECUTING ATTORNEY
SECTION:
1-6D-1: Office Established; Election And Term
1-6D-2: Qualifications
1-6D-3: Bond
1-6D-4: Powers And Duties
1-6D-1: OFFICE ESTABLISHED; ELECTION AND TERM:
There is hereby established the office of county prosecuting attorney who shall
be elected for a term of four (4) years as provided by law 1 . (2001 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. Const. Idaho, art. 18, § 6.
1-6D-2: QUALIFICATIONS:
No person shall be elected to the office of prosecuting attorney, unless he has
attained the age of twenty one (21) years at the time of his election, is
admitted to the practice of law within this state, is a citizen of the United
States and a qualified elector within the county 2 . (2001 Code)
 
Notes
2 2. I.C. § 34-623.
1-6D-3: BOND:
The county prosecuting attorney shall execute an official bond in the sum of
two thousand dollars ($2,000.00) 3 . (2001 Code)
 
Notes
3 3. I.C. § 31-2015.
1-6D-4: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The county prosecuting attorney shall have those powers and duties set out in
Idaho Code, title 31, chapter 26, as amended. (2001 Code)
ARTICLE E. COUNTY SHERIFF
SECTION:
1-6E-1: Office Established; Election And Term
1-6E-2: Bond
1-6E-3: Powers And Duties
1-6E-1: OFFICE ESTABLISHED; ELECTION AND TERM:
There is hereby established the office of county sheriff who shall be elected
for a term of four (4) years as provided by law 1 . (2001 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. Const. Idaho, art. 18, § 6.
1-6E-2: BOND:
The county sheriff shall execute an official bond in the sum of ten thousand
dollars ($10,000.00) 2 . (2001 Code)
 
Notes
2 2. IC § 31-2015.
1-6E-3: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   Idaho Code: The county sheriff shall have those powers and duties as
set out in Idaho Code title 31, chapter 22, as amended. (2001 Code; amd. Ord.
140, 9-29-2010)
   B.   Warrants:
      1.   Purpose: All warrants of distraint issued by the tax collector shall
be served and executed by the sheriff in the manner provided by law for the
services of executions by levy upon personal property.
      2.   Fees:
         a.   Fees allowed for issuing warrants of distraint, collection, levy
and return of the same, shall be set by ordinance by the board of county
commissioners. (Ord. 140, 9-29-2010)
ARTICLE F. COUNTY CORONER
SECTION:
1-6F-1: Office Established; Election And Term
1-6F-2: Bond
1-6F-3: Powers And Duties
1-6F-1: OFFICE ESTABLISHED; ELECTION AND TERM:
There is hereby established the office of county coroner who shall be elected
for a term of two (2) years as provided by law 1 . (2001 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. Const. Idaho, art. 18, § 6.
1-6F-2: BOND:
The county coroner shall execute an official bond in the sum of one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00) 2 . (2001 Code)
 
Notes
2 2. I.C. § 31-2015.
1-6F-3: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The county coroner shall have those powers and duties as set out in Idaho Code
section 31-2801 et seq., as amended. (2001 Code)
CHAPTER 7
INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM
SECTION:
1-7-1: Purpose
1-7-2: Definitions
1-7-3: Number Of Petitioners Required
1-7-4: Petition Requirements
1-7-5: Examination, Removal And Certification Of Signatures
1-7-6: Election
1-7-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to comply with section 31-717, Idaho Code, to
enable the people of Shoshone County to enact ordinances through the initiative
process and to repeal ordinances through the referendum process, according to
law. (Ord. 111, 4-13-1998)
1-7-2: DEFINITIONS:
Nothing within the terms and language of this chapter should be considered or
interpreted to allow for procedures herein to divest or otherwise interfere
with the normal powers and duties of the board of Shoshone County commissioners
regarding their right to adopt or repeal any ordinance pursuant to state law;
nor shall the language of this chapter be considered or interpreted to allow
for the violation of substantive or procedural requirements of state law or the
Idaho Constitution.
   A.   "Initiative" means the right of the people at an election to adopt,
amend or repeal a county ordinance.
   B.   "Referendum" means the right of the people at an election to approve or
reject a county ordinance adopted by the board of county commissioners. (Ord.
111, 4-13-1998)
1-7-3: NUMBER OF PETITIONERS REQUIRED:
Petitioners for initiative or referendum shall be equal to twenty percent (20%)
of the qualified electors voting in the county in the last general election.
(Ord. 111, 4-13-1998)
1-7-4: PETITION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Form Of Petition:
      1.   Initiative Petition: The initiative petition shall be in
substantially the following form:
This initiative (or referendum as the case may be) petition is being circulated
by a paid signature gatherer. The signature gatherer is employed by or has
contracted with                       , the main office or headquarters of
which is located at (city and state).
Or
This initiative (or referendum as the case may be) petition is being circulated
by an unpaid volunteer.
WARNING
It is a felony for anyone to sign any initiative or referendum petition with
any name other than his own, or to knowingly sign his name more than once for
the measure, or to sign such petition when he is not a qualified elector.
Initiative Petition to the Shoshone County Commissioners.
We the undersigned citizens and qualified electors of Shoshone County, State of
Idaho, respectfully demand that the following proposed ordinance, towit
(setting out the full text of the measure proposed) shall be submitted to the
qualified electors of Shoshone County, State of Idaho, at an election to be
held on       day of           , 20     , and each for himself says: I have
personally signed this petition; I am a qualified elector of Shoshone County,
my residence and post office are correctly written after my name." Signature -
Printed Name - Residence - City or State - Street & Number - Post Office (Here
follow numbered lines for signatures)
      2.   Referendum Petitions: The petition for referendum on any ordinance
passed by the Shoshone County commissioners shall be in substantially the same
form with appropriate title and changes, setting out in full the text of the
ordinance to be subject to referendum.
   B.   Time For Filing Petitions:
      1.   For Referendum: Initial petitioners for referendum containing not
fewer than twenty (20) signatures of qualified electors of the county shall be
filed not less than thirty (30) days following the final publication of the
ordinance to be subject to referendum as provided in Idaho Code section 31-717.
After the initial filing of the petition the provisions of this section shall
apply. Completed petitions, with the requisite number of signatures, shall be
filed with the clerk of the district court not more than one hundred and eighty
(180) days after the date of approval of the form listed in this section.
      2.   Initial And Completed Petitions For Initiative: Initial petitions
for an initiative shall contain not fewer than twenty (20) signatures of
qualified electors of the county. Completed petitions, with the requisite
number of signatures for initiative, shall be filed with the clerk of the
district court not more than one hundred eighty (180) days after the date of
approval of the form listed in this section.
   C.   Certificate Of Review:
      1.   Before beginning to circulate any petition for an initiative or for
a referendum on any ordinance passed by the board of county commissioners, the
person or persons or organization or organizations under whose authority the
measure is to be initiated or referred shall send or deliver to the clerk of
the district court a copy of such petition duly signed by at least twenty (20)
qualified electors of the county which shall be filed by said officer in his
office, and who shall immediately transmit a copy of the petition to the
prosecuting attorney for the issuance of the certificate of review as provided
in Idaho Code section 34-1809.
      2.   After receiving a copy of the petition from the clerk of the
district court, the county prosecuting attorney may confer with the petitioner
and shall, within ten (10) working days from receipt thereof, review the
proposal for matters of substantive import and shall recommend to the
petitioner such revision or alteration of the measure as may be deemed
necessary and appropriate. The recommendations of the prosecuting attorney
shall be advisory only and the petitioner may accept or reject them in whole or
in part. The prosecuting attorney shall issue a certificate of review to the
clerk of the district court certifying that he has reviewed the measure for
form and style and that the recommendations thereon, if any, have been
communicated to the petitioner, and such certificate shall be issued whether or
not the petitioner accepts such recommendations. Within fifteen (15) working
days after the issuance of a certificate of review, the petitioner, if he
desires to proceed with his sponsorship, shall file the ballot measure with the
clerk of the district court for assignment of a ballot title. Other
requirements shall be as provided in Idaho Code section 34-1809.
      3.   Preparation of the ballot title by the prosecuting attorney shall be
as prescribed in Idaho Code section 34-1809.
      4.   After the form of the initiative or referendum petition has been
approved by the clerk of the district court, the petition shall be printed by
the person or persons or organization or organizations under whose authority
the measure is to be initiated or referred and circulated in the county for the
signatures of legal voters. The above requirements are pursuant to Idaho Code
section 31-717(6)(a-d).
   D.   Verification Of Signatures: Verification of petition and signatures
shall be as prescribed in Idaho Code section 34-1807. Each and every sheet of
every such petition containing signatures shall be verified on the face thereof
in substantially the following form, by the person who circulates said sheet of
said petition, by his/her affidavit thereon, and as a part thereof.
State of Idaho
ss.
County of Shoshone
I,                  , being first duly sworn, say: That I am a qualified
elector of Shoshone County the State of Idaho; that every person who signed
this sheet of the foregoing petition signed his or her name thereto in my
presence; I believe that each stated his or her name, post office send
residence correctly, that each signer is a qualified elector and a resident of
the County of Shoshone, Idaho.
         Signed                                                   
         Post Office Address                                 
Subscribed and sworn to before me this      day of             , 20   .
(Notary Seal)   Notary Public
                                                   
         Residing at                                              
   (Ord. 111, 4-13-1998; amd. 2001 Code)
1-7-5: EXAMINATION, REMOVAL AND CERTIFICATION OF SIGNATURES:
   A.   Presentation To Clerk Of The District Court: The clerk of the district
court shall, within sixty (60) calendar days of the deadline for the submission
of the signatures, verify the signatures contained in the petition.
   B.   Removal Of Signature By Signer:
      1.   Before Presentation: The signer of any initiative or referendum
petition may remove his or her own name from the petition by crossing out,
obliterating or otherwise defacing his or her own signature at any time prior
to the time the petition is presented to the clerk of the district court for
signature verification.
      2.   After Presentation: The signer of any initiative or referendum
petition may have his or her name removed from the petition at any time after
presentation of the petition to the clerk of the district court but prior to
verification of the signature, by presenting or submitting to the clerk of the
district court a signed statement that the signer desires to have his or her
name removed from the petition. The statement shall contain sufficient
information to clearly identify the signer. The clerk of the district court
shall immediately strike the signer's name from the petition and adjust the
total of certified signatures on the petition accordingly. The statement shall
be attached to, and become a part of the initiative or referendum petition.
   C.   Circulator Qualifications; Certification: Any person who circulates any
petition for an initiative or referendum shall be qualified elector of Shoshone
County, Idaho. Each and every sheet of every such petition containing
signatures shall be verified on the face thereof in substantially the following
form, by the person who circulated said sheet of said petition, by his or her
affidavit thereon, and as a part thereof.
State of Idaho
ss.
County of Shoshone
I,                  , being first duly sworn, say: That I am a qualified
elector of Shoshone County, Idaho; that every person who signed this sheet of
the foregoing petition signed his or her name thereto in my presence; I believe
that each has stated his or her name, post office address and residence
correctly, that each signer is a qualified elector of Shoshone County, Idaho,
and a resident of the county.
         Signed                                                 
         Post Office Address                               
Subscribed and sworn to before me this        day of                  
   (Notary Seal)   Notary Public                                        
         Residing at                                           
Any petition upon which signatures are obtained by a person not a qualified
elector of Shoshone County, Idaho, shall be void.
   D.   Certification By Clerk: In addition to said affidavit the clerk of the
district court shall carefully examine said petitions and shall attach to the
signature sheets a certificate. (Ord. 111, 4-13-1998; amd. 2001 Code)
State of Idaho
ss.
County of Shoshone
I,                , County Clerk of Shoshone County, do hereby certify that
        signatures on this petition are those of qualified electors.
         Signed                                    
          County Clerk or Deputy
      (Seal of office)
   E.   Forms: The forms herein given are not mandatory and if substantially
followed in any petition, it shall be sufficient disregarding clerical and
merely technical error. (Ord. 111, 4-13-1998)
1-7-6: ELECTION:
   A.   Order By Clerk: Upon final certification of the petition, the clerk of
the district court shall order an election to be held pursuant to Idaho Code
section 34-106.
   B.   Date Of Election: A special election for initiative or referendum shall
be held on the nearest of the following dates which falls more than forty five
(45) days after the clerk of the district court orders that such initiative or
referendum election shall be held; (Ord. 111, 4-13-1998; amd. 2001 Code)
      1.   The first Tuesday in February.
      2.   The fourth Tuesday in May.
      3.   The first Tuesday in August.
      4.   The Tuesday following the first Monday in November.
   C.   Action By Commissioners:
      1.   Referendum: If the petition is for a referendum, the Shoshone County
commissioners shall have thirty (30) days from the date of certification of the
petition to repeal the ordinance being referred to the voters. In the event the
commissioners repeal the ordinance, no election shall be held.
      2.   Initiative: If the petition is for an initiative petition, the
Shoshone County commissioners shall have thirty (30) days to pass an ordinance
as proposed by the petition. In the event the commissioners pass such an
ordinance, no election shall be held.
   D.   Election Required: In the event Shoshone County commissioners neither
repeal the ordinance which is the subject of a referendum petition, nor enact
an ordinance which it the subject of an initiative petition, a countywide
election shall be held pursuant to subsection B of this section.
   E.   Initiative Measure: Any initiative measure shall take effect and become
a law when it is approved by a majority of the votes cast thereon, and not
otherwise.
   F.   Referendum Measure: If a referendum measure, referred to the people in
a county, is rejected by a majority vote, such ordinance referred to in the
measure shall be null and void. (Ord. 111, 4-13-1998)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION 1
SECTION:
2-1-1: Commission Created
2-1-2: Membership
2-1-3: Term
2-1-4: Officers
2-1-5: Vacancies
2-1-6: Removal For Cause
2-1-7: Quorum
2-1-8: Conflict Of Interest
2-1-9: Meetings
2-1-10: Motions And Actions
2-1-11: Continuation
2-1-12: Rules Of Procedure
2-1-13: Rules For Conflict Of Interest In Hearings
 
Notes
1 1. For duties of the commission, see section
  9-3-3 of this code.
2-1-1: COMMISSION CREATED:
Pursuant to Idaho Code section 67-6504, there is hereby created a planning and
zoning commission. The commission shall perform the duties, have the
responsibilities and fulfill the requirements imposed upon them by Idaho Code
section 67-6501 et seq., and titles 9 and 10 of this code. (Ord. 36, 11-22-
1983; amd. 2001 Code)
2-1-2: MEMBERSHIP:
The commission hereby established shall be composed of seven (7) members, all
appointed by the chairman and a majority vote of the board of county
commissioners. An appointed member of the planning and zoning commission must
have resided within Shoshone County for five (5) years prior to his
appointment, and must remain a resident of the county during his service on the
commission. Not more than one-third (1/3) of the members of the planning and
zoning commission may reside within an incorporated city in the county of more
than one thousand five hundred (1,500) population. (Ord. 135, 6-2-2008)
2-1-3: TERM:
As terms of the first appointive members expire, new appointments shall be made
for six (6) year terms to the respective seats vacated by resolution of the
board of county commissioners. Should a vacancy occur in a seat, other than
through expiration of the term for said seat, appointments to such seat shall
be made for the remainder of the term otherwise attached to said seat. All
vacancies shall be noted by the planning and zoning commission chairman and
reported to the chairman of the board of county commissioners. (Ord. 36, 11-22-
1983)
2-1-4: OFFICERS:
   A.   Elections:
      1.   Chairman: The commission shall elect, by majority vote, one member
to sit as chairman of the commission.
      2.   Vice Chairman: The commission shall elect, by majority vote, one
member of the commission to sit as vice chairman of the commission.
      3.   When Held: Elections shall be held in March of each even numbered
year.
   B.   Absent Chairman: Whenever the chairman is absent or unable to
participate in the proceedings, the vice chairman shall take over the
responsibilities of the chair. Whenever both the chairman and the vice chairman
are absent or unable to participate, the commission shall appoint, by majority
vote of the members present, a commission member to assume the responsibilities
of the chair.
   C.   Voting: The chairman shall vote only in case of a tie vote of the other
commission members voting. (Ord. 36, 11-22-1983)
2-1-5: VACANCIES:
A vacancy shall occur under the following circumstances:
   A.   Whenever an appointed member no longer satisfies the appointment and
qualification requirements; or
   B.   Whenever a member is removed for cause; or
   C.   Whenever a member resigns from the commission. (Ord. 36, 11-22-1983)
2-1-6: REMOVAL FOR CAUSE:
   A.   Power To Remove: Members of the planning and zoning commission may be
removed for cause by a majority vote of the board of county commissioners.
   B.   Recommendation Of Chairman: The chairman of the planning and zoning
commission may recommend to the board of county commissioners that a member be
removed for cause. Such recommendation shall be based upon a majority vote of
the commission.
   C.   Cause Defined: "Cause" shall constitute missing at least four (4) of
the regularly scheduled meetings of the commission over any consecutive twelve
(12) month period or a wilful disregard of planning and zoning commission rules
and procedures. (Ord. 36, 11-22-1983)
2-1-7: QUORUM:
A quorum shall consist of a majority of the full planning and zoning commission
membership. A quorum shall consist of all commission voting members present,
whether or not participating. No business shall be conducted nor information
accepted unless a quorum is present. In the event of a lack of quorum, the
commission members present may reschedule the meeting to a specific future date
and time by motion and vote. (Ord. 36, 11-22-1983)
2-1-8: CONFLICT OF INTEREST:
No member of the commission may vote, comment or participate if such member has
a conflict of interest. (Ord. 36, 11-22-1983)
2-1-9: MEETINGS:
   A.   Regular Meetings: The regularly scheduled meetings of the County
Planning and Zoning Commission will be held on the first Thursday of each month
at six thirty o'clock (6:30) P.M. at the Shoshone County Public Safety Facility
(Sheriff's Office). These regular meetings may be continued until another time
and date specified as herein provided.
   B.   Special Meetings; Workshops: The planning and zoning commission may
schedule special meetings and workshops to conduct commission business. Special
meetings and workshops shall be duly noticed as to the time and location as
required by law.
   C.   Open Meetings; Visitation: All planning and zoning commission meetings
and workshops are to be open to the public. Commission members may, at their
convenience, visit the site of any proposed agenda item. Visits may be made
only to view the area, no testimony, input or decision regarding the pending
item shall take place during the visit to the site.
   D.   Executive Session: The planning and zoning commission may, under
extraordinary circumstances, adjourn to executive session:
      1.   To consider the evaluation, dismissal or disciplining of or to hear
complaints or charges brought against a commission or staff member;
      2.   To consider and advise its legal representatives in pending
litigation or where there is a general public awareness of probable litigation.
      3.   To consider any other matter allowed pursuant to the laws of the
state of Idaho.
   No executive session may be held for the purpose of taking any final action.
At least a two-thirds (2/3) roll call vote is necessary to authorize an
executive session.
(Ord. 36, 11-22-1983; amd. Ord. 147, 2-27-2012; Ord. 166, 2-1-2022)
2-1-10: MOTIONS AND ACTIONS:
All actions and decisions shall be by motion, seconded and passed by majority
of the members voting. (Ord. 36, 11-22-1983)
2-1-11: CONTINUATION:
Terminating the discussion to be continued at a time and date as stated in the
motion:
   A.   For modification to original proposal;
   B.   Continue for additional study and staff analysis;
   C.   When the time, notice or occupancy constraints of the original meeting
are insufficient to allow appropriate hearing. (Ord. 36, 11-22-1983)
2-1-12: RULES OF PROCEDURE:
The following rules are hereby established and shall be observed in the conduct
of any public hearing before the board of county commissioners and county
planning and zoning commission, hereafter referred to as the hearing body:
   A.   Signature Sheet: No person shall be permitted to testify or speak
before the hearing body at a public hearing unless such person has first signed
his name and address, and indicated what, if any, interest he may have and
whether he lives within three hundred feet (300') of the property being
considered on a sign-up sheet to be provided by the hearing body.
   B.   Recognized By Chair: No person shall be permitted to speak before the
hearing body until such person has been recognized by the presiding officer.
   C.   Electronic Or Stenographic Recording: All public hearing proceedings
shall be recorded electronically or stenographically and all persons speaking
at such public hearings shall speak before a microphone in such a manner as
will assure that the recorded testimony or remarks will be accurate and
correct.
   D.   Interruption Of Speaker: The speaker shall not be interrupted by
members of the hearing body until his time limit for speaking, hereafter
established, has been expended or until he has finished his statement.
   E.   Question And Answer Period: At the conclusion of a speaker's comments,
the membership of the hearing body may question the speaker and the speaker
shall be limited to answer the questions asked. The question and answer period
shall not be included within the speaker's time limit hereafter established.
   F.   Swear Or Affirm Testimony Correct: When the public hearing is quasi
judicial in nature or one after which the hearing body is required by law to
make findings of fact, each speaker shall swear or affirm that his testimony is
true and correct.
   G.   Nonconformance To Rules: Any person not conforming with the rules
herein established may be prohibited from speaking during the public hearing.
Should any person refuse to comply with such prohibition, he may be removed
from the room by order of the presiding officer.
   H.   Amendment Or Suspension Of Rules: The hearing body may suspend or amend
subsection A of this section and/or the time limits herein provided for by vote
of one-half (1/2) plus one of the voting hearing body members.
   I.   Interpretation Of Rules: The presiding officer shall have the authority
to interpret and apply these rules of procedure subject to an appeal to the
hearing body, whose decision shall be determined by a majority vote of the
voting members present.
   J.   Disqualification Regarding Agenda Item: At the outset of each agenda
item, planning and zoning commission members shall declare whether or not there
is any reason that they could not sit and hear the matter impartially. Any
decision regarding disqualification shall be made by the individual so
affected. The staff will provide advice if necessary.
   K.   Order And Time Limits: The order and time limits for speaking are as
follows:
      1.   Applicant presentation, twenty (20) minutes.
      2.   Proponents and opponents of the proposal other than the applicant,
five (5) minutes each speaker.
      3.   Witnesses with information for the planning and zoning commission,
but neutral in character, five (5) minutes each speaker.
      4.   Applicant summation and rebuttal, ten (10) minutes.
   L.   Yielding Allotted Time: Each individual may speak for five (5) minutes
or less. Nothing in these rules shall prevent a person who has conformed with
requirement of signing the forms indicating intent to testify and who is
present at the hearing from yielding his/her allotted five (5) minutes to
another speaker, other than the applicant.
   M.   Evidence:
      1.   Entry Into Record: Any speaker at the public hearing who has
evidence of any kind, whether it be letters, photographs, maps, etc., shall
submit that evidence to the staff to be entered into the record.
      2.   Continued Public Hearing: Evidence for a continued public hearing
must be submitted to the staff four (4) working days prior to that hearing.
   N.   Adjournment: Public hearings shall be adjourned at ten o'clock (10:00)
P.M. and continued to a later date. (Ord. 36, 11-22-1983)
2-1-13: RULES FOR CONFLICT OF INTEREST IN HEARINGS:
   A.   Disqualification Required: Planning and zoning commission members or
members of the county planning and zoning commission staff must disqualify
himself or herself from participating in any proceeding before the commission
in which that member has a conflict of interest. The member must disqualify at
the earliest possible time.
   B.   Failure To Disqualify: Proceeding means preparation, research,
discussion and voting on the matter before the commission. If a court finds
that a member has a conflict of interest and does not disqualify, the action by
the planning and zoning commission may be held to be void or voidable.
   C.   Considerations For Disqualification: The following questions should be
considered by each commission and staff member to determine if he/she has a
conflict of interest:
      1.   Do you live or own property in or near the area (within 300 feet of
the outside boundaries of the proposed change) for which the proposed change is
requested?
If you live or own property in or near the area, then you should disqualify
yourself from the proceeding.
      2.   Do you have a financial interest in or near the area for which the
proposed change is being requested?
If you lease property in or near the area, or have an option to sell or
purchase property then you should disqualify yourself from the proceeding.
      3.   Does your employer or an organization to which you belong have a
financial interest in or near the area or in the proposed change currently
before the commission?
If your employer or organization has property in or near the area or has a
lease or option to purchase or sell property within the area, or some other
financial interest such that acceptance or rejection of the proposal will cause
an economic effect upon your employer, then you should disqualify yourself from
the proceeding.
      4.   Do you have family which have a financial interest in the area?
If you are related by affinity (marriage) or consanguinity (blood) within the
second degree (aunts/uncles, nieces/ nephews) to people who have a financial
interest, as described in subsection C1 or C2 of this section, then you should
disqualify yourself from the proceeding.
      5.   Have you publicly expressed an opinion as to the facts of the
proposed change now before you?
If you have expressed publicly an opinion or position concerning the facts now
before you in a manner which would tend to show that you have already made your
decision concerning the proposal, you should consider disqualifying yourself
from the proceedings. However, before you disqualify yourself, please check
with staff for further assistance. (Ord. 36, 11-22-1983)
CHAPTER 2
HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-2-1: Findings; Declaration Of Purpose
2-2-2: Definitions
2-2-3: Commission Created; Membership
2-2-4: Powers, Duties And Responsibilities
2-2-5: Special Restrictions
2-2-6: Exemption From Health Or Building Codes
2-2-1: FINDINGS; DECLARATION OF PURPOSE:
The board of county commissioners finds that:
   A.   The legislature of this state has determined that the historical,
archeological, architectural and cultural heritage of the state is among the
most important environmental assets of the state; and
   B.   The rapid social and economic development of contemporary society
threatens to destroy the remaining vestiges of this heritage; and
   C.   Commercial activity and tourist trade in the county can be enhanced by
identifying and preserving the cultural resources that reflect elements of the
county's heritage; and
   D.   Present preservation programs are inadequate to ensure present and
future generations of the county residents and visitors a genuine opportunity
to appreciate, enjoy and benefit from our cultural heritage.
   E.   It is hereby declared to be the public policy and in the public
interest of this county to:
      1.   Engage in a program of historic preservation to promote the use and
conservation of the county's cultural resources for the education, inspiration,
pleasure and enrichment of the citizens of this county;
      2.   Designate, preserve, promote and perpetuate those sites, areas,
buildings, districts, structures and objects which reflect significant elements
of the county's, state's and nation's cultural, architectural, archeological,
historic and other heritage;
      3.   Foster civic pride in the beauty and accomplishments of the past;
      4.   Protect and enhance the county's tourist industry;
      5.   Stabilize and improve the economic vitality and values of landmarks,
sites, districts, buildings, structures and objects;
      6.   Promote the continued use of outstanding sites, districts,
buildings, structures and objects for the education, inspiration and welfare of
the people of the county;
      7.   Promote and continue private incentives for ownership and
utilization of landmark buildings, sites, districts, structures and objects;
      8.   Assist, encourage and provide incentives to private owners for
preservation, restoration, redevelopment and use of landmark buildings, sites,
districts, structures and objects.
   F.   It is further declared to be the purpose of this chapter to authorize,
pursuant to section 67-4603, Idaho Code, the establishment of the Shoshone
County historic preservation commission to engage in a countywide program of
historic preservation. (Ord. 40, 10-16-1984)
2-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and terms shall, when used in this chapter, be defined as
follows unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
BOARD: The board of Shoshone County commissioners.
COMMISSION: The historic preservation commission created by this chapter.
COUNTY: Shoshone County, state of Idaho.
HISTORIC PRESERVATION: The research, protection, restoration, and
rehabilitation of buildings, structures, objects, districts, areas and sites
significant in the history, architecture, archeology or culture of this county,
its communities, the state or the nation.
HISTORIC PRESERVATION OFFICER: The Shoshone County historic preservation
officer or his or her designee.
HISTORIC PROPERTY: A building, structure, area or site that is significant in
the history, architecture, archeology or culture of this county, its
communities, the state or the nation. (Ord. 40, 10-16-1984)
2-2-3: COMMISSION CREATED; MEMBERSHIP:
   A.   Creation: There is hereby created the Shoshone County historic
preservation commission which shall consist of five (5) members appointed by
the board of county commissioners.
   B.   Criteria For Appointment: All commission members shall have a
demonstrated interest, competence, or knowledge in historic preservation. The
majority of the commission members shall be appointed from among professionals
in the disciplines of architectural history, planning, archeology or other
historical preservation related disciplines such as urban planning, American
studies, American civilization, cultural geography or cultural anthropology to
the extent that said professionals are available in the community.
   C.   Term: Initial appointments to the commission shall be made as follows:
one 1-year term; two (2) 2-year terms; two (2) 3-year terms. All subsequent
appointments shall be made for three (3) year terms. Any commission members may
be reappointed to serve additional terms.
   D.   Vacancy: In the event of a vacancy, the board shall appoint a person to
fill the remainder of the unexpired term according to the criteria specified in
subsection B of this section.
   E.   Officers: The commission shall appoint its own officers from among the
commission members which shall consist of a president, vice president, and
secretary-treasurer.
   F.   Rules And Regulations: Within nine (9) months of its first meeting, the
commission shall adopt rules and regulations, including procedures consistent
with this chapter and provisions for public participation in the historic
preservation program.
   G.   Quorum: A majority of the current appointed members of the commission
shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business.
   H.   Voting: All official actions of the commission shall require a majority
of votes cast. No member shall be eligible to vote upon any matter required by
this chapter to be determined after a hearing unless that member has attended
the hearing or familiarized himself or herself with the record.
   I.   Historic Preservation Officer:
      1.   Employment: The commission may, within the limits of its funding,
employ or contract for the services of a qualified person to act as Shoshone
County historic preservation officer.
      2.   Duties: The historic preservation officer or his or her designee
shall assist in organizing the commission, conduct official correspondence,
maintain a system for the survey and inventory of historic properties, organize
and supervise the commission staff and the clerical and technical work of the
commission to the extent required to administer this chapter.
   J.   Technical Experts: The commission may also, within the limits of its
funding, employ or contract with technical experts or other persons as it deems
necessary to carry on the functions of the commission.
   K.   Records: Under the direction of the commission, the historic
preservation officer shall be the custodian of the commission's records. (Ord.
40, 10-16-1984)
2-2-4: POWERS, DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
Subject to state law and the procedures described hereunder, the historic
preservation commission shall have and may exercise, in addition to the powers
specifically enumerated in this chapter, the following powers, duties and
responsibilities:
   A.   Develop And Coordinate Activities: To function as the county agency
responsible for developing and coordinating the county's historic preservation
activities;
   B.   Conduct Survey: To conduct a survey of county historic properties;
   C.   Advise And Assist Owners: To advise and assist owners of historic
property on physical and financial aspects of historic preservation and on
procedures for inclusion on the National Register of Historic Places;
   D.   Recommendations: To recommend ordinances to the board and otherwise
provide information for the purposes of historic preservation to the county;
   E.   Educational And Interpretive Programs: To promote and conduct an
educational and interpretive program regarding historic properties within the
county's jurisdiction;
   F.   Land Use And Planning Processes: To assist when called upon in the
conduct of land use and other planning processes undertaken by the county;
   G.   Advice And Assistance: To call upon available county staff members for
advice and assistance and to lend advice and assistance to county departments;
   H.   Rules And Regulations: To adopt its own procedural rules and
regulations;
   I.   Gifts, Grants, Money: To accept and administer on behalf of the county
such gifts, grants and money as may be appropriated for the purposes of this
chapter.
   J.   Cooperate With Other Agencies: To cooperate with the federal, state and
local governments in the pursuance of the objectives of historic preservation;
   K.   Other Actions Or Activities: To undertake any other action or activity
necessary or appropriate to the implementation of its powers and duties, to the
implementation of the purpose of this chapter, or to any other functions which
may be designated by the board. (Ord. 40, 10-16-1984)
2-2-5: SPECIAL RESTRICTIONS:
In addition to any power or authority of the county to regulate by planning or
zoning laws and regulations or by any other laws and regulations, the board
shall be empowered, pursuant to section 67-4612, Idaho Code, to provide by
ordinances, special conditions or restrictions for the protection, enhancement
and preservation of historic properties. (Ord. 40, 10-16-1984)
2-2-6: EXEMPTION FROM HEALTH OR BUILDING CODES:
The board, in order to promote the preservation and restoration of historic
properties within its jurisdiction and pursuant to section 67-4618, Idaho Code,
may exempt a historic property from the application of such standards contained
in the county health or building codes, or both, as the board, upon
recommendation of the commission, shall determine would otherwise prevent or
seriously hinder the preservation or restoration of such historic property.
(Ord. 40, 10-16-1984)
CHAPTER 3
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
SECTION:
2-3-1: Public Corporation Created
2-3-2: Name
2-3-3: Powers Of Corporation
2-3-4: Charter
2-3-5: Board Of Directors
2-3-6: Conflict Of Interest
2-3-7: Financial Restrictions And Requirements
2-3-1: PUBLIC CORPORATION CREATED:
The county does hereby create a public corporation, as authorized by section
50-2703, Idaho Code, to carry out the purposes of the Municipal Industrial
Development Program Act, the same being chapter 27, title 50, Idaho Code (the
"Act"). The county reserves the power, as provided in section 50-2703, Idaho
Code, to alter or change the structure, organization and programs, or
activities of the public corporation, or to dissolve the same, if it has no
property to administer other than lands and property, if any, to be paid or
transferred to the county, and all its outstanding obligations have been paid.
(Ord. 37, 1-9-1984)
2-3-2: NAME:
The name of the public corporation shall be The Industrial Development
Corporation of Shoshone County, Idaho (the "corporation"). (Ord. 37, 1-9-1984)
2-3-3: POWERS OF CORPORATION:
The corporation shall have all the powers granted by the act, including,
without limitation, all powers set forth in the charter. The corporation shall
be subject to all of the requirements and limitations set forth in the act, in
this chapter, and in the charter. (Ord. 37, 1-9-1984)
2-3-4: CHARTER:
A charter is hereby issued to the corporation by the county, which shall grant
to the corporation all powers authorized by the act. A copy of the charter
granted hereby is annexed to Ordinance 37 as Exhibit "A" on file in the office
of the clerk of the district court, and is by reference incorporated herein.
The charter may be amended from time to time by ordinance duly adopted by the
county. The existence of the corporation shall commence upon the effective date
hereof. (Ord. 37, 1-9-1984; amd. 2001 Code)
2-3-5: BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
   A.   Composition:
      1.   Appointment: The board of directors of the corporation (the "board")
shall consist of five (5) residents of the county appointed by the board of
county commissioners from the county at large and may include one or more
members of the board of county commissioners.
      2.   Term: Of the members first appointed, one shall be appointed for a
term of one year, two (2) for terms of two (2) years, and two (2) for terms of
three (3) years. Thereafter, upon expiration of the initial terms of
appointment, each member shall be appointed for a three (3) year term. Each
member shall serve until his or her successor is appointed and qualified.
      3.   Vacancy: If a vacancy occurs during an unexpired term, the board of
county commissioners shall appoint a member to serve the remainder of the
unexpired term.
      4.   Quorum: A majority of the members of the board shall constitute a
quorum, and the approval of a majority of a quorum shall be necessary for the
board to take any action.
   B.   Functions: The business and affairs of the corporation shall be
conducted and carried out by the board.
   C.   Officers: The board shall elect officers from among its own members,
which officers shall serve until their successors have been duly elected.
Officers shall include a president, a vice president, and a secretary-
treasurer. An officer may hold more than one office.
   D.   Bylaws, Rules And Regulations: The board shall adopt bylaws, rules and
regulations governing the conduct of the corporation, which may be amended from
time to time by the board.
   E.   Compensation: Members of the board shall serve without compensation,
but may be reimbursed for actual and necessary expenses as provided by the
bylaws, rules and regulations of the board. (Ord. 37, 1-9-1984)
2-3-6: CONFLICT OF INTEREST:
No director, officer, agent, or employee of the shall have, directly or
indirectly, any financial interest in any property to be included in, or any
contract for property, services, or materials to be furnished or used in
connection with, any industrial development facility financed through the
corporation. (Ord. 37, 1-9-1984)
2-3-7: FINANCIAL RESTRICTIONS AND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Operation As Business: The corporation may not operate any industrial
development facilities as a business other than as lessor, seller, or lender,
but may purchase and hold mortgages, deeds of trust, or other security
interests and contract for any servicing thereof.
   B.   County Funds: The county shall not give or lend any money in aid of the
corporation except as expressly authorized by the act, nor exercise its powers
of sovereignty, including the police power, the power of taxation, or the power
of eminent domain, for or on behalf of the corporation. This provision shall
not preclude the county from contracting with the corporation for the provision
of services to the corporation or otherwise dealing with the corporation on an
arms length basis. The county may, as authorized by section 50-2706, Idaho
Code, accept grants from the United States and apply grants in connection with
industrial development facilities.
   C.   Revenue Bonds; Financing Obligations: The corporation shall not issue
revenue bonds or other financing obligations except upon the approval of the
board of county commissioners. The corporation may not exercise any powers or
issue any revenue bonds or other obligations with respect to any industrial
development facility unless such facility is located wholly within the
boundaries of the county, except as expressly set forth in the act.
   D.   Net Earnings: Any net earnings of the corporation beyond those
necessary for retirement of indebtedness incurred by it shall inure to the
county and not for the benefit of any other person. Upon dissolution of the
corporation, as provided by the Act, title to all property owned by the
corporation shall vest in the county. (Ord. 37, 1-9-1984)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS AND LICENSING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
LIQUOR CONTROL
SECTION:
3-1-1: Additional Days And Hours Of Sale
3-1-1: ADDITIONAL DAYS AND HOURS OF SALE:
   A.   Authority: This section is adopted pursuant to Idaho Code section 23-
927, as amended in the 1986 Session Laws.
   B.   Days: In addition to the days of sale authorized by the laws of the
state, the sale of alcoholic beverages is hereby authorized for these
additional days:
      1.   Sundays;
      2.   Memorial Day; and
      3.   Thanksgiving.
   C.   Hours: It is further authorized that the sale of alcoholic beverages
may continue until the hour of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. (Ord. 41, 5-20-1986,
eff. 7-1-1986)
ARTICLE A. WINE
SECTION:
3-1A-1: Statement Of Purpose
3-1A-2: Sale Authorized
3-1A-3: License Required; Fee
3-1A-4: Transfer Of License; Fee
3-1A-5: Revocation Or Suspension Of License
3-1A-1: STATEMENT OF PURPOSE:
The legislature of the state in the first regular session, 41st Legislature
did, pursuant to House Bill No. 96, authorize the retail sale of wine
containing not more than fourteen percent (14%) alcohol by persons other than
the State Liquor Dispensary, and authorizing the county commissioners of the
various counties throughout the state to adopt ordinances authorizing such
sale, and whereas the 42nd Legislature did authorize the retail sale of wine by
the drink, it is hereby declared to be the purpose and intent of the county
commissioners to authorize issuance of retail license for the sale of wine by
the bottle and retail license for sale of wine by drink within this county
pursuant to the terms and conditions of Idaho law. (Ord. 3, 6-11-1973, eff. 7-
1-1973)
3-1A-2: SALE AUTHORIZED:
Retail sales of wine by the bottle containing not more than fourteen percent
(14%) alcohol by volume shall be permitted and is hereby authorized in the
county. Retail sale of wine by the drink containing not more than fourteen
percent (14%) alcohol by volume shall be permitted and is hereby authorized in
the county. (Ord. 3, 6-11-1973, eff. 7-1-1973; amd. 2001 Code)
3-1A-3: LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE:
   A.   Sale By The Bottle:
      1.   Application For License; Fee: Before any person shall engage in the
retail sale of wine by the bottle, such person shall apply to the county
commissioners for a license authorizing the sale of wine by the bottle and
shall pay an annual license fee therefor in the sum of one hundred dollars
($100.00).
      2.   Qualifications: No license for the retail sale of wine by the bottle
shall be issued to an applicant who does not possess the qualifications set
forth in chapter 13, title 23 of the Idaho Code, as amended.
   B.   Sale By The Drink:
      1.   Application For License; Fee: Before any person, other than the
holder of required retail liquor license, shall engage in the retail sale of
wine by the drink, such person shall apply to the county commissioners for a
license authorizing the sale of wine by the drink and shall pay an annual
license fee therefor in the sum of one hundred dollars ($100.00).
      2.   Qualifications: No license for the retail sale of wine by the drink
shall be issued to an applicant who does not possess the qualifications set
forth in chapter 13, title 23 of the Idaho Code, as amended. (Ord. 3, 6-11-
1973, eff. 7-1-1973; amd. 2001 Code)
3-1A-4: TRANSFER OF LICENSE; FEE:
No license for the retail sale of wine by the bottle or license for the retail
sale of wine by the drink may be transferred to another person, including
executor, administrator, or trustee in bankruptcy of the estate of the
licensee, unless the transferee shall first have obtained the approval of the
board of county commissioners to such transfer upon application containing the
substantially same information required of an applicant for a county retail
wine license. If the transferee possesses all of the qualifications and none of
the disqualifications for such license, the commissioners shall approve the
transfer, which approval shall be attached and made a part of the license. The
fee for each transfer of license for the sale of wine by the drink or bottle
shall be twenty dollars ($20.00), which fee shall accompany the application for
transfer. (Ord. 3, 6-11-1973, eff. 7-1-1973)
3-1A-5: REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE:
The retail license, for either or both the sale of wine by the bottle or by the
drink, of any retailer who violates any of the laws of the state, the United
States, or of this county relating to the sale of alcoholic beverages, beer, or
wine, shall be subject to revocation or suspension by the board of county
commissioners. (Ord. 3, 6-11-1973, eff. 7-1-1973)
ARTICLE B. BEER
SECTION:
3-1B-1: Issuance By Council
3-1B-2: Evaluation Criteria
3-1B-3: Time For Filing
3-1B-4: Affidavit
3-1B-5: Hours Of Sale
3-1B-6: Denial Or Revocation
3-1B-1: ISSUANCE BY COUNCIL:
A retail beer license may be issued by a majority vote of the board of county
commissioners after reviewing the application, the affidavit provided for
herein and the ordinance, statutes and standards provided herein. (Ord. 34, 7-
21-1983)
3-1B-2: EVALUATION CRITERIA:
All license applications shall be evaluated in light of the following laws:
   A.   Volume 4, title 18 of the Idaho Code.
   B.   Idaho Code section 23-1001 et seq.
   C.   Idaho Code section 23-601 et seq.
   D.   Title 10 of this code.
   E.   Title 9 of this code. (Ord. 34, 7-21-1983)
   F.   Rule and standards for food service establishments adopted by the Idaho
Department of Health and Welfare Environmental Services Division, July 1, 1998.
(Ord. 34, 7-21-1983; amd. 2001 Code)
3-1B-3: TIME FOR FILING:
   A.   New License; Application For Transfer: New licenses or applications for
transfer of license may be submitted at any time during the calendar year.
      1.   Criminal History Check: The license application shall be referred to
the county sheriff's department for a criminal history check.
      2.   Board Action: The board of county commissioners will, within thirty
(30) days and after receiving the report of the sheriff's office, make a
determination of whether the license shall issue in conformity with this
chapter.
   B.   Renewal License: Renewal licenses may be submitted on any date after
November 1 of each calendar year. The board of county commissioners will
consider and make a determination of said application within one week of its
submission at a public hearing held in the Shoshone County courthouse. (Ord.
34, 7-21-1983)
3-1B-4: AFFIDAVIT:
An affidavit in the following form must be submitted with each license
application:
State of Idaho )
)ss.
County of Shoshone )
                        , being first duly sworn, deposes and states:
   A.   The undersigned applicant is the bona fide owner of the business sought
to be licensed.
   B.   The building in which the business is to be conducted conforms to all
laws and regulations of the State of Idaho and to the ordinances of the County
and municipality applicable thereto relating to public health and safety and to
the zoning ordinances of the municipality applicable thereto.
   C.   The applicant is a citizen of the United States.
   D.   That the applicant is not less than nineteen (19) years of age.
   E.   That within the last three (3) years from the date of this application,
applicant has not been convicted of the violation of any law governing or
prohibiting the sale or possession of alcoholic beverages or intoxicating
liquors, or, within said time suffered the forfeiture of bond for failure to
appear to answer said charges.
   F.   That within five (5) years from the date of this application, applicant
has not been convicted of any felony.
   G.   That within three (3) years from the date of this application,
applicant has not had a beer or liquor license revoked by any governmental
entity.
                                                   
SUBSCRIBED AND SWORN to before me this                   day of
                  , 20    .
                                                       
         Notary Public in and for the State
         of Idaho, Residing at:
                                                       
(Ord. 34, 7-21-1983; amd. 2001 Code)
3-1B-5: HOURS OF SALE:
The sale of beer may continue until the hour of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. (Ord.
51, 6-30-1987)
3-1B-6: DENIAL OR REVOCATION:
Failure to comply with any part of this chapter will be deemed a sufficient
reason for denial or revocation of a beer license. (Ord. 34, 7-21-1983)
CHAPTER 2
ENTERTAINMENT, AMUSEMENT ACTIVITIES
SECTION:
3-2-1: Intent
3-2-2: Permit Required
3-2-3: Application For Permit
3-2-4: Application Fee
3-2-5: Application Approval Process
3-2-6: Failure To Comply
3-2-7: Penalty
3-2-1: INTENT:
It is necessary for the protection of the health, safety and welfare of the
general public to license and regulate the advertising, permitting or
conducting of certain educational, religious, entertainment or amusement
activities which will, or can be expected to disturb the ordinary peace and
quiet of the inhabitants of residences, dwelling houses or other ordinary
places of human habitation and/or to create traffic, health or sanitation
problems. (Ord. 146, 1-18-2012)
3-2-2: PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   Permit Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to allow, conduct,
permit, advertise, or cause to be conducted, permitted or advertised, any
entertainment, religious, educational, or amusement activity outside the
municipal boundaries of the incorporated cities within the county, which
activity will or can reasonably be expected to attract an outdoor gathering or
assembly of persons at any one time (whether or not a charge or contribution is
required for admission), unless a valid county permit has first been obtained
authorizing and permitting the conduct of such activity or activities.
   B.   Exceptions:
      1.   Leased Properties: No such permit shall be required for any such
activity authorized under any valid lease of real property owned or leased by
the county, state, or any political subdivision thereof; and
      2.   Stadium Areas: No such permit shall be required for any activity
scheduled to be held in stadium areas now and heretofore existing in the
county, and such "stadium areas" shall be defined as an enclosure heretofore
used for athletic games and having adequate grandstands and toilet and waste
disposal facilities and available parking lot area. (Ord. 146, 1-18-2012)
3-2-3: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
   A.   Written Application; Time Of Filing: Written application for any permit
to conduct the activities regulated by this chapter shall be made to the
planning and zoning administrator not less than one hundred twenty (120) days
prior to the date upon which such activities are to commence, unless otherwise
approved by the board of county commissioners.
   B.   Required Information: The application shall include:
      1.   The name of the person, partnership, corporation or organization on
whose behalf such application is made;
      2.   The names and address of the responsible person having proprietary
interest in any such partnership, corporation or organization;
      3.   The principal place of business of any such partnership, corporation
or organization;
      4.   A definable description of the land to be occupied or utilized by
such activities, together with the address of the owner or lessee thereof and a
verified consent by the owner (if other than applicant) permitting the activity
upon such real property upon the dates for which application is made;
      5.   A description of the type and nature of the educational, religious,
entertainment or amusement activity for which a permit is sought;
      6.   The date(s) and time(s) upon which such activity is proposed to be
conducted; and
      7.   The maximum number of people expected to attend, view, and
participate in such activity on each date applied for. (Ord. 146, 1-18-2012)
3-2-4: APPLICATION FEE:
The basic permit fee which shall accompany any application hereunder shall be a
minimum of twenty five dollars ($25.00), which fee shall be retained or
returned by the county, at the county's discretion, whether or not a permit be
granted, denied or withdrawn. Board of county commissioners may require
additional application fees depending upon the complexity of the proposal.
Applicant shall be responsible for any additional legal notice advertising and/
or mailings to adjacent property owners. Expenses shall be billed at cost.
(Ord. 146, 1-18-2012)
3-2-5: APPLICATION APPROVAL PROCESS:
   A.   Additional Agency Approvals: Whenever approval by any governmental
agency or district other than the county is required hereunder, the applicant
shall be required to cooperate fully with such agencies or districts to ensure
that a full review of the proposals may be accomplished by such agency.
   B.   Approval Process And Requirements:
      1.   The applicant shall schedule a preapplication meeting with the
planning and zoning administrator to discuss the feasibility of the request and
the application requirements.
      2.   The applicant shall submit a complete application with applicable
fees. Incomplete applications will not be processed.
      3.   If the application is complete, the administrator will forward it to
other reviewing agencies and organizations with relevant expertise or
jurisdiction, requesting their evaluation and response within thirty (30) days
(agency comment period). Agency responses should explain whether the proposal
appears feasible and will meet the agency's requirements.
      4.   After the close of the agency comment period, the administrator
reviews the relevant evidence in the record, and the administrator will
schedule a public hearing before the board of county commissioners within
thirty (30) days. At least thirty (30) days prior to the hearing before the
board of county commissioners, the administrator shall publish a notice of
public hearing in the newspaper of record. Once notice is published, no new
information can be received from the applicant. The applicant shall provide the
administrator with an adjacent property owners (APO) package establishing all
adjacent property owners within three hundred feet (300') of the site
(including any contiguous lots or parcels under the same ownership). The
department shall mail notice to these neighbors on or before the newspaper
publication date. At least thirty (30) days prior to the hearing, the
administrator shall also post a notice upon the site. All written comments from
property owners must be submitted fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing.
Nothing in this section precludes submission of additional evidence or
testimony at the time of public hearing. When notice is required to two hundred
(200) or more property owners, in lieu of mailing notice, two (2) additional
publications shall be provided.
      5.   The board of county commissioners shall conduct a hearing in
accordance with current county ordinances. The applicant presents their
proposal, addresses any issues that have been identified, and demonstrates that
the project can meet the requirements of all agencies. The administrator will
present the staff evaluation. Public testimony is taken, followed by closing
remarks by the applicant. The commission shall review the recommendations and
comments of the applicable agency comments and public testimony and shall issue
an order of decision.
      6.   The applicant bears the burden of demonstrating compliance with the
requirements. To approve a special use permit, the board of county
commissioners must make the following findings:
         a.   The applicant provided adequate information to determine
compliance with the requirements.
         b.   The proposal is in compliance with other county ordinances.
         c.   The proposal is compatible with the natural characteristics of
the area.
         d.   The proposal adequately addresses site constraints or hazards.
         e.   Services and facilities for the proposal are available and
adequate.
         f.   Public notice and the processing of the application met the
requirement set forth in this title and Idaho Code.
      7.   The board of county commissioners shall make a decision within
thirty (30) days of the close of the public hearing. If the proposal meets
these requirements, it shall be approved. If the proposal does not meet these
requirements, or if insufficient information was provided to determine
compliance, it may be denied. Conditions may be attached to the approval.
      8.   The board shall have the authority to impose additional reasonable
conditions which will mitigate or eliminate any adverse effects.
      9.   The board shall render its decision in writing within thirty (30)
days of the close of the public hearing. The board shall outline the provisions
and standards used within this title, the facts of the application, testimony
received and such conclusions that support its decision. If the board denies
the application, it shall specify in its decision the actions, if any, the
applicant could take to obtain approval.
      10.   Appeals of the board's final decision shall be filed and taken
pursuant to Idaho Code section 67-6519.
   C.   Conditions For Issuance: Permits shall be issued hereunder only when
the conditions enumerated in this section have been fulfilled by the applicant.
      1.   Health And Sanitary Facilities: No permit shall be granted hereunder
unless the applicants obtain the written approval of the state of Idaho
Panhandle health district 1, health office.
      2.   Fire Protection: No permit shall be granted hereunder unless the
administrator has received the written approval of the fire protection district
in which the proposed activity is to be held. For areas outside of designated
fire protection districts, subsection C4 of this section shall apply.
      3.   Parking Facilities/Traffic Impact: No permit shall be granted for
any activity regulated hereunder unless the applicant demonstrates to the
administrator, by means of a detailed scaled drawing, that adequate parking
facilities and traffic impacts have been made available within or adjacent to
the location for which the permit is requested. Such parking facilities shall
provide parking space for one vehicle for each four (4) persons expected or
reasonably expected to attend, view or participate in the proposed activity.
Such parking facilities shall be provided off public roads or highways and
adequate ingress and egress shall be provided to and from such parking areas.
For large scale activities approval may be required by the county public works
department, emergency services department and/or sheriff.
      4.   Public Safety/Crowd Control:
         a.   Requirements: No permit shall be granted hereunder unless the
applicant has obtained the written approval of the county sheriff and/or
emergency services department, indicating that the following conditions have
been complied with:
            (1)   Adequate traffic control (pedestrian and vehicular travel)
and crowd protection policing have been contracted for or otherwise provided by
the applicant;
            (2)   Traffic and crowd control personnel shall be named persons
acceptable to the county sheriff;
            (3)   The applicant will provide an adequate number of traffic
control officers; approved by the sheriff.
         b.   Limitation On Admissions: If, at any time during the event, in
the sheriff's opinion, public safety is jeopardized, the sheriff shall have the
discretion to limit further admission.
      5.   Hours Of Operation: No permit issued hereunder shall authorize any
activity regulated hereby between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight
and nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. of any day, unless otherwise approved by the board
of county commissioners; such permit shall specify on its face the day, or
days, and hours within which such activity may be held.
      6.   Financial Guarantee And/Or Indemnification: No permit shall be
issued hereunder unless the applicant has on deposit with the county clerk:
         a.   Financial Guarantee: As set out hereinbelow indemnifying the
county or any political subdivision within the county for costs incurred by
reason of the expenses of extraordinary law enforcement, damage to public
property, or the cost of providing any extraordinary sanitation or health
services provided or caused by the holding of the activity.
         b.   Exoneration; Return: The bond or its balance shall be exonerated
or returned when the county commissioners certify to the county clerk that
either:
            (1)   No damage has been done; or
            (2)   The total of such costs or damage in the event such items
total less than the bond amount.
         c.   Liability Insurance: No permit shall be issued hereunder unless
the applicant has furnished evidence of general liability insurance coverage
which will be determined by the Shoshone County prosecuting attorney.
      7.   Approval Of Physical Facility:
         a.   Specific Plans: When any type of physical facility is required or
subject to approval hereunder, a permit may be granted (subject to withdrawal)
based upon specific plans being proposed, submitted and approved hereunder.
         b.   Construction Completed; Inspection: All such facilities
constructed under authority of such permit shall be in existence at least five
(5) days prior to the commencement of the activity for which the permit is
granted and shall be subject to inspection by the approving agency.
         c.   Failure To Meet Standards; Withdrawal Of Permit: Should the
actual facility or construction fail to meet the standards approved in the
proposed plans, the permit may be withdrawn. Notice of withdrawal shall be
provided by mailing of written notice to the address of the applicant
specifying the reasons for such withdrawal. (Ord. 146, 1-18-2012)
3-2-6: FAILURE TO COMPLY:
Noncompliance with the minimum health, sanitation and safety provisions
required herein, or failure to comply with the terms and conditions hereunder
shall constitute a public nuisance, and the person(s) responsible therefor
shall be subject to all criminal and civil remedies for such. (Ord. 146, 1-18-
2012)
3-2-7: PENALTY:
Any person who shall violate or fail to comply with any of the provisions of
this chapter, or who, having obtained a permit hereunder, shall wilfully fail
to continue to comply with the conditions herein set forth, shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 146, 1-18-2012)
CHAPTER 3
MOTOR VEHICLE WRECKING FACILITY
SECTION:
3-3-1: Jurisdiction
3-3-2: Scope
3-3-3: Definitions
3-3-4: License Required
3-3-5: Application
3-3-6: License Fee; Transferability; Display
3-3-7: Issuance
3-3-8: Opportunity To Be Heard
3-3-9: Grounds For Refusal
3-3-10: Governmental Exception
3-3-11: Shielding Requirements
3-3-12: Penalty
3-3-1: JURISDICTION:
The jurisdiction of this chapter relating to the licensing of motor vehicle
wrecking facilities and to the storing of four (4) or more junked vehicles
shall be on all property situated outside of the incorporated limits of any
municipal corporation within the county limits of the county. (Ord. 12, 5-10-
1976, eff. 9-1-1976; amd. Ord. 162, 9-1-2020)
3-3-2: SCOPE:
A person who owns or possesses, at a single location, four (4) or more junked
vehicles of a type as described in Section 3-3-3 of this chapter is subject to
the provisions of this chapter, even though he may not be operating a motor
vehicle wrecking facility for profit or other business purpose. (Ord. 12, 5-10-
1976, eff. 9-1-1976; amd. 2001 Code; Ord. 162, 9-1-2020)
3-3-3: DEFINITIONS:
 
COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE WRECKING Any motor vehicle wrecking facility
FACILITY:                         operated for profit or other business
                                  purpose.
                                  Any motor vehicles which are not
JUNKED VEHICLES:                  currently licensed or which are not in a
                                  running condition and not being presently
                                  repaired.
                                  The storing or keeping of four (4) or
                                  more motor vehicles which are not
                                  currently licensed or which are not in a
                                  running condition and not being presently
                                  repaired, upon any lot, parcel, or piece
MOTOR VEHICLE WRECKING FACILITY:  of land, constitutes a motor vehicle
                                  wrecking facility. This shall include
                                  motor vehicles which are stored or kept
                                  for the purpose of converting the motor
                                  vehicle to scrap metal or held for the
                                  sale or future use of parts taken from
                                  such motor vehicle.
                                  Any motor vehicle wrecking facility not
PERSONAL MOTOR VEHICLE WRECKING   operated for profit or other business
FACILITY:                         purpose. (Ord. 12, 5-10-1976, eff. 9-1-
                                  1976; amd. Ord. 162, 9-1-2020)
 
3-3-4: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person, whether an individual, partnership, or
corporation, to operate a motor vehicle wrecking facility within the county
without first procuring a license to conduct such operation. Any property
wherein four (4) or more junked vehicles are stored shall be subject to the
licensing requirements herein. Persons otherwise not subject to mandatory
licensing requirements under this code, or persons storing or keeping less than
four (4) junked vehicles, may voluntarily apply for a motor vehicle wrecking
facility license to lawfully store junked vehicles. (Ord. 12, 5-10-1976, eff.
9-1-1976; amd. Ord. 162, 9-1-2020)
3-3-5: APPLICATION:
All persons who are now operating motor vehicle wrecking facilities, or who may
operate such a facility in the future, shall make application in writing for a
license to conduct or carry on such operations; the application shall be in
writing and addressed to the board of county commissioners stating the name of
the applicant, the kind of operation for which the license is required, whether
the facility will be operated as a commercial or personal motor vehicle
wrecking facility, the number of motor vehicles sought to be housed at the
location of the facility, the name/address of all landowners adjacent to the
location of the facility, and the place where the operation will be conducted.
Application forms will be available upon request to the clerk of the board of
county commissioners. (Ord. 12, 5-10-1976, eff. 9-1-1976; amd. Ord. 162, 9-1-
2020)
3-3-6: LICENSE FEE; TRANSFERABILITY; DISPLAY:
All motor vehicle wrecking facilities shall procure and pay a license fee to
the county for an annual license. Licenses shall be valid from January 1 on the
year they are issued, and expire on December 31 of that same year. Licenses
shall not be subject to proration and shall not be transferrable. The license
shall be displayed in a prominent place in the licensed facility, and available
for inspection by any enforcement officer authorized by the county to enforce
this ordinance. The license fees for the various types of motor vehicle
wrecking facilities shall be as follows:
   A.   Commercial Facilities: One hundred fifty dollar ($150.00) total fee.
   B.   Personal Facilities: Twenty dollars ($20.00) per vehicle. (Ord. 12, 5-
10-1976, eff. 9-1-1976; amd. 2001 Code; Ord. 162, 9-1-2020)
3-3-7: ISSUANCE:
The application, accompanied by the subject license fee, shall be filed with
the clerk of the board of county commissioners and shall be presented to the
board of the county commissioners at its next regular meeting or at a special
meeting called for that purpose. If a majority of the members of the board vote
to grant such license, the license shall then be issued to the party filing
application. The board of county commissioners, in their sole discretion, may
place reasonable restrictions on the license to be issued, regulating the
manner in which a motor vehicle wrecking facility may be operated so as to
encourage cleaner, safer and more sanitary disposition or storage of junked
vehicles, and to make more attractive and less unsightly, areas used for the
storage of junked vehicles. (Ord. 12, 5-10-1976, eff. 9-1-1976; amd. Ord. 162,
9-1-2020)
3-3-8: OPPORTUNITY TO BE HEARD:
Applicants applying for a license under this code will be given an opportunity
to be heard by the board of county commissioners prior to a determination being
made on the issuance of a license. If a motor vehicle wrecking facility has not
previously been issued a license to operate, all owners of property adjacent to
the proposed facility will also be given an opportunity to be heard by the
board of county commissioners prior to a determination being made on the
issuance of a license. (Ord. 12, 5-10-1976, eff. 9-1-1976; amd. Ord. 162, 9-1-
2020)
3-3-9: GROUNDS FOR REFUSAL:
It shall constitute grounds for the board of county commissioners to refuse to
issue to any applicant, or to revoke any license issued hereunder, if the
subject applicant or licensee for any motor vehicle wrecking facility shall
have failed to obey and meet the requirements herein set forth, or any other
rules or regulations governing the building, operation, or maintenance of a
motor vehicle wrecking facility. For this purpose, it shall not be required
that a criminal conviction be obtained as a prerequisite for proving the
applicant or licensee has failed to comply with the requirements stated herein.
(Ord. 12, 5-10-1976, eff. 9-1-1976; amd. Ord. 162, 9-1-2020)
3-3-10: GOVERNMENTAL EXCEPTION:
This chapter shall not apply to the county or any municipal corporation located
therein which shall engage, from time to time, in the collection, storage and/
or disposition of junked vehicles as a part of their governmental powers to
clean up and/or to dispose of waste material. (Ord. 12, 5-10-1976, eff. 9-1-
1976; amd. Ord. 162, 9-1-2020)
3-3-11: SHIELDING REQUIREMENTS:
The following shielding requirements shall be required for all motor vehicle
wrecking facilities, unless specifically exempted by the board of county
commissioners at the time of issuance of a license. Any exemptions to these
shielding requirements should be placed on the face of the license issued.
   A.   Shielding Required: All junked vehicles or parts thereof, located at a
wrecking facility, should be shielded from public view. "Public view" is
defined as any point six feet (6') above the surface of the center of any
public road from which the wrecking facility and junked vehicles can be seen.
   B.   Shielding Barrier: Shielding refers to fencing or other manmade
barriers to conceal a facility from public view. It also refers to natural
barriers. Any shielding barrier must conform to all local zoning, planning,
building and protective provisions and any other legal restrictions that may be
in effect for each wrecking facility. If there is a conflict between the
requirements of this subsection and any of the above-mentioned restrictions,
the more stringent rule shall apply.
   C.   Height: Any shielding is to be of sufficient height that none of the
junked vehicles on the premises are visible from public view. This is not
intended to require that permanent buildings, other structures, utility poles,
cranes or derricks, or similar structures be shielded.
   D.   Materials: If a facility is on a hill or hillside, making it
impractical to construct a fence high enough to shield the yard, a series of
fences are to be used. Fences are to be constructed of sound materials. Lumber
or chain-link type metal fences with slats inserted are acceptable. Other types
of fencing of equivalent permanence, attractiveness, and shielding qualities
may also be acceptable. To preclude misunderstanding, prior approval should be
obtained for fences other than the two (2) types specifically approved above
(metal and wood fences). No more than one of the approved shielding materials
is to be used on one side of the facility. Other sides may use different
approved materials.
   E.   Exceptional Situations: It is realized that in certain situations a
motor vehicle wrecking facility cannot be successfully shielded from certain
viewpoints; for example, from an interstate highway located at a higher
elevation than the facility. In such instances, the county commissioners shall
decide if there is sufficient, substantial and acceptable compliance on a case
by case basis. If an applicant believes that their proposed shielding may not
satisfy these shielding requirements, they should seek an exception from those
specific requirements at the time of application.
   F.   Maintenance: Trees or shrubs used for shielding will be replaced when
dead, such replacement to be made the following planting season. The fencing is
to be maintained by the facility operator in a neat and workmanlike manner.
Damage by vandals or other causes is the risk of the operator and is not to be
reason for not maintaining compliance with these shielding requirements.
   G.   Signs: Fences used for shielding should not to be used as a billboard.
If otherwise lawful, a maximum of two (2) signs, not to exceed thirty-two (32)
square feet each, advertising the business conducted on the premises, may be
painted on or attached flush to the fence.
   H.   Compliance: Shielding of the motor vehicle wrecking facility is to be
accomplished as provided herein or until it is otherwise accepted by the board
of county commissioners before any subject license shall be issued.
   I.   Inspections: The facility must be made available to a county
representative designated by the board of county commissioners at all
reasonable business hours for inspection and evaluation.
   J.   County Rights Of Way: It shall constitute grounds for the county
commissioners to revoke any license issued hereunder if the licensee for any
motor vehicle wrecking facility shall not keep adjacent county road rights of
way free and clear of all obstructions which may be placed thereon by the
licensee or his agents and/or if the adjacent county road right of way is
utilized for business functions such as customer parking.
   K.   Streams, Rivers And Lakes; Hazard Or Nuisance Conditions: Storage of
vehicles and parts within the licensed facility must be a minimum of one
hundred feet (100') from any stream, river or lake and must not be in any
manner so as to provide a hazard to adjacent water quality. Nor should such
storage create a hazard or nuisance during a high water or flooding situation.
The provision of harborage of vectors and rodents so as to create a public
health hazard is also unacceptable. Should such conditions occur, the county,
by and through its designated agents, can require corrective action including
the removal for scrap of sufficient vehicles or parts so as to alleviate the
hazard.
   L.   Nonsalvageable Parts: All nonsalvageable nonmetallic parts (tires,
seals, etc.), must be hauled to an approved dumping site or be buried in an
approved section of the motor vehicle wrecking facility in compliance with all
other laws and regulations. The use of fire to remove nonmetallic materials
from metal parts shall be done only with the use of an air curtain destructor
or other device approved by the Idaho Department of Health and Welfare. (Ord.
12, 5-10-1976, eff. 9-1-1976; amd. Ord. 162, 9-1-2020)
3-3-12: PENALTY:
Any person engaged in the operation of a motor vehicle wrecking facility or who
stores four (4) or more junked vehicles within the county without first
procuring a license to conduct such activity shall be subject to penalty as
outlined below. Operating without a license from day to day shall constitute a
new and separate offense for each day.
   A.   A first violation of the provisions of this chapter shall constitute an
infraction and subject to a fine of one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00).
   B.   A second violation of the provisions of this chapter within a five (5)
year period shall constitute an infraction and subject to a fine of three
hundred dollars ($300.00).
   C.   A third violation of the provisions of this chapter within a ten (10)
year period shall constitute a misdemeanor and subject to a fine of one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) and six (6) months in jail. (Ord. 12, 5-10-1976,
eff. 9-1-1976; amd. 2001 Code; Ord. 162, 9-1-2020)
CHAPTER 4
DETECTIVE AGENCY; PRIVATE DETECTIVE
SECTION:
3-4-1: Definitions
3-4-2: License Required; Fee
3-4-3: Application
3-4-4: Bond
3-4-5: Records; Identification
3-4-6: Requirements
3-4-7: Employees
3-4-8: Unlawful Acts And Violations
3-4-9: Penalties
3-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
The words and phrases used herein, unless the context otherwise indicates,
shall have the following meanings:
DETECTIVE AGENCY: Any person who, as principal or employer, engages in or
advertises or holds himself out as being engaged in the private detective or
investigative business.
LICENSING AUTHORITY: Shoshone County through its board of county commissioners.
PRIVATE DETECTIVE: Any natural person of either sex who engages in, or who
advertises or holds himself out as being engaged in, the private detective
business as agent or employee of a duly licensed detective agency or for
himself. The words "private detective" shall not include those employed for the
limited purposes of night watchman or guard and involves no investigation in
the course of their duties.
PRIVATE DETECTIVE OR INVESTIGATIVE BUSINESS: The business of, or the
representation of being engaged in the business of, making investigation for
hire or reward, with reference to any of the following matters:
   A.   Detecting, discovering or revealing crime or criminals, or securing
secret information or evidence relating thereto;
   B.   Discovering or revealing the identity, whereabouts, character or
actions of any person or thing;
   C.   The habits, conduct, movements, whereabouts, associations,
transactions, reputations or character of any person, firm or corporation;
   D.   The credibility of witnesses or other persons;
   E.   The cause, origin or responsibility for fires or accidents or injuries
to persons or real or personal property;
   F.   The truth or falsity of any statement or representation;
   G.   The business of securing for hire or reward evidence to be used before
authorized investigating committees, boards, or in the trial of civil or
criminal cases.
Nothing in this chapter shall apply to any officer or employee of the united
states, any state, county, city or town, appointed or elected by due authority
of law when so employed by such governmental agency; to any person, firm or
corporation, whose business is the furnishing of information as to the business
and financial standing and credit of persons, firms or corporations; to any
person, firm, or corporation inquiring as to financial responsibilities of
applicants for insurance, indemnity bonds, or commercial credit; nor to any
business employing individuals as night watchmen or security guards hired to
prevent theft, fire or similar happenings solely to the employer's property.
SPECIAL DETECTIVE: Those employed as investigators or detectives on a part-time
or associated basis and shall be licensed as a private detective and under
valid agency license. (Ord. 28, 2-9-1982)
3-4-2: LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE:
   A.   Detective Agency License:
      1.   License Required; Bond: It shall be unlawful for any person to
engage in or to advertise or hold himself as a detective agency without first
having obtained and being the holder of a valid and subsisting license pursuant
to this chapter, to be known as a detective agency license and having on file
with the county commissioners a surety bond as required by section
3-4-4 of this chapter.
      2.   Fee: The fee for such detective agency license shall be, and hereby
is, fixed in the sum of one hundred dollars ($100.00) per annum.
      3.   Effective Date; Term: Such license shall be effective upon full
compliance with application procedures and requisites for application and
issuance from ten (10) days after date of application, unless refused by
licensing authority for cause, and valid thereafter for a period of one year to
date.
   B.   Private Detective License:
      1.   License Required: It shall be unlawful for any person, whether
licensed as a detective agency or not, to engage in the private detective
business or to act, or engage in business, as a private detective without first
obtaining and being the owner and holder of a valid and subsisting license so
to do, to be known as a private detective license.
      2.   Fee: The fee for which shall be and hereby is fixed in the sum of
twenty five dollars ($25.00) per annum.
      3.   Agency Number; Term: On such private detective license shall be
designated the number of the detective agency license by reason of which the
private detective license is issued, and such license shall be in force and
effect only so long as such person is possessed of, or is a member of a
partnership or officer of a corporation holding, or is employed by the holder
of such detective agency license.
      4.   Exception: This subsection B shall not apply to those employed by a
detective agency as night watchmen or guards to protect and watch property to
prevent theft, fire or similar happenings to property, and who engage in no
investigation as to theft, appropriation or concealment of property. (Ord. 28,
2-9-1982)
3-4-3: APPLICATION:
   A.   Detective Agency License:
      1.   Citizenship; Character; Age; Permanent Agency Address: No detective
agency license shall be issued to any applicant as an individual, partner,
agent for corporation or other unless he be a citizen of the United States, of
good moral character, twenty one (21) years of age and shall have designated a
permanent agency business address within the state to which all notices and
correspondence will be deemed effectively served when delivered, if in person,
or posted, if by mail.
      2.   Assumed Name: No license shall be issued to any detective agency
operating under an assumed name until proper filing of such assumed name has
been made.
      3.   Investigation Of Criminal Record: Applications for such licenses
shall be filed with the sheriff's office, who shall make inquiry as to the
criminal record of the person making application and shall report to the board
of county commissioners, who shall have the power to grant, refuse or revoke
such license.
      4.   Addresses:
         a.   Notice Of Change: Immediate notice of any change of address
required and given under this chapter by any applicant shall be made to the
sheriff's office in writing, and in no event later than three (3) days after
the change.
         b.   Branches Or Agencies: License holders shall keep the sheriff's
office informed of all addresses where branches, agencies or places of business
of the licensee are located within the county.
      5.   Individual; Partnership: If the applicant is an individual or
partnership, the application shall be signed and verified by such individual;
and if the applicant is a firm or partnership, the application shall be signed
and verified by each individual composing or intending to compose such firm or
partnership. The application shall state the full name, age, residence, social
security number, present and previous occupations and employers covering a
period of ten (10) years prior to such application, of each individual so
signing the same and shall show that he is a citizen of the United States. Each
applicant must be able to truly represent that he has not been convicted of any
felony or other crime which would be basis for refusal or revocation of a
license within this chapter.
      6.   Corporation: If the applicant is a corporation, the application
shall be signed and verified by the president and each officer thereof, and
additionally, if a foreign corporation, such application shall be accompanied
by a certificate signed by the proper officer of such corporation showing the
place and date of incorporation, a certified copy of its right to do business
in the state, and the name of its duly authorized local agent. An application
shall be signed and verified by such duly authorized local agent of such
corporation. The application shall state the name of such corporation, its home
office, and principal place of business in the county. Each of such officers,
local agents, or their successor, shall, prior to entering upon the discharge
of their duties, sign and verify like statements, approved in like manner, as
is prescribed by the foregoing subsection in the case of a single individual
member of a firm or partnership. In the event of the death, resignation or
removal of any such officer or agent, due notice of that fact shall forthwith
be given in writing to the sheriff's office. Each applicant must be able to
truly represent that he has not been convicted of any felony or other crime
which would be basis for refusal or revocation of a license within this
chapter.
      7.   Employees; Associates: Each detective agency license applicant and
licensee shall provide and maintain a current list of all persons who shall be
employed by or associated with such agency or who are required to be licensed
under subsection
3-4-2B of this chapter, to the county sheriff's office.
      8.   Individual Detective License: Each individual, partner, officer of a
corporation and agent of a firm engaged in private detective or investigative
business shall make individual and separate application for detective license.
   B.   Private Detective License:
      1.   Citizenship; Character; Age; Agency: No private detective license
shall be issued to any applicant unless he is a citizen of the United States,
of good moral character, twenty one (21) years of age and is authorized to
represent a private detective agency upon issuance of such private detective
license, and naming that agency and its license number.
      2.   Investigation Of Criminal Record; Investigation: Applications for
such licenses shall be filed with the sheriff's office, who shall make inquiry
as to criminal record of person making application and shall report to the
board of county commissioners, who shall have the power to grant, refuse or
revoke such license.
      3.   Address; Social Security Number: Application shall provide
applicant's current residence address and social security number and applicant
shall provide the county sheriff's office with notice of any change of such
address within three (3) days after change.
      4.   Signature; Verification: Application shall be signed and verified.
      5.   Fingerprints; Photograph: Each application shall be accompanied by
fingerprints of the applicant and a photograph of the applicant.
      6.   Character References: The application shall list the names of five
(5) persons who have knowledge of the applicant's character and integrity for
five (5) years previous to date of application.
      7.   Convictions: Each applicant must be able to truly represent that he
has not been convicted of any felony or other crime which would be a basis for
refusal or revocation of a license within this chapter. (Ord. 28, 2-9-1982)
3-4-4: BOND:
Each applicant shall execute and deliver to the board of county commissioners,
a bond with good and sufficient surety in the sum of one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) if a private or special detective, and in the sum of two thousand
five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) if a detective agency, conditioned upon the
faithful and honest conduct of such business by such applicant. Such bond shall
be taken in the name of the county, and any person who shall have been damaged
by the wilful, malicious, or wrongful act of such licensee may bring an action
on the bond in his name to recover damages suffered by reason of such wilful,
malicious, or wrongful act or violation of this chapter. (Ord. 28, 2-9-1982)
3-4-5: RECORDS; IDENTIFICATION:
   A.   Detective Agency: Every person required to be licensed under subsection
3-4-2A of this chapter shall keep a book containing the full name, place of
residence, address, complete and accurate description and history or record of
each person employed regularly or occasionally as a private or special
detective within the county. Each employee shall also be designated in such
book by his private detective license number. Upon the request of the sheriff
or of any person designated by him to inspect the same, the failure or refusal
to comply with such request, shall constitute cause for the revocation or
suspension of such agency license.
   B.   Private Detective: It shall be unlawful for any person to act as a
private detective within the county unless such person carries a valid license
identification card, as provided, upon his or her person while so acting, and
it shall be unlawful for any person to refuse to exhibit his or her
identification card upon demand or request. (Ord. 28, 2-9-1982)
3-4-6: REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Both Licenses Required: Any person operating as a sole proprietor or
partner in a business of private investigation or detective shall be required
to hold both such detective agency license and private detective license.
   B.   Contents Of License: Private detective license shall consist of an
identification card, including the picture of the applicant, his name,
residence, his signature, license number and the number and name of the agency
license holder, and the holder's thumb print, and authorized signature of
principal for agency license.
   C.   Transferability: No license granted under this chapter shall be
transferable in any manner to any person. (Ord. 28, 2-9-1982)
3-4-7: EMPLOYEES:
It shall be unlawful for any person who is or has been an employee of a
detective agency to divulge to any person, other than his employer, except as
his employer may direct and except as may be required by law, any information
acquired by him during such employment with respect to any of the work to which
he, or any other employee of such detective agency, shall have been assigned by
such detective agency or with respect to any of the work, business or affairs
of such detective agency. (Ord. 28, 2-9-1982)
3-4-8: UNLAWFUL ACTS AND VIOLATIONS:
   A.   Unlawful Acts: It shall be unlawful for any licensee under this chapter
to knowingly incite, encourage or aid in inciting or encouraging any person to
commit unlawful acts against the person or property of anyone, or for any
licensee to falsely state or represent that he is or has been a private
detective or employed by a detective agency, or for any licensee hereunder or
employee thereof to assume to act as an officer of the law without proper
authority.
   B.   Concealed Weapon: This chapter does not give authority for anyone to
carry a concealed weapon without having first secured a permit so to do from
the sheriff and such act of carrying a concealed weapon without a valid permit
shall constitute a violation of this chapter. (Ord. 28, 2-9-1982)
3-4-9: PENALTIES:
   A.   Misdemeanor: Violations of sections of this chapter shall constitute a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, such violator shall be subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code and automatic suspension of any license issued under this
chapter for six (6) months. (Ord. 28, 2-9-1982; amd. 2001 Code)
   B.   Violation Of Chapter: Any violation of this chapter shall be grounds
for revocation or suspension of any license granted under this chapter.
   C.   Conviction: Conviction of any felony or of a lesser crime involving
fraud, deceit, unlawful use of firearms, or any theft shall constitute grounds
for revocation of any license held under this chapter.
   D.   Revocation Of Agency License: Any violation of this chapter by a
private detective or special detective of a licensed agency shall constitute
grounds for revocation of such agency's license.
   E.   False Representations: Any false representations knowingly made in
application for any license shall constitute grounds for refusal or revocation
of such license.
   F.   Arrest: The arrest of a licensee for any crime within or without the
jurisdiction of the county shall constitute grounds for suspension of license
during pendency of criminal proceedings on such charge within the discretion of
the board of county commissioners. (Ord. 28, 2-9-1982)
TITLE 4
HEALTH AND SANITATION
CHAPTER 1
PUBLIC NUISANCES PROHIBITED AND CONDITIONS UNLAWFUL
SECTION:
4-1-1: Public Nuisances Prohibited And Conditions Unlawful
4-1-2: Terms Defined
4-1-3: Conditions Unlawful
4-1-4: Initiation Of Complaints
4-1-5: Inspection Of Premises
4-1-6: Notice To Abate
4-1-7: Owner To Abate Violation
4-1-8: Penalty For Failure To Abate Violation
4-1-9: Appeal, Time Limits For Filing, And Decision
4-1-10: Abatement Of Violations By County And Collection Of Costs
4-1-1: PUBLIC NUISANCES PROHIBITED AND CONDITIONS UNLAWFUL:
Pursuant to the authority conferred by Article 12, Section 2 of the Idaho
Constitution, and Idaho Code sections 31-714 and 31-801, the County does hereby
take action to declare certain conditions public nuisances upon all property
outside the incorporated limits of any municipal corporation, both public and
private, within the county limits, thereby requiring any owner, lessee,
occupant or any agent or representative of any such owner, lessee or occupant
having possession or control of any occupied or unoccupied lot or parcel of
land, to immediately remedy any conditions that violate the requirements of
this chapter or which constitute a nuisance pursuant to the provisions of Idaho
Code. (Ord. 160, 9-17-2019)
4-1-2: TERMS DEFINED:
The following terms shall have the following meanings when used in this
chapter, unless the context of their use indicates otherwise:
BRUSH PILE: An accumulation of cuttings or dead portions of trees, brush or shrubs placed in
            a pile or allowed to lay randomly on the ground.
COSTS:      The expense of removing, storing, destruction, or selling of discarded items.
            All buildings or portions thereof which present a risk or hazard to public
DANGEROUS   health, safety, or general welfare, as determined after inspection by the
BUILDING OR Building Official or other designated agent as defined in the International
STRUCTURE:  Building Code, the International Existing Building Code, and/or buildings or
            structures which meet criteria similar to that described in the 1997 Uniform
            Code for the Abatement of Dangerous Buildings.
ENFORCEMENT An agent or representative of the Shoshone County Sheriff or the Shoshone County
OFFICER:    Planning and Zoning Department as designated by the official action of the Board
            of County Commissioners.
GARBAGE:    Putrescible animal and vegetable wastes resulting from the handling, preparing,
            cooking, or consumption of food.
INOPERABLE: Incapable of being operated legally on a public highway, including, but not
            limited to, not having a valid, current registration.
            Any act, status, condition, substance or activity which is injurious to public
            health or safety, or is indecent, or offensive to the senses, or an obstruction
NUISANCE:   to the free use of property, so as to interfere with the comfortable enjoyment
            of life or property by an individual, by an entire community or neighborhood, or
            by any considerable number of persons, or those acts or conditions designated to
            be by any ordinance of the County of Shoshone or State Law.
            Any woody perennial plant which is allowed to grow in such a manner as to
NUISANCE    obscure any traffic visibility, any traffic sign, or encroach into a public
TREE OR     right of way in such a manner as to create a hazard to those using the right of
SHRUB:      way, or the existence of any dead or dying tree or shrub which creates a hazard
            to public safety or public property.
            Any vehicle that does not have lawfully affixed thereto a valid, current
            registered license plate, or is one or more of the following for over thirty
            (30) days:
            1.   Inoperable at the time of inspection;
NUISANCE    2.   Dismantled or partially dismantled;
VEHICLES:   3.   Junked;
            4.   Wrecked;
            5.   Abandoned.
            Discarded vehicles may be deemed to include major parts thereof, including but
            not limited to bodies, body parts, engines, engine components, transmissions and
            other drive train parts.
PERSON:     Any natural persons, firm, partnership, association, limited liability company,
            or corporation.
PUBLIC      A building, way, place, or accommodation, whether publicly or privately owned,
PLACE:      open and available to the general public.
            Putrescible and non-putrescible solid wastes (except body waste) including
REFUSE:     garbage, rubbish, ashes, street cleanings, dead animals, and solid market and
            industrial wastes.
            The person responsible for curing or remedying a nuisance, and includes:
            1.   The owner of the property, or the owner's manager, agent or other person in
            control of the property on behalf of the owner, as established by evidence
RESPONSIBLE gathered from the Enforcement Officer.
PARTY:      2.   The person controlling the property including bailee, lessee, tenant,
            occupant, or other person having possession or control;
            3.   The person who is alleged to have established or allowed the nuisance to
            continue.
            Non-putrescible solid waste consisting of both combustible wastes, including but
            not limited to, paper, wrappings, cardboard, tin, aluminum cans, yard clippings,
            leaves, dirt (other than natural soil, in place) wood, glass, bedding, crockery,
RUBBISH:    remnants of wood; decayed, weathered or broken construction materials which may
            no longer be suitable for safe or approved construction, worthless and useless
            articles which are in such a state or such a quantity as to be unsightly,
            against the general welfare, unhealthy, dangerous to persons or property, or so
            as to interfere with the abatement of weeds and similar materials.
VEGETATIVE  Scattered accumulation of dead portions of plant materials.
LITTER:
            Any device designed to move or propel persons or property or to be drawn upon a
            highway or street not including a device designed to be propelled or moved by
VEHICLE:    human power, such as wagons, tricycles, bicycles (excluding motorized bicycles),
            or to be used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks. This shall include
            recreational vehicles and/or motor homes.
VEHICLE     Any individual, firm, limited liability company, corporation, or association
OWNER:      with a claim, either individually or jointly of ownership or any interest, legal
            or equitable, in a vehicle.
            All uncultivated, unmown grasses, annual plants, perennial plants, noxious weeds
WEED:       as the same are defined by state statute and/or county code, and all other rank
            uncultivated vegetation over eight inches (8") tall, other than trees, shrubs,
            and cultivated plants, flowers and agricultural products. (Ord. 160, 9-17-2019)
 
4-1-3: CONDITIONS UNLAWFUL:
It shall be an unlawful for any owner, lessee, occupant and/or agent or
representative of any such owner, lessee, or occupant having control of any
occupied or unoccupied lot or parcel of land thereof to allow, permit or
maintain on any property, both public and private, or any adjacent public right
of way outside the incorporated limits of any municipal corporation, and within
the county limits, any of the following conditions:
   A.   The growth of weeds or unmown grass or the accumulation of overgrown
weeds, grass, brush, nuisance trees or shrubs, whether dead or living, over
eight inches (8") in height, with the exception of an actively operated compost
pile not generating nuisance odors.
   B.   Any tree, shrub or other plant material or any dead or dying tree or
shrub located on private property in the county which overhangs or intrudes
over or upon any public street, alley, avenue, roadway, sidewalk, traffic
intersection visibility triangle or traffic sign to such an extent that it
interferes with the safety of the traveling public or is a hazard or hindrance
to public safety or use of public property.
   C.   The accumulation and/or storage of abandoned, wrecked, dismantled,
inoperable or unlicensed vehicles including but not limited to recreational
vehicles or motor homes, or parts thereof.
   D.   The keeping, storage, or accumulation of garbage, refuse, rubbish,
building materials, unused furniture and appliances, junk, trash, or debris on
any property, which creates a condition tending to be injurious to public
health, safety, or the general welfare which shall include but is not limited
to those circumstances which reduce the value of surrounding private or public
property in the vicinity of the nuisance, and/or promotes deterioration, fire
hazards and/or constitutes an attractive nuisance creating a hazard to the
health and/or safety of minors, or is a harborage for rodents, insects,
unclaimed animals, and/or transients.
   E.   An animal carcass owned or controlled by him to remain upon public
property, or to be exposed on private property, for a period of time longer
than is necessary to remove and dispose of the carcass.
   F.   Allowing an excavation to remain unguarded by suitable barriers,
including amber warning lights during hours of darkness, installation and
operation of the amber warning lights shall be the responsibility of the person
creating, maintaining, or in charge of such obstruction.
   G.   A building or structure which exists in whole or in part in such a
condition so as to constitute a dangerous building that is injurious to the
public health, safety, or general welfare as defined herein. (Ord. 160, 9-17-
2019)
4-1-4: INITIATION OF COMPLAINTS:
Any person may file a complaint alleging a public nuisance by filing a written
complaint with the County Clerk or by reporting such matters to the Shoshone
County Sheriff's Department, or the Shoshone County Planning and Zoning
Department where there is reason to believe that a nuisance exists. To the
extent that a condition exists that can be readily observed by a law
enforcement officer or appropriate building official as a public nuisance
defined herein, action may be taken pursuant to this Code to enforce the same.
(Ord. 160, 9-17-2019)
4-1-5: INSPECTION OF PREMISES:
The Shoshone County Sheriff's Office, Building Official, or a designated
enforcement agent shall have the ability to enter onto the property to
determine by inspection whether such conditions exist that constitute a
violation of this chapter.
It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with any authorized staff
members or agent making an inspection permitted under this section. (Ord. 160,
9-17-2019)
4-1-6: NOTICE TO ABATE:
   A.   Whenever the County and/or its authorized agent finds that a violation
does exist pursuant to any provisions of this chapter, he or she may initiate
enforcement by giving notice as follows:
      1.   By posting an Abatement Warning Notice on the subject property; or
      2.   By certified, first class mail to the last known address of the
owner of record; or
      3.   By personally serving the notice upon the owner of record or an
occupant of the subject property, and if there is more than one owner of
record, by such mail or personal service to any one of such owners.
         a.   In the event the owner and/or occupant of the property is unknown
or his or her whereabouts is unknown, notice shall be given by a combination of
first-class mail and certified mail based upon the records of the county
assessor.
   B.   Such notice shall specify the violations required to be abated and the
manner and time limits by which the owner of the property is required to
achieve compliance.
   C.   In the event said owner and/or occupant fails to abate within the time
period specified in the Abatement Warning Notice, the County or its authorized
agent shall take appropriate action to issue a misdemeanor citation or sworn
criminal complaint to said property owner, lessee, occupant or any agent or
representative of any such owner, lessee or occupant having control of any
occupied or unoccupied lot or parcel of land or any part thereof. In the event
the owner or occupant of the property is unknown or his or her whereabouts is
unknown, law enforcement shall take appropriate action to obtain a criminal
complaint and issuance of a criminal summons, or arrest warrant. (Ord. 160, 9-
17-2019)
4-1-7: OWNER TO ABATE VIOLATION:
It shall be the duty of the owner of private property whose use constitutes a
violation of this chapter remove such violation immediately upon receipt of
Abatement Warning Notice from the County, in no case less than the time frame
stated in the Abatement Warning Notice, which shall provide at least ten (10)
days for performance unless the County by and through its agent grants an
extension, upon reasonable grounds. (Ord. 160, 9-17-2019)
4-1-8: PENALTY FOR FAILURE TO ABATE VIOLATION:
Any owner or other person notified to abate the public nuisance who shall fail
to do so and abate such violation within the time specific in the notice, shall
be deemed guilty a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be punishable by a
fine of up to five hundred dollars ($500.00) or by imprisonment for not more
than six (6) months in jail or both a fine and imprisonment.
In addition to any other penalty, the County may recover its costs of
abatement, including but not limited to attorney's fees and costs. Every day
such violation continues after the date specified in the notice shall
constitute a separate and distinct offense, punishable by a lawfully
appropriate penalty. (Ord. 160, 9-17-2019)
4-1-9: APPEAL, TIME LIMITS FOR FILING, AND DECISION:
If the property owner receiving notice to abate a violation of this chapter
contests the determination that a violation of this chapter exists, a written
appeal of the notice shall be filed with the County Clerk within ten (10) days
from the date of posting, mailing, or personal service of the required notice
to abate a violation. A time shall be scheduled for an appeal hearing with the
Board of County Commissioners, not less than ten (10) days nor more than
twenty-six (26) days thereafter. Any decision of the Board of County
Commissioners thereupon rendered shall be final and conclusive. (Ord. 160, 9-
17-2019)
4-1-10: ABATEMENT OF VIOLATIONS BY COUNTY AND COLLECTION OF COSTS:
In any case where a person required under this chapter does not abate the
violation, the County, through its own personnel, contractor and/or agents, may
enter upon the premises to take all necessary action to abate the identified
violation(s). The total cost of the abatement shall be billed to the owner of
the property for payment. In the event payment is not made within sixty (60)
days or if the owner or whereabouts of the owner is not known, the cost of
abatement may be certified and forwarded to the county treasurer for inclusion
in the county property tax assessment pursuant to Idaho Code. Pursuit of
abatement by the County shall not prohibit prosecution for violations of this
chapter. (Ord. 160, 9-17-2019)
CHAPTER 2
SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL
SECTION:
4-2-1: Short Title
4-2-2: Purpose
4-2-3: Definitions
4-2-4: General Applicability
4-2-5: Establishment Of Solid Waste Department
4-2-6: Establishment Of Solid Waste Fund
4-2-7: Rule Making Authority
4-2-8: System Use Required
4-2-9: Rights To And Ownership Of Waste Products
4-2-10: Scavenging And Salvaging At Solid Waste Sites
4-2-11: Permits For Municipal And Private Disposal Systems
4-2-12: Responsibilities Of Commercial Haulers And/Or Producers Of Commercial
Solid Waste
4-2-13: Improper Disposal At An Approved Disposal Site
4-2-14: Penalties And Remedies
4-2-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the SHOSHONE COUNTY SOLID WASTE ORDINANCE. (Ord.
117, 2-28-2001)
4-2-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter shall be to provide a framework for the solid waste
disposal system which operates now and will operate in the future within
Shoshone County. It is the intent of the board of county commissioners, through
enactment of this chapter, to exercise all powers granted to them in the field
of solid waste management by relevant provisions of the Idaho constitution and
the Idaho Code. (Ord. 117, 2-28-2001)
4-2-3: DEFINITIONS:
The terms listed in this section shall have the meanings set forth herein,
throughout this chapter:
PERSON: Any person, corporation, partnership, association, firm, or other
business or nonprofit entity.
SOLID WASTE: All matter or substances in either solid or liquid form which have
been, or are intended to be, abandoned or discarded by their owner or possessor
on private or public lands and as such may be additionally defined in the Idaho
Code.
SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL SYSTEM: All lands, sites, facilities, equipment, and
manpower, necessary or used for, the collection, transportation, storage,
treatment, processing, reuse, recycling, or other means necessary for the
handling and disposal of solid waste. Said system shall include all approved
public and private disposal sites and approved system components in existence
at the time of adoption of the ordinance codified in this chapter and as
approved subsequent to the adoption of the ordinance codified in this chapter.
SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL SYSTEM COMPONENT: Any public or privately owned site,
collection location, disposal facility, transportation element, or other
functioning part of the solid waste disposal system for Shoshone County where
one or more phase of solid waste disposal is carried out by one or more
persons. Component shall not include the solid waste receptacle provided by a
commercial solid waste hauler or generator for use by a single business,
customer, or client, unless said receptacle is to be removed from the site
where it regularly rests for transportation to or emptying at another location.
(Ord. 117, 2-28-2001)
4-2-4: GENERAL APPLICABILITY:
From the date of approval and publication of the ordinance codified in this
chapter as required by law, all solid waste generated within Shoshone County
and all solid waste generated elsewhere, but proposed or destined for disposal
within Shoshone County, shall comply with the standards and procedures set
forth herein. All solid wastes shall be managed, whether during storage,
collection, transfer, transport, processing, separation, incineration,
composting, treatment, reuse, recycling or disposal, to prevent health hazards,
public nuisances, or pollution of the environment. This chapter does not
regulate discharges into the waters of Shoshone County, except as those
discharges are not governed by state and federal law. (Ord. 117, 2-28-2001)
4-2-5: ESTABLISHMENT OF SOLID WASTE DEPARTMENT:
There is hereby established a Shoshone County solid waste department which is
subject to direct supervision by the board of county commissioners. The board
of county commissioners may delegate responsibility for the operation of the
department to an employee selected by the board. Said employee shall be
designated as Shoshone County solid waste director and shall be responsible for
the day to day operations of the Shoshone County solid waste department under
the supervision of the board of commissioners. The department shall be
responsible for carrying out the terms of this chapter and for implementing the
solid waste policies adopted by the board. The department shall perform such
duties as are necessary to operate the waste disposal system in Shoshone
County. Said duties shall include maintaining liaison with local, state, and
federal regulatory agencies on behalf of the board of county commissioners.
The scope of authority to be exercised by the board of county commissioners
through creation of the solid waste department is intended to extend as far as
allowed by the Idaho constitution and by the statutes empowered and requiring
counties to be responsible for solid waste disposal within their jurisdiction,
including, but not limited to, Idaho Code, title 31, chapter 44. (Ord. 117, 2-
28-2001)
4-2-6: ESTABLISHMENT OF SOLID WASTE FUND:
For the purpose of financing the operation of the solid waste department, there
is hereby created a solid waste fund to be maintained as a separate fund within
the Shoshone County budget. This fund shall support all activities made
necessary for the continued operation of the solid waste system in Shoshone
County. The board of county commissioners may, by resolution, establish special
accounts within the solid waste fund for stated purposes to meet anticipated
operational needs of the solid waste system as it deems necessary and proper.
The board of commissioners may choose from the various revenue options made
available to counties to support solid waste activities as outlined in Idaho
Code section 31-4404 and elsewhere. User fees may be charged to real property
owners and other system users as the board of commissioners deems necessary to
support solid waste system operation. In accord with the provisions of this
chapter, the board of commissioners may establish fees at any time through
passage of a resolution setting forth the fees to be charged for the system.
Said fee resolution may be amended at any time to accommodate changes in the
fee system and operating policies deemed appropriate by the board of
commissioners. A resolution establishing fees shall remain in full force and
effect until subsequently repealed or amended. All previously adopted
resolutions of the board of commissioners not inconsistent with terms of this
chapter are hereby ratified, approved and confirmed.
If taxes are ever to be levied for support of the solid waste system, the rate
shall be established through the annual budget process and certified to the
state tax commission as required by law. (Ord. 117, 2-28-2001)
4-2-7: RULE MAKING AUTHORITY:
The board of commissioners shall have authority to adopt and implement rules
necessary for operation of the Shoshone County solid waste system. Said rules
may be adopted by resolution by the board of commissioners and may be enforced
by imposition of additional fees and charges to cover costs incurred through
noncompliance and/or by such other administrative remedies as the board of
commissioners deems appropriate in the circumstances. (Ord. 117, 2-28-2001)
4-2-8: SYSTEM USE REQUIRED:
From the effective date hereof, no person shall discard or dispose of solid
waste in Shoshone County except by approved use of the Shoshone County solid
waste system. The system shall consist of all components of the disposal and
collection system operated by Shoshone County, the collection and disposal
systems operated by cities within the county, and such private disposal systems
as may comply with permitting requirements established by this chapter and
applicable state and federal regulations. (Ord. 117, 2-28-2001)
4-2-9: RIGHTS TO AND OWNERSHIP OF WASTE PRODUCTS:
Upon delivery of solid waste to an approved disposal site, all rights of
ownership and exclusive possession to lawfully deposited solid waste shall vest
in Shoshone County or in the owner of the site, if the site is not county
owned. Any waste disposal sites provided by contractors who collect or haul
solid waste pursuant to contracts with the county shall be considered county
operated sites for purposes of this section and ownership of solid waste
lawfully deposited and delivered to any such site shall vest in Shoshone
County. Shoshone County reserves the right to authorize recycling of materials
in the waste stream in accordance with standards and conditions to be set by
the board of commissioners. Hazardous or improperly handled wastes shall remain
in the ownership of their prior possessor until they are disposed of in
compliance with this chapter and other applicable laws and regulations. (Ord.
117, 2-28-2001)
4-2-10: SCAVENGING AND SALVAGING AT SOLID WASTE SITES:
No person shall scavenge or attempt to salvage materials from waste delivered
to or deposited at a solid waste disposal site without the authorization of the
solid waste director. Nor shall any such party interfere or intercede in any
way with the lawful activities of residents of the county or disposal system
users who are delivering or depositing solid waste for disposal at an approved
solid waste site or with commercial haulers or county employees who are
removing or handling waste which has been deposited at an approved disposal
site. For purposes of this chapter, a solid waste disposal site shall include
any landfill, transfer station or other disposal facility and any land upon
which containers are placed for public disposal of solid waste, whether said
land is publicly owned or is provided by a contractor performing pursuant to an
agreement with Shoshone County. No person shall act in violation of the posted
regulations at any approved solid waste disposal site. No person shall dispose
of waste at a county operated disposal system component without having paid
his/her solid waste fees or other obligations on a current basis.
Any person who violates any provisions of this section shall be deemed to have
violated this chapter and shall be subject to the provisions of the penalties
and remedies section of this chapter. (Ord. 117, 2-28-2001)
4-2-11: PERMITS FOR MUNICIPAL AND PRIVATE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS:
No person shall operate a solid waste disposal system component without a
permit, properly issued by the board of county commissioners. This requirement
shall not apply to a municipal corporation operating a disposal system for its
residents, wholly within its own corporate limits.
Permits may be granted for operation of waste disposal system components upon
compliance with the procedural standards set forth in this chapter and its
attendant rules and upon compliance with applicable rules for disposal sites
and practices adopted by the board of commissioners and appropriate state and
federal agencies. Permit applicants shall bear full responsibility for showing
compliance with the standards applicable to their proposed operation of a solid
waste disposal system component. Fees may be charged for permit issuance as
established by resolution of the board of county commissioners.
No person shall dispose of solid waste within Shoshone County at a location not
approved for disposal by Shoshone County and state and federal regulatory
agencies unless a prior exemption has been granted in accordance with rules
adopted by the board of county commissioners. To obtain a permit for operation
of a disposal site, the applicant must show that it meets at least the
following criteria:
   A.   That the site proposed complies with requirements of the Shoshone
County zoning ordinance and other applicable land use regulations of the
county.
   B.   That the site has been reviewed and approved as an appropriate location
for a solid waste disposal site by the Panhandle health district and any state
or federal agency with jurisdiction.
   C.   That an operations plan for use and closure of the site has been
approved by the Panhandle health district and any state or federal agency
having jurisdiction.
   D.   That any private site operator has posted a performance bond to
guarantee adequate financial resources to assure proper operation and closure
of the site.
   E.   That operation and closure will comply with any regulations adopted by
Shoshone County regarding the operation of solid waste disposal sites.
   F.   That the operator has provided adequate safeguards to see that no
hazardous wastes, as such are classified by county, state or federal
regulations, are to be disposed of in the solid waste disposal site. (Ord. 117,
2-28-2001)
4-2-12: RESPONSIBILITIES OF COMMERCIAL HAULERS AND/OR PRODUCERS OF COMMERCIAL
SOLID WASTE:
Any person who engages in collection, hauling, or disposal of solid waste
within Shoshone County or who generates solid waste as result of commercial or
industrial activities shall comply with the provisions of this chapter and any
regulations adopted pursuant to authority established by this chapter.
Any commercial hauler that provides dumpsters or similar receptacles to
customers for the collection of solid waste shall report all extra collections
in excess of one cubic yard.
Extra collections are those that are over and above their normally scheduled
dumpster collections. Reporting is to be made by the tenth of the month
following the extra collections on forms provided by Shoshone County solid
waste department.
Any commercial hauler that provides dumpsters or similar receptacles to
customers for the collection of solid waste shall report all dumpster
additions, deletions and dumping frequency changes on forms provided by
Shoshone County solid waste department by the tenth of the month following the
additions, deletions or frequency changes.
Failure of solid waste collectors, haulers and/or commercial solid waste
generators to comply with regulations implemented to carry out responsibilities
established by this chapter may result in imposition of a surcharge on fees
charged to the hauler for use of county operated disposal facilities. Such
failure shall also be considered a violation of this chapter, subject to all
penalties and remedies otherwise prescribed herein and in Idaho Code section
31-4410. (Ord. 117, 2-28-2001)
4-2-13: IMPROPER DISPOSAL AT AN APPROVED DISPOSAL SITE:
Any person who deposits or disposes of any hazardous or otherwise dangerous
waste matter at, or provides for delivery of same to an approved solid waste
disposal site, shall be liable for the full costs of controlling and
eliminating any posed health hazard and/or properly disposing of said dangerous
materials, as may be incurred by Shoshone County or any other public agency.
(Ord. 117, 2-28-2001)
4-2-14: PENALTIES AND REMEDIES:
Violation of the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to the following
penalties and/or remedies:
   A.   Civil Responsibility For Violation: To obtain compliance with the
requirements of this chapter, Shoshone County may initiate civil action in a
court of competent jurisdiction. Said action may be either legal or equitable
in nature and may seek any remedy deemed appropriate by the board of county
commissioners or otherwise authorized by Idaho Code section 31-4410 to carry
out the purpose of this chapter.
   B.   Criminal Misdemeanor Liability: Any violation of this chapter shall be
considered a misdemeanor subject to punishment to the maximum allowed by Idaho
Code section 18-113 or its successor. A separate violation shall be deemed to
have occurred for each action committed in violation of this chapter and for
each day that a violation has been delivered to the alleged violator. The
penalty provisions of Idaho Code section 31-4410 are incorporated into this
section and are made a part of it as if set forth fully herein. (Ord. 117, 2-
28-2001)
CHAPTER 3
SEPTIC SYSTEM APPROVAL
SECTION:
4-3-1: Approval Required; Exception
4-3-2: Site Approval Required
4-3-3: Energizing Power Restricted
4-3-1: APPROVAL REQUIRED; EXCEPTION:
From and after the date of passage hereof, no building permit shall be issued
for the construction of any new building or new structure designed for human
habitation, or the addition of bedrooms to existing habitable structures in the
county unless a septic permit or septic approval has first been issued by the
regional health district official, and a copy of such permit is recorded with
the building permit application. This section does not apply to structures on a
public sewer system. (Ord. 108, 7-21-1997)
4-3-2: SITE APPROVAL REQUIRED:
From and after the date of passage hereof, no new septic permit shall be issued
by the regional health district official for any lot without site approval from
the county building official. (Ord. 108, 7-21-1997)
4-3-3: ENERGIZING POWER RESTRICTED:
No habitable living structure shall be energized until an approved county
building permit has been presented, by the applicant, to the power company
involved. (Ord. 108, 7-21-1997)
CHAPTER 4
NOXIOUS WEEDS
SECTION:
4-4-1: Shoshone County Noxious Weed Ordinance
4-4-2: Definitions
4-4-3: Noxious Weeds Declared Unlawful
4-4-4: Cost Of Controlling County Noxious Weeds
4-4-5: Prevention Of Entry And Dissemination Of Noxious Weeds And Unknown
Plants
4-4-6: Construction/Contractor Preventative Measures
4-4-7: Equipment And Materials
4-4-8: Funds
4-4-9: County Weed Advisory Committee
4-4-10: Designation Of County Noxious Weeds And Action Plans
4-4-1: SHOSHONE COUNTY NOXIOUS WEED ORDINANCE:
This chapter is enacted pursuant to authority conferred by article 12, section
2, Idaho Constitution, and sections 31-714, 31-801, 22-2405, 22-2409, Idaho
Code, as may be amended or retitled from time to time.
The purpose of this chapter is to: provide a means to reduce the likelihood of
non-native plant species (i.e.: potential invaders) to be introduced and become
established; prevent or limit the spread of existing invaders and established
non-invasive plant species into areas with few or no infestations, and/or into
areas where the potential to harm ecological, social, or economic values is
high; encourage beneficial native vegetation and weed resistant plant
communities; and provide a means to identify, designate and control weeds
within the County not previously designated as noxious by Idaho State
Department of Agriculture, but which have the potential to cause injury to the
public welfare. Those weeds are referred to herein as "County noxious weeds".
The goal is to conduct a coordinated effort to implement County and State weed
regulations via education, mechanical, biological, cultural, and chemical
control efforts for the benefit of Shoshone County, its residents, land owners
and neighbors. This chapter shall be implemented in accordance with Idaho State
Statutes title 22, chapter 24. (Ord. 154, 10-4-2016)
4-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, unless specified otherwise herein:
COMMISSIONERS: The Board of County Commissioners.
COUNTY: Shoshone County, State of Idaho.
COUNTY NOXIOUS WEED: Any non-native kind or species of plant or propagule
thereof having the potential to cause injury to public welfare, including, but
not limited to: health, crops, livestock, land or other property; and for which
it is feasible to devote County resources for purposes of eradication,
prevention or otherwise protecting the County or part thereof from infestation
by such weed, and which is designated as noxious by the Board of County
Commissioners, but does not refer to weeds declared noxious by rules and
regulations promulgated under the authority of Idaho Code title 22, chapter 24.
EARLY DETECTION, RAPID RESPONSE (EDRR): Plants in this category must be
reported to the Idaho State Department of Agriculture (ISDA) within ten (10)
days after being identified at the University of Idaho or by another qualified
authority approved by the ISDA Director. Eradication of these weeds must begin
in the same season they are found.
LAND: All soil or water or other growing media.
NON-NATIVE: Any plant species determined by reference as non-native to
standard, recognized scientific documents such as "Flora of the Pacific
Northwest".
SPECIAL MANAGEMENT ZONE: An area wherein the requirements of this chapter to
control certain named County noxious weeds may be suspended or modified in any
other way.
STATE NOXIOUS WEED: Non-native plant or propagule appearing on the Idaho
Noxious Weed List. Idaho's noxious weeds are plant species that have been
designated "noxious" by law in the Idaho Code title 22, chapter 24.
WEED CONTROL: Any and all of the following: prevention, eradication or
containment. (Ord. 154, 10-4-2016)
4-4-3: NOXIOUS WEEDS DECLARED UNLAWFUL:
It is unlawful for any landowner to knowingly maintain noxious weeds on their
land or property within Shoshone County. (Ord. 154, 10-4-2016)
4-4-4: COST OF CONTROLLING COUNTY NOXIOUS WEEDS:
   A.   Costs: The duty, responsibility and cost of controlling noxious weeds
on private land within Shoshone County shall be the obligation of the private
land owner in accordance with this chapter. On other land, the cost of control
of noxious weeds shall be the obligation of the entity or organization that has
the authority to set management and maintenance revenue for the land. In the
case of departments which have the responsibilities for roads, highways,
airports, fairgrounds, landfills and any other lands, it shall be the
responsibility of the respective departments to budget for the control of
noxious weeds from their general maintenance and operation accounts. (Ord. 154,
10-4-2016)
4-4-5: PREVENTION OF ENTRY AND DISSEMINATION OF NOXIOUS WEEDS AND UNKNOWN
PLANTS:
   A.   Noxious Weeds: To prevent the entry and dissemination of noxious weeds
through any article, including machinery, equipment, plants, materials and
other things, the Commissioners shall, from time to time, publish a list of
articles capable of disseminating noxious weeds, and designate treatment of
such articles as, in their opinion, would prevent such dissemination. Until
such article is treated in accordance with the written permission of the
Commissioners, the Commissioners may hold or prevent its movement from such
premises. The movement of any such article that has not been so treated, except
in accordance with such written permission, may be stopped by the Commissioners
and further movement of disposition shall only be in accordance with the
Commissioners' direction.
   B.   Unknown Plants: No plant, including seed or other propagules, shall be
transported within or admitted into the County without accurate taxonomic
identification (as to species by either Latin name or by common name listed in
locally available standard reference works). All such plants shall be
automatically and immediately designated County noxious weeds until their
taxonomic identities are verified.
   C.   Genus: No plant, including seed or other propagules that is included in
the genus of an Idaho or County noxious weed shall be sold or planted in the
County including, but not limited to the "broom" species Cytisus, Spartium,
Chamaecytisus and Genista genera, including all hybrid brooms of these genera.
(Ord. 154, 10-4-2016)
4-4-6: CONSTRUCTION/CONTRACTOR PREVENTATIVE MEASURES:
   A.   The construction contractor shall take the following measures to
minimize the risk of noxious weed spread when working on Shoshone County
sponsored projects utilizing "Latest Date Performance Standards".
      1.   Contact: The contractor shall contact the County Weed Superintendent
prior to starting work in each area to discuss specific noxious weed concerns
and requirements. Shoshone County Weed Superintendent, 700 Bank Street, Ste.
35, Wallace, ID 83873 (208)753-5475.
      2.   Construction Techniques:
         a.   Ground disturbance shall be minimized by the use of the least
intrusive construction techniques practicable for a given location. Off right-
of-way travel will be strictly controlled.
         b.   The contractor shall avoid unnecessary scraping or blading
vegetation whenever possible.
         c.   The contractor shall avoid transporting soil contaminated with
noxious weeds.
         d.   Hay and straw used for mulching shall be certified by the State
as free of any noxious weeds.
      3.   Vehicle Washing:
         a.   The contractor shall wash vehicles after crossing through areas
of known weed infestations as dictated by County Weed Superintendent.
         b.   The contractor shall wash vehicles and construction equipment
prior to entering Shoshone County.
         c.   The contractor shall wash vehicles periodically during
construction. Frequency of washing will depend on frequency of weed populations
encountered as determined by the County Weed Superintendent.
         d.   The contractor shall wash all vehicles when leaving construction
areas.
      4.   Revegetation:
         a.   The contractor shall use approved seed mixes for revegetation as
dictated by the County Weed Superintendent.
         b.   The contractor shall revegetate disturbed areas within seven (7)
days of completion or as directed by the County Weed Superintendent.
         c.   The contractor shall use weed-free, native seed mixes for
revegetation. No State or County noxious weed shall be included in revegetation
seed mixes.
         d.   The contractor shall confer with the County Weed Superintendent
to determine appropriate seed mixes. The contractor shall use mixes or species
recommended by agency personnel within each weed district where available.
Native species shall be used except in cases where non-persistent exotic
species are preferable in order to establish vegetative cover quickly.
         e.   The contractor shall seed all disturbed areas with seed mixtures.
The seed mixture shall be planted in the amounts specified in pounds of pure
live seed (PLS/acre). There shall be no primary or secondary noxious weed seed
in the seed mixture. Seed shall be tested and the viability testing of seed
shall be done in accordance with State law(s) and within nine (9) months prior
to purchase. Commercial seed shall be either certified or registered seed. The
seed mixture container shall be tagged in accordance with State law(s) and
available for inspection by the County Weed Superintendent. If a drill is used,
the drill shall be equipped with a depth regulator to ensure proper depth of
planted seed where drilling is possible. The seed mixture shall be evenly and
uniformly planted over the disturbed area (smaller/ heavier seeds have a
tendency to drop to the bottom of the drill and are planted first). The
contractor shall take appropriate measure to ensure this does not happen. Seed
may be broadcasted if needed. When broadcasting the seed, the pounds per acre
are to be doubled. Broadcast seed will be harrowed or raked into the soil. The
seeding shall be repeated until a satisfactory stand is established as
determined by the County Weed Superintendent. Evaluation of growth will not be
made before completion of the second growing season after seeding. (Ord. 154,
10-4-2016)
4-4-7: EQUIPMENT AND MATERIALS:
The Commissioners may sell materials for purposes of this chapter to persons
owning or controlling land under their jurisdiction and may loan, rent or
otherwise make available to others the use of machinery, equipment and
operators as they deem necessary for the control of noxious weeds. The cost
shall be charged at the retail value for such material, machinery, other
equipment and operators. All funds received shall be deposited to the County
Noxious Weed Fund. (Ord. 154, 10-4-2016)
4-4-8: FUNDS:
Monies received by the County under this chapter shall be apportioned to the
County Noxious Weed Fund, which is hereby created and established as a
dedicated fund and which shall be used exclusively for noxious weed control/
education. (Ord. 154, 10-4-2016)
4-4-9: COUNTY WEED ADVISORY COMMITTEE:
   A.   Established Membership:
      1.   The Commissioners shall appoint a County Weed Control Advisory
Committee consisting of not less than five (5) members, who shall be
knowledgeable of noxious weeds and the damage done by such weeds. The members
of the County Weed Advisory Committee shall be appointed for terms of two (2)
years, and the appointments shall be staggered so that not more than three (3)
members' terms may expire in any year.
      2.   It shall be the duty and responsibility of the County Weed Advisory
Committee to meet at least once in each calendar year to review and report on
the status of the County noxious weed program and this chapter to the
Commissioners, to consult with and advise the Commissioners and the County Weed
Superintendent in implementation of this chapter and planning County noxious
weed control programs, and to provide a forum for public input on matters
relating to the control of noxious weeds.
      3.   The County Weed Advisory Committee shall be a political subdivision
within the meaning of section 6-902, Idaho Code. (Ord. 154, 10-4-2016)
4-4-10: DESIGNATION OF COUNTY NOXIOUS WEEDS AND ACTION PLANS:
   A.   Designation: Any County resident may submit to the Commissioners a
request for County noxious weed designation of a species if such request is in
writing and includes reasons and a proposed plan for County action on such
species. All non-native plant species reliably reported to exist in the County,
and all requests for County noxious weed designation, must be considered by the
County Weed Advisory Committee for recommendation for County noxious weed
designation to the Commissioners within six (6) months of request or
recommendation to either the Commissioners or the County Weed Advisory
Committee. Records of all such considerations must be maintained on permanent
file by the Commissioners.
   B.   Action Plans: Every species for which County noxious weed designation
is deemed feasible, including species considered for temporary designation,
shall be designated a County noxious weed only upon recommendation including
reasons and a written plan for County action to control such species. This
report will include clear designation of any Special Management Zones, from the
County Weed Advisory Committee and subsequent approval by the Commissioners.
County noxious weeds under this chapter shall be designated by a separate
resolution of the Commissioners, and shall be listed by both common and
scientific names. Any species designated noxious pursuant to this chapter shall
automatically and immediately become no longer designated under this chapter if
and when that species is designated noxious under Idaho Code. (Ord. 154, 10-4-
2016)
TITLE 5
PUBLIC SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER TRAINING
SECTION:
5-1-1: Peace Officer Training
5-1-1: PEACE OFFICER TRAINING:
The county will adhere to the standards for employment and training established
by the Idaho Peace Officer Standards and Training Advisory Council. (Ord. 8, 6-
24-1974; amd. 2001 Code)
CHAPTER 2
MINORS
SECTION:
5-2-1: Runaways
5-2-1: RUNAWAYS:
   A.   Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of
eighteen (18) years, living or found in the county to attempt to run away or to
run away from his parents, guardian or other legal custodian.
   B.   Encouraging, Aiding Or Causing Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any
person by any act or neglect to encourage, aid or cause any person under the
age of eighteen (18) years to come within the purview of subsection A of this
section. (Ord. 5, 1-14-1974)
   C.   Penalty:
      1.   Violation By Minor: Violation of this section, by a minor, shall be
prosecuted under the Juvenile Corrections Act 1 , such act being incorporated
in its entirety in this section.
      2.   Violation By Adult: Any person not a minor, violating the provisions
of this section, shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 5, 1-14-1974; amd. 2001 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. I.C. title 20, chapter 5.
CHAPTER 3
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
5-3-1: Authority
5-3-2: Purpose
5-3-3: Definitions
5-3-4: Enforcement
5-3-5: Prohibited Acts
5-3-6: Impoundment
5-3-7: Disposition Of Unclaimed Or Defective Animals
5-3-8: Animals Used In Law Enforcement
5-3-9: Penalty
5-3-1: AUTHORITY:
This chapter is authorized by sections 31-714 and 18-113 of the Idaho Code.
(Ord. 76, 10-3-1994)
5-3-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to promote the public health, safety, general
welfare, peace, good order, comfort and convenience of the county and the
inhabitants in all unincorporated areas of the county. (Ord. 76, 10-3-1994)
5-3-3: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
AT LARGE: The animal is off the premises of its owner or keeper and upon any
public street, highway or grounds or upon private property other than the
private property of the owner or without the property owner's consent. However,
an animal shall not be deemed "at large" if it is controlled by means of a
leash or chain, not to exceed eight feet (8') in length or is under control by
the verbal commands of a competent person, whether owner or agent.
DOG: All domesticated members of canis familiaris, male or female.
DOGS USED IN LAW ENFORCEMENT: Neither Shoshone County nor the state of Idaho or
any city in Shoshone County, nor any peace officer employed by any of them,
shall be liable in damages for injury committed by a dog when:
   A.   The dog has been trained to assist in law enforcement; and
   B.   The injury occurs while the dog is reasonably and carefully being used
in the apprehension, arrest or location of a suspected offender or in
maintaining or controlling the public order.
NUISANCE DOG OR ANIMAL: Persons who keep or harbor any animal or dog whose
frequent habitual howling, yelping or barking, annoys or disturbs any person or
neighborhood, by creating and maintaining a nuisance, may be cited.
OWNER: Any person, firm or corporation or their agent, owning or keeping any
dog or wild animal, or the occupant of any premises on which a dog or animal
customarily resides, shall be considered to be the owner or keeper of the
animal.
VICIOUS:
   A.   Any animal which, when unprovoked, in a vicious or terrorizing manner,
approaches any person in an apparent attitude of attack upon the streets,
sidewalks, any public grounds, places or private property not owned or
possessed by the owner of the animal; or
   B.   Any animal with a known propensity, tendency or disposition to attack,
unprovoked, to cause injury or to otherwise endanger the safety of human beings
or domestic animals; or
   C.   Any animal which bites, inflicts injury, assaults or otherwise attacks
a human being or domestic animal without provocation; or
   D.   Any animal owned or harbored, primarily or in part, for the purpose of
fighting or an animal trained for fighting.
Notwithstanding the definition of a vicious animal above, no animal may be
declared vicious if the injury or damage is sustained by a person who was
committing a wilful trespass or other tort upon the premises occupied by the
owner of the animal, or was teasing, tormenting, abusing or assaulting the
animal, or was committing or attempting to commit a crime, or if the animal was
protecting or defending a human being within the immediate vicinity of the
animal from an unjustified attack or assault. (Ord. 76, 10-3-1994; amd. 2001
Code)
5-3-4: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Duty: It shall be the duty of the sheriff and all officers under his
authority to enforce this chapter.
   B.   Interference: It shall be unlawful for any person to hinder or molest
any law enforcement officer or animal control officer who may be engaged in
seizing, keeping or removing any animal in conformity with the provision of
this chapter. (Ord. 76, 10-3-1994)
5-3-5: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   Dogs:
      1.   Running At Large: It shall be unlawful for any person to allow any
dog to run at large.
      2.   Howling, Yelping Or Barking: Any person who keeps or harbors any dog
which, by frequent or habitual howling, yelping or barking, annoys or disturbs
any person or neighborhood, creates and maintains a nuisance may be cited.
(Ord. 76, 10-3-1994; amd. 2001 Code)
   B.   Vicious Animals:
      1.   Keeping Or Harboring:
         a.   Prohibited: No person shall keep or harbor within the county any
animal known to be vicious. The term "vicious" shall be as defined in section
5-3-3 of this chapter.
         b.   Designation As Dangerous: No animal shall be designated vicious
unless the county has received a complaint, either orally or in writing, from a
person about the vicious tendencies of the dog and the completion of an
investigation by an officer.
         c.   Continuing Violation: Each day such animal is kept or harbored
after the owner or keeper has received notice by registered mail from the
sheriff to remove the dog from the county shall be deemed a separate violation
of this subsection.
      2.   Running At Large: Any vicious animal found running at large shall be
impounded in a safe and suitable place. The deputy or other officer shall make
a complete report entering breed, color, sex of each animal and record any
license or identification number on the report. (Ord. 76, 10-3-1994)
5-3-6: IMPOUNDMENT:
   A.   Notice To Owner: Not later than one day after the impounding of any
animal the owner, if known, shall be notified by telephone or mail, or if the
owner is unknown, written notice shall be posted at the sheriff's office
describing the animal and the place of taking.
   B.   Redemption: The owner of any animal impounded may reclaim such animal
upon payment of all costs and charges incurred for the seizing, impounding,
feeding, boarding, returning or disposal of such animal. (Ord. 76, 10-3-1994;
amd. 2001 Code)
   C.   Rabies Testing: Provided, however, in the event that any animal is
being held for rabies testing, that animal may be held by the county until the
results of the tests are made available to the county. The owner may then
redeem the animal by paying all costs described above including any costs
incident to rabies testing.
   D.   Alternative To Impoundment; Costs: The county, in its discretion, may
also return any animal to the premises of the lawful owner and the owner shall
nevertheless be responsible for all costs incurred up to the date of returning
such animal. If payment is not received, in the event that the county elects to
utilize such procedure, payment shall be made within ten (10) days of the date
of mailing or delivering of any notice itemizing such costs. The county may, at
its election, then commence lawsuit for collection of such costs and shall then
be allowed reasonable attorney fees for any action brought on its behalf. (Ord.
76, 10-3-1994)
5-3-7: DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED OR DEFECTIVE ANIMALS:
All animals apprehended and impounded as provided in this chapter shall be held
for five (5) days. At the end of the expiration of five (5) days from the date
of notice to the owner or the posting notice, such animal has not been
redeemed, it may either be destroyed or sold to any citizen. Any dog or other
animal which appears to be suffering from rabies or afflicted with mange or any
other infectious or dangerous disease or found to be injured may not be
released but may be destroyed. (Ord. 76, 10-3-1994; amd. 2001 Code)
5-3-8: ANIMALS USED IN LAW ENFORCEMENT:
This chapter shall not apply to the county, any municipal corporation or law
enforcement agency located therein, who may enlist the use of dogs to enforce
the laws of the county, state or the United States of America. (Ord. 76, 10-3-
1994)
5-3-9: PENALTY:
   A.   Violation: It is unlawful for any person to violate the provisions of
this chapter. Violations shall be deemed a misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof, the violator shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 76, 10-3-1994; amd. 2001 Code)
   B.   Reimbursement Of Costs: In addition to any fine and penalty, the person
convicted of violating the provisions of this chapter shall be responsible for
restitution to the county for any costs incurred in the seizing, impounding,
feeding, boarding, returning or disposal resulting from a violation of this
chapter. (Ord. 76, 10-3-1994)
CHAPTER 4
STALLIONS RUNNING AT LARGE
SECTION:
5-4-1: Definitions
5-4-2: Purpose; Declared Nuisance
5-4-3: Prohibited
5-4-4: Prima Facie Evidence
5-4-5: Causing To Escape
5-4-6: Fences
5-4-7: Impoundment
5-4-8: Construed Against Strict Liability
5-4-9: Penalty
5-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
AT LARGE: Off the premises of the custodian of the stallion, however, shall not
mean that the stallion was off the premises of the custodian when under the
immediate control of the custodian by means of enclosure, leash, rope, or other
means of immediate effective control.
CUSTODIAN: The person, firm, corporation or any other entity owning or
otherwise having the care, custody or control of any stallion.
PREMISES: The property upon which the custodian keeps or maintains his
stallion, whether such property is owned, rented, leased, or otherwise made
available to the custodian for his stallion.
RUN OR RUNNING: Being present and does not refer solely to the actual activity
of rapid movement.
STALLION: Any male horse, ridgeling, unaltered male mule or jackass over the
age of six (6) calendar months which has not been castrated. (Ord. 53, 1-15-
1988, eff. 3-1-1988; amd. 2001 Code)
5-4-2: PURPOSE; DECLARED NUISANCE:
The purpose of this chapter is to regulate and control the running at large of
stallions. The presence of any stallion running at large within the limits of
the county is hereby declared to be a public nuisance. The board of county
commissioners finds that such stallions cause injuries, deaths and damage to
both persons and property whether or not such stallion is capable of producing
offspring. The board of county commissioners further finds that any stallion at
large is a threat to the health of the people of the county and to the safety
and well-being of persons and property alike and prohibits the presence of
stallions at large within the limits of the county. (Ord. 53, 1-15-1988, eff.
3-1-1988)
5-4-3: PROHIBITED:
A custodian shall not permit his stallion to run at large on the public roads
or highways, nor upon unenclosed premises, nor upon the lands of others, nor
graze or be herded upon the lands of another without their permission. (Ord.
53, 1-15-1988, eff. 3-1-1988)
5-4-4: PRIMA FACIE EVIDENCE:
Any stallion at large, in or upon any of the places prohibited in this chapter,
is prima facie evidence that such stallion is running at large in violation of
this chapter. (Ord. 53, 1-15-1988, eff. 3-1-1988)
5-4-5: CAUSING TO ESCAPE:
Any person who knowingly leaves open, cuts or tears down, or breaks a fence or
gate and as a result of which stallions are able to escape their enclosure,
shall be, for purposes of this chapter to the extent of any penalties imposed
by this chapter, considered the custodian of such stallion. The fact that a
fence or gate was left open, cut or torn down, or broken is prima facie
evidence that such was done knowingly. (Ord. 53, 1-15-1988, eff. 3-1-1988)
5-4-6: FENCES:
   A.   Obligation To Erect: It shall be the responsibility of the custodian to
erect and keep in good repair a lawful fence around the premises of any
stallion. In the event that two (2) or more custodians share adjoining
premises, the responsibility of erecting and keeping in good repair said fence
shall be determined by the provisions of Idaho Code section 35-104, as
presently enacted or hereafter amended.
   B.   Lawful Fence: For purposes of this chapter, lawful fences shall be
determined by Idaho Code section 35-102, as presently enacted or hereafter
amended. (Ord. 53, 1-15-1988, eff. 3-1-1988)
5-4-7: IMPOUNDMENT:
   A.   Costs Of Impounding: In addition to the fines provided for herein for
any violation of this chapter, a custodian shall also be liable for all costs
incurred in rounding up, impounding, feeding, caring, and disposing of
stallions found at large. To the extent it believes necessary, the sheriff's
department is hereby authorized to hire hands, trucks and equipment for the
purpose of rounding up and impounding any stallion found at large.
   B.   Notice Of Impoundment: Notification of impoundment, taking up and sale
shall be as provided by Idaho Code section 25-2101 et seq., as presently
enacted or hereafter amended. Proceeds of any sale shall be disbursed as
provided by Idaho Code section 25-2101 et seq.
   C.   Authorization To Contract: The sheriff's department is hereby
authorized to contract with any resident of the county for the purpose of
keeping impounded stallions upon the land of such resident until such stallion
is claimed or disposed of. Such resident shall provide for the ordinary care
and feeding of the stallion while in the care of such resident. However, such
resident shall not be liable for special care or feeding that may be required
of some stallions. Further, such resident is not obligated to turn over any
stallion to its custodian, nor to anyone else, until all costs have been paid
in full for rendered services, including sheriff's costs. In cases of public
auction, such auction shall not constitute a turning over to the sheriff. (Ord.
53, 1-15-1988, eff. 3-1-1988)
5-4-8: CONSTRUED AGAINST STRICT LIABILITY:
Nothing in this chapter is to be construed as imposing strict liability in tort
against a violator. Any civil action arising from stallions running at large is
to be determined on the basis of the laws pertaining to civil actions and not
on the basis of a violation of this chapter. Anything contained in this chapter
to the contrary notwithstanding. (Ord. 53, 1-15-1988, eff. 3-1-1988)
5-4-9: PENALTY:
A violation of this chapter shall constitute a misdemeanor upon conviction
thereof, and shall subject the violator to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, notwithstanding the stallion at large may not be the same
stallion involved in previous violations. Such penalty shall be in addition to
any costs of impoundment, care, notice and sale of any animals taken up. (Ord.
53, 1-15-1988, eff. 3-1-1988; amd. 2001 Code)
CHAPTER 5
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
SECTION:
5-5-1: Spilling Or Dumping Loads
5-5-2: Restricted Uses And Activities
5-5-1: SPILLING OR DUMPING LOADS:
   A.   Secured Loads: No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any street, road
or highway unless the vehicle is so constructed, covered or loaded as to
prevent: 1) any of its contents or load from dropping, sifting or leaking, and
2) the possibility of any of its contents or load from blowing, spilling or
otherwise escaping therefrom.
   B.   Improper Disposal:
      1.   No person shall throw or deposit, nor shall the registered owner or
the driver, if such owner is not present in the vehicle, aid or abet in the
throwing or depositing upon any road, street or highway any bottle, can,
garbage, construction debris, yard waste or any substance likely to injure or
damage traffic using the roadways.
      2.   No person shall place, deposit or dump any rocks, refuse, garbage,
yard waste, construction debris, brush, limbs, stumps or dirt in or on any
road, street or highway, including any portion of the right-of-way thereof,
without the consent of the State or local agency having jurisdiction over the
road, street, or highway.
   C.   Remedies:
      1.   Any person who drops, dumps, deposits, places or throws, or causes
or permits to be dropped, dumped, deposited, placed or thrown upon any road,
street or highway any material described in the preceding section shall
immediately remove the same or cause the same to be removed.
      2.   If such person fails to comply with the provisions of subsection C1
of this section, the governmental agency responsible for the maintenance of the
road, street, or highway on which the material has been deposited may remove
such material and collect, by civil action, if necessary, the actual cost of
the removal operation in addition to any other damages authorized by law from
the person made responsible under subsection C1 of this section.
   D.   Penalties: Violation of this section or any part thereof shall be a
misdemeanor subject to punishment to the maximum allowed by Idaho Code. (Ord.
119, 5-16-2001)
5-5-2: RESTRICTED USES AND ACTIVITIES:
   A.   Compression Or Engine Brakes:
      1.   Definitions:
COMPRESSION BRAKE: Is any device which, by the release of compressed air within
an engine cylinder prior to the ignition of fuel therein, results in the
slowing of said vehicle and/or braking without the use of wheel brakes, said
devices commonly referred to as "Jacob's brakes", "Jake brakes", "dynamic
brake", "C-brake" or "Paccar brake".
ENGINE BRAKE: Is any device which, by the release of compressed air within an
engine cylinder prior to the ignition of fuel therein, results in the slowing
of said vehicle and/or braking without the use of wheel brakes, said devices
commonly referred to as "Jacob's brakes", "Jake brakes", "dynamic brake", "C-
brake" or "Paccar brake".
      2.   Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person in actual physical
control of a motor vehicle, including, but not limited to a truck or tractor-
trailer truck, to use a compression brake or engine brake, unless such
compression brake or engine brake is used solely to affect an emergency stop of
the motor vehicle while traveling along the streets of the County within
jurisdictional boundaries of Shoshone County, Idaho; outside the jurisdictional
boundaries of the incorporated cities within the County.
      3.   Penalties: Any person who violates any provision of this subsection
A shall be deemed guilty of an infraction, and shall be subject to the penalty
for an infraction violation as determined by order of the Idaho Supreme Court,
as such is adopted from time to time. Said infraction penalty may be determined
at the time of the occurrence by referencing Idaho Infraction Rule 9(b), "Other
Infractions". (Ord. 149, 4-28-2015)
TITLE 6
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
HIGHWAYS, STREETS AND PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
6-1-1: Title
6-1-2: Authority
6-1-3: Purpose
6-1-4: Standards Adopted
6-1-5: Disclaimer
6-1-6: Ex Post Facto Application
6-1-7: Penalty
6-1-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as cited as THE SHOSHONE COUNTY HIGHWAY AND STREET
STANDARDS, hereinafter referred to as "these standards". (Ord. 97, 12-4-1995,
eff. 12-13-1995)
6-1-2: AUTHORITY:
These standards are authorized by Idaho Code section 40-604, as amended and
subsequently codified. (Ord. 97, 12-4-1995, eff. 12-13-1995)
6-1-3: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the standards adopted by this chapter is to provide general
overall highway and street design and construction standards to better serve
the public and to provide for:
   A.   The coordination of streets and roads within the county and other
existing and planned roadways with the Idaho transportation plan.
   B.   To provide a continuous roadway network within the county to better
serve the people of the county.
   C.   It is the intent of these standards to upgrade and maintain the safest
roadway system available to the people of the county. It is not the intent to
put forward conflicting standards that will infringe upon the safety of the
traveling public.
   D.   The maintenance of the roadway system is the responsibility of the
public works department. Consequently, the intent of these standards is also to
facilitate that maintenance responsibility by designing roads and constructing
them in such a fashion that maintenance will be minimized. (Ord. 97, 12-4-1995,
eff. 12-13-1995)
6-1-4: STANDARDS ADOPTED:
   A.   Adoption: The board of county commissioners hereby adopts the following
publications:
      1.   The Manual for Highway and Street Standards;
      2.   The Manual for Use of Public Right of Way, Standard Approach Policy;
and
      3.   The Manual for Use of Public Right of Way, Permits for Utilities and
Encroachments;
as published by the Local Highway Technical Assistance Council, Boise, Idaho as
the accepted highway and street standards for the county. (Ord. 97, 12-4-1995,
eff. 12-13-1995)
   B.   Amendments: The Manual for Highway and Street Standards is hereby
amended as follows:
      1.   Page 6, vertical grade maximum of local roads and streets of ten
percent (10%) to six percent (6%).
      2.   Page 6, the language after **** to read: May be increased to eight
percent (8%) with special attention to roadway distances and maintenance
sequences. (Ord. 110, 4-13-1998)
   C.   Copies On File: Copies of the above-referenced three (3) manuals are
attached hereto and incorporated by reference herein. (Ord. 97, 12-4-1995, eff.
12-13-1995)
6-1-5: DISCLAIMER:
Nothing herein shall be construed to impose an obligation or duty upon the
public works department to construct, reconstruct, or improve existing roadways
to comply with these standards. (Ord. 97, 12-4-1995, eff. 12-13-1995)
6-1-6: EX POST FACTO APPLICATION:
This chapter is not to be applied in an ex post facto manner and any highway or
street which is nonconforming at the time of the passage of this chapter and
has been accepted by the county shall remain within the jurisdiction of the
county. (Ord. 97, 12-4-1995, eff. 12-13-1995)
6-1-7: PENALTY:
Penalties for failure to comply with the provisions of this chapter shall be
considered a misdemeanor subject to punishment. At the time of adoption hereof,
the maximum penalties provided for a misdemeanor violation are a fine of up to
three hundred dollars ($300.00) and/or imprisonment for up to six (6) months of
both. Each day such violation continues shall be considered a separate offense.
(Ord. 97, 12-4-1995, eff. 12-13-1995)
CHAPTER 2
GROOMED SNOWMOBILE TRAILS
SECTION:
6-2-1: Title
6-2-2: Purpose
6-2-3: Definitions
6-2-4: General Applicability And Prohibitions
6-2-5: Fees
6-2-6: Payment And Collection Of Fee
6-2-7: Use Of User Fee Revenues
6-2-8: Enforcement
6-2-9: Inter-County Reciprocity
6-2-10: Special Event Waivers
6-2-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the SHOSHONE COUNTY GROOMED SNOWMOBILE TRAIL
ORDINANCE. (Ord. 116, 3-7-2000)
6-2-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter shall be to provide for the regulation of
snowmobile trails that are groomed and maintained by Shoshone County, and to
provide for the collection of a user fee from those who use and benefit from
said trails, in order to partially cover the cost of such grooming and
maintenance efforts. (Ord. 116, 3-7-2000)
6-2-3: DEFINITIONS:
The terms listed in this section shall have the meanings set forth herein
throughout this chapter:
GROOMED TRAIL: A snowmobile trail that is located upon public or private
property within Shoshone County that is maintained with County funds.
GROOMER FEE: The annual user fee charged by Shoshone County for the ability to
operate a snowmobile or OHV upon a groomed trail for a particular winter
season.
GROOMER STICKER: A sticker issued by Shoshone County that must be affixed to
the snowmobile or OHV to demonstrate that the operator has paid the groomer
fee.
OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLE (OHV): An all-terrain vehicle (ATV), motorcycle, or
utility-type vehicle (UTV), under two thousand (2,000) pounds unladen gross
weight, with a maximum width less than seventy four inches (74"), which is
designed for travel on snow or ice or over natural terrain and is steered by
tracks, skis or runners.
OPERATOR: Any person who operates and is in actual physical control of a
snowmobile or OHV.
REGISTRATION RECEIPT: A document, other than a groomer sticker, approved by the
Board as proof of payment of fees for the use of County snowmobile trails.
SNOWMOBILE: Any self-propelled vehicle under two thousand (2,000) pounds
unladen gross weight, designed primarily for travel on snow or ice or over
natural terrain, which may be steered by tracks, skis or runners.
VENDOR: Any person or entity authorized by the County to collect groomer fees
and issue registration receipts and groomer stickers.
WINTER SEASON: That period of time from November 1 of each year to April 1 of
the following year. Each winter season shall be denominated by the year in
which it begins and the year in which it ends. For example, the winter season
beginning on November 1, 2002 and ending on April 1, 2003, would be denominated
the "2002-03" winter season. (Ord. 151, 4-14-2015)
6-2-4: GENERAL APPLICABILITY AND PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   All operators of snowmobiles and OHVs upon groomed trails within the
County shall be required:
      1.   To pay the groomer fee prescribed by this chapter; and
      2.   To affix and display a groomer sticker in a conspicuous place on
each snowmobile or OHV.
   B.   Display of a current groomer sticker upon a snowmobile or OHV shall
constitute prima facie evidence that any operator of said snowmobile or OHV has
paid the annual groomer fee.
   C.   It shall be a misdemeanor:
      1.   To operate a snowmobile or OHV on any groomed trail within the
County without having paid the groomer fee prescribed in this chapter or a fee
entitling the operator to reciprocal privileges pursuant to section
6-2-9 of this chapter; or
      2.   To operate any vehicle other than a snowmobile or OHV, with the
exception of duly authorized emergency vehicles, upon a groomed trail in the
County.
   D.   Failure to display a groomer sticker as required by this chapter shall
constitute an infraction. (Ord. 151, 4-14-2015)
6-2-5: FEES:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of the groomer fee established herein is to
partially fund the cost of grooming and maintaining snowmobile trails serving
Shoshone County.
   B.   Establishment Of Groomer Fee: The operator of any snowmobile or OHV to
be operated on any groomed trail in the County shall pay an annual fee in an
amount set by resolution of the Board. Payment of the fee shall entitle the
operator to use groomed trails in the County during the current winter season.
The period of authorized use shall be denoted on the groomer sticker. (Ord.
151, 4-14-2015)
6-2-6: PAYMENT AND COLLECTION OF FEE:
   A.   The fees provided for in this chapter shall be collected by the County
Assessor at such locations as the County Assessor may from time to time
authorize and direct, and by vendors authorized by the County to collect
groomer fees and issue registration receipts and groomer stickers.
   B.   Upon payment of the annual groomer fee, the County Assessor or vendor
shall issue a registration receipt that identifies the name and address of the
operator credited with payment. The County Assessor or vendor shall also
provide the payer with a groomer sticker to be attached in accordance with
subsection
6-2-4A of this chapter.
   C.   Snowmobile dealers who wish to use groomed trails for snowmobile
demonstration purposes shall be required to pay the groomer fee for each State
of Idaho dealer license plate used for such demonstration purposes. The groomer
sticker shall be attached to, or shall be placed adjacent to, each dealer plate
to which the sticker is issued. (Ord. 151, 4-14-2015)
6-2-7: USE OF USER FEE REVENUES:
The annual revenues derived from the payment of user fees shall be used and
distributed as follows:
   A.   Eighty five percent (85%) shall be placed in the County Snowmobile Fund
to be used only for the County snowmobile groomer operation, including
equipment, maintenance on any groomed trails, posting signs, supplies, fuel and
wages for operation of the equipment.
   B.   Fifteen percent (15%) shall be distributed by the Board for the
purposes of fee collection and administration of this chapter. (Ord. 151, 4-14-
2015)
6-2-8: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Operation Without Sticker: The operator of a snowmobile or OHV who is
found to be operating a snowmobile or OHV upon a groomed trail without a
groomer sticker or other valid documentation of payment of the groomer fee
shall be directed to immediately leave the groomed trail, and shall be barred
from future use of a groomed trail until the fee is paid.
   B.   Failure To Comply: Failure to comply with any provision of this chapter
shall result in denial of the use of any groomed trail within the County, and
may also result in either civil action to enforce the payment of the applicable
user fee, or criminal action for any violation of this chapter classified as a
misdemeanor or infraction, or both. (Ord. 151, 4-14-2015)
6-2-9: INTER-COUNTY RECIPROCITY:
   A.   Shoshone County shall grant reciprocal privileges to operators who have
paid a groomer fee of the type described in this chapter in any county within
the State of Idaho, provided the following conditions exist:
      1.   The groomer fee is mandatory for operators of snowmobiles or OHVs,
respectively, in that county;
      2.   The groomer fee is enforceable pursuant to county ordinance; and
      3.   The amount of the groomer fee is equal to or greater than the amount
of the groomer fee as set by this chapter or by subsequent resolution of the
Board.
   B.   Reciprocal privileges shall be granted only to the extent that the
county in which the groomer fee was collected allows the operator of a
snowmobile or OHV to use groomed trails in that county upon proof of payment of
the Shoshone County groomer fee.
   C.   Any operator who has paid a user fee in another county within the State
of Idaho and seeks reciprocal privileges pursuant to subsection A of this
section, shall provide evidence of payment, including the county of issue, the
nature of the fee and the period during which the registration receipt is
valid, to any duly authorized employee or agent of Shoshone County upon
request. (Ord. 151, 4-14-2015)
6-2-10: SPECIAL EVENT WAIVERS:
   A.   The Board may, by resolution duly enacted, waive any or all of the
requirements set forth in this chapter with respect to operators of snowmobiles
or OHVs actually participating in special events. Said resolution shall
describe the event(s) to which the waiver will apply with reasonable
particularity, and shall state the provisions of this chapter to be waived.
   B.   No provision of this chapter that is the subject of a waiver enacted
pursuant to this section shall provide the basis for any enforcement action or
prosecution as to any person who is then actually participating in an event to
which the waiver pertains. Nothing in this subsection shall prevent the
enforcement of any provision of this chapter that is the subject of a waiver
enacted pursuant to this section on the date(s) of an event to which the waiver
pertains with respect to persons not then actually participating in that event.
   C.   For purposes of this section, the term "actually participating" shall
refer to those persons who begin the event to which the waiver pertains at a
designated beginning point and time, remain on the roadway(s) and/or trail(s)
designated as the official route by the organizer(s) of the event at all times
during the course of the event, and end the event at a designated ending point;
provided, however, that de minimis deviations from the official event time and
route shall not affect whether a person is considered to be actually
participating in an event.
   D.   The Board may enter into agreements with public or private entities or
persons as it may deem necessary to carry out any waiver authorized under this
section. (Ord. 151, 4-14-2015)
CHAPTER 3
STORAGE OF DISCARDED VEHICLES
SECTION:
6-3-1: Definitions
6-3-2: Nuisance Declared
6-3-3: Prohibited Action
6-3-4: Enforcement
6-3-5: Entry Upon Private Property
6-3-6: Hearing
6-3-7: Failure To Comply
6-3-8: Disposition Of Discarded Vehicle
6-3-9: Penalty
6-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, unless the context requires otherwise:
COSTS: The expense of removing, storing or selling a discarded vehicle.
DISCARDED VEHICLE: Any vehicle which is in one or more of the following
conditions for over thirty (30) days:
   A.   Inoperative;
   B.   Wrecked;
   C.   Dismantled or partially dismantled;
   D.   Abandoned;
   E.   Junked.
Discarded vehicles may be deemed to include major parts thereof, including, but
not limited to, bodies, body parts, engines and engine components,
transmissions and other drive train parts.
ENFORCEMENT OFFICER: The sheriff or any authorized law enforcement officer of
the county or person so designated by the board of county commissioners.
PERSON IN CHARGE OF PROPERTY: Any agent, occupant, lessee, contract purchaser,
owner or person having possession, control or title of property where a vehicle
is located.
VEHICLE: Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a public highway, except devices moved by human power
or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
VEHICLE OWNER: Any individual, firm, corporation or association with a lawful
claim, either individually or jointly, of ownership or any interest, legal or
equitable, in a vehicle. (Ord. 103, 1-13-1997; amd. Ord. 104, 3-12-1997)
6-3-2: NUISANCE DECLARED:
The open accumulation and storage of a discarded vehicle is found to create a
condition tending to reduce the value of private property, to invite plundering
and vandalism, to create fire hazards, to constitute an attractive nuisance
creating a hazard to the health and safety of minors, to create a harborage for
rodents and insects and to be injurious to the health, safety and general
welfare. Therefore, the presence of a discarded vehicle on private or public
property is declared to constitute a public nuisance which may be abated in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 103, 1-13-1997)
6-3-3: PROHIBITED ACTION:
It is unlawful to store or permit the storing of a discarded vehicle upon any
private property within the unincorporated area of the county unless the
vehicle is completely enclosed within a building, or unless it is in connection
with and upon the property of a business enterprise dealing in junked vehicles
lawfully conducted within the county. (Ord. 103, 1-13-1997)
6-3-4: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Authority Of Sheriff: The sheriff is empowered, whenever a discarded
vehicle is discovered upon private property, to:
      1.   Determine Ownership: Make an investigation to discover the owner of
the vehicle and the person in charge of the property upon which such vehicle is
located, and give a written notice to them, either in person or by certified
mail, that the vehicle is in violation of this chapter;
      2.   Owner Not Found: If the owner of the vehicle is not found, to place
a notice upon the vehicle in clear view.
   B.   Contents Of Notice:
      1.   Action Required: The notice shall state that a certain discarded
vehicle is in violation of this chapter, and that within three (3) days of the
day of the sending or posting of the notice:
         a.   The vehicle must be removed from the county;
         b.   The vehicle must be removed to the storage yard of a business
dealing in junked vehicles lawfully; or
         c.   The vehicle must be completely enclosed within a building.
      2.   Alternative Action: The notice shall also state that the alternative
to compliance with subsection B1 of this section is to petition the clerk of
the district court, in writing, within ten (10) days of the receipt of or
posting of the notice, and request appearance before the board of county
commissioners to show cause why such vehicle should not be immediately abated
as provided in this chapter.
      3.   Failure To Comply: The notice shall also state that failure to
comply with this chapter authorizes the county to remove the vehicle at the
owner's or responsible person's expense and that violation of this chapter is a
misdemeanor violation. (Ord. 103, 1-13-1997)
6-3-5: ENTRY UPON PRIVATE PROPERTY:
   A.   Authority: When authorized by a person in charge of property or by a
search warrant, the enforcement officer is authorized at all reasonable times
to enter upon private property and to examine any vehicle for the purpose of
determining whether or not it is in a discarded condition.
   B.   Emergency: However, when an emergency exists, the enforcement officer
may enter for such purpose without prior consent or a search warrant.
   C.   Interference Prohibited: It is unlawful for any person to interfere
with or attempt to prevent the service of such search warrant or to interfere
with a warrantless inspection of the vehicle when an emergency exists. (Ord.
103, 1-13-1997)
6-3-6: HEARING:
   A.   Scheduling: Pursuant to a request, the board of county commissioners
shall set a time for a hearing to show cause why a vehicle should not be
immediately abated.
   B.   Evidence; Testimony: It shall receive the evidence and testimony of the
sheriff and other interested persons concerning the existence, location and
condition of the vehicle.
   C.   Determination Of Board: After hearing the evidence, the board of county
commissioners will determine if the vehicle in question is in fact in violation
of this chapter and make their finding known by vote.
   D.   Consolidate Hearings: The board of county commissioners may consolidate
hearings if more than one vehicle is involved.
   E.   Notice Of Decision: Persons receiving the notice specified in section
6-3-4 of this chapter shall be notified, in writing, of the decision of the
board of county commissioners.
   F.   Extension Of Time For Removal: The board of county commissioners may
extend the time frame given to remove a vehicle deemed to be in violation of
this chapter. (Ord. 103, 1-13-1997)
6-3-7: FAILURE TO COMPLY:
If the responsible party refuses to remove, or cause to be removed, any vehicle
found to be in violation of this chapter, the sheriff shall seek a court order
to seize the vehicle and abate the nuisance and/or criminally charge the
responsible party with violation of this chapter. (Ord. 103, 1-13-1997)
6-3-8: DISPOSITION OF DISCARDED VEHICLE:
Once the sheriff is forced to impound a discarded vehicle, it shall be treated
the same as an abandoned vehicle and procedures as set forth in Idaho Code will
be followed 1 . (Ord. 103, 1-13-1997)
 
Notes
1 1. I.C. § 49-1801 et seq.
6-3-9: PENALTY:
   A.   Violation: Violation of any portion of this chapter shall be a
misdemeanor as defined in Idaho Code 2 .
   B.   Costs Of Abatement: In addition to any other penalty, the county may
recover its costs of abatement, including attorney fees.
   C.   Civil Penalty: In addition to any criminal penalties, a fifty dollar
($50.00) civil penalty shall be imposed on the person in charge of property for
each day the property is in violation of this chapter. (Ord. 103, 1-13-1997)
 
Notes
2 2. I.C. § 18-111.
CHAPTER 4
RIVER CORRIDOR REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-4-1: Purpose
6-4-2: Defined Area
6-4-3: Prohibited Acts And Conditions
6-4-4: Enforcement
6-4-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to address certain acts on or about portions of
the rivers within Shoshone County. Through regulation of those acts, this
chapter seeks to preserve the natural habitat of the rivers and ensure the
protection of health, property, and the natural environment. (Ord. 126, 6-5-
2006)
6-4-2: DEFINED AREA:
This chapter shall apply to all public property over which Shoshone County has
jurisdiction surrounding the river for a distance of one hundred feet (100')
horizontally landward from the ordinary high water mark into and including the
river itself. (Ord. 126, 6-5-2006)
6-4-3: PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
In the above delimited area it shall be unlawful to do the following:
   A.   Damage, cut, carve, transplant, or remove, without a permit from the
county planner, any tree, shrub, or plant or to strip any bark, pick any
flowers, or collect any seeds from any such tree, shrub, or plant. Nor shall
any person dig or disturb any natural habitat area or in any other way disturb,
impair, or injure the natural habitat of the area.
   B.   Deposit or discard any trash, rubbish, or refuse except in designated
refuse containers. Persons shall not bring refuse from their homes or
businesses to county recreation receptacles for disposal purposes, except as
specifically designated sanitary disposal areas.
   C.   Any person who possesses or uses any form of fireworks or explosives
without obtaining prior written authorization from the board of county
commissioners, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   D.   Use, carry, be in the possession of, or dispose of any beverage
container made of glass.
If any paragraph, subparagraph, or portion of this section is subsequently
deemed in any way contrary to law, inapplicable, or otherwise void, that
portion will be severed from this section and in no way affect the remaining
portions. (Ord. 126, 6-5-2006)
6-4-4: ENFORCEMENT:
It is unlawful for any person to violate the provisions of this chapter.
Violations shall be deemed a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, the
violator shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 126, 6-5-2006)
CHAPTER 5
PARKS
SECTION:
6-5-1: Park Usage Fees
6-5-1: PARK USAGE FEES:
   A.   Title: This section shall be known as the SHOSHONE COUNTY PUBLIC WORKS
PARKS USAGE FEE ORDINANCE.
   B.   Purpose: The purpose of this section shall be to provide for the
regulation of the parks that are maintained by Shoshone County, and to provide
for the collection of a user fee from those who use and benefit from said
parks, in order to partially cover the cost of such maintenance.
   C.   Establishment Of Fees:
      1.   Fee Schedule: The following fees will be collected at the time
reservation is made. (Ord. 143, 5-23-2011)
      2.   Pay Details: The fees for Shoshone County park gazebos/kitchens will
be:
 
People Per Shelter Fee
1 - 50             $25.00
51 - 100           50.00
Over 100           100.00
Larger groups with over 100 people will need to be approved by the board of
county commissioners
School events may request reduced fees
 
(Res. 2011-23, 6-16-2011)
      3.   Failure To Pay: Any party that fails to pay the required fees herein
will be subject to immediate surrender of the park facility they are occupying.
      4.   Fee Modification: The fee amounts set forth in this section may be
modified by subsequent resolution of the board of county commissioners.
      5.   Closure Of Parks And Use Limitations:
         a.   The public works department is hereby authorized to close to the
public use of any county park or portion thereof, restrict the times when the
same shall be opened to such use, and/or limit or prohibit persons' recreation
use whenever such action is necessary to protect the health or safety of the
public or the safety of the park or its facilities and users. Cause for park
closure or limitations on park use include, but are not limited to: fire
hazard, dangerous weather conditions, park construction or repairs, parking or
road conditions, the prevention of damage to the park or any of its facilities
or any dangerous, unsafe or unhealthful conditions.
         b.   Removal of any person(s) utilizing the Shoshone County parks is
at the discretion of park staff. Actions leading to expulsion from the parks
may include, but are not limited to, the following: disturbing the peace or
quiet by loud or unusual noise, or by tumultuous or offensive conduct, or by
threatening, quarreling, challenging to fight or fighting, or violation of
Shoshone County ordinance or laws of the state of Idaho.
         c.   Any park closure for day or night usage shall be posted as
appropriate.
         d.   No person shall enter any Shoshone County park or area which has
been closed once notice of closure has been posted or notification of such
closure has been made by park staff.
         e.   No person shall be allowed to use any parks after their expulsion
until permission is subsequently given by the Shoshone County public works
department.
   D.   Payment And Collection Of Fee: The fees provided for in this section
shall be collected by the Shoshone County treasurer at such locations as the
treasurer may from time to time authorize and direct.
   E.   Use Of User Fee Revenues: The annual revenue derived from the payment
of said user fees shall be used and distributed as revenue for the Shoshone
County park budget. (Ord. 143, 5-23-2011)
TITLE 7
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODE
SECTION:
7-1-1: Title
7-1-2: Authority
7-1-3: Applicability
7-1-4: Purpose
7-1-5: Exemptions
7-1-6: Definitions
7-1-7: Sanitary Sewage Disposal
7-1-8: Land Use And Control Measures
7-1-9: Adoption Of Construction Codes
7-1-10: Amendments To International Building Code
7-1-11: Amendments To International Residential Code
7-1-12: Administration And Enforcement
7-1-13: Appeal From Administrative Rulings
7-1-14: Remedies And Penalties
7-1-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the BUILDING CODE OF SHOSHONE COUNTY, IDAHO.
(Ord. 163, 5-18-2021)
7-1-2: AUTHORITY:
These regulations are authorized by title 39, chapter 41, and title 31, chapter
7 of Idaho Code, and article 12, section 2 of the Idaho Constitution, as
amended or subsequently codified. (Ord. 163, 5-18-2021)
7-1-3: APPLICABILITY:
This chapter shall apply to the unincorporated areas of Shoshone County, Idaho.
(Ord. 163, 5-18-2021)
7-1-4: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to:
   A.   Promote and protect the health, safety, welfare, and property of the
public.
   B.   Require minimum performance standards and requirements for construction
and construction materials, consistent with accepted standards of engineering,
fire safety, life safety, and accessibility for those with disabilities.
   C.   Permit the use of modern technical methods, devices and improvements.
(Ord. 163, 5-18-2021)
7-1-5: EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Agricultural buildings as defined in the current International Building
Code. In accordance with Idaho Code section 39-4116, agricultural buildings
shall be exempt from the requirements of the codes adopted by this chapter,
provided they are situated on land actively devoted to agricultural pursuits
(as defined by Idaho Code section 63-604) and are, at the time of application,
being assessed accordingly.
While exempt from code requirements as specified in Idaho Code section 39-4116,
an Agricultural Exemption Permit is still required, and the permit shall be
governed by the laws in effect at the time a complete permit application is
received.
An Agricultural Exemption Permit will be processed in the same manner as
Building Permit Application and will be subject to compliance with all other
laws, ordinances and Department procedures in effect at the time. Approvals
from other public agencies and an initial erosion and storm water risk
assessment may be required. No building permit plan review fee or building
inspections will, however, be required.
   B.   Equipment used primarily for industrial chemical process purposes and
for mineral extraction and mineral processing shall be exempt from the
requirements of this chapter. This exemption does not include the erection and
fabrication of new boilers, pressure vessels and other equipment required to
condition a building for personnel comfort and safety. Equipment in this regard
shall mean and be limited to facilities or installations for heating,
ventilating, air conditioning, refrigerating equipment, elevators, dumbwaiters,
escalators, and boilers and pressure vessels associated with building heating
systems. (Ord. 163, 5-18-2021)
7-1-6: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter and all codes adopted by reference herein, the
following definitions shall apply:
AGRICULTURAL BUILDING:             Shall be as defined in current International
                                   Building Code.
BOARD:                             The Board of County Commissioners of
                                   Shoshone County, Idaho.
                                   The person(s) appointed by the Shoshone
BUILDING OFFICIAL:                 County Board of Commissioners to enforce and
                                   administer this code.
DEPARTMENT:                        Shoshone County Building Department.
                                   Any work required to be performed by an
                                   Idaho licensed engineer. Engineering
                                   required in this chapter, or in any code
                                   adopted herein, may also be performed by an
ENGINEERING:                       Idaho licensed architect if, and only to the
                                   extent that, such work is within the scope
                                   of the practice of a licensed architect as
                                   set forth in Idaho statute or administrative
                                   rule.
MANUFACTURED HOME and MOBILE HOME: Shall be as defined in Idaho Code section
                                   39-4105.
MODULAR BUILDING:                  Shall be as defined in Idaho Code section
                                   39-4301.
                                   An individual who is licensed to practice
REGISTERED DESIGN PROFESSIONAL:    their respective design profession as
                                   defined by title 54, chapters 3 and 12 of
                                   the Idaho Code. (Ord. 163, 5-18-2021)
 
7-1-7: SANITARY SEWAGE DISPOSAL:
Sanitary sewage disposal shall be governed by section
4-3-1 of this code. (Ord. 163, 5-18-2021)
7-1-8: LAND USE AND CONTROL MEASURES:
No building permit or mobile/manufactured home setting permit shall be issued
or authorized unless the work or project is in compliance with the
comprehensive plan and title 9 of this code. No building permit or mobile home
setting permit that is issued shall create a vested right to build if, after
issuance of a permit, such permit would become invalid because of amendments to
the comprehensive plan and/or title 9 of this code. In the event of a conflict
between title 9 of this code and this chapter or a code adopted hereby, the
more stringent requirement will apply. Changing or altering any existing land
use must meet all requirements of the comprehensive plan and/or title 9 of this
code prior to issuance of a permit.
No building permit or mobile/manufactured home setting permit shall be issued
or authorized within the Bunker Hill Superfund site overlay district (BO) until
all the requirements of the environmental health code and Institutional Control
Programs (ICP), as the same may be amended from time to time, have been met and
Panhandle Health District 1 has issued an ICP permit, all as required by title
9 of this code.
No building permit or mobile/manufactured home setting permit shall be issued
or authorized for new construction or substantial improvements within the
floodplain area before determining that the proposed construction meets all
requirements of the flood damage prevention chapter of the Shoshone County
zoning ordinance.
Only one residential dwelling or mobile/manufactured home setting permit per
parcel of land shall be issued unless more than one permit be allowed by
special or conditional planning and zoning permit or subdivision approval.
(Ord. 163, 5-18-2021)
7-1-9: ADOPTION OF CONSTRUCTION CODES:
Shoshone County hereby adopts the following construction codes, standards and
requirements, except as amended by the State of Idaho by statute or
administrative rule and by this chapter. Any inspection for which a fee is not
specifically indicated within the following codes or other relevant provisions
of Idaho Code or Shoshone County Code shall include an assessment of an
additional fee equal to the amount of the re-inspection fee as published in the
fee resolution most recently adopted by the Board.
   A.   The 2018 Edition of the International Building Code, as adopted by the
International Code Council and adopted by the State of Idaho or the Idaho
Building Code Board, together with any amendments or revisions to the
International Building Code made through the negotiated rule making process,
excluding those portions specifically amended herein, and any incorporated
references to the NEC electrical code, the International Plumbing Code, and the
International Zoning Code.
   B.   The 2020 Edition of the Idaho Residential Code, parts I-IV and IX as
published by the International Code Council and adopted by the State of Idaho,
or the Idaho Building Code Board, together with any amendments or revisions to
the International Building Code made through the negotiated rule making
process, excluding those portions specifically amended herein, and any
incorporated references to the NEC electrical code, the International Plumbing
Code, and the International Zoning Code.
   C.   The 2020 Edition of the Idaho Energy Conservation Code, as prepared and
promulgated by the International Conference of Building Officials, together
with any amendments or revisions to the residential portion or revisions to the
International Energy Conservation Code made by the Idaho Building Code Board
through the negotiated rule-making process, excluding any incorporated
references to the NEC electrical code, the International Plumbing Code, and the
International Zoning Code.
   D.   The 2018 Edition of the International Existing Building Code, as
published by the International Code Council and adopted by the State of Idaho
or the Idaho Building Code Board, together with any amendments or revisions to
the residential portion or revisions to the International Existing Building
Code made by the Idaho Building Code Board through the negotiated rule-making
process, excluding any incorporated references to the NEC electrical code, the
International Plumbing Code, and the International Zoning Code.
   E.   The 2018 International Fire Code, as published by the International
Code Council and as adopted, amended, and approved by the Idaho State Fire
Marshal and the fire protection district with jurisdiction, if applicable,
excluding any incorporated references to the NEC electrical code, the
International Plumbing Code, and the International Zoning Code. The adopted
version of the foregoing Code shall be deemed to be superseded by successive
versions of such Code as they are adopted or approved by the Idaho State Fire
Marshal and the fire protection district with jurisdiction, if applicable,
effective on the date that any such code becomes law.
   F.   Reserved for future amendments. (Ord. 163, 5-18-2021)
7-1-10: AMENDMENTS TO INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE:
The following terms, conditions, and provisions shall be incorporated into the
codes adopted by this chapter, and shall be enforced as part of said codes.
Section numbers prior to each item refer to those in the International Building
Code.
101.1 - TITLE. Insert: "Shoshone County" as the NAME OF JURISDICTION.
Table 1
MINIMUM DESIGN CRITERIA
Wind Speed                            Per IBC 1609
Air Freezing Index                    1500
Seismic Design Category               C
Weathering                            Severe
Minimum Frost Depth                   30"
Assumed Minimum Soil Bearing Pressure 1500 psf
Decay                                 Slight
Ice Barrier Underlayment Required     Yes
 
1612.3 - Establishment of flood hazard areas: Flood hazard areas will be those
areas as established through the Shoshone County Flood Plain Ordinance.
1809.5 - Frost protection: Minimum frost depth is 30" (thirty inches).
(Ord. 163, 5-18-2021)
7-1-11: AMENDMENTS TO INTERNATIONAL RESIDENTIAL CODE:
The following terms, conditions, and provisions shall be incorporated into the
codes adopted by this chapter, and shall be enforced as part of said codes.
Section numbers prior to each item refer to those in the International
Residential Code.
R101.1 TITLE. Insert: "Shoshone County" as the NAME OF JURISDICTION.
R301.2 - Insert the following:
Table R301.2(1) Climatic and Geographic Design Criteria
 
        WIND DESIGN            SUBJECT TO DAMAGE FROM          ICE
ROOF                  SEISMIC                           WINTER BARRIER          AIR      MEAN
SNOW    SPEED TOPO-   DESIGN              FROST         DESIGN UNDER-   FLOOD   FREEZING ANNUAL
LOAD    (MPH) GRAPHIC CATEGORY WEATHERING LINE  TERMITE TEMP   LAYMENT  HAZARDS INDEX    TEMP
              EFFECTS                     DEPTH                REQUIRED

SEE
TABLE   76    YES     C        SEVERE     30"   SLIGHT  5      YES      26 SEPT 1500     46 DEG
R301.2.                                                                 08
(1.1)
 
Table R301.2(1.1)
The ground snow loads shall be determined using factors and methodology
contained in the publication, Ground and Roof Snow Loads for Idaho and
accompanying map "Normalized Ground Snow Loads for Idaho" by the University of
Idaho, Moscow, Idaho, 1986.
 
BUILDING ELEVATION MINIMUM ROOF DESIGN SNOW LOAD
0' - 2349' MSL     40 PSF
2350' - 3000' MSL  60 PSF
3001' - 3799' MSL  80 PSF
3800' - 4499' MSL  100 PSF
< 4500' MSL        120 PSF
 
(Ord. 163, 5-18-2021)
7-1-12: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Administrative Authority: The Building Official, or his designee, shall
be responsible for administering and enforcing the provisions of this chapter,
other related provisions of the Shoshone County Code, and the codes adopted
herein with the exception of the 2018 International Fire Code. The Building
Official may establish procedures for permit applications, plan checking,
issuance of permits, and field inspections, and may collect fees, as approved
by resolution of the Board, for services associated with the administration of
building permits.
   B.   Inter-Department And Interagency Coordination: To ensure effective
coordination with other departments, agencies and organizations with
jurisdiction, the Building Official may request comment and/or require approval
from affected agencies prior to issuance of permits. Applications shall meet
the following requirements:
      1.   Demonstrate that the proposal meets the requirements of this
chapter, the codes adopted herein, and the requirements of all other applicable
provisions of the Shoshone County Code. With the application, the applicant
shall provide copies of Orders of Decision approving any associated
applications, such as those for variances, conditional use permits, temporary
hardship permits, final subdivision plats, planned unit developments, or zone
changes.
      2.   Demonstrate that the proposal has received required permits and
approvals from Panhandle Health District 1 and those sewer and water districts
having jurisdiction.
      3.   Demonstrate that the proposal has received required access,
approach, or encroachment permits or approvals from the highway district, Idaho
Transportation Department, and the fire protection district, as applicable.
      4.   For mobile or manufactured home setting permits, provide
verification from the Appraisal Division of the Shoshone County Assessor's
Office that applicable taxes have been paid.
      5.   For encroachments into surface water or wetlands, demonstrate that
the proposal has received required encroachment permits from the Idaho
Department of Lands, Idaho Department of Water Resources, or the U.S. Army
Corps of Engineers.
      6.   Demonstrate that the proposal complies with all applicable
requirements of the fire protection district with jurisdiction, including,
without limitation, the International Fire Code, and has received approval from
that fire protection district.
   C.   Correction Of Existing Violations: Applications for permits authorized
by this chapter may not be accepted until all violations of any provision the
Shoshone County Code on the subject parcel are corrected. Under certain
circumstances where compliance would require the granting of permits to cure
existing violations, this requirement may be waived.
   D.   Effective Standards: Permits shall be governed by the laws and
regulations in effect at the time a complete permit application is accepted.
   E.   Right Of Entry: The property owner or authorized agent's signature on a
permit application shall constitute approval for the Department to enter onto
and inspect the property and structures associated with a permit or
application. (Ord. 163, 5-18-2021)
7-1-13: APPEAL FROM ADMINISTRATIVE RULINGS:
   A.   Any affected person, agency or organization may appeal a decision made
by the Building Official by submitting, within thirty (30) days of the
decision, a written request for an appeal hearing before Board of Building Code
Appeals, an explanation of the grounds for the appeal, and applicable fees. An
affected person is defined as one having an interest in real property which may
be affected by the decision. Appeals of the decisions of the Board of Building
Code Appeals shall be heard by the Board of County Commissioners. Appeals shall
be in writing in a form acceptable to the jurisdiction and made within thirty
(30) days after the decision of the Board of Building Code Appeals. Appeals of
the Boards decision shall be made in accordance with Idaho State law. The Board
of County Commissioners may adopt, by ordinance or resolution, procedures for
the hearing of appeals brought pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Appeals shall be based on a claim that the true intent of this code, or
any of the codes adopted herein, has been incorrectly interpreted, the
provisions of this code do not fully apply, or an equally good or better form
of construction is proposed. A denial of a permit, Certificate of Occupancy, or
Certificate of Completion due to the refusal of a jurisdiction other than
Shoshone County to approve the permit or certificate, may also be appealed.
   C.   The Board of Building Code Appeals shall not have the authority to
recommend waiver of any requirement of any of the codes adopted herein. The
Board of County Commissioners shall not have authority to waive any requirement
of any of the codes adopted herein. (Ord. 163, 5-18-2021)
7-1-14: REMEDIES AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person who violates any provisions of this chapter, or the codes
adopted herein, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable as provided in
Idaho Code section 39-4126. Each structure that is in violation of any
provision of this chapter, and each day of an ongoing offense, will be
considered a separate violation.
   B.   Stop Work Order: Whenever any terrain modification, construction or
other site work is not in compliance with any provision of this chapter,
adopted codes, conditions of approval, or related laws, regulations or
requirements, including, without limitation, the Shoshone County Site
Disturbance Ordinance, title 9, chapter 18 of this code, the Building Official
may order the work stopped by written notice. Such notice shall be served on
any persons engaged in doing or causing such work to be done, and persons shall
stop such work until authorized by the Building Official to proceed. A Stop
Work Order may be appealed within thirty (30) days of issuance according to the
procedure outlined in section
7-1-13 of this chapter.
   C.   The Building Official may seek equitable relief from a court of
competent jurisdiction, to restrain conduct in violation of this chapter, or to
compel performance of duties established under this chapter. Said equitable
remedies may be pursued in addition to criminal penalties.
   D.   Withholding Of Permits: The Building Official may withhold permits,
including building permits and certificates of occupancy, on lots or parcels of
land where a violation of any provision of this code then exists. The Building
Official may also suspend issuance of permits, including building permits and
certificates of occupancy, to applicants who have demonstrated a record of
unresolved noncompliance with the provisions of this code.
If a permit is withheld, the Building Official shall set forth the nature of
noncompliance in writing. The applicant may submit a written response to the
compliance issues raised by the Building Official. Upon consideration of the
response and the full record of performance, the Building Official shall issue
a final ruling in the case, which may include a list of conditions which must
be met before any additional permits may be issued. A decision of the Building
Official may be appealed within thirty (30) days of issuance according to the
procedure outlined in section
7-1-13 of this chapter.
   E.   The Building Official may enter into compliance agreements on a case by
case basis, subject to the following provisions or conditions:
      1.   The Building Official finds that the violations that are the subject
of the compliance agreement do not pose an imminent threat to people or
property.
      2.   The party responsible for compliance agrees to remedy the violation
(s) in an expeditious manner by a certain date.
      3.   The party responsible for compliance agrees to hold the Building
Official, his or her agents, and Shoshone County harmless and to defend against
any claims arising through operation of the compliance agreement. The
responsible party shall provide evidence of general liability coverage for
personal injury and property damage for the premises subject to the compliance
agreement, with Shoshone County named as an additional insured.
      4.   The responsible party shall pay any costs and/or attorney fees
incurred to enforce a compliance agreement.
   F.   Notice Of Building Ordinance Violation: If a permit expires prior to
the final inspection, or if the applicant fails to obtain a Certificate of
Occupancy or Certificate of Completion as required under this chapter, or if
the Building Official determines that an applicant has failed to comply with
any provision of this chapter, the codes adopted herein, or any other provision
of this code, the Building Official may issue a Notice of Building Ordinance
Violation, subject to the following provisions.
The Building Official shall prepare and mail, via certified mail, a Notice of
Building Ordinance Violation. The notification shall include:
      1.   The property owner and the legal description of the parcel.
      2.   The nature of the violation.
      3.   The remedial action that must be undertaken to resolve the
violation.
      4.   The length of time allotted to resolve the violation.
      5.   Information regarding the process for appeal.
The property owner shall have forty five (45) days from the date the Notice was
mailed to resolve the violation. If resolution does not occur within the forty-
five (45) day time period, the Notice of Building Ordinance Violation shall be
filed in the County Recorder's Office. A copy of the recorded notice shall
mailed to the property owner via certified mail.
A Notice of Building Ordinance Violation may be appealed within thirty (30)
days of issuance according to the procedure outlined in section
7-1-13 of this chapter.
If the Board of Building Code Appeals recommends that the violation be
affirmed, they may recommend a number of days for the property owner to comply
with the applicable provisions of this chapter before the Notice of Building
Ordinance Violation would be recorded. If the Board of Building Code Appeals
recommends that the violation be reversed, they may recommend actions to be
taken by the Building Official to release the violation. Board of Building Code
Appeals may also recommend the addition or removal of conditions of remedial
action.
If the Board affirms the violation on appeal, the decision of the Board shall
specify an exact number of days for the property owner to comply with the
applicable provisions of this chapter before the Notice of Building Ordinance
Violation is recorded. If the Board reverses the violation on appeal, the
decision of the Board shall specify the actions to be taken by the Building
Official to release the violation. The Board may also elect to add or remove
conditions of remedial action.
At such time the Building Ordinance Violation is resolved, the owner shall pay
the fee specified in the current adopted fee schedule and the Building Official
shall file in the Office of the County Recorder a Release of Notice of Building
Ordinance Violation. The Release shall contain all of the information contained
in the Notice of Building Ordinance Violation, as well as the corrective action
taken to resolve the violation. A copy of the Release shall be mailed to the
owner, via certified mail.
   G.   Effect Of Section: The provisions of this section shall be construed to
supersede any conflicting administrative provisions contained in any code
adopted by this chapter, including, without limitation, any provisions
regarding appeal boards. (Ord. 163, 5-18-2021)
CHAPTER 2
RESERVED
(Ord. 142, 1-13-2011)
CHAPTER 3
STREET NAMES AND ADDRESSES
SECTION:
7-3-1: Title
7-3-2: Authority
7-3-3: Purpose
7-3-4: Application
7-3-5: Definitions
7-3-6: Administrator
7-3-7: Standards
7-3-8: Road System
7-3-9: Violation; Penalty
7-3-1: TITLE:
These regulations shall be known and cited as the SHOSHONE COUNTY UNIFORM
ADDRESS NUMBERING ORDINANCE. (Ord. 77, 11-21-1994)
7-3-2: AUTHORITY:
This chapter is authorized by sections 31-714 and 18-113 of the Idaho Code and
section 901.4 of the Uniform Fire Code, 1997 edition. (Ord. 77, 11-21-1994;
amd. 2001 Code)
7-3-3: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to promote the public health, safety, general
welfare, peace, good order, comfort and convenience of the county and the
inhabitants thereof; and to provide for:
   A.   The coordination of a street and/or road residential numbering system;
and
   B.   The proper administration and enforcement of this chapter by defining
the powers and duties of the approval authorities. (Ord. 77, 11-21-1994)
7-3-4: APPLICATION:
This chapter shall apply to all lands within the unincorporated areas of the
county. (Ord. 77, 11-21-1994)
7-3-5: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms mean:
ADMINISTRATOR: An official having knowledge in the principles and practices of
naming and numbering streets and roads who is appointed by the board of county
commissioners to administer this chapter.
BOARD: The board of Shoshone County commissioners.
OFFICIAL STREET NAME LIST: The list containing the official street names within
the unincorporated areas of the county composed of all street names approved by
the board and filed with and maintained by the administrator.
OFFICIAL STREET NAME MAP: The map or maps showing all the streets within the
county with the official name shown thereon approved by the board, filed with
and maintained by the administrator.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, copartnership, association or corporation.
PLAT: A subdivision plat.
STREET: A right of way providing vehicular and pedestrian access to adjacent
properties and includes the terms "streets", "drive", "courts", "circle",
"private street", "road", "avenue", "boulevard", "lane", "place" or any other
such terms. (Ord. 77, 11-21-1994)
7-3-6: ADMINISTRATOR:
   A.   Appointment: The board shall appoint the public works department as
administrator to carry out the provisions as herein specified.
   B.   Duties:
      1.   The administrator shall compile and maintain an official street name
list on an official street name map subject to the approval by resolution by
the board of county commissioners, and the list shall be filed in the
administrator's office.
      2.   The administrator shall use the existing street names in the county
as a guide in determining street names.
      3.   The administrator shall adopt size and standards for all signs.
      4.   After the initial addressing work is completed, all address numbers
shall be assigned by the administrator within the unincorporated areas designed
for county numbering system; and no other person or organization, public or
private, shall assign any address number to any residence, business or industry
or use. (Ord. 77, 11-21-1994)
7-3-7: STANDARDS:
The naming of streets in the county shall be subject to the following
standards:
   A.   Duplication: There shall be no duplication of street names by sound or
spelling within the unincorporated areas of the county.
   B.   Differentiation: Differentiation of street names shall not be by the
addition of suffixes such as road, street, avenue, lane, etc.
   C.   Future Dedications: Names for future right-of-way dedications shall be
suggested by the person or agency proposing the right- of-way dedication
subject to all the provisions of this chapter.
   D.   Continuation Of Existing Street: Where the proposed street is on the
alignment and continuation of the existing street or where the street is on the
same alignment but not linked to an existing street, the name of the existing
street shall be applied; provided, however, there are no natural barriers such
as lakes, rivers, interstate highway, etc., in which case the name may be
changed.
   E.   Change In Direction: If a street makes a very obvious change in
direction, a new street name may be assigned.
   F.   Subdivisions: Street names for proposed subdivisions shall be shown on
the preliminary plat and approved prior to the filing of the final plats in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter; and
      1.   No plats shall be approved until all provisions of this chapter have
been complied with;
      2.   Subdividers shall erect street name signs at their own expense in
accordance with county standards.
   G.   Signs:
      1.   Location: All street name signs shall be located in accordance to
county standards.
      2.   New Roads: All new roads will be properly designated with a name.
Such sign shall be erected at the expense of the developer before being
accepted.
      3.   Other Street Signs: All other street signs will be erected and
maintained by the public works department or highway districts. (Ord. 77, 11-
21-1994)
7-3-8: ROAD SYSTEM:
All street address numbers shall conform to the mile post system shown on the
official number map kept on file by the administrator.
   A.   Addresses Required: The owner and/or occupant of every dwelling,
tenement or business shall place or install, or allow to be placed or
installed, on the building, street addresses in a position visible from the
street or road either on the building, post or stake along side of driveway but
outside the state or county right of way.
   B.   General Requirements: The general requirements for the numbering system
are as follows:
      1.   Only one number shall be assigned to each business use or dwelling
unit;
      2.   All address numbers shall be assigned for the street upon which the
structure fronts;
      3.   Numbers on private lanes or streets not accepted into the county
road system may be named and numbered as provided in this chapter. Signs on
these private lanes or streets shall be at the expense of the residents of
these lands or streets and shall be of such design as approved by the board.
(Ord. 77, 11-21-1994)
7-3-9: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   Prohibited Acts: It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      1.   Erect or install a street name sign not in accordance with the
official street name map;
      2.   Remove, alter, change or deface a street name sign erected or
installed as provided herein;
      3.   Place or post addresses not approved or assigned;
      4.   Fail to place visible addresses from the street or road. (Ord. 77,
11-21-1994)
   B.   Penalty: Any person who shall violate or fail to comply with any of the
provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 77, 11-21-1994; amd. 2001 Code)
CHAPTER 4
MOBILE HOME STICKER
SECTION:
7-4-1: Annual Sticker Required
7-4-2: Penalty
7-4-1: ANNUAL STICKER REQUIRED:
The county assessor, or his deputy, after having assessed a mobile home located
in the county shall furnish to the owner or occupant of such mobile home an
emblem or a sticker, which emblem or sticker shall be printed and furnished at
county cost, to the owner or occupant of such mobile home or shall affix such
emblem or sticker to such mobile home and such emblem or sticker shall be
affixed so that it shall be visible from the public roadway, and such emblem or
sticker shall designate the such mobile home has been assessed for that year.
(Ord. 4, 12-3-1973)
7-4-2: PENALTY:
It shall be unlawful and punishable as a misdemeanor by fine of not to exceed
three hundred dollars ($300.00) or by imprisonment in the county jail of not to
exceed six (6) months, or of both such fine and imprisonment for any person to
occupy or own a mobile home in the county for a continuous period in excess of
seventy two (72) hours without having displayed the emblem or sticker described
in section
7-4-1 of this chapter. (Ord. 4, 12-3-1973)
TITLE 8
AREAS OF CITY IMPACT
CHAPTER 1
KELLOGG AREA OF CITY IMPACT
SECTION:
8-1-1: Purpose
8-1-2: Areas Of City Impact Defined
8-1-3: Geographic Areas Of City Impact Established And Defined
8-1-4: Right To Comment
8-1-5: Standards
8-1-6: Enforcement
8-1-7: Hearing Procedures Within The Area Of City Impact
8-1-8: Annexation
8-1-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of establishing the Kellogg Area of City Impact is to identify an
urban fringe area in the unincorporated territory surrounding the city within
which there is potential for development or changes in land use that must be
planned in an orderly and compatible manner in order to insure timely or
economical provision of public services such as water supply, sanitary and
storm sewage collection and treatment, public safety services, other community
service facilities, and to promote land use compatibility, street alignment,
and traffic flow objectives. (Ord. 156, 7-16-2018)
8-1-2: AREAS OF CITY IMPACT DEFINED:
The Area of City Impact shall consist of an area where development or use of
land affects or may affect the City of Kellogg in consideration of trade areas,
geographic factors, and areas that can reasonably be expected to be annexed to
the city in the future. (Ord. 156, 7-16-2018)
8-1-3: GEOGRAPHIC AREAS OF CITY IMPACT ESTABLISHED AND DEFINED:
The officially adopted Area of City Impact is hereby established and shown on
the map entitled "Kellogg Area of City Impact" and is officially made a part
hereof by reference, said map being on file in the County.
The Kellogg Area of City Impact shall be reevaluated by the City of Kellogg and
Shoshone County at such times as they may agree upon to consider possible
changes in the geographic area affected and/or other provisions of this chapter
including but not limited to applicable standards. (Ord. 156, 7-16-2018)
8-1-4: RIGHT TO COMMENT:
Within the Area of City Impact, the following comment periods are hereby
enacted upon an application to the County:
   A.   Upon an application to the County for a subdivision, subdivision plat,
zone change, comprehensive plan change, request for a special or conditional
use permit, planned unit development, variance request, or similar land use
request, the applicant shall provide written notice and a copy of the
application and other pertinent information pertaining to such request to the
Kellogg City Clerk. The city shall have thirty (30) days to comment after
receipt of the notice and information prior to any public hearing or meeting
pertaining to said request.
   B.   Prior to amendment or repeal by the County of any ordinance set forth
in section
8-1-5 of this chapter, applicable in the Area of City Impact, the County shall
forward the proposed change to the City for review and comment at least thirty
(30) days prior to the first public hearing at which such amendment will be
considered.
   C.   Prior to any annexations to the City of Kellogg, the city shall notify
the County at least thirty (30) days prior to the first public hearing at which
time such annexation will be considered. The Board of County Commissioners may
waive this requirement.
   D.   No amendments are proposed regarding the current ACI Ordinances in
place with the City of Smelterville (Ordinance # 90) or with the City of
Wardner (Ordinance # 101). Future proposed applications as defined which
include, intersect or are within the respective areas of impact of Smelterville
and/or Wardner will each be afforded the opportunity to comment. (Ord. 156, 7-
16-2018)
8-1-5: STANDARDS:
The following standards shall apply whenever an agency, Planning and/or Zoning
Commission, Hearing Examiner, or Governing Body of the city or County considers
a zone change, comprehensive plan change, request for a special or conditional
use permit, planned unit development, limited planned unit development,
variance request, or subdivision plat within the Area of City Impact.
   A.   Shoshone County Comprehensive Plan, and;
   B.   Shoshone County Subdivision Ordinance; and
   C.   Shoshone County Zoning Ordinance; and
   D.   Shoshone County stormwater management requirements. (Ord. 156, 7-16-
2018)
8-1-6: ENFORCEMENT:
Shoshone County shall be responsible for the administration and enforcement of
the County's ordinances listed in this chapter within the Area of City Impact
and shall, except as otherwise provided, receive all permit fees for
inspections performed to recapture direct costs of inspections, administration,
legal publications, any development fees, or other costs arising from
fulfilling the terms of each ordinance or regulation. (Ord. 156, 7-16-2018)
8-1-7: HEARING PROCEDURES WITHIN THE AREA OF CITY IMPACT:
All applications for subdivision plats and all other applications (e.g., zone
change, comprehensive plan amendment, variance, conditional use, etc.) within
the Area of City Impact shall be filed by the applicant with Shoshone County.
All approvals and public hearings in the Area of City Impact shall be conducted
by Shoshone County in accordance with Idaho Code section 67-6501, et seq., and
Idaho Code section 50-1301, et seq. (Ord. 156, 7-16-2018)
8-1-8: ANNEXATION:
Annexation by the City of Kellogg shall be limited to those lands lying within
the Area of Impact and being contiguous to the city limits of the City of
Kellogg. Upon annexation, the provisions of this chapter, which is the
agreement between the City of Kellogg and Shoshone County, shall no longer
apply to the annexed area. (Ord. 156, 7-16-2018)
CHAPTER 2
MULLAN AREA OF CITY IMPACT
SECTION:
8-2-1: Authority
8-2-2: Purpose
8-2-3: Consideration
8-2-4: Geographic Area
8-2-5: Comprehensive Plan
8-2-6: Zoning And Subdivision Ordinances
8-2-7: Review And Comment
8-2-8: Administrative Jurisdiction
8-2-9: Map
8-2-1: AUTHORITY:
Section 67-6526, Idaho Code, requires that cities and counties negotiate an
area of city impact. (Ord. 92, 11-1-1995)
8-2-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of establishing an area of city impact is to identify a logical
fringe area adjoining the city of Mullan. The fringe area includes the
unincorporated area surrounding Mullan that has a potential for development
that could affect the provision of public services or the quality of life in
Mullan, Idaho. (Ord. 92, 11-1-1995)
8-2-3: CONSIDERATION:
The following factors were considered by the planning and zoning commission and
board of county commissioners in identifying the area of city impact for
Mullan, Idaho:
   A.   Trade areas.
   B.   Geographic factors.
   C.   Area that can reasonably be expected to be annexed into the city in the
future.
   D.   Areas where extension of city services is possible and reasonable.
   E.   Areas where growth is occurring or where growth is anticipated.
   F.   Areas in which to encourage and discourage growth or that which the
city wants some control over in the future. (Ord. 92, 11-1-1995)
8-2-4: GEOGRAPHIC AREA:
The officially adopted geographic area of city impact for Mullan, Idaho, is
identified by city of Mullan Ordinance 304. All parcels of land lying all or in
part within the area of city impact as delineated by Ordinance 304 shall be
subject to provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 92, 11-1-1995)
8-2-5: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN:
The Shoshone County comprehensive plan and subsequent amendments thereof as
officially adopted by the county shall apply to the unincorporated portions of
the county lying within the Mullan area of city impact. (Ord. 92, 11-1-1995)
8-2-6: ZONING AND SUBDIVISION ORDINANCES 1 :
The Shoshone County zoning and subdivision ordinances and subsequent amendments
thereto as officially adopted by the county shall apply to the unincorporated
portion of the county lying within the Mullan area of city impact. (Ord. 92,
11-1-1995)
 
Notes
1 1. Titles 9 and 10 of this code.
8-2-7: REVIEW AND COMMENT:
Any request for development, zone change, conditional use permit, variance or
subdivision in the unincorporated portion of the county lying within the Mullan
area of city impact, shall be referred to the city of Mullan planning and
zoning commission and the city council of Mullan, Idaho, for review and
comment. The city of Mullan shall have a forty (40) day period within which to
respond to any request as set forth above. If the city of Mullan does not
respond within forty (40) days, the city of Mullan forfeits its right to
comment on the request and processing shall continue under the county's
administration. (Ord. 92, 11-1-1995)
8-2-8: ADMINISTRATIVE JURISDICTION:
The administration of plans and ordinances which apply to the Mullan area of
city impact shall be the duty of the county. (Ord. 92, 11-1-1995)
8-2-9: MAP:
The area of city impact within the unincorporated area of the county is
particularly described on Exhibit A attached to Ordinance 93 on file in the
office of the clerk of the district court, and incorporated herein by
reference. (Ord. 93, 11-1-1995; amd. 2001 Code)
CHAPTER 3
OSBURN AREA OF CITY IMPACT
SECTION:
8-3-1: Authority
8-3-2: Purpose
8-3-3: Consideration
8-3-4: Geographic Area
8-3-5: Comprehensive Plan
8-3-6: Zoning And Subdivision Ordinances
8-3-7: Review And Comment
8-3-8: Administrative Jurisdiction
8-3-9: Map
8-3-1: AUTHORITY:
Section 67-6526, Idaho Code, requires that cities and counties negotiate an
area of city impact. (Ord. 92, 11-1-1995)
8-3-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of establishing an area of city impact is to identify a logical
fringe area adjoining the city of Osburn. The fringe area includes the
unincorporated area surrounding Osburn that has a potential for development
that could affect the provision of public services or the quality of life in
Osburn, Idaho. (Ord. 86, 11-1-1995)
8-3-3: CONSIDERATION:
The following factors were considered by the planning and zoning commission and
board of county commissioners in identifying the area of city impact for
Osburn, Idaho:
   A.   Trade areas.
   B.   Geographic factors.
   C.   Area that can reasonably be expected to be annexed into the city in the
future.
   D.   Areas where extension of city services is possible and reasonable.
   E.   Areas where growth is occurring or where growth is anticipated.
   F.   Areas in which to encourage and discourage growth or that which the
city wants some control over in the future. (Ord. 86, 11-1-1995)
8-3-4: GEOGRAPHIC AREA:
The officially adopted geographic area of city impact for Osburn, Idaho, is
identified by city of Osburn Ordinance 211. All parcels of land lying all or in
part within the area of city impact as delineated by Ordinance 211 shall be
subject to provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 86, 11-1-1995)
8-3-5: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN:
The Shoshone County comprehensive plan and subsequent amendments thereof as
officially adopted by the county shall apply to the unincorporated portions of
the county lying within the Osburn area of city impact. (Ord. 86, 11-1-1995)
8-3-6: ZONING AND SUBDIVISION ORDINANCES 1 :
The Shoshone County zoning and subdivision ordinances and subsequent amendments
thereto as officially adopted by the county shall apply to the unincorporated
portion of the county lying within the Osburn area of city impact. (Ord. 86,
11-1-1995)
 
Notes
1 1. Titles 9 and 10 of this code.
8-3-7: REVIEW AND COMMENT:
Any request for development, zone change, conditional use permit, variance or
subdivision in the unincorporated portion of the county lying within the Osburn
area of city impact, shall be referred to the city of Osburn planning and
zoning commission and the city council of Osburn, Idaho, for review and
comment. The city of Osburn shall have a forty (40) day period within which to
respond to any request as set forth above. If the city of Osburn does not
respond within forty (40) days, the city of Osburn forfeits its right to
comment on the request and processing shall continue under the county's
administration. (Ord. 86, 11-1-1995)
8-3-8: ADMINISTRATIVE JURISDICTION:
The administration of plans and ordinances which apply to the Osburn area of
city impact shall be the duty of the county. (Ord. 86, 11-1-1995)
8-3-9: MAP:
The area of city impact within the unincorporated area of the county is
particularly described on Exhibit A attached to Ordinance 87 on file in the
office of the clerk of the district court, and incorporated herein by
reference. (Ord. 87, 11-1-1995; amd. 2001 Code)
CHAPTER 4
PINEHURST AREA OF CITY IMPACT
SECTION:
8-4-1: Authority
8-4-2: Purpose
8-4-3: Consideration
8-4-4: Geographic Area
8-4-5: Comprehensive Plan
8-4-6: Zoning And Subdivision Ordinances
8-4-7: Review And Comment
8-4-8: Administrative Jurisdiction
8-4-9: Map
8-4-1: AUTHORITY:
Section 67-6526, Idaho Code, requires that cities and counties negotiate an
area of city impact. (Ord. 92, 11-1-1995)
8-4-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of establishing an area of city impact is to identify a logical
fringe area adjoining the city of Pinehurst. The fringe area includes the
unincorporated area surrounding Pinehurst that has a potential for development
that could affect the provision of public services or the quality of life in
Pinehurst, Idaho. (Ord. 88, 11-1-1995)
8-4-3: CONSIDERATION:
The following factors were considered by the planning and zoning commission and
board of county commissioners in identifying the area of city impact for
Pinehurst, Idaho:
   A.   Trade areas.
   B.   Geographic factors.
   C.   Area that can reasonably be expected to be annexed into the city in the
future.
   D.   Areas where extension of city services is possible and reasonable.
   E.   Areas where growth is occurring or where growth is anticipated.
   F.   Areas in which to encourage and discourage growth or that which the
city wants some control over in the future. (Ord. 88, 11-1-1995)
8-4-4: GEOGRAPHIC AREA:
The officially adopted geographic area of city impact for Pinehurst, Idaho, is
identified by city of Pinehurst Ordinance 138. All parcels of land lying all or
in part within the area of city impact as delineated by Ordinance 138 shall be
subject to provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 88, 11-1-1995)
8-4-5: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN:
The Shoshone County comprehensive plan and subsequent amendments thereof as
officially adopted by the county shall apply to the unincorporated portions of
the county lying within the Pinehurst area of city impact. (Ord. 88, 11-1-1995)
8-4-6: ZONING AND SUBDIVISION ORDINANCES 1 :
The Shoshone County zoning and subdivision ordinances and subsequent amendments
thereto as officially adopted by the county shall apply to the unincorporated
portion of the county lying within the Pinehurst area of city impact. (Ord. 88,
11-1-1995)
 
Notes
1 1. Titles 9 and 10 of this code.
8-4-7: REVIEW AND COMMENT:
Any request for development, zone change, conditional use permit, variance or
subdivision in the unincorporated portion of the county lying within the
Pinehurst area of city impact, shall be referred to the city of Pinehurst
planning and zoning commission and the city council of Pinehurst, Idaho, for
review and comment. The city of Pinehurst shall have a forty (40) day period
within which to respond to any request as set forth above. If the city of
Pinehurst does not respond within forty (40) days, the city of Pinehurst
forfeits its right to comment on the request and processing shall continue
under the county's administration. (Ord. 88, 11-1-1995)
8-4-8: ADMINISTRATIVE JURISDICTION:
The administration of plans and ordinances which apply to the Pinehurst area of
city impact shall be the duty of the county. (Ord. 88, 11-1-1995)
8-4-9: MAP:
The area of city impact within the unincorporated area of the county is
particularly described on Exhibit A attached to Ordinance 89 on file in the
office of the clerk of the district court, and incorporated herein by
reference. (Ord. 89, 11-1-1995; amd. 2001 Code)
CHAPTER 5
SMELTERVILLE AREA OF CITY IMPACT
SECTION:
8-5-1: Authority
8-5-2: Purpose
8-5-3: Consideration
8-5-4: Geographic Area
8-5-5: Comprehensive Plan
8-5-6: Zoning And Subdivision Ordinances
8-5-7: Review And Comment
8-5-8: Administrative Jurisdiction
8-5-9: Map
8-5-1: AUTHORITY:
Section 67-6526, Idaho Code, requires that cities and counties negotiate an
area of city impact. (Ord. 90, 11-1-1995)
8-5-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of establishing an area of city impact is to identify a logical
fringe area adjoining the city of Smelterville. The fringe area includes the
unincorporated area surrounding Smelterville that has a potential for
development that could affect the provision of public services or the quality
of life in Smelterville, Idaho. (Ord. 90, 11-1-1995)
8-5-3: CONSIDERATION:
The following factors were considered by the planning and zoning commission and
board of county commissioners in identifying the area of city impact for
Smelterville, Idaho:
   A.   Trade areas.
   B.   Geographic factors.
   C.   Area that can reasonably be expected to be annexed into the city in the
future.
   D.   Areas where extension of city services is possible and reasonable.
   E.   Areas where growth is occurring or where growth is anticipated.
   F.   Areas in which to encourage and discourage growth or that which the
city wants some control over in the future. (Ord. 90, 11-1-1995)
8-5-4: GEOGRAPHIC AREA:
The officially adopted geographic area of city impact for Smelterville, Idaho,
is identified by city of Smelterville Ordinance 177. All parcels of land lying
all or in part within the area of city impact as delineated by Ordinance 177
shall be subject to provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 90, 11-1-1995)
8-5-5: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN:
The Shoshone County comprehensive plan and subsequent amendments thereof as
officially adopted by the county shall apply to the unincorporated portions of
the county lying within the Smelterville area of city impact. (Ord. 90, 11-1-
1995)
8-5-6: ZONING AND SUBDIVISION ORDINANCES 1 :
The Shoshone County zoning and subdivision ordinances and subsequent amendments
thereto as officially adopted by the county shall apply to the unincorporated
portion of the county lying within the Smelterville area of city impact. (Ord.
90, 11-1-1995)
 
Notes
1 1. Titles 9 and 10 of this code.
8-5-7: REVIEW AND COMMENT:
Any request for development, zone change, conditional use permit, variance or
subdivision in the unincorporated portion of the county lying within the
Smelterville area of city impact, shall be referred to the city of Smelterville
planning and zoning commission and the city council of Smelterville, Idaho, for
review and comment. The city of Smelterville shall have a forty (40) day period
within which to respond to any request as set forth above. If the city of
Smelterville does not respond within forty (40) days, the city of Smelterville
forfeits its right to comment on the request and processing shall continue
under the county's administration. (Ord. 90, 11-1-1995)
8-5-8: ADMINISTRATIVE JURISDICTION:
The administration of plans and ordinances which apply to the Smelterville area
of city impact shall be the duty of the county. (Ord. 90, 11-1-1995)
8-5-9: MAP:
The area of city impact within the unincorporated area of the county is
particularly described on Exhibit A attached to Ordinance 91 on file in the
office of the clerk of the district court, and incorporated herein by
reference. (Ord. 91, 11-1-1995; amd. 2001 Code)
CHAPTER 6
WALLACE AREA OF CITY IMPACT
SECTION:
8-6-1: Authority
8-6-2: Purpose
8-6-3: Consideration
8-6-4: Geographic Area
8-6-5: Comprehensive Plan
8-6-6: Zoning And Subdivision Ordinances
8-6-7: Review And Comment
8-6-8: Administrative Jurisdiction
8-6-9: Map
8-6-1: AUTHORITY:
Section 67-6526, Idaho Code, requires that cities and counties negotiate an
area of city impact. (Ord. 94, 11-1-1995)
8-6-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of establishing an area of city impact is to identify a logical
fringe area adjoining the city of Wallace. The fringe area includes the
unincorporated area surrounding Wallace that has a potential for development
that could affect the provision of public services or the quality of life in
Wallace, Idaho. (Ord. 94, 11-1-1995)
8-6-3: CONSIDERATION:
The following factors were considered by the planning and zoning commission and
board of county commissioners in identifying the area of city impact for
Wallace, Idaho:
   A.   Trade areas.
   B.   Geographic factors.
   C.   Area that can reasonably be expected to be annexed into the city in the
future.
   D.   Areas where extension of city services is possible and reasonable.
   E.   Areas where growth is occurring or where growth is anticipated.
   F.   Areas in which to encourage and discourage growth or that which the
city wants some control over in the future. (Ord. 94, 11-1-1995)
8-6-4: GEOGRAPHIC AREA:
The officially adopted geographic area of city impact for Wallace, Idaho, is
identified by city of Wallace Ordinance 95-01. All parcels of land lying all or
in part within the area of city impact as delineated by Ordinance 95-01 shall
be subject to provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 94, 11-1-1995)
8-6-5: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN:
The Shoshone County comprehensive plan and subsequent amendments thereof as
officially adopted by the county shall apply to the unincorporated portions of
the county lying within the Wallace area of city impact. (Ord. 94, 11-1-1995)
8-6-6: ZONING AND SUBDIVISION ORDINANCES 1 :
The Shoshone County zoning and subdivision ordinances and subsequent amendments
thereto as officially adopted by the county shall apply to the unincorporated
portion of the county lying within the Wallace area of city impact. (Ord. 94,
11-1-1995)
 
Notes
1 1. Titles 9 and 10 of this code.
8-6-7: REVIEW AND COMMENT:
Any request for development, zone change, conditional use permit, variance or
subdivision in the unincorporated portion of the county lying within the
Wallace area of city impact, shall be referred to the city of Wallace planning
and zoning commission and the city council of Wallace, Idaho, for review and
comment. The city of Wallace shall have a forty (40) day period within which to
respond to any request as set forth above. If the city of Wallace does not
respond within forty (40) days, the city of Wallace forfeits its right to
comment on the request and processing shall continue under the county's
administration. (Ord. 94, 11-1-1995)
8-6-8: ADMINISTRATIVE JURISDICTION:
The administration of plans and ordinances which apply to the Wallace area of
city impact shall be the duty of the county. (Ord. 94, 11-1-1995)
8-6-9: MAP:
The area of city impact within the unincorporated area of the county is
particularly described on Exhibit A attached to Ordinance 100 on file in the
office of the clerk of the district court, and incorporated herein by
reference. (Ord. 100, 2-12-1996; amd. 2001 Code)
CHAPTER 7
WARDNER AREA OF CITY IMPACT
SECTION:
8-7-1: Purpose
8-7-2: Map
8-7-3: Legal Description
8-7-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter is passed for the purpose of adopting a map identifying an area of
city impact for Wardner, as required by Idaho Code section 67-6526. (Ord. 101,
2-12-1996)
8-7-2: MAP:
The area of city impact within the unincorporated area of the county is
particularly described in section
8-7-3 of this chapter and also set forth on the map attached as Exhibit A to
Ordinance 101 on file in the office of the clerk of the district court, which
map shall be in effect until amended or modified as allowed by law. (Ord. 101,
2-12-1996; amd. 2001 Code)
8-7-3: LEGAL DESCRIPTION:
The geographic description of the impact boundary is provided on the county
map. Description is listed as follows:
Township 48 North, Range 2 E.B.M.
Haystack Peak: Section 12: Northeast 1/4 Northeast 1/4; East 1/2 Northwest 1/
4 Northeast 1/4; East 1/2 Southwest 1/4 Northeast 1/4; East 1/2 Northwest 1/
4 Southeast 1/4, except the City of Wardner
Wardner Peak: All of Section 13, except the City of Wardner; all of Section 24,
except the City of Wardner;
Township 48 North, Range 3 E.B.M.
Slaughter House Gulch: All of Section 7, except the City of Wardner.
Section 18: North 1/2 Northwest 1/4; North 1/2 Southwest 1/4 Northwest 1/4;
North 1/2 Southeast 1/4 Northwest 1/4.
(Ord. 101, 2-12-1996)
TITLE 9
ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
TITLE, INTERPRETATION AND ENACTMENT
SECTION:
9-1-1: Title
9-1-2: Authority
9-1-3: Minimum Requirements
9-1-4: Combining Of Permits
9-1-5: Separability Clause
9-1-6: Ex Post Facto Application
9-1-7: Variances, Conditional Uses, Nonconforming Uses And Amendments
9-1-1: TITLE:
This title shall be known and may be cited to as the ZONING ORDINANCE OF
SHOSHONE COUNTY, IDAHO. (Ord. 15, 7-11-1977)
9-1-2: AUTHORITY:
This title is adopted pursuant to authority granted by title 67, chapter 65 of
the Idaho Code and article XII, section 2 of the Idaho Constitution, as amended
or subsequently codified. (Ord. 15, 7-11-1977)
9-1-3: MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS:
In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this title shall be
held to the minimum requirements, adopted for promotion of the public health,
safety and the general welfare. Whenever the requirements of this title
conflict with requirements of any other lawfully adopted rules, regulations,
ordinances or resolutions, the most restrictive or that imposing the higher
standards shall govern. (Ord. 15, 7-11-1977)
9-1-4: COMBINING OF PERMITS:
The commission is hereby required to coordinate with other departments and
agencies concerning all permits which may be required in this title and
previously or subsequently adopted county ordinances. A one-step permit
application and processing procedure shall be developed with the respective
departments and agencies for the purpose of reducing errors, misunderstanding,
confusion and unnecessary delay for those involved. (Ord. 15, 7-11-1977)
9-1-5: SEPARABILITY CLAUSE:
Should any section or provision of this title be declared by the courts to be
unconstitutional or invalid, such decision shall not effect the validity of the
title as a whole or any part thereof other than the part so declared to be
unconstitutional or invalid. (Ord. 15, 7-11-1977)
9-1-6: EX POST FACTO APPLICATION:
This title is not to be applied in an ex post facto manner and any use in any
zone which is nonconforming at the time of the passage hereof to the area that
is not zoned will be allowed to continue and any lot which does not meet the
minimum lot requirements of any zone at the time of the passage hereof will be
allowed to be used for all purposes for which the area is now zoned if it meets
the other requirements of the zone. (Ord. 15, 7-11-1977)
9-1-7: VARIANCES, CONDITIONAL USES, NONCONFORMING USES AND AMENDMENTS:
The commission notes that the terms variances, conditional uses, nonconforming
uses, and amendments are terms which have separate and distinct legal meanings
and it is the intention of the commission that their legal meaning be applied
whenever and wherever the aforesaid terms are used in this title. (Ord. 15, 7-
11-1977)
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
9-2-1: Interpretation
9-2-2: Meaning Of Terms Or Words
9-2-1: INTERPRETATION:
For the purpose of this title, certain terms or words used hereby shall be
interpreted as follows:
   A.   The word "person" includes a firm, association, organization,
partnership, trust, company or corporation, as well as an individual.
   B.   The present tense includes the future tense, the singular number
includes the plural, and the plural number includes the singular.
   C.   The word "shall" is a mandatory requirement, the word "may" is a
permissive requirement, and the word "should" is a preferred requirement.
   D.   The words "used" or "occupied" include the words "intended designed, or
arranged to be used or occupied".
   E.   The word "lot" includes the words "plot", "parcel", and "tract". (Ord.
15, 7-11-1977)
9-2-2: MEANING OF TERMS OR WORDS:
As used in this title, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
ACCESSORY STRUCTURE: A structure or building detached from but located on the
same lot or parcel as the principal use, the use of which is incidental and
subordinate to that of the principal structure or use. This includes any
permanent construction, including, but not limited to, lean to, gazebo and
patio cover.
ADMINISTRATOR: An official having knowledge in the principles and practices of
zoning who is appointed by the board to administer this title.
AGRICULTURE: The tilling of the soil, raising of viticulture, small livestock
farming, poultry, dairying and/or animal husbandry including all uses
customarily incidental thereto.
AIRPORT: Any runway, land area or other facility designed or used whether
publicly or privately by any person for the landing and taking off of aircraft,
including all necessary taxi area, aircraft storage and tie down areas, hangers
and other necessary buildings.
AMENDMENT: See chapter 17 of this title.
AUTOMOTIVE, MOBILE HOME, TRAVEL TRAILER AND FARM IMPLEMENT SALES AND SERVICE:
The sale, rental or leasing of new and/or used mobile homes, travel trailers,
farm implements, or parts thereof, which may include service, repair,
rebuilding, reconditioning, restoration, body work, and painting of such units.
BASEMENT: A dwelling unit all or partly underground, but having at least one-
half (1/2) of its height below the average level of the adjoining ground.
BED AND BREAKFAST: A residential use consisting of one occupied dwelling that
has rooms that may be rented to an individual on a daily or weekly basis with
some services provided by an on premises owner/manager. Off street parking may
be required on the basis of one space per bedroom. A bed and breakfast may be
operated in all residential zones with a conditional use permit. The procedures
and requirements applicable for conditional use permits, chapter 9 of this
title, shall be followed in any application of operating a bed and breakfast.
The commission may, among other conditions, limit the number of occupants per
home and/or bedrooms. The granting of an application shall not constitute a
precedent to the granting of other applications in the same or similar areas.
BOARD: The board of county commissioners of Shoshone County.
BUILDING: Any structure designed or intended for the support, enclosure,
shelter or protection of persons, animals, chattels, or property of any kind.
BUILDING, ACCESSORY: A subordinate building detached from, but located on the
same lot as, the principal building, use of which is incidental and accessory
to that of the main building or use. This includes any permanent construction,
including, but not limited to, lean to, gazebo and patio cover.
BUILDING, HEIGHT: The vertical distance measured for the average elevation of
the proposed finished grade at the front of the building to the highest point
of the roof for flat roofs, to the deck line of mansard roofs, and the top of
building walls for gable, hip and gambrel roofs.
BUILDING, PRINCIPAL: A building in which is conducted the main or principal use
of the lot on which such building is situated.
BUNKER HILL SUPERFUND SITE OVERLAY DISTRICT (BD): Includes parts of the west
corridor of the county as those areas are defined in the comprehensive plan and
is synonymous with the area known as the federally created Bunker Hill
superfund site.
CEMETERY: Land used or intended to be used for the burial of human or animal
dead and dedicated for cemetery purposes, including crematories, mausoleums,
and mortuaries, if operated in connection and within the boundaries of such
cemetery for which perpetual care and maintenance is provided.
CLINIC: A building used for the care, diagnosis and treatment of sick, ailing,
infirm or injured persons, and those who are in need of medical and surgical
attention, but which building does not provide board, room or regular hospital
care and services.
CLUB: A building or portion thereof or premises owned or operated by an
organized association of persons for a social, literary, political,
educational, or recreational purposes primarily for the exclusive organization,
group, or association, a principal activity of which is to render a service
usually and ordinarily carried on in a business.
COMMERCIAL COACH: A manufactured building equipped with the necessary service
connections and made so as to be readily movable as a unit on its own running
gear and originally designed to be used either as a dwelling unit or other use
without a permanent foundation. A commercial coach is limited to use other than
a single-family dwelling.
COMMERCIAL ENTERTAINMENT FACILITIES: Any profit making activity which is
generally related to the entertainment field, such as motion picture theaters,
carnivals, nightclubs, cocktail lounges and similar entertainment activities.
COMMERCIAL RECREATIONAL: Activities which exchange recreation opportunity or
facilitate recreation activities for a fee or gratuity. Activities typically
include, but are not limited to, food services, equipment rental, livery,
personal services, ski lifts, accommodations and sales of incidental supplies,
campgrounds and RV parks.
COMMISSION: The planning and zoning commission appointed by the Shoshone County
board of commissioners.
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: A plan, or any portion thereof, adopted by the board,
including such things as a general location and extent of present proposed
physical facilities including housing, industrial commercial uses, major
transportation, parks, schools, and other community facilities.
CONDITIONAL USE: See chapter 9 of this title.
DENSITY: A unit of measurement. The number of gross dwelling units per acre of
land.
   Gross Density: The gross number of dwelling units per acre of total land to
be developed, including public right of way.
   Net Density: The number of dwelling units per acre of land when the acreage
involved includes only the land devoted to residential uses, excluding public
right of way.
DISTRICT: Synonymous with "zone".
DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY: A dwelling consisting of three (3) or more dwelling
units including townhouses and condominiums with varying arrangements of
entrances and parting walls. Multi-family housing may include public housing
and company owned and/or sponsored housing development.
DWELLING, ROOMING HOUSE (BOARDING HOUSE, LODGING HOUSE, DORMITORY): A dwelling
or part thereof, other than a hotel, motel or restaurant, where meals and/or
lodging are provided for compensation for three (3) or more unrelated persons
where no cooking or dining facilities are provided in the individual rooms.
DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY: A dwelling consisting of a single dwelling unit only,
separated from other building units by open space.
DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY: A dwelling consisting of two (2) dwelling units which may
be either attached side by side or one above the other.
DWELLING UNIT: Space within a dwelling comprising living, dining, sleeping room
or rooms, storage closets, as well as space and equipment for cooking, bathing
and toilet facilities all used by only one family and its household employees.
EASEMENT: Authorization by a property owner for the use by another and for a
specified purpose of any designated part of their property.
ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH CODE (EHC): The health code, as amended from time to time,
administered by Panhandle Health District I in connection with the
institutional control program for the Bunker Hill Superfund Site.
EXTRACTIVE MANUFACTURING: Any mining, processing, storing, separating, cleaning
and marketing of any mineral natural resources; excluding manufacturing which
produces gravel, sand, clay, topsoil, general fill materials and/or common
building stone.
FAMILY: One or more persons occupying a single-dwelling unit, providing that
all members are related by blood, adoption or marriage.
FLOATING ZONE (F): A zone which has no set boundaries within the county, but
does have certain requirements established by this title.
FLOOD PLAIN: The flood plain includes the channel, floodway and floodway
fringe, as established per the engineering practices as specified by the Army
Corps of Engineers, as follows:
   Channel: A natural or artificial watercourse of perceptible extent, with
definite bed and banks to confine and conduct continuously or periodically
flowing water.
   Flood: The temporary inundation of land adjacent to and inundated by
overflow from a river, stream, lake or other body of water.
   Flood Of 100-Year Frequency: A flood magnitude, which has a one percent (1%)
chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year.
   Floodway: A channel or watercourse and those portions of the flood plain
adjoining the channel which are reasonably required to carry and discharge the
flood water of any watercourse.
   Floodway Fringe: That part of the flood plain which is beyond the floodway.
Such areas will include those portions of the flood plain which would be
inundated by a flood of 100-year frequency.
HEALTH AUTHORITY: The local district health department or the State Department
of Health and Welfare that has jurisdictional authority.
HOLDING ZONE (H): Zone designated to serve as a reservoir pending future
designation of land use.
HOME OCCUPATION: An occupation conducted entirely within a dwelling unit. (See
the required performance standards.)
HOTEL OR MOTEL AND APARTMENT HOTEL: A building in which lodging or boarding and
lodging are provided and offered to the public for compensation. As such, it is
open to the public in contradistinction to a boarding house, rooming house,
lodging house or dormitory.
INSTITUTION: Building and/or land designed to aid individuals in need of
mental, therapeutic, rehabilitative counseling or other correctional services.
INSTITUTIONAL CONTROL PROGRAM (ICP): The various actions and programs
undertaken to decrease human exposure to lead in the Bunker Hill superfund
site.
JUNK: Any material (metal, glass, paper or other waste) that has ceased to
serve the initial purpose for which it was designed. The sale of portions of
the initial object to be used again in some form.
JUNK BUILDINGS, JUNK SHOPS, JUNKYARDS: Any land, property, structure, building
or combination of the same, on which junk is stored or processed.
KENNEL: Any lot or premises on which four (4) or more domesticated animals more
than four (4) months of age are housed, roomed, bred, boarded, trained or sold
and which may offer provisions for minor medical treatment.
LOADING SPACE, OFF-STREET: Space logically and conveniently located for both
pickups and deliveries, scaled to delivery vehicles expected to be used, and
accessible to such vehicles when required off-street parking spaces are filled.
Required off- street loading space is not to be included as off-street parking
space in computation of required off-street parking space. All off-street
loading spaces shall be located totally outside of any street or alley right of
way.
LOT: A lot is a parcel of land of sufficient size to meet minimum zoning
requirements for use, coverage and area, and to provide such yards and other
open spaces as are herein required. Such lot shall have frontage on an improved
public street or on an approved private street and may consist of:
   A.   Single lot of record;
   B.   A portion of a lot of record;
   C.   A combination of complete lots of record or portions of lots of record.
LOT COVERAGE: The ratio of enclosed ground floor area of all buildings on a lot
to the horizontally projected area of the lot, expressed to the percentage.
LOT FRONTAGE: The front of a lot shall be construed to be the portion nearest
the street. For the purpose of determining yard requirements on corner lots and
through lots, all sides of a lot adjacent to street shall be considered
frontage, and yard shall be provided as indicated under "yards" in this
section.
LOT, MINIMUM AREA OF: The area of a lot is computed exclusive of any portion of
the right of way of any public or private street.
LOT OF RECORD: A lot which is part of a subdivision recorded in the office of
the county recorder, or a lot or parcel described by metes and bounds, the
description of which has been so recorded.
LOT TYPES: Terminology used in this title with reference to corner lots,
interior lots, and through lots is as follows:
   Corner Lot: A lot located at the intersection of two (2) or more streets.
   Interior Lot: A lot with only one frontage on a street.
   Reversed Frontage Lot: A lot on which frontage is at right angles to the
general pattern in the area. A reversed frontage lot may also be a corner lot.
   Through Lot: A lot other than a corner lot with frontage on more than one
street. Through lots abutting two (2) streets may be referred to as double
frontage lots.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A single-family dwelling structure built since July 1, 1976,
that bears the department of housing and urban development certification that
it has been constructed in conformance with the mobile home construction and
safety standards in effect at time of its construction, is constructed of
materials generally acceptable for site built housing and is to be used as a
permanent residential dwelling. Manufactured home owners or purchasers shall
own or be purchasing the land upon which their home is to be placed. Such owner
or purchaser shall record with the county recorder, a nonrevocable option
declaring the manufactured home as real property. Development standards for a
manufactured home on an individual lot are as follows:
   A.   Shall be at least twenty feet (20') wide, with a minimum floor area of
one thousand (1,000) square feet.
   B.   The roof covering material must be compatible with standard residential
construction. The roof slope shall be a minimum of eighteen degrees (18°) (3:
12) and with a minimum of six inch (6") eaves.
   C.   The exterior siding consists of wood, hardboard, vinyl or other
nonreflective material comparable in composition, appearance and durability to
the exterior siding material that is used in standard residential construction.
   D.   Shall have a foundation fascia from the floor to the finish grade of
the site, enclosed by a continuous unpierced, except to meet access and
ventilation requirement, cover of masonry or other exterior material covered in
subsection C of this definition.
   E.   Shall be permanently affixed in accordance with the manufacturer's
specifications, with the tongue, axles, transportation lights and removable
towing apparatus removed, and set upon a foundation base that meets the
requirement for permanent foundations as defined in section 44-2205 of the
Idaho Code.
MANUFACTURING, HEAVY: Manufacturing, processing, including wood processing,
assembling, storing, testing and similar industrial uses which are generally
major operations and extensive in character; require large sites, open storage
and service areas, extensive services and facilities, ready access to regional
transportation; and normally generates some nuisances such as smoke, noise,
vibration, dust, glare, air pollution and water pollution, but not beyond a
district boundary.
MANUFACTURING, LIGHT: Manufacturing or other industrial uses which are usually
controlled operations; relatively clean, quiet and free of objectionable or
hazardous elements such as smoke, noise, odor or dust; operating and storing
within enclosed structures; and generating little industrial traffic and no
nuisances.
MOBILE HOME: A structure which is mass produced in a factory; is designed and
constructed for transportation to a site for installation and use when
connected to required utilities; is built on a chassis; and is designed for
long-term residential use by a family, containing kitchen, bath and sleeping
facilities. For purposes of these regulations, mobile/manufactured homes shall
be divided into the following classes:
   A.   Class A: A structure built since July 1, 1976, certified as meeting the
mobile home and safety standards promulgated by the Department of Housing and
Urban Development; or, the HUD Manufactured Home Construction and Safety
Standards as amended June 29, 1982, and meeting the definition of a
manufactured home as established by this title. Class A mobile homes are
manufactured homes on permanent foundations.
   B.   Class B: Mobile/manufactured homes certified as meeting Department of
Housing and Urban Development Mobile Home Construction and Safety Standards
promulgated in 1976 but not necessarily meeting the definition of a class A
mobile home. Class B mobile homes may or may not be placed on permanent
foundations.
   C.   Class C: Mobile homes constructed prior to 1976 which are found upon
inspection to be in good condition and suitable for residential occupancy.
   D.   Class D: Mobile homes found upon inspection to be in poor condition and
unsafe and/or unfit for residential occupancy due to conditions or defects
which are deemed to endanger the life, health, property or safety of the
occupants or of the public. Applicable conditions and/or defects are identified
in chapter 3, section 302 of the Uniform Code for the Abatement of Dangerous
Buildings.
NATURAL RESOURCE ZONE (NR): A zone designed to permit multiple uses in the
rural areas of the county.
NONCONFORMING USE: A building, structure or use of land existing at the time of
enactment hereof and which does not conform to the regulations of the district
in which it is situated.
NURSERY FOR CHILDREN: A place, home or facility providing care for more than
five (5) children of preschool age.
NURSING HOME, HOME OF THE AGED: A home or facility for the care or treatment of
more than five (5) pensioners or elderly people.
NURSERY, PLANT MATERIALS: Land, building, structure, or combination thereof for
the storage, cultivation, transplanting of live trees, shrubs, or plants
offered for retail sale on the premises including products used for gardening
or landscaping.
OPEN SPACE: An area substantially open to the sky which may be on the same lot
with a building. The area may include, along with the natural environmental
features, theater areas, swimming pools, and tennis courts, any other
recreational facilities that the commission deems permissive. Streets, parking
areas, structures for habitation and the like shall not be included.
PANHANDLE HEALTH DISTRICT I: The local health agency at Kellogg charged with
the responsibility of overseeing compliance with and enforcement of the
environmental health code and the institutional control program developed for
the Bunker Hill superfund site pursuant to its duly and properly enacted rules
and regulations.
PARKING SPACE, OFF-STREET: An off-street parking space shall consist of area
adequate for parking an automobile with room for opening doors on both sides,
together with properly related access to a public street or alley and
maneuvering room, but should be located totally outside of any street or alley
right of way.
PERFORMANCE BOND OR SURETY BOND: A financial guarantee by a subdivider or
developer with the county in the amount of the estimated construction costs
guaranteeing the completion of physical improvements according to plans and
specifications within the time prescribed by the agreement.
PERSONAL SERVICES: Any enterprise conducted for gain which primarily offers
services to the general public such as shoe repair, watch repair, barber shops,
beauty parlors and similar activities.
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT: An area of land in which a variety of residential,
commercial and industrial uses developed under single ownership or control are
accommodated in a preplanned environment with more flexible standards, such as
lot sizes and setbacks, than those restrictions that would normally apply under
these regulations.
PROFESSIONAL ACTIVITIES: The use of offices and related spaces for such
professional services as are provided by medical practitioners, lawyers,
architects, engineers and similar professions.
PUBLIC SERVICE FACILITY: The erection, construction, alteration, operation or
maintenance of buildings, power plants or substations, water treatment plants
or pumping stations, sewage disposal or pumping plants, and other similar
public service structures by a public utility or by a railroad whether publicly
or privately owned or by municipal or other governmental agency, and including
the furnishing of electrical, gas, rail transport, communication, public water
and sewage services.
PUBLIC USES: Public parks, schools, administrative and cultural buildings and
structures, not including public land or buildings devoted solely to the
storage and maintenance of equipment and materials.
PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR: An official appointed by and under the direction of the
board of county commissioners, whose duties and responsibilities are
established by law and the county commissioners, which includes all reference
throughout this title to the county engineer.
RESEARCH ACTIVITIES: Research, development and testing related to such fields
as chemical, pharmaceutical, medical, electrical, transportation and
engineering.
ROADSIDE STAND: A temporary structure designed or used for the display or sale
of agricultural and related products, the majority of which have been grown on
adjacent land.
RIGHT OF WAY: A strip of land taken or dedicated for use as a public way. In
addition to the roadway, it normally incorporates the curbs, lawn strips,
sidewalks, lighting and drainage facilities, and may include special features
(required by the topography or treatment), such as grade separation, landscape
areas, viaducts and bridges.
SEAT: For purposes of determining the number of off-street parking spaces for
certain uses, the number of seats is the number of seating units installed or
indicated for each twenty four (24) lineal inches of benches, pews or space for
loose chairs.
SEMI-PUBLIC USE: Churches, Sunday schools, parochial schools, colleges,
hospitals and other facilities of an educational, religious, charitable,
philanthropic or nonprofit nature.
SERVICE STATION: Building and premises where gasoline, oil, grease, batteries,
tires and motor vehicle accessories may be supplied and dispensed at retail,
and where, in addition, the following services may be rendered and sales made:
   A.   Sales and service of spark plugs, batteries and distributor parts.
   B.   Tire servicing and repair, but not recapping or regrooving,
   C.   Replacement of mufflers and tail pipes, water hose, fan belts, brake
fluid, light bulbs, fuses, floormats, seat covers, windshield wipers and
blades, grease retainers, wheel bearings, mirrors and alike.
   D.   Radiator cleaning and flushing.
   E.   Washing, polishing and sale of washing and polishing materials.
   F.   Greasing and lubrication.
   G.   Providing and repairing fuel pumps, oil pumps, and lines.
   H.   Minor servicing and repair of carburetors.
   I.   Adjusting and repairing of brakes.
   J.   Minor motor adjustment, not involving removal of the head or crankcase
or racing the motor.
   K.   Sales of cold drinks, packaged food, tobacco and similar convenience
items for service station customers, as accessory and incidental to principal
operations.
   L.   Providing road maps and other informational material to customers;
provisions for restroom facilities.
   M.   Warranty, maintenance and safety inspections.
Uses permissible at a filling station do not include major mechanical and body
work, straightening of body parts, painting, welding, storage of automobiles
not in operating condition or other work involving noise, glare, fumes, smoke
or other characteristics to an extent greater than normally found in filling
stations. A filling station is not a repair garage nor a body shop.
SETBACK LINE: A line established by this title generally parallel with and
measured from the lot line, defining the limits of a yard in which no building
or structure may be located aboveground, except as may be provided in such
code.
SIDEWALK: That portion of the road right of way outside the roadway which is
approved for use of pedestrian traffic.
SIGN: Any device designed to inform or attract the attention of persons not on
the premises on which the sign is located.
   Sign, Illuminated: Any sign illuminated by electricity, gas, or other
artificial light including reflecting or phosphorus light.
   Sign, Lighting Device: Any light, string of lights, or group of lights
located or arranged so as to cast illumination on sign.
   Sign, Off Premises: Any sign unrelated to a business or profession
conducted, or to a commodity or service sold or offered upon the premises where
said sign is located.
   Sign, On Premises: Any sign related to a business or profession conducted,
or a commodity or service sold or offered upon the premises where such sign is
located.
   Sign, Projecting: Any sign which projects from the exterior of the building.
SPECIAL USE: A special use permitted within a district, other than a
principally permitted use, requiring a conditional use permit and approval of
the commission. Conditional uses permitted in each district are listed in
chapter 6 of this title.
STORY: That part of a building between the surface of a floor and the ceiling
immediately above it.
STREET: A right of way which provides vehicular and pedestrian access to
adjacent property, a dedication of which has been officially accepted. The term
"street" also includes the terms highway, thoroughfare, parkway, road, avenue,
boulevard, land, place and other such terms.
   Alley: Minor street providing secondary access to the back or side of a
property otherwise abutting a street.
   Arterial: A street designated on the comprehensive plan for the purpose of
carrying fast and/or heavy traffic.
   Collector: A street designated on the comprehensive plan for the purpose of
carrying traffic from minor streets to other collector streets and/or arterial
streets.
   Minor: A street which has the primary purpose of providing access to
abutting properties.
   Private: A street that is not accepted for public use or maintenance.
Provides for vehicular and pedestrian access.
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires location
on the ground, or attachment to something having a fixed location on the
ground. Among other things, structures include buildings, mobile homes, walls,
fences and billboards.
SUPPLY YARDS: A commercial establishment storing and offering for sale building
supplies, steel supplies, coal, heavy equipment, feed and grain and similar
goods.
TOURIST HOME: A residential use consisting of one residence that may be rented
to an individual by the day, week or month, without provided services. Off-
street automobile parking of one space per bedroom may be required. A tourist
home may be operated in all residential zones with a conditional use permit
except Single Family Residential (RO) Zones. The procedures and requirements
applicable for conditional use permits, chapter 9 of this title, shall be
followed in any application to operate a tourist home. The commission may,
among other conditions, require: a) the designation of a resident manager to
supervise the operations of the tourist home; and b) limit the number of
occupants per home and/or bedrooms. The granting of an application shall not
constitute a precedent to the granting of other applications in the same or
similar areas.
USE: The specific purposes for which land or a building is designated,
arranged, intended or for which it is or may be occupied or maintained.
VARIANCE: A variance is a modification of the requirements of this title as to
lot size, lot coverage, width, depth, front yard, side yard, rear yard,
setbacks, parking space, height of buildings, or other ordinance provision
affecting the size or shape of a structure or the size of lots. A variance
shall not be considered a right or special privilege, but may be granted to an
applicant only upon a showing of undue hardship because of characteristics of
the site and upon the further showing that the variance is not in conflict with
the public interest.
VETERINARY ANIMAL HOSPITAL OR CLINIC: A place used for the care, grooming,
diagnosis and treatment of sick, ailing, infirm or injured animals, and those
who are in need of medical or surgical attention, and may include overnight
accommodations on the premises for their treatment, observation and/or
recuperation. It may also include boarding that is incidental to the primary
activity.
VICINITY MAP: A drawing which sets forth by dimensions or other means the
relationship of the proposed development to other nearby developments or
landmarks and community facilities and services within the general area in
order to better locate and orient the area in question.
WALKWAY: A public way, four feet (4') or more in width, for pedestrian use
only, whether or not along the side of a road.
WOOD PROCESSING: The sawing of logs, post and pole processing, hardwood and
cedar products, and such operations associated with the industry. Not to
include pulp mills, chipping plants and creosote plants.
WRECKING YARD: The dismantling or wrecking of two (2) or more used motor
vehicles, mobile homes, trailers or the storage, sale or dumping of dismantled,
partially dismantled, obsolete or wrecked vehicles or their parts.
YARD: An open space on a lot which is required by this title to be unoccupied
and unobstructed from the ground upward except as otherwise provided in this
title:
   Yard, Front: A yard extending between side lot lines across the front of a
lot from the front lot line to the front of the principal building.
   Yard, Interior Side: A yard extending from the principal building to the
side lot line on both sides of the principal building between the lines
establishing the front and rear yards.
   Yard, Rear: A yard extending between side lot lines across the rear of a lot
from the rear lot line to the rear of principal building.
   Yard, Street Side: A yard extending from the principal building to the
secondary street that adjoins the lot between the lines establishing the front
and rear yards.
ZONE: Synonymous with "district".
ZONING APPROVAL: Approval by the administrator or that person designated
assistant, that the use is in compliance with the zoning map and this title.
(Ord. 15, 7-11-1977; amd. Ord. 33, 5-4-1983; Ord. 57, 5-10-1990; Ord. 67, 11-
22-1990; Ord. 72, 4-18-1994; Ord. 74, 5-16-1994; Ord. 78, 3-13-1995; Ord. 112,
6-22-1998; Ord. 114, 11-17-1998; 2001 Code; Ord. 121, 9-24-2002)
CHAPTER 3
ADMINISTRATION
SECTION:
9-3-1: Administrator And Commission Created
9-3-2: Administrator
9-3-3: Duties Of Commission
9-3-4: Conflict Of Interest
9-3-1: ADMINISTRATOR AND COMMISSION CREATED:
For the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this title, an administrator
and commission 1  are hereby created. (Ord. 15, 7-11-1977)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 2, chapter 1 of this code.
9-3-2: ADMINISTRATOR:
   A.   Appointment: The board shall appoint an administrator to administer
this title.
   B.   Assistance: The administrator may be provided with the assistance of
such other persons as the board may direct.
   C.   Duties: For the purpose of this title, the administrator shall have the
following duties:
      1.   Advise interested persons of the provisions of this title.
      2.   Notify the news media regarding matters of public interest.
      3.   Aid applicants in the preparation and expedition of required
applications.
      4.   Issue zoning approval.
      5.   Investigate all violations of this title and notify, in writing, the
person responsible for such violations, ordering the actions necessary to
correct such violations.
      6.   Assist the commission and board in carrying out the provisions of
this title. (Ord. 15, 7-11-1977)
9-3-3: DUTIES OF COMMISSION:
For the purposes of this title, the commission shall have the following duties:
   A.   Initiate proposed amendments to this title and conduct a review of this
title every two (2) years.
   B.   Review all proposed amendments to this title and make recommendations
to the board.
   C.   Review all planned unit developments and make recommendations to the
board. (Ord. 15, 7-11-1977)
   D.   Grant special use permits as specified in chapter 6 of this title and
under the conditions as herein specified, shall require such additional
safeguards as will uphold the intent of this title. (Ord. 15, 7-11-1977; amd.
2001 Code)
   E.   Hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is an error in any
order, requirement, decision, interpretation, or determination made by the
administrator.
   F.   Authorize such variances from the terms of this Title as will not be
contrary to the public interest where, owing to the special conditions, a
literal enforcement of this title will result in unnecessary hardship, so that
the spirit of this title shall be observed and substantial justice done. (Ord.
15, 7-11-1977)
9-3-4: CONFLICT OF INTEREST 1 :
The board creating the commission shall provide that the area and interests
within its jurisdiction are broadly represented on the commission. A member or
employee of the board or commission shall not participate in any proceeding or
action when the member or employee or his employer, business partner, business
associate or any person related to him by affinity or consanguinity within the
second degree has an economic interest in the procedure or action. Any actual
or potential interest in any proceeding shall be disclosed at or before any
meeting at which the action is being heard or considered. A knowing violation
of this section shall be a misdemeanor. (Ord. 15, 7-11-1977)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  2-1-13 of this code for rules for conflict of interest in hearings.
CHAPTER 4
ESTABLISHMENT AND PURPOSE OF DISTRICTS
SECTION:
9-4-1: Intent
9-4-2: Natural Resource District (NR)
9-4-3: Holding District (H)
9-4-4: Suburban Or Rural Residential (SR)
9-4-5: Single Family Residential District (R-0)
9-4-6: Residential District (R-1)
9-4-7: Multi-Family Residential District (R-2)
9-4-8: Neighborhood Business District (C-1)
9-4-9: Service Business District (C-2)
9-4-10: General Commercial District (GC)
9-4-11: Rural Commercial District (RC)
9-4-12: Light Manufacturing District (M-1)
9-4-13: Heavy Manufacturing District (M-2)
9-4-14: Extractive Manufacturing District (M-3)
9-4-15: Landing Field District (LF)
9-4-16: Flood Plain Overlay District (FP)
9-4-17: Bunker Hill Superfund Site Overlay District (BD)
9-4-1: INTENT:
The following zoning districts are hereby established. For the interpretation
of this title, the zoning districts have been formulated to realize the general
purposes as set forth in this title. In addition, the specific purpose of each
zoning district shall be as stated. (Ord. 15, 7-11-1977)
9-4-2: NATURAL RESOURCE DISTRICT (NR):
The purpose of the Natural Resource District (NR) is to preserve and maintain
the rural character of the land. This district is also established to allow
uses as designated by the comprehensive plan in areas where commercial,
industrial and residential uses can exist side by side, and where the
establishment of a separate district or single use district would not be
desirable. (Ord. 15, 7-11-1977)
9-4-3: HOLDING DISTRICT (H):
The purpose of a Holding District (H) is to maintain the current vacant
character of the site until such time as logical development shall occur. (Ord.
15, 7-11-1977)
9-4-4: SUBURBAN OR RURAL RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT (SR):
The purpose of the Suburban or Rural Residential District (SR) is to promote
the establishment of low density dwellings, not to exceed two (2) dwelling
units per acre. Lot area shall be of sufficient size for individual water and
sewer facilities and the maintenance of a limited number of animals. (Ord. 15,
7-11-1977)
9-4-5: SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT (R-0):
The purpose of the Single Family Residential District (R-0) is to promote the
establishment of medium low-density, single-family dwellings, excluding mobile
homes, not to exceed five (5) dwelling units per net acre. Centralized water
and sewer facilities are required. (Ord. 15, 7-11-1977)
9-4-6: RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT (R-1):
The purpose of the Residential District (R-1) is to promote the establishment
of medium-low density, single-family dwellings not to exceed five (5) dwelling
units per net acre. Centralized water and sewer facilities are required. (Ord.
15, 7-11-1977)
9-4-7: MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT (R-2):
The purpose of the Multi-Family Residential District (R-2) is to promote the
establishment of residential densities that range from single-family to
multiple-family dwellings. This classification will provide for maximum density
residential use and will require maximum services. (Ord. 27, 9-9-1981)
9-4-8: NEIGHBORHOOD BUSINESS DISTRICT (C-1):
The purpose of the Neighborhood Business District (C-1) is to permit the
establishment of convenience business uses which tend to meet the daily needs
of the residents of an immediate neighborhood. Such district shall be
strategically located with access to a collector thoroughfare. Marginal strip
development shall be prohibited. (Ord. 15, 7-11-1977)
9-4-9: SERVICE BUSINESS DISTRICT (C-2):
The purpose of the service business district (C-2) is to permit the
establishment of areas for highway and service business uses only. This
district is specifically designed in clusters to service the motoring public.
This district is generally associated with interchange areas along the major
limited access highways. (Ord. 15, 7-11-1977)
9-4-10: GENERAL COMMERCIAL DISTRICT (GC):
The general commercial district (GC) is intended to create, preserve or enhance
areas with a wide range of retail sales and service establishments serving both
long and short term needs in compact locations typically appropriate to
commercial clusters developed in urban density areas. This district also
includes some development which does not strictly fit the description of this
chapter, but also does not merit a zoning district. (Ord. 15, 7-11-1977)
9-4-11: RURAL COMMERCIAL DISTRICT (RC):
The rural commercial district (RC) is intended to preserve or enhance areas
with a range of retail sales and service establishments serving the needs of
the rural population. (Ord. 15, 7-11-1977)
9-4-12: LIGHT MANUFACTURING DISTRICT (M-1):
The purpose of the light manufacturing district (M-1) is to encourage the
development of manufacturing and wholesale business establishments which are
clean, quiet and free of hazardous, or objectionable elements such as noise,
odor, dust, smoke or glare; operate entirely within enclosed structures and
generate little industrial traffic. Research activities are encouraged. This
district is further designed to act as a transitional use between heavy
manufacturing uses and other less intense business and residential uses. (Ord.
15, 7-11-1977)
9-4-13: HEAVY MANUFACTURING DISTRICT (M-2):
The purpose of the heavy manufacturing district (M-2) is to encourage the
development of major manufacturing, processing, warehousing and major research
and testing operations. These activities require extensive community facilities
and reasonable access to arterial thoroughfares. (Ord. 15, 7-11-1977)
9-4-14: EXTRACTIVE MANUFACTURING DISTRICT (M-3):
The purpose of the extractive manufacturing district (M-3) is to provide land
for the mining, processing and storage of mineral resources. This district is
designed to assure that these resources are properly managed and all land
reclaimed so as not to create a hazard or nuisance which either immediately or
in the future adversely affects the health, safety, or general welfare of the
community. (Ord. 15, 7-11-1977)
9-4-15: LANDING FIELD DISTRICT (LF):
The purpose of the landing field district (LF) is to zone land surrounding an
aircraft landing field. It is hereby found that an airport hazard endangers the
lives and property of users of the airport and occupants of land in the
vicinity, and also, if of the obstruction type, in effect reduces the size of
the area available for landing, taking off and maneuvering of aircraft, thus
tending to destroy or impair the utility of the airport and the public
investment therein. (Ord. 15, 7-11-1977)
9-4-16: FLOODPLAIN OVERLAY DISTRICT (FP):
The purpose of the floodplain overlay district (FP) is to guide development in
the flood prone areas of any watercourse that are consistent with the
requirements for the conveyance of flood flows, and to minimize the expense and
inconvenience to the individual property owners and the general public through
flooding. Uses permitted in this district are generally associated with open
space, recreational and agricultural land uses and shall not hinder the
movement of floodwaters. This district is superimposed over other districts.
Monitoring, compliance with and enforcement of the rules and regulations of the
floodplain overlay district shall be the responsibility of the Shoshone County
floodplain administrator. (Ord. 15, 7-11-1977; amd. Ord. 121, 9-24-2002)
9-4-17: BUNKER HILL SUPERFUND SITE OVERLAY DISTRICT (BD):
The purpose of the Bunker Hill superfund site overlay district (BD) is to guide
and control development in the area known as the federally created Bunker Hill
superfund site by ensuring compliance with the environmental health code (EHC)
and institutional control program (ICP) developed for the BD district.
Monitoring compliance with and enforcement of the EHC and ICP shall be the
responsibility of the Panhandle health district I. This district is
superimposed over other districts contained in the Bunker Hill superfund site
and the uses permitted in such districts are hereby preserved. (Ord. 78, 3-13-
1995)
CHAPTER 5
PROVISIONS FOR OFFICIAL ZONING MAP
SECTION:
9-5-1: Official Zoning Map
9-5-2: Interpretation Of District Boundaries
9-5-3: Designation Of Official Zoning Maps
9-5-1: OFFICIAL ZONING MAP:
The districts established in chapter 4 of this title as shown on the official
zoning map, together with all explanatory matter thereon, are hereby adopted as
part of this title. (Ord. 15, 7-11-1977)
9-5-2: INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES:
Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of any of the zoning
districts as shown on the official zoning map, the following shall apply:
   A.   Center Line: Where district boundaries are indicated as approximately
following the center line of street lines, highway right-of-way lines, streams,
lakes, or other bodies of water, the center line shall be construed to be such
boundary.
   B.   Lot Lines: Where district boundaries are so indicated that they
approximately follow the lot lines, such lot lines shall be construed to be
such boundaries.
   C.   Parallel Lines: Where district boundaries are so indicated that they
are approximately parallel to the center lines of streets or the center lines
or right-of-way lines of highways, such district boundaries shall be construed
as being parallel thereto and at such distance therefrom as indicated on the
official zoning map. If no distance is given, such dimensions shall be
determined by the use of the scale shown on the official zoning map.
   D.   Railroad Line: Where the boundary of a district follows a railroad
line, such boundary shall be deemed to be located in the middle of the main
tracks of such railroad line. (Ord. 15, 7-11-1977)
9-5-3: DESIGNATION OF OFFICIAL ZONING MAPS:
The following described maps are the official maps for Shoshone County:
   A.   The four inch (4") equal one mile zoning map.
   B.   The series of maps at one inch equal three hundred feet (1"=300')
(assessor's base maps) that include the county areas that are zoned.
   C.   The flood boundary maps at one inch equal four hundred feet (1"=400')
on file in the county engineer's office. (Ord. 17, 7-27-1979)
CHAPTER 6
DISTRICT REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-6-1: Compliance With Regulations
9-6-2: Official Schedule Of District Regulations Adopted
9-6-2-1: Natural Resource District (NR)
9-6-2-2: Holding District (H)
9-6-2-3: Suburban Or Rural Residential District (SR)
9-6-2-4: Single Family Residential District (R-0)
9-6-2-5: Residential District (R-1)
9-6-2-6: Multi-Family Residential District (R-2)
9-6-2-7: Neighborhood Business District (C-1)
9-6-2-8:Service Business District (C-2)
9-6-2-9:General Commercial District (GC)
9-6-2-10: Rural Commercial District (RC)
9-6-2-11: Light Manufacturing District (M-1)
9-6-2-12: Heavy Manufacturing District (M-2)
9-6-2-13: Extractive Manufacturing District (M-3)
9-6-2-14: Landing Field District (LF)
9-6-1: COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS:
The regulations for each district set forth by this title shall be minimum
regulations and shall apply uniformly to each class or kind of structure or
land, except as hereafter provided:
   A.   No building, structure or land shall be used or occupied; no building
or structure or part thereof shall be erected, constructed, reconstructed,
moved or structurally altered except in conformity with all the regulations
herein specified for the district in which it is located.
   B.   No building or other structure shall be erected or altered:
      1.   To provide for greater height or bulk;
      2.   To accommodate or house a greater number of families;
      3.   To occupy a greater percentage of lot area;
      4.   To have narrower or smaller rear yards, front yards, side yards or
other open spaces, than herein required, or in any manner be contrary to the
provisions of this title.
   C.   No lot existing at the time of passage hereof shall be reduced in
dimension or area below the minimum requirements set forth herein. Yards or
lots created after the effective date hereof shall meet at least the minimum
requirements set forth herein. (Ord. 15, 7-11-1977)
   D.   Any activities, uses or development as set forth in subsections A
through C of this section which occur in the Bunker Hill Superfund Site Overlay
District, shall also be subject to and in compliance with the environmental
health code and institutional control program. In addition to any other permits
and/or certificates required by this chapter, an ICP permit shall be obtained
from Panhandle Health District I prior to the commencement of any work or
activities in the BD district which are subject to the environmental health
code and institutional control program. (Ord. 78, 3-13-1995)
9-6-2: OFFICIAL SCHEDULE OF DISTRICT REGULATIONS ADOPTED:
District regulations shall be as set forth in this section and the performance
standards contained in chapter 8 of this title. The official schedule of
district regulations is divided into four (4) land use groups: rural or natural
resource, residential, commercial and industrial. (Ord. 15, 7-11-1977; amd.
2001 Code)
9-6-2-1: NATURAL RESOURCE DISTRICT (NR) 1 :
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of the Natural Resource District (NR) is to
preserve and maintain the rural character of the land. This district is also
established to allow conditional commercial and industrial uses where they can
be compatible, existing side by side, with residential uses, and where the
establishment of a separate district for single use would not be desirable.
   B.   Restrictions: No uses other than those provided in this title are
permitted. No building shall be erected, altered, reconstructed, or moved
except in conformance with the provisions of this title and this district.
   C.   Permitted Uses: Uses that do not require direct review by the planning
and zoning commission:
      Expansion of existing mining facilities.
      Extractive manufacturing and prospecting.
      Forestry, cultivation of the land, storage and agricultural products and
related equipment, floriculture, horticulture, nurseries, greenhouses, animal
and poultry husbandry, and general farming.
      Home occupations.
      Parks and other nonprofit public or private community facilities.
      Residential uses:
         One single-family dwelling.
         One single-family mobile home.
         One duplex (two-family dwelling).
         One multiple-family dwelling.
   D.   Site Area Minimums, Yard Requirements (Setbacks), And Access (Road)
Requirements:
      1.   Residential Uses:
         a.   Site Area Minimum:
            (1)   Single-family dwelling and mobile home, seven thousand seven
hundred (7,700) square feet.
            (2)   Duplex and multiple-family dwelling, seven thousand five
hundred (7,500) square feet plus two thousand five hundred (2,500) square feet
for each unit over one.
         b.   Yard Requirements: Yard requirements for all Residential
Districts shall be as follows:
 
Setback Location Distance from Property Line With Admin Approval* With Variance
Front Yard       25'                         10'                  Less than 10'
Rear Yard        10'                         5'                   Less than 5'
Side Yard        5'                          --                   --
Street Side Yard 10'                         5'                   Less than 5'
*See section D1c for applicable criteria
 
            (1)   Front Yard: Minimum of twenty-five feet (25'); ten feet (10')
with administrative approval; less than ten feet (10') with approval by
variance.
            (2)   Rear Yard: Minimum of ten feet (10'); five feet (5') with
administrative approval; less than five feet (5') with approval by variance.
            (3)   Side Yard: Minimum of five feet (5').
            (4)   Street Side Yard: Minimum of ten feet (10'); five feet (5')
with administrative approval; less than five feet (5') with approval by
variance.
            (5)   Site Area Minimums: All sites in these districts must provide
a minimum of sixty five percent (65%) of the total site area to remain in open
space, free of structures.
            (6)   Building Height Requirements: Maximum building height shall
not exceed thirty-five feet (35') or two and one half (2½) stories, whichever
is lower, with the following exceptions:
               (A)   R-2, Multi-Family District: Maximum building height shall
not exceed forty-five feet (45').
               (B)   Accessory Towers, Satellite Dishes, And Similar
Structures: These structures will be permitted to exceed maximum building
height when approved by the Code Official.
         c.   Yard Setback Reduction With Administrative Exception: The
Planning Administrator may allow for the reduction of yard setbacks
requirements if:
            (1)   Abutting property owners have been notified of the reduction
fifteen (15) days prior to construction and if the reduction.
            (2)   Is the minimum needed to make use of the lot.
            (3)   Meets building separation standards as defined in Shoshone
County Building Code.
            (4)   Allows for one (1) off-street parking space.
            (5)   Maintains structural continuity with respect to surrounding
buildings.
            (6)   Provides for proper stormwater management and erosion
control.
            (7)   Does not allow for the encroachment of structures/
obstructions into the public right-of-way or line-of-sight (see
Title 6, Chapter 1 of Shoshone County Code).
            (8)   Does not inhibit safe ingress/egress into right-of-way.
            (9)   Has been submitted to applicable agencies for review and
comment.
      These regulations apply within the unincorporated areas of Shoshone
County, unless otherwise specified by an Area of City Impact ordinance adopted
pursuant to Idaho Code 67-6526.
         d.   Access (Road) Requirements: Recorded legal access must be
provided to all lots or parcels.
      2.   Nonresidential Uses:
         a.   Site Area Minimum: Sites within this district for nonresidential
uses must provide a minimum of sixty five percent (65%) of the total site area
to remain in open space free of structures.
         b.   Yard Requirements (Setbacks): Yard requirements shall be those
established in subsection
9-8-2C of this title.
         c.   Access (Road) Requirements: Recorded legal access must be
provided.
         d.   Commercial And Industrial Uses: The following additional criteria
will be considered concerning a request for commercial and industrial uses in
the natural resource district:
            (1)   The proposal complies with the goals and policies established
in the comprehensive plan.
            (2)   The proposal meets all the subdivision and zoning site and
performance standards as set out in this title and title 10 of this code.
   E.   Conditional Uses:
      1.   All other uses in this district require direct review by the
planning and zoning commission under conditional use procedures outlined in
chapter 9 of this title; and are subject to the performance standards outlined
in chapter 8 of this title. In addition to standards set forth in this title,
provision for requirements greater than the minimum may be required by the
planning and zoning commission upon review of the request for conditional use.
      2.   The following are specific conditional uses: gravel pits, rock
quarries, sand pits, clay pits, and other pits which produce topsoil, general
fill materials and/or common building stone.
(Ord. 15, 7-11-1977; amd. Ord. 23, 4-1-1981; Ord. 39, 8-13-1984; Ord. 112, 6-
22-1998; Ord. 165, 1-11-2022)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 14 of this title for regulations for the siting of
  manufactured homes.
9-6-2-2: HOLDING DISTRICT (H):
The purpose of a Holding District (H) is to maintain the current vacant
character of the site until such time as logical development will occur in that
area. (Ord. 15, 7-11-1977)
9-6-2-3: SUBURBAN OR RURAL RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT (SR):
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of the Suburban or Rural Residential District (SR)
is to promote the establishment of low density dwellings, not to exceed two (2)
dwelling units per acre. Lot area shall be of sufficient size for individual
water and sewer facilities and the maintenance of a limited number of animals.
   B.   Permitted Uses: Uses as permitted in the SR zone are as follows:
      Agriculture.
      Public use.
      Semi-public use.
      Single-family dwelling.
      Two-family dwelling.
   C.   Conditional Uses:
      Mobile home.
   D.   Lot Size: Lot size in an SR zone shall be as follows: for a single-
family dwelling, a two-family dwelling or a mobile home, the minimum lot area
shall be two (2) acres.
   E.   Yard Requirements: Yard requirements for all Residential Districts
shall be as follows:
 
Setback Location Distance from Property Line With Admin Approval* With Variance
Front Yard       25'                         10'                  Less than 10'
Rear Yard        10'                         5'                   Less than 5'
Side Yard        5'                          --                   --
Street Side Yard 10'                         5'                   Less than 5'
*See subsection F for applicable criteria
 
      1.   Front Yard: Minimum of twenty-five feet (25'); ten feet (10') with
administrative approval; less than ten feet (10') with approval by variance.
      2.   Rear Yard: Minimum of ten feet (10'); five feet (5') with
administrative approval; less than five feet (5') with approval by variance.
      3.   Side Yard: Minimum of five feet (5').
      4.   Street Side Yard: Minimum of ten feet (10'); five feet (5') with
administrative approval; less than five feet (5') with approval by variance.
      5.   Site Area Minimums: All sites in these districts must provide a
minimum of sixty five percent (65%) of the total site area to remain in open
space, free of structures.
      6.   Building Height Requirements: Maximum building height shall not
exceed thirty-five feet (35') or two and one half (2½) stories, whichever is
lower, with the following exceptions:
         a.   R-2, Multi-Family District: Maximum building height shall not
exceed forty-five feet (45').
         b.   Accessory Towers, Satellite Dishes, And Similar Structures: These
structures will be permitted to exceed maximum building height when approved by
the Code Official.
   F.   Yard Setback Reduction With Administrative Exception: The Planning
Administrator may allow for the reduction of yard setbacks requirements if:
      1.   Abutting property owners have been notified of the reduction fifteen
(15) days prior to construction and if the reduction.
      2.   Is the minimum needed to make use of the lot.
      3.   Meets building separation standards as defined in Shoshone County
Building Code.
      4.   Allows for one (1) off-street parking space.
      5.   Maintains structural continuity with respect to surrounding
buildings.
      6.   Provides for proper stormwater management and erosion control.
      7.   Does not allow for the encroachment of structures/obstructions into
the public right-of-way or line-of-sight (see
Title 6, Chapter 1 of Shoshone County Code).
      8.   Does not inhibit safe ingress/egress into right-of-way.
      9.   Has been submitted to applicable agencies for review and comment.
      These regulations apply within the unincorporated areas of Shoshone
County, unless otherwise specified by an Area of City Impact ordinance adopted
pursuant to Idaho Code 67-6526.
   G.   Building Height: Building height in the SR zone shall not exceed thirty
five feet (35') or two and one-half (21/2) stories, whichever is lower.
(Ord. 15, 7-11-1977; amd. Ord. 113, 6-22-1998; Ord. 165, 1-11-2022)
9-6-2-4: SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT (R-0):
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of the Single Family Residential District (R-0) is
to promote the establishment of medium low-density, single-family dwellings,
excluding mobile homes, not to exceed five (5) dwelling units per net acre.
Centralized water and sewer facilities are required.
   B.   Permitted Uses: The following permitted uses are allowed in the R-
0 zone:
      Home occupations.
      Single-family dwellings (excluding mobile homes).
   C.   Conditional Uses: The following are conditional uses:
      Day nursery.
      Hospital; nursing home, home of the aged.
      Manufactured homes. However, if a conditional use permit is granted, such
permit shall not be construed or considered as permitting the placement of a
manufactured home on a parcel of property which is subject to valid and
existing restrictive covenants or conditions prohibiting such placement. It
shall be the permit applicant's responsibility to determine if any such land
use restrictions are in force and effect.
      Medical or dental clinic.
      Public use.
   D.   Yard Requirements: Yard requirements for all Residential Districts
shall be as follows:
 
Setback Location Distance from Property Line With Admin Approval* With Variance
Front Yard       25'                         10'                  Less than 10'
Rear Yard        10'                         5'                   Less than 5'
Side Yard        5'                          --                   --
Street Side Yard 10'                         5'                   Less than 5'
*See subsection E for applicable criteria
 
      1.   Front Yard: Minimum of twenty-five feet (25'); ten feet (10') with
administrative approval; less than ten feet (10') with approval by variance.
      2.   Rear Yard: Minimum of ten feet (10'); five feet (5') with
administrative approval; less than five feet (5') with approval by variance.
      3.   Side Yard: Minimum of five feet (5').
      4.   Street Side Yard: Minimum of ten feet (10'); five feet (5') with
administrative approval; less than five feet (5') with approval by variance
      5.   Site Area Minimums: All sites in these districts must provide a
minimum of sixty five percent (65%) of the total site area to remain in open
space, free of structures.
      6.   Building Height Requirements: Maximum building height shall not
exceed thirty-five feet (35') or two and one half (2½) stories, whichever is
lower, with the following exceptions:
         a.   R-2, Multi-Family District: Maximum building height shall not
exceed forty-five feet (45').
         b.   Accessory Towers, Satellite Dishes, And Similar Structures: These
structures will be permitted to exceed maximum building height when approved by
the Code Official.
   E.   Yard Setback Reduction With Administrative Exception: The Planning
Administrator may allow for the reduction of yard setbacks requirements if:
      1.   Abutting property owners have been notified of the reduction fifteen
(15) days prior to construction and if the reduction.
      2.   Is the minimum needed to make use of the lot.
      3.   Meets building separation standards as defined in Shoshone County
Building Code.
      4.   Allows for one (1) off-street parking space.
      5.   Maintains structural continuity with respect to surrounding
buildings.
      6.   Provides for proper stormwater management and erosion control.
      7.   Does not allow for the encroachment of structures/obstructions into
the public right-of-way or line-of-sight (see
Title 6, Chapter 1 of Shoshone County Code).
      8.   Does not inhibit safe ingress/egress into right-of-way.
      9.   Has been submitted to applicable agencies for review and comment.
      These regulations apply within the unincorporated areas of Shoshone
County, unless otherwise specified by an Area of City Impact ordinance adopted
pursuant to Idaho Code 67-6526.
   F.   Building Height: In the R-0 zone no building shall exceed a height of
thirty five feet (35') or two and one-half (21/2) stories, whichever is lower.
(Ord. 15, 7-11-1977; Ord. 72, 4-18-1994; Ord. 113, 6-22-1998; Ord. 165, 1-11-
2022)
9-6-2-5: RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT (R-1):
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of the Residential District (R-1) is to promote
the establishment of medium low-density, single-family dwellings, not to exceed
five (5) dwelling units per net acre. Centralized water and sewer facilities
are required.
   B.   Permitted Uses: The following permitted uses are allowed in the R-
1 zone:
      Home occupations.
      Single-family dwellings.
   C.   Conditional Uses: The following are conditional uses:
      Day nursery.
      Dormitories.
      Fraternity house.
      Hospital; nursing home, home of the aged.
      Medical or dental clinic.
      Mobile home parks.
      Planned unit developments.
      Public use.
      Semi-public use.
      Sorority.
      Two-family dwellings.
   D.   Lot Size: Minimum lot sizes for the R-1 zone are as follows:
      1.   Single-Family Dwelling: For a single-family dwelling, the minimum
lot area shall be seven thousand seven hundred (7,700) square feet.
      2.   Two-Family Or Multi-Family Dwelling: For a two-family dwelling or a
multi-family dwelling, the minimum lot area shall be seven thousand five
hundred (7,500) square feet plus two thousand five hundred (2,500) square feet
for each dwelling unit over one.
      3.   Lot Width: Lot width shall be a minimum of seventy feet (70').
      4.   Lot Depth: Lot depth shall be a minimum of one hundred ten feet
(110').
   E.   Yard Requirements: Yard requirements for all Residential Districts
shall be as follows:
 
Setback Location Distance from Property Line With Admin Approval* With Variance
Front Yard       25'                         10'                  Less than 10'
Rear Yard        10'                         5'                   Less than 5'
Side Yard        5'                          --                   --
Street Side Yard 10'                         5'                   Less than 5'
*See subsection F for applicable criteria
 
      1.   Front Yard: Minimum of twenty-five feet (25'); ten feet (10') with
administrative approval; less than ten feet (10') with approval by variance.
      2.   Rear Yard: Minimum of ten feet (10'); five feet (5') with
administrative approval; less than five feet (5') with approval by variance.
      3.   Side Yard: Minimum of five feet (5').
      4.   Street Side Yard: Minimum of ten feet (10'); five feet (5') with
administrative approval; less than five feet (5') with approval by variance.
      5.   Site Area Minimums: All sites in these districts must provide a
minimum of sixty five percent (65%) of the total site area to remain in open
space, free of structures.
      6.   Building Height Requirements: Maximum building height shall not
exceed thirty-five feet (35') or two and one half (2½) stories, whichever is
lower, with the following exceptions:
         a.   R-2, Multi-Family District: Maximum building height shall not
exceed forty-five feet (45').
         b.   Accessory Towers, Satellite Dishes, And Similar Structures: These
structures will be permitted to exceed maximum building height when approved by
the Code Official.
   F.   Yard Setback Reduction With Administrative Exception: The Planning
Administrator may allow for the reduction of yard setbacks requirements if:
      1.   Abutting property owners have been notified of the reduction fifteen
(15) days prior to construction and if the reduction.
      2.   Is the minimum needed to make use of the lot.
      3.   Meets building separation standards as defined in Shoshone County
Building Code.
      4.   Allows for one (1) off-street parking space.
      5.   Maintains structural continuity with respect to surrounding
buildings.
      6.   Provides for proper stormwater management and erosion control.
      7.   Does not allow for the encroachment of structures/obstructions into
the public right-of-way or line-of-sight (see Title 6, Chapter 1 of Shoshone
County Code).
      8.   Does not inhibit safe ingress/egress into right-of-way.
      9.   Has been submitted to applicable agencies for review and comment.
      These regulations apply within the unincorporated areas of Shoshone
County, unless otherwise specified by an Area of City Impact ordinance adopted
pursuant to Idaho Code 67-6526.
   G.   Building Height: In the R-1 zone no building shall exceed a height of
thirty five feet (35') or two and one-half (21/2) stories, whichever is lower.
(Ord. 15, 7-11-1977; amd. Ord. 113, 6-22-1998; Ord. 165, 1-11-2022)
9-6-2-6: MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT (R-2):
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of the Multi-Family Residential District (R-2) is
to promote the establishment of residential densities that range from single-
family to multiple-family dwellings. This classification will provide for
maximum density residential use and will require maximum services.
   B.   Restrictions:
      1.   Uses Restricted: No other uses than those provided in this district
are permitted.
      2.   Conformance Required: No building shall be erected, altered,
reconstructed, or moved except in conformance with the provisions of this title
and this district.
      3.   Access To Public Thoroughfare: All districts zoned in this
classification will have direct access to a public thoroughfare of at least a
collector classification as determined by the county engineer.
   C.   Permitted Uses And Site Area Minimums: All sites in this district must
provide a minimum of sixty five percent (65%) of the total site area to remain
in open space, free of structures.
      1.   Residential:
         Multiple-family uses, seven thousand seven hundred (7,700) square feet
for the first unit plus an additional two thousand (2,000) square feet of land
area for each additional unit. Multi-family uses require ninety feet (90') of
frontage on a public street.
         Single-family residential unit/single-family mobile home on individual
lot, seven thousand seven hundred (7,700) square feet with seventy feet (70')
of frontage on a public street.
         Two-family (duplex) residential unit, nine thousand seven hundred
(9,700) square feet with seventy feet (70') of frontage on a public street.
      2.   Nonresidential:
         Churches, grange halls, and other nonprofit public or private
community facilities.
         "Home occupations" as defined in section
9-2-2 and subsection
9-8-5L of this title.
         Public and private schools, except where students are held under
restraint.
   D.   Prohibited Uses:
      Commercial uses as specified in commercial district regulations.
      Industrial and manufacturing uses as specified in industrial district
regulations.
      Outdoor advertising structures, except signs that identify a home
occupation or the sale or rental of property on which the sign is located.
      Storage of any material not used in conjunction with a permitted use.
Storage of more than one unlicensed vehicle or storage of any visible vehicle
parts whether dismantled, partly dismantled, obsolete, or wrecked.
   E.   Yard Requirements: Yard requirements for all Residential Districts
shall be as follows:
 
Setback Location Distance from Property Line With Admin Approval* With Variance
Front Yard       25'                         10'                  Less than 10'
Rear Yard        10'                         5'                   Less than 5'
Side Yard        5'                          --                   --
Street Side Yard 10'                         5'                   Less than 5'
*See subsection F for applicable criteria
 
      1.   Front Yard: Minimum of twenty-five feet (25'); ten feet (10') with
administrative approval; less than ten feet (10') with approval by variance.
      2.   Rear Yard: Minimum of ten feet (10'); five feet (5') with
administrative approval; less than five feet (5') with approval by variance.
      3.   Side Yard: Minimum of five feet (5').
      4.   Street Side Yard: Minimum of ten feet (10'); five feet (5') with
administrative approval; less than five feet (5') with approval by variance.
      5.   Site area minimums: All sites in these districts must provide a
minimum of sixty five percent (65%) of the total site area to remain in open
space, free of structures.
      6.   Building Height Requirements: Maximum building height shall not
exceed thirty-five feet (35') or two and one half (2½) stories, whichever is
lower, with the following exceptions:
         a.   R-2, Multi-Family District: Maximum building height shall not
exceed forty-five feet (45').
         b.   Accessory Towers, Satellite Dishes, And Similar Structures: These
structures will be permitted to exceed maximum building height when approved by
the Code Official.
   F.   Yard Setback Reduction With Administrative Exception: The Planning
Administrator may allow for the reduction of yard setbacks requirements if:
      1.   Abutting property owners have been notified of the reduction fifteen
(15) days prior to construction and if the reduction.
      2.   Is the minimum needed to make use of the lot.
      3.   Meets building separation standards as defined in Shoshone County
Building Code.
      4.   Allows for one (1) off-street parking space.
      5.   Maintains structural continuity with respect to surrounding
buildings.
      6.   Provides for proper stormwater management and erosion control.
      7.   Does not allow for the encroachment of structures/obstructions into
the public right-of-way or line-of-sight (see Title 6, Chapter 1 of Shoshone
County Code).
      8.   Does not inhibit safe ingress/egress into right-of-way.
      9.   Has been submitted to applicable agencies for review and comment.
      These regulations apply within the unincorporated areas of Shoshone
County, unless otherwise specified by an Area of City Impact ordinance adopted
pursuant to Idaho Code 67-6526.
   G.   Conditional Uses:
      Animal clinics, orphanages, hospitals, boarding kennels, runs, and
training schools.
      Cemeteries.
      Golf courses, athletic facilities (i.e., tennis clubs, etc.).
      Hospitals.
      Mobile home park.
      Nurseries (daycare centers).
      Public utility complex facility.
      Rental warehouse.
      Retirement, convalescent and nursing homes, and other group housing.
(Ord. 27, 9-9-1981; amd. Ord. 165, 1-11-2022)
9-6-2-7: NEIGHBORHOOD BUSINESS DISTRICT (C-1):
   A.   Purpose; Restrictions: The purpose of the Neighborhood Business
District (C-1) is to permit the establishment of convenience business uses
which tend to meet the daily needs for the residents of the immediate
neighborhood. Such district shall be strategically located with access to a
collector thoroughfare. Marginal strip development shall be prohibited.
   B.   Permitted Uses: The following uses are permitted in the NB zone:
Beauty or barber shop.
Drug store.
Food store.
   C.   Conditional Uses: The following uses are conditional uses permitted in
the NB zone:
Service station.
   D.   Yard Requirements: In the NB zone, the yards shall be as follows:
      1.   Front Yard: Minimum front yard, none.
      2.   Rear Yard: Minimum rear yard, five feet (5').
      3.   Interior Side Yard: No requirements for interior sides.
      4.   Street Side Yard: Street side, ten feet (10'). (Ord. 15, 7-11-1977)
9-6-2-8: SERVICE BUSINESS DISTRICT (C-2):
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of a Service Business District (C-2) is to permit
the establishment of areas for highway and service business uses only. This
district is specifically designed in clusters to service the motoring public.
This district is generally associated with interchange areas along with major
limited-access highways.
   B.   Permitted Uses: The following uses are permitted in a C-2 zone:
Gift shop.
Motel or hotel.
Restaurant.
Self-service laundry.
Service station.
Travel trailer or campground park.
   C.   Conditional Uses: The following are conditional uses permitted within
the C-2 zone:
Bar or tavern.
Car or trailer sales and service.
Car wash.
Livery stable.
Public use.
Semi-public use.
   D.   Yard Requirements: In the C-2 zone, a side or rear yard abutting a
residential zone shall be screened and have a minimum of fifteen feet (15')
from the rear of the structure to the back lot line. (Ord. 15, 7-11-1977)
9-6-2-9: GENERAL COMMERCIAL DISTRICT (GC):
   A.   Purpose: The General Commercial District (GC) is intended to create,
preserve or enhance areas with a wide range of retail uses and service
establishments serving both long- and short-term needs in compact locations
typically appropriate to commercial clusters developed in urban density areas.
This district also includes some development which does not strictly fit the
description of this chapter, but also does not merit a zoning district.
   B.   Permitted Uses: The following uses are permitted in a GC district:
Automotive sales and service.
Bakery.
Bank or other financial institution.
Beauty shop, barber shop or other personal service business.
Boat or house trailer sales and services.
Bowling alley or other commercial amusement establishment.
Building materials supply outlet.
Business or professional office.
Day nursery.
Frozen food locker service.
Laundry and dry-cleaning establishment.
Laundry, self-service.
Medical and dental clinic.
Motel or hotel.
Printing plant.
Restaurant.
Retail store.
   C.   Conditional Uses: The following uses are conditional uses in the GC
zone:
Baker, wholesale.
Bar or tavern.
Car wash.
Drive-in theater.
Farm equipment or heavy equipment sales and service.
Mortuary.
Public use.
Semi-public use.
Service station.
Veterinary clinic or kennel. (Ord. 15, 7-11-1977)
9-6-2-10: RURAL COMMERCIAL DISTRICT (RC):
   A.   Purpose: The Rural Commercial District (RC) is intended to preserve or
enhance the areas with a range of retail sales and service establishments
serving the needs of the rural community and to provide commercial recreational
use and development. This district is also established to allow conditional
residential use when all services can be delivered.
   B.   Permitted Uses: The following uses are permitted in the RC district:
Bank or other financial institution.
Bar or tavern.
Beauty shop, barber shop or other personal service business.
Commercial recreational.
Day nursery.
Grocery store.
Medical or dental clinic.
Motel or hotel.
Museums.
Restaurant.
Retail store.
Self-service laundry.
Service station.
   C.   Conditional Uses: The following uses are conditional uses permitted in
the RC district:
Heavy equipment sales and service.
Public use.
Residential.
Semi-public use. (Ord. 15, 7-11-1977; amd. Ord. 74, 5-16-1994)
9-6-2-11: LIGHT MANUFACTURING DISTRICT (M-1):
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of the Light Manufacturing District (M-1) is to
encourage development of manufacturing and wholesale business establishments
which are clean, quiet, and free of hazardous or objectionable elements, such
as noise, odor, dust, smoke or glare; operate entirely within an enclosed
structure and generate little industrial traffic. Research activities are
encouraged. This district is further designed to act as a transitional use
between any manufacturing uses and other less intense business and residential
uses.
   B.   Permitted Uses: The following uses are permitted in the M-1 zone:
Auto sales, service, storage and rental.
Billboard manufacture.
Building supply outlet.
Cabinet shop.
Car wash.
Cleaning and laundry agency.
Contractor storage yard.
Dairy products processing.
Food processing plant.
Furniture refinishing.
Grain storage.
Laundry, commercial plant.
Lumberyard, retail.
Machine shop.
Nursery for flowers and plants.
Parking lot, garage facility.
Public utility yard.
Railroad yards or shops.
Sanitary landfill.
Shop for building contractor.
Sign shop.
Terminal trucking yard.
Tire shop, including recapping.
Trailer, mobile home, farm equipment sales yard.
Warehousing and wholesaling.
   C.   Conditional Uses: The following uses are conditional uses permitted in
the M-1 district:
Billboard manufacturer.
Chemical storage and manufacturing.
Drive-in theater.
Feedlots, stockyards.
Food store, delicatessen.
Fuel yard.
Hospital.
Ice manufacture, cold storage plant.
Junkyard.
Machine shop.
Meat packing plant.
Monument works, stone.
Planned unit development.
Prescription pharmacy.
Printing and blueprinting.
Rendering plant.
Roadside stand.
Service station.
Truck and tractor repair.
Wood processing plant, except pulp mill, chipping plant, creosote plant.
Wrecking yard.
   D.   Yard Requirements: There are no yard requirements or maximum height
limitations in the M-1 district. (Ord. 15, 7-11-1977)
9-6-2-12: HEAVY MANUFACTURING DISTRICT (M-2):
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of the Heavy Manufacturing District (M-2) is to
encourage development of major manufacturing, processing, warehousing and major
research and testing operations. These activities require extensive community
facilities and reasonable access to arterial thoroughfares.
   B.   Permitted Uses: Those uses permitted in the M-2 district are as
follows:
Asphalt plant.
Auto sales, service, storage and rental.
Beverage bottling plant.
Chemical storage and manufacturing.
Concrete batch plant or clay products manufacturing.
Contractor's storage yard.
Dairy products, processing.
Food processing plant.
Fuel yard.
Grain storage.
Ice manufacture, cold storage plant.
Junkyard.
Lumberyard retail.
Machine shop.
Meat packing plant.
Monument works, stone.
Parking lot, garage facility.
Petroleum storage.
Planing mill.
Public utility yard.
Railroad yard or shops.
Shop for building contractor.
Sign shop.
Terminal trucking yard.
Tire shop.
Trailer, mobile home, farm equipment sales yard.
Truck and tractor repair.
Warehousing and wholesaling.
Wood processing plant.
Wrecking yard.
   C.   Conditional Uses: The following are conditional uses permitted in the
M-2 zone:
Feedlot and stockyard.
Railroad and sanitary landfill.
Rendering plant. (Ord. 15, 7-11-1977; amd. Ord. 33, 5-4-1983)
9-6-2-13: EXTRACTIVE MANUFACTURING DISTRICT (M-3):
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of the Extractive Manufacturing District (M-3) is
to provide land for the mining and or mining-related treatment processes, waste
dumps, and storage of mineral resources and tailings ponds. This district is
designed to ensure that these resources are properly managed and all land is
reclaimed so as not to create a hazard or nuisance, which either immediately or
in the future, adversely affects the health, safety or general welfare of the
community. (Ord. 15, 7-11-1977)
   B.   Permitted Uses: Those uses allowed in the M-3 zone are as follows:
Asphalt plant.
Chemical storage and manufacturing.
Concentrating, smelting and/or related type treatment processes.
Concrete batch plant or clay products manufacturing.
Contractor's storage yard.
Dairy products, processing.
Gravel pits, rock quarries, sand pits, and clay pits.
Monument works, stone.
Rendering plant.
Sanitary landfill.
Tailings ponds or related impoundment areas.
Waste dumps. (Ord. 15, 7-11-1977; amd. Ord. 112, 6-22-1998)
   C.   Conditional Uses: Agriculture and forest are the only conditional uses
in this district.
   D.   Yard Requirements; Height Restrictions: There are no yard restrictions
or maximum height limitations within the M-3 district.
   E.   Screening; Setbacks: Where practical and at new developments,
appropriate screening or setbacks from roadways will be required to allow for
as little visual disturbance as possible to the natural landscape. (Ord. 15, 7-
11-1977)
9-6-2-14: LANDING FIELD DISTRICT (LF):
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of the Landing Field District (LF) is to zone land
surrounding an aircraft landing field. It is hereby found that an airport
hazard endangers the lives and property of users of the airport and occupants
of land in the vicinity, and also, if of the obstruction type, in effect
reduces the size of the area available for landing, taking off and maneuvering
of aircraft, thus tending to destroy or impair the utility of the airport and
the public investment therein.
   B.   Permitted Uses: Uses permitted in the LF zone are as follows:
Aircraft repair.
Airplane storage.
Flight school.
Food service in relation to airports.
Light industrial manufacturing.
Parking.
Storage for aircraft fuel.
   C.   Building Height: Building height in LF zone shall not exceed thirty
five feet (35'). (Ord. 15, 7-11-1977)
CHAPTER 7
FLOODPLAIN OVERLAY DISTRICT (FP) REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-7-1: Statutory Authorization, Findings Of Fact, Purpose, And Objectives
9-7-1-1: Statutory Authority
9-7-1-2: Findings Of Fact
9-7-1-3: Statement Of Purpose
9-7-1-4: Objectives And Methods Of Reducing Flood Losses
9-7-2: Definitions
9-7-3: General Provisions
9-7-3-1: Lands To Which This Chapter Applies
9-7-3-2: Basis For Special Flood Hazard Areas
9-7-3-3: Establishment Of Floodplain Development Permit
9-7-3-4: Compliance
9-7-3-5: Abrogation And Greater Restrictions
9-7-3-6: Interpretation
9-7-3-7: Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability
9-7-3-8: Penalties For Violation
9-7-4: Administration
9-7-4-1: Designation Of Floodplain Ordinance Administrator
9-7-4-2: Duties And Responsibilities Of The Floodplain Administrator
9-7-4-3: Floodplain Development Application, Permit, And Certification
Requirements
9-7-4-4: Corrective Procedures
9-7-4-5: Variance Procedures
9-7-5: Provisions For Flood Hazard Reduction
9-7-5-1: General Standards
9-7-5-2: Specific Standards
9-7-5-3: Standards For Floodplains Without Established Base Flood Elevations
9-7-5-4: Standards For Riverine Floodplains With Base Flood Elevations But
Without Established Floodways Or Flood Fringe Areas
9-7-5-5: Standards For Floodways
9-7-5-6: Standards For Areas Of Shallow Flooding (Zone AO, AH, AR/AO, or AR/AH)
9-7-6: Legal Status Provisions
9-7-6-1: Effect On Rights And Liabilities Under The Existing Flood Damage
Prevention Ordinance
9-7-6-2: Effect Upon Outstanding Floodplain Development Permits
9-7-6-3: Severability
9-7-6-4: Effective Date
9-7-1: STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACT, PURPOSE, AND OBJECTIVES:
9-7-1-1: STATUTORY AUTHORITY:
The Legislature of the State of Idaho, pursuant to Idaho Code sections 46-1020,
46-1023, and 46-1024, authorizes local governments to adopt floodplain
management ordinances that identify floodplains and minimum floodplain
development standards to minimize flood hazards and protect human life, health,
and property. Therefore, the Board of Commissioners of Shoshone County, Idaho
does hereby ordain as follows. (Ord. 159, 5-6-2021)
9-7-1-2: FINDINGS OF FACT:
   A.   The flood hazard areas of Shoshone County (unincorporated areas) are
subject to periodic inundation that results in:
      1.   Loss of life and property;
      2.   Health and safety hazards;
      3.   Disruption of commerce and governmental services;
      4.   Extraordinary public expenditures for flood relief and protection;
and
      5.   Impairment of the tax base, all of which adversely affect the public
health, safety, and general welfare.
   B.   These flood losses are caused by structures in flood hazard areas,
which are inadequately elevated, flood-proofed, or otherwise unprotected from
flood damages, and by the cumulative effect of obstructions in floodplains
causing increases in flood heights and velocities.
   C.   Local government units have the primary responsibility for planning,
adopting, and enforcing land use regulations to accomplish proper floodplain
management. (Ord. 159, 5-6-2021)
9-7-1-3: STATEMENT OF PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to promote public health, safety, and general
welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood conditions in
specific areas by provisions designed to:
   A.   Protect human life, health, and property;
   B.   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water
purification and sewage treatment plants, water and gas mains, electric,
telephone and sewer lines, streets, and bridges located in floodplains;
   C.   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas;
   D.   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control projects;
   E.   Minimize the need for rescue and emergency services associated with
flooding, generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   F.   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   G.   Ensure potential buyers are notified the property is in an area of
special flood hazard; and
   H.   Ensure those who occupy the areas of special flood hazard assume
responsibility for their actions. (Ord. 159, 5-6-2021)
9-7-1-4: OBJECTIVES AND METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES:
In order to accomplish its purpose, this chapter includes methods and
provisions to:
   A.   Require that development which is vulnerable to floods, including
structures and facilities necessary for the general health, safety, and welfare
of citizens, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   B.   Restrict or prohibit development which is dangerous to health, safety,
and property due to water or erosion hazards, or which increase flood heights,
velocities, or erosion;
   C.   Control filling, grading, dredging, and other development which may
increase flood damage or erosion;
   D.   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers that will
unnaturally divert flood waters or that may increase flood hazards to other
lands;
   E.   Preserve and restore natural floodplains, stream channels, and natural
protective barriers which carry and store flood waters. (Ord. 159, 5-6-2021)
9-7-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter shall
be interpreted according to the meaning they have in common usage and to give
this chapter its most reasonable application.
ACCESSORY
STRUCTURE      A structure on the same lot or parcel as a principal structure, the use of which is
(APPURTENANT   incidental and subordinate to the principal structure.
STRUCTURE):
ADDITION (TO
AN EXISTING    An extension or increase in the floor area or height of a building or structure.
BUILDING):
APPEAL:        A request for review of the Floodplain Administrator's interpretation of provisions
               of this chapter or request for a variance.
               A designated AO, AH, AR/AO, or AR/AH zone on a community's Flood Insurance Rate Map
AREA OF        (FIRM) with a one percent (1%) or greater annual chance of flooding to an average
SHALLOW        depth of one to three feet (1' - 3'), where a clearly defined channel does not
FLOODING:      exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable, and where velocity flow may be
               evident. Such flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
AREA OF
SPECIAL FLOOD  See SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA).
HAZARD:
BASE FLOOD:    The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given
               year.
               A determination by the Federal Insurance Administrator of the water surface
               elevations of the base flood, that is, the flood level that has a one percent (1%)
BASE FLOOD     or greater chance of occurrence in any given year. When the BFE has not been
ELEVATION      provided in a Special Flood Hazard Area, it may be obtained from engineering studies
(BFE):         available from a Federal, State, or other source using FEMA-approved engineering
               methodologies. This elevation, when combined with the Freeboard, establishes the
               Flood Protection Elevation.
BASEMENT:      Any area of the building having its floor sub grade (below ground level) on all
               sides.
BUILDING:      See STRUCTURE.
               Facilities that are vital to flood response activities or critical to the health and
               safety of the public before, during, and after a flood, such as a hospital,
CRITICAL       emergency operations center, electric substation, police station, fire station,
FACILITIES:    nursing home, school, vehicle and equipment storage facility, or shelter; and
               facilities that, if flooded, would make the flood problem and its impacts worse,
               such as a hazardous materials facility, power generation facility, water utility, or
               wastewater treatment plant.
               The vertical datum is a base measurement point (or set of points) from which all
               elevations are determined. Historically, that common set of points was the National
DATUM:         Geodetic Vertical Datum of 1929 (NGVD29). The vertical datum currently adopted by
               the federal government as a basis for measuring heights is the North American
               Vertical Datum of 1988 (NAVD88).
               Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate, including but not limited
DEVELOPMENT:   to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving,
               excavation or drilling operations, or storage of equipment or materials.
               Any activity defined as development which will necessitate a Floodplain Development
DEVELOPMENT    Permit; such as the construction of buildings, structures, or accessory structures;
ACTIVITY:      additions or substantial improvements to existing structures; bulkheads, retaining
               walls, piers, and pools; the placement of mobile homes; or the deposition or
               extraction of materials; the construction or elevation of dikes, berms and levees.
DIGITAL FLOOD  The digital official map of a community, issued by the Federal Emergency Management
INSURANCE RATE Agency, on which both the Special Flood Hazard Areas and the risk premium zones
MAP (DFIRM):   applicable to the community are delineated.
ELEVATED       For insurance purposes, a non-basement building which has its lowest elevated floor
BUILDING:      raised above ground level by foundation walls, shear walls, posts, piers, pilings,
               or columns.
               The elevation certificate is an important administrative tool of the NFIP. It is
ELEVATION      used to determine the proper flood insurance premium rate; it is used to document
CERTIFICATE:   elevation information necessary to ensure compliance with community floodplain
               management regulations; and it may be used to support a request for a Letter of Map
               Amendment (LOMA) or Letter of Map Revision based on fill (LOMR-F).
               An area enclosed by solid walls below the BFE/FPE or an area formed when any space
ENCLOSURE:     below the BFE/FPE is enclosed on all sides by walls or partitions. Insect screening
               or open wood lattice used to surround space below the BFE/RFPE is not considered an
               enclosure.
               The advance or infringement of uses, fill, excavation, buildings, structures, or
ENCROACHMENT:  development into a floodplain, which may impede or alter the flow capacity of a
               floodplain.
               For the purposes of determining rates, structures for which the "start of
EXISTING       construction" commenced before the effective date of the FIRM or before January 1,
CONSTRUCTION:  1975, for FIRMs effective before that date. "Existing construction" may also be
               referred to as "existing structures."
EXISTING       A manufactured home park or subdivision where the construction of facilities for
MANUFACTURED   servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at
HOME PARK OR   a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and final
MANUFACTURED   site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
HOME           of the original floodplain management regulations adopted by the community, April 9,
SUBDIVISION:   1974.
EXISTING       See EXISTING CONSTRUCTION.
STRUCTURES:
EXPANSION TO   The preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
AN EXISTING    the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
MANUFACTURED   installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
HOME PARK OR   grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
SUBDIVISION:
               1.   A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of normally
               dry land areas from:
                  a.   The overflow of inland or tidal waters.
                  b.   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any
               source.
                  c.   Mudslides (i.e., mudflows) which are proximately caused by flooding as
               defined in paragraph 1b of this definition and are akin to a river of liquid and
FLOOD OR       flowing mud on the surfaces of normally dry land areas, as when earth is carried by
FLOODING:      a current of water and deposited along the path of the current.
               2.   The collapse or subsidence of land along the shore of a lake or other body of
               water as a result of erosion or undermining caused by waves or currents of water
               exceeding anticipated cyclical levels or suddenly caused by an unusually high water
               level in a natural body of water, accompanied by a severe storm, or by an
               unanticipated force of nature, such as flash flood or an abnormal tidal surge, or by
               some similarly unusual and unforeseeable event which results in flooding as defined
               in paragraph 1a of this definition.
FLOOD
ELEVATION      See BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE).
DETERMINATION:
FLOOD
ELEVATION      See FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS).
STUDY:
FLOOD HAZARD   An official map of a community, issued by the Federal Insurance Administrator, where
BOUNDARY MAP   the boundaries of the flood, mudslide (i.e., mudflow) related erosion areas having
(FHBM):        special hazards have been designated as Zones A, M, and/or E.
FLOOD          An official map of a community, on which the Federal Insurance Administrator has
INSURANCE RATE delineated both the special hazard areas and the risk premium zones applicable to
MAP (FIRM):    the community. A FIRM that has been made available digitally is called a Digital
               Flood Insurance Rate Map (DFIRM).
FLOOD          An examination, evaluation, and determination of flood hazards and, if appropriate,
INSURANCE      corresponding water surface elevations; or an examination, evaluation and
STUDY (FIS):   determination of mudslide (i.e., mudflow) and/or flood-related erosion hazards.
FLOOD          The Base Flood Elevation plus the Freeboard.
PROTECTION     1.   In "Special Flood Hazard Areas" where Base Flood Elevations (BFEs) have been
ELEVATION      determined, this elevation shall be the BFE plus two feet (2') of freeboard; and
(FPE):         2.   In "Special Flood Hazard Areas" where no BFE has been established, this
               elevation shall be at least two feet (2') above the highest adjacent grade.
               Those physical structural works for which funds have been authorized, appropriated,
               and expended and which have been constructed specifically to modify flooding in
FLOOD          order to reduce the extent of the area within a community subject to a "special
PROTECTION     flood hazard" and the extent of the depths of associated flooding. Such a system
SYSTEM:        typically includes dams, reservoirs, levees, or dikes. These specialized flood
               modifying works are those constructed in conformance with sound engineering
               standards.
               A geographical area shown on a Flood Hazard Boundary Map (FHBM) or Flood Insurance
FLOOD ZONE:    Rate Map (FIRM) that reflects the severity or type of flooding in the area and
               applicable insurance rate.
FLOODPLAIN OR  Any land area susceptible to being inundated by water from any source (see
FLOOD-PRONE    definition of "flooding").
AREA:
FLOODPLAIN     The individual appointed to administer and enforce the floodplain management
ADMINISTRATOR: regulations.
FLOODPLAIN     Any type of permit that is required in conformance with the provisions of this
DEVELOPMENT    chapter, prior to the commencement of any development activity.
PERMIT:
FLOODPLAIN     The operation of an overall program of corrective and preventive measures for
MANAGEMENT:    reducing flood damage, including but not limited to emergency preparedness plans,
               flood control works, and flood plain management regulations.
               Zoning ordinances, subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations,
FLOODPLAIN     special purpose ordinances (such as a flood plain ordinance, grading ordinance, and
MANAGEMENT     erosion control ordinance), and other applications of police power. The term
REGULATIONS:   describes such state or local regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide
               standards for the purpose of flood damage prevention and reduction.
               Any combination of structural and non-structural additions, changes, or adjustments
FLOODPROOFING: to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to real estate or improved real
               property, water and sanitary facilities, structures and their contents.
               The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land areas that must be
FLOODWAY:      reserved in order to discharge the base flood without cumulatively increasing the
               water surface elevation more than a designated height.
               A factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level for the purposes of
               floodplain management. Freeboard tends to compensate for the many unknown factors
               that could contribute to flood heights greater than the height calculated for a
FREEBOARD:     selected size flood and floodway conditions, such as wave action, obstructed bridge
               openings, debris and ice jams, and the hydrologic effects of urbanization in a
               watershed. The Base Flood Elevation (BFE) plus the freeboard establishes the Flood
               Protection Elevation (FPE). Freeboard shall be two feet (2').
FRINGE AREA:   That portion of the floodplain outside of the floodway.
               A facility that cannot be used for its intended purpose unless it is located or
FUNCTIONALLY   carried out in close proximity to water, such as a docking or port facility
DEPENDENT USE: necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, shipbuilding, or
               ship repair facilities.
HIGHEST        The highest natural elevation of the ground surface prior to construction, adjacent
ADJACENT GRADE to the proposed walls of a structure. Refer to the FEMA Elevation Certificate for
(HAG):         HAG related to building elevation information.
               A structure that is:
               1.   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a listing
               maintained by the U.S. Department of lnterior) or preliminarily determined by the
               Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual listing on the
               National Register;
               2.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as
               contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic district or to
               a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to qualify as a registered
HISTORIC       historic district;
STRUCTURE:     3.   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places and determined as
               eligible by states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by
               the Secretary of the Interior; or
               4.   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places and determined as
               eligible by communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
               either:
                  a.   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of the Interior,
               or
                  b.   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without approved
               programs.
               A general term used to refer to the several types of revisions and amendments to
               FEMA maps that can be accomplished by letter. They include Letter of Map Amendment
               (LOMA), Letter of Map Revision (LOMR), and Letter of Map Revision based on Fill
               (LOMR-F)
               1.   Letter of Map Amendment (LOMA): an official amendment, by letter, to an
               effective National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) map. A LOMA establishes a
               property's location in relation to the Special Flood Hazard Area (SFHA). LOMAs are
               usually issued because a property has been inadvertently mapped as being in the
               floodplain but is actually on natural high ground above the base flood elevation.
               2.   Letter of Map Revision (LOMR): FEMA's modification to an effective Flood
               Insurance Rate Map (FIRM). LOMRs are generally based on the implementation of
               physical measures that affect the hydrologic or hydraulic characteristics of a
               flooding source and thus result in the modification of the existing regulatory
               floodway, the effective Base Flood Elevations (BFEs), or the Special Flood Hazard
LETTER OF MAP  Area (SFHA). The LOMR officially revises the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) and
CHANGE (LOMC): sometimes the Flood Insurance Study (FIS) report, and when appropriate, includes a
               description of the modifications. The LOMR is generally accompanied by an annotated
               copy of the affected portions of the FIRM or FIS report.
               3.   Letter of Map Revision Based on Fill (LOMR-F): FEMA's modification of the
               Special Flood Hazard Area (SFHA) shown on the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) based
               on the placement of fill outside the existing regulatory floodway. The LOMR-F does
               not change the FIRM or FIS report.
               4.   Conditional Letter of Map Revision (CLOMR): A formal review and comment as to
               whether a proposed flood protection project or other project complies with the
               minimum NFIP requirements for such projects with respect to delineation of special
               flood hazard areas. A CLOMR does not revise the effective Flood Insurance Rate Map
               (FIRM) or Flood Insurance Study (FIS). Upon submission and approval of certified as-
               built documentation, a Letter of Map Revision (LOMR) may be issued by FEMA to revise
               the effective FIRM. Building Permits and/or Flood Development Permits cannot be
               issued based on a CLOMR, because a CLOMR does not change the NFIP map.
               A man-made structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and constructed
LEVEE:         according to sound engineering practices, to contain, control, or divert the flow of
               water so as to provide protection from temporary flooding.
               A flood protection system that consists of a levee, or levees, and associated
LEVEE SYSTEM:  structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are constructed and operated
               in accordance with sound engineering practices.
LOWEST         The lowest point of the ground level next to the structure. Refer to the FEMA
ADJACENT GRADE Elevation Certificate for LAG related to building elevation information.
(LAG):
               The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including basement). An unfinished or
               flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for parking of vehicles, building access or
LOWEST FLOOR:  storage in an area other than a basement area is not considered a building's lowest
               floor; provided, that such enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in
               violation of the applicable non-elevation design requirements of 44 CFR § 60.3 and
               this chapter.
               A structure, transportable in one or more sections, built on a permanent chassis and
MANUFACTURED   designed to be used with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the
HOME:          required utilities. The term "Manufactured Home" does not include a "Recreational
               Vehicle."
MANUFACTURED   A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land divided into two (2) or more manufactured
HOME PARK OR   home lots for rent or sale.
SUBDIVISION:
               The building value, not including the land value and that of any accessory
MARKET VALUE:  structures or other improvements on the lot. Market value may be established by
               independent certified appraisal; replacement cost depreciated for age of building
               and quality of construction (actual cash value); or adjusted tax assessed values.
               For purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP), the National Geodetic
MEAN SEA       Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 or other datum (such as North America Vertical Datum
LEVEL:         of 1988 -NAVD88) to which Base Flood Elevations (BFEs) shown on a community's FIRM
               are referenced.
               Describes a condition where there is a river, flow, or inundation of liquid mud down
               a hillside usually as a result of a dual condition of loss of brush cover and the
MUDSLIDE       subsequent accumulation of water on the ground preceded by a period of unusually
(I.E.,         heavy or sustained rain. A mudslide (i.e., mudflow) may occur as a distinct
MUDFLOW):      phenomenon while a landslide is in progress and will be recognized as such by the
               Administrator only if the mudflow, and not the landslide, is the proximate cause of
               damage that occurs.
MUDSLIDE (I.E, The operation of an overall program of corrective and preventive measures for
MUDFLOW) AREA  reducing mudslide (i.e., mudflow) damage, including but not limited to emergency
MANAGEMENT:    preparedness plans, mudslide control works, and flood plain management regulations.
MUDSLIDE
(I.E.,         An area with land surfaces and slopes of unconsolidated material where the history,
MUDFLOW) PRONE geology, and climate indicate a potential for mudflow.
AREA:
NATIONAL FLOOD The NFlP is a Federal program created by Congress to mitigate future flood losses
INSURANCE      nationwide through sound, community-enforced building and zoning ordinances and to
PROGRAM        provide access to affordable, federally backed flood insurance protection for
(NFIP):        property owners.
               For floodplain management purposes, a structure for which the start of construction
               commenced on or after the effective date of a floodplain management regulation
NEW            adopted by a community and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
CONSTRUCTION:  Any construction started after September 26, 2008 and before the effective start
               date of this floodplain management ordinance is subject to the ordinance in effect
               at the time the permit was issued, provided the start of construction was within one
               hundred eighty (180) days of permit issuance.
NEW            A place where the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on which the
MANUFACTURED   manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum the installation of
HOME PARK OR   utilities, the construction of streets, and final site grading or the pouring of
SUBDIVISION:   concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective date of floodplain management
               regulations adopted by a community, September 26, 2008.
POST-FIRM:     Construction or other development for which the "start of construction" occurred on
               or after the effective date of the initial Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM).
               Construction or other development for which the "start of construction" occurred
PRE-FIRM:      before September 26, 2008, the effective date of the initial Flood Insurance Rate
               Map (FIRM).
               A vehicle that is:
               1.   Built on a single chassis; and
RECREATIONAL   2.   Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal
VEHICLE:       projection; and
               3.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towed by a light duty truck; and
               4.   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary living
               quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
REGULATORY     See FLOODWAY.
FLOODWAY:
               To bring the structure or other development into compliance with State or local
               flood plain management regulations, or, if this is not possible, to reduce the
REMEDY A       impacts of its non-compliance. Ways in which impacts may be reduced include
VIOLATION:     protecting the structure or other affected development from flood damages,
               implementing the enforcement provisions of the ordinance or otherwise deterring
               future similar violations, or reducing Federal financial exposure with regard to the
               structure or other development.
REPETITIVE     An NFIP-insured structure that has had at least two (2) paid flood losses of more
LOSS           than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) each in any 10-year period since 1978.
STRUCTURE:
RIVERINE:      Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including tributary), stream, brook,
               etc.
SPECIAL FLOOD  The land in the flood plain within a community subject to a one percent (1%) or
HAZARD AREA    greater chance of flooding in any given year. For purposes of these regulations, the
(SFHA):        term "special flood hazard area" is synonymous in meaning with the phrase “area of
               special flood hazard”.
               Includes substantial improvement, and means the date the building permit was issued,
               provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation,
               addition placement, or other improvement was within one hundred eighty (180) days of
               the permit date. The actual start means either the first placement of permanent
               construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the
               installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of
               excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent
START OF       construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading, and
CONSTRUCTION:  filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does
               it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or foundations or the
               erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of
               accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not
               part of the main structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual start of
               construction means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other
               structural part of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the external
               dimensions of the building.
STRUCTURE:     A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage tank that is
               principally above ground, as well as a manufactured home.
               Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the cost of restoring the
               structure to its before-damaged condition would equal or exceed fifty percent (50%)
               of its market value before the damage occurred. See definition of "substantial
SUBSTANTIAL    improvement". Substantial damage also means flood-related damage sustained by a
DAMAGE:        structure on two separate occasions during a ten (10) year period for which the cost
               of repairs at the time of each such flood event, on the average, equals or exceeds
               twenty five percent (25%) of the market value of the structure before the damage
               occurred.
               Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other improvement of a structure,
               the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the
               structure before the "start of construction" of the improvement. This term includes
               structures which have incurred "substantial damage", regardless of the actual repair
               work performed. The term does not, however, include either:
SUBSTANTIAL    1.   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing violations of
IMPROVEMENT:   state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which have been
               identified by the local code enforcement official and which are the minimum
               necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
               2.   Any alteration of a "historic structure", provided that the alteration will not
               preclude the structure's continued designation as a "historic structure" and the
               alteration is approved by variance issued pursuant to this chapter.
               FEMA publications that provide guidance concerning the building performance
               standards of the NFIP, which are contained in Title 44 of the US Code of Federal
               Regulations § 60.3. The bulletins and fact sheets are intended for use primarily by
               State and local officials responsible for interpreting and enforcing NFIP
               regulations and by members of the development community, such as design
               professionals and builders. New bulletins, as well as updates of existing bulletins,
TECHNICAL      are issued periodically as needed. The bulletins do not create regulations. Rather
BULLETINS AND  they provide specific guidance for complying with the minimum requirements of
TECHNICAL FACT existing NFIP regulations.
SHEETS:        It should be noted that Technical Bulletins and Technical Fact Sheets provide
               guidance on the minimum requirements of the NFIP regulations. State or community
               requirements that exceed those of the NFIP take precedence. Design professionals
               should contact the community officials to determine whether more restrictive State
               or local regulations apply to the building or site in question. All applicable
               standards of the State or local building code must also be met for any building in a
               flood hazard area.
TEMPERATURE    Having the temperature regulated by a heating and/or cooling system, built-in or
CONTROLLED:    appliance.
VARIANCE:      A grant of relief by the governing body from a requirement of this chapter.A grant
               of relief by the governing body from a requirement of this chapter.
               The failure of a structure or other development to be fully compliant with the
               community's flood plain management regulations. A structure or other development
VIOLATION:     without the Finished Construction Elevation Certificate, other certifications, or
               other evidence of compliance required in 44 CFR § 60.3(b)(5), (c)(4), (c)(10), (d)
               (3), (e)(2), (e)(4), or (e)(5) is presumed to be in violation until such time as
               that documentation is provided.
               The height, in relation to the National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 or
WATER SURFACE  the North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) of 1988 (or other specified datum), of
ELEVATION:     floods of various magnitudes and frequencies in the flood plains of coastal or
               riverine areas.
               A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel, or other topographic feature on or over
WATERCOURSE:   which waters flow at least periodically. Watercourse includes specifically
               designated areas in which substantial flood damage may occur. (Ord. 159, 5-6-2021)
 
9-7-3: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
9-7-3-1: LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES:
This chapter shall apply to all special flood hazard areas within the
jurisdiction of unincorporated areas of Shoshone County, Idaho. Nothing in this
chapter is intended to allow uses or structures that are otherwise prohibited
by the zoning ordinance. (Ord. 159, 5-6-2021)
9-7-3-2: BASIS FOR SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS:
The special flood hazard areas identified by the Federal Insurance
Administrator in a scientific and engineering report titled "Flood Insurance
Study (FIS) for Shoshone County, Idaho and unincorporated areas", dated
September 26, 2008, with accompanying Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRM) or
Digital Flood Insurance Rate Maps (DFIRM), and other supporting data, are
adopted by reference and declared a part of this chapter. The FIS and the FIRM
are on file at the office of the Planning and Zoning Administration located at
700 Bank St., Suite #25, Wallace, Idaho 83873. (Ord. 159, 5-6-2021)
9-7-3-3: ESTABLISHMENT OF FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
A floodplain development permit shall be required in conformance with the
provisions of this chapter prior to the commencement of any development
activities within special flood hazard areas determined in accordance with the
provisions of section
9-7-4-2. (Ord. 159, 5-6-2021)
9-7-3-4: COMPLIANCE:
No structure or land shall hereafter be located, extended, converted, altered,
or developed in any way without full compliance with the terms of this chapter
and other applicable regulations. (Ord. 159, 5-6-2021)
9-7-3-5: ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS:
This chapter shall not in any way repeal, abrogate, impair, or remove the
necessity of compliance with any other laws, ordinances, regulations,
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions, etc. However, where this chapter
and another conflict or overlap, whichever imposes more stringent or greater
restrictions shall control. (Ord. 159, 5-6-2021)
9-7-3-6: INTERPRETATION:
In the interpretation and application of this chapter all provisions shall be:
   A.   Considered as minimum requirements;
   B.   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   C.   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under state
statutes. (Ord. 159, 5-6-2021)
9-7-3-7: WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. Larger floods can and will occur. Flood heights may be
increased by man-made or natural causes. This chapter does not imply that land
outside the special flood hazard areas or uses permitted within such areas will
be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter shall not create liability
on the part of Shoshone County, Idaho or by any officer or employee thereof for
flood damages that result from reliance on this chapter or an administrative
decision lawfully made hereunder. (Ord. 159, 5-6-2021)
9-7-3-8: PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION:
No structure or land shall hereafter be located, extended, converted, or
altered unless in full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other
applicable regulations.
Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any of
its requirements, including violation of conditions and safeguards established
in connection with grants of variance or special exceptions, shall constitute a
misdemeanor. Any person who violates this chapter or fails to comply with any
of its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than
three hundred dollars ($300.00), imprisoned for not more than one hundred
eighty (180) days, or both. Each day the violation continues shall be
considered a separate offense. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the
Shoshone County, Idaho from taking such other lawful actions as is necessary to
prevent or remedy any violation. (Ord. 159, 5-6-2021)
9-7-4: ADMINISTRATION:
9-7-4-1: DESIGNATION OF FLOODPLAIN ORDINANCE ADMINISTRATOR:
The Planning and Zoning Administrator, hereinafter referred to as the
"Floodplain Administrator", is hereby appointed to administer and implement the
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 159, 5-6-2021)
9-7-4-2: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR:
The Floodplain Administrator shall perform, but not be limited to, the
following duties:
   A.   Review all floodplain development applications and issue permits for
all proposed development within special flood hazard areas to assure that the
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied.
   B.   Review all proposed development within special flood hazard areas to
assure that all necessary local, State, and Federal permits have been received,
including Section 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of
1972, 33 USC §1334.
   C.   Notify adjacent communities and the Idaho Department of Water Resources
State Coordinator for the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) prior to any
alteration or relocation of a watercourse and submit evidence of such
notification to the Federal Insurance Administrator (FIA).
   D.   Assure that the flood-carrying capacity within the altered or relocated
portion of any watercourse is maintained.
   E.   Prevent encroachments into regulatory floodways unless the
certification and flood hazard reduction provisions of section
9-7-5-5 are met.
   F.   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of the lowest
floor (including basement) and all attendant utilities of all new and
substantially improved structures, in accordance with the provisions of
subsection
9-7-4-3C.
   G.   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which all
new and substantially improved structures and utilities have been floodproofed,
in accordance with the provisions of subsection
9-7-4-3C.
   H.   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of all public
utilities in accordance with the provisions of subsection
9-7-4-3C.
   I.   When floodproofing is utilized for a particular structure, obtain
certifications from a registered professional engineer or architect in
accordance with the provisions of subsections
9-7-4-3C and
9-7-5-2B.
   J.   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of boundaries
of the special flood hazard areas (for example, where there appears to be a
conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions), make the
necessary interpretation. The person contesting the location of the boundary
shall be given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the interpretation as
provided in this chapter.
   K.   When base flood elevation (BFE) data has not been provided in
accordance with the provisions of section
9-7-3-2, obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any BFE data, along with
floodway data available from a Federal, State, or other source, including data
developed pursuant to Article V, Section C.2.b., in order to administer the
provisions of this chapter.
   L.   When base flood elevation (BFE) data is provided but no floodway data
has been provided in accordance with the provisions of section
9-7-3-2, require that no new construction, substantial improvements, or other
development (including fill) shall be permitted within Zones A1-30 and AE on
the community's FIRM, unless it is demonstrated that the cumulative effect of
the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated
development, will not increase the water surface elevation of the base flood
more than one foot (1') at any point within the community.
   M.   When the lowest floor and the lowest adjacent grade of a structure or
the lowest ground elevation of a parcel in a special flood hazard area (SFHA)
is above the base flood elevation (BFE), advise the property owner of the
option to apply for a Letter of Map Amendment (LOMA) from FEMA. Maintain a copy
of the LOMA issued by FEMA in the floodplain development permit file.
   N.   Permanently maintain all records that pertain to the administration of
this chapter and make these records available for public inspection,
recognizing that such information may be subject to the Privacy Act of 1974, as
amended.
   O.   Make on-site inspections of work in progress. As the work pursuant to a
floodplain development permit progresses, the Floodplain Administrator shall
make as many inspections of the work as may be necessary to ensure that the
work is being done according to the provisions of the local ordinance and the
terms of the permit. In exercising this power, the Floodplain Administrator has
a right, upon presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises
within the jurisdiction of the community at any reasonable hour for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action.
   P.   Issue stop-work orders as required. Whenever a building or part thereof
is being constructed, reconstructed, altered, or repaired in violation of this
chapter, the Floodplain Administrator may order the work to be immediately
stopped. The stop-work order shall be in writing and directed to the person
doing or in charge of the work. The stop-work order shall state the specific
work to be stopped, the specific reason(s) for the stoppage, and the condition
(s) under which the work may be resumed. Violation of a stop-work order
constitutes a misdemeanor.
   Q.   Revoke floodplain development permits as required. The Floodplain
Administrator may revoke and require the return of the floodplain development
permit by notifying the permit holder in writing stating the reason(s) for the
revocation. Permits shall be revoked for any substantial departure from the
approved application, plans, and specifications; for refusal or failure to
comply with the requirements of State or local laws; or for false statements or
misrepresentations made in securing the permit. Any floodplain development
permit mistakenly issued in violation of an applicable State or local law may
also be revoked.
   R.   Make periodic inspections throughout the special flood hazard areas
within the jurisdiction of the community. The Floodplain Administrator and each
member of his or her inspections department shall have a right, upon
presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises within the
territorial jurisdiction of the department at any reasonable hour for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action.
   S.   Follow through with corrective procedures of section
9-7-4-4.
   T.   Review, provide input, and make recommendations for variance requests.
   U.   Maintain a current map repository to include, but not limited to, the
FIS Report, FIRM and other official flood maps and studies adopted in
accordance with the provisions of section
9-7-3-2, including any revisions thereto including Letters of Map Change,
issued by FEMA. Notify the NFIP State Coordinator and FEMA of your community's
mapping needs.
   V.   Coordinate revisions to FIS reports and FIRMs, including Letters of Map
Revision Based on Fill (LOMR-Fs) and Letters of Map Revision (LOMRs).
   W.   A community's base flood elevations may increase or decrease resulting
from physical changes affecting flooding conditions. As soon as practicable,
but not later than six (6) months after the date such information becomes
available, a community shall notify the Federal Insurance Administrator (FIA)
of the changes by submitting technical or scientific data in accordance with
this part. Such a submission is necessary so that upon confirmation of those
physical changes affecting flooding conditions, risk premium rates and flood
plain management requirements will be based upon current data.
   X.   Upon occurrence, notify the Federal Insurance Administrator (FIA) in
writing whenever the boundaries of the community have been modified by
annexation or the community has otherwise assumed or no longer has authority to
adopt and enforce flood plain management regulations for a particular area. In
order that all FHBM's and FIRM's accurately represent the community's
boundaries, include within such notification a copy of a map of the community
suitable for reproduction, clearly delineating the new corporate limits or new
area for which the community has assumed or relinquished flood plain management
regulatory authority. (Ord. 159, 5-6-2021)
9-7-4-3: FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT APPLICATION, PERMIT, AND CERTIFICATION
REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Application Requirements: Application for a floodplain development
permit shall be made to the Floodplain Administrator prior to any development
activities located within special flood hazard areas. The following items shall
be presented to the Floodplain Administrator to apply for a floodplain
development permit:
      1.   A plot plan drawn to scale which shall include, but shall not be
limited to, the following specific details of the proposed floodplain
development:
         a.   hThe nature, location, dimensions, and elevations of the area of
development/disturbance; existing and proposed structures, utility systems,
grading/pavement areas, fill materials, storage areas, drainage facilities, and
other development;
         b.   The boundary of the special flood hazard area as delineated on
the FIRM or other flood map as determined in section
9-7-3-2, or a statement that the entire lot is within the special flood hazard
area;
         c.   The flood zone(s) designation of the proposed development area as
determined on the FIRM or other flood map as determined in section
9-7-3-2;
         d.   The boundary of the floodway(s) as determined in section
9-7-3-2;
         e.   The base flood elevation (BFE) where provided as set forth in
sections
9-7-3-2,
9-7-3-3, and
9-7-5-3;
         f.   The old and new location of any watercourse that will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development.
      2.   Proposed elevation, and method thereof, of all development within a
special flood hazard area including, but not limited to:
         a.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level of the proposed lowest
floor (including basement) of all structures;
         b.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any non-
residential structure in Zone A, AE, AH, AO, or A1-30 will be floodproofed; and
         c.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any proposed
utility equipment and machinery will be elevated or floodproofed.
      3.   If floodproofing, a Floodproofing Certificate (FEMA Form 086-0-33)
with supporting data, an operational plan, and an inspection and maintenance
plan that include, but are not limited to, installation, exercise, and
maintenance of floodproofing measures.
      4.   A foundation plan, drawn to scale, which shall include details of
the proposed foundation system to ensure all provisions of this chapter are met
may be requested. Note: At the discretion of the Administrator, plans may need
to be provided by a design professional. These details include, but are not
limited to:
         a.   The proposed method of elevation, if applicable (i.e., fill,
solid foundation perimeter wall, solid backfilled foundation, open foundation,
or on columns/posts/piers/piles/shear walls); and
         b.   Openings to facilitate automatic equalization of hydrostatic
flood forces on walls accordance with subsection
9-7-5-1H2 when solid foundation perimeter walls are used in Zones A, AE, AH,
AO, and A1-30.
      5.   Usage details of any enclosed areas below the lowest floor.
      6.   Plans and/or details for the protection of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems to be located and
constructed to minimize flood damage.
      7.   Certification that all other local, State, and Federal permits
required prior to floodplain development permit issuance have been received.
      8.   Documentation for placement of recreational vehicles and/or
temporary structures, when applicable, to ensure that the provisions of
subsections
9-7-5-2E and
9-7-5-2F are met.
      9.   a.   A description of proposed watercourse alteration or relocation,
when applicable, including an engineering report on the effects of the proposed
project on the flood-carrying capacity of the watercourse and the effects to
properties located both upstream and downstream; and
         b.   A map (if not shown on plot plan) showing the location of the
proposed watercourse alteration or relocation.
   B.   Permit Requirements: The floodplain development permit shall include,
but not be limited to:
      1.   A complete description of all the development to be permitted under
the floodplain development permit (i.e. house, garage, pool, septic, bulkhead,
cabana, pole barn, chicken coop, pier, bridge, mining, dredging, filling, rip-
rap, docks, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations, or storage of
equipment or materials, etc).
      2.   The special flood hazard area determination for the proposed
development in accordance with available data specified in section
9-7-3-2.
      3.   The flood protection elevation required for the lowest floor and all
attendant utilities.
      4.   The flood protection elevation required for the protection of all
public utilities.
      5.   All certification submittal requirements with timelines.
      6.   A statement that no fill material or other development shall
encroach into the floodway of any watercourse, as applicable.
      7.   The flood openings requirements, if in Zones A, AE, AH, AO, or A1-
30.
      8.   All floodplain development permits shall be conditional upon the
start of construction of work within one hundred eighty (180) days. A
floodplain development permit shall expire one hundred eighty (180) days after
issuance unless the permitted activity has commenced as per the start of
construction definition.
      9.   A statement of the limitations of below BFE enclosure uses, if
applicable. (i.e., parking, building access and limited storage only).
      10.   A statement that all materials below BFE/FPE must be flood
resistant materials.
   C.   Certification Requirements:
      1.   Elevation Certificates:
         a.   A Construction Drawings Elevation Certificate (FEMA Form 86-0-33)
is required prior to the actual start of any new construction. It shall be the
duty of the permit holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator a
certification of the elevation of the lowest floor, in relation to mean sea
level. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate data
submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the
permit holder prior to the beginning of construction. Failure to submit the
certification or failure to make required corrections shall be sufficient cause
to deny a floodplain development permit.
         b.   A final as-built Finished Construction Elevation Certificate
(FEMA Form 86-0-33) is required after construction is completed and prior to
Certificate of Compliance/Occupancy issuance. It shall be the duty of the
permit holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of
final as-built construction of the elevation of the lowest floor and all
attendant utilities. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate
data submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the
permit holder immediately and prior to Certificate of Compliance/Occupancy
issuance. In some instances, another certification may be required to certify
corrected as-built construction. Failure to submit the certification or failure
to make required corrections shall be sufficient cause to withhold the issuance
of a Certificate of Compliance/Occupancy.
(The Finished Construction Elevation Certificate certifier shall provide at
least two (2) photographs showing the front and rear of the building taken
within ninety (90) days from the date of certification. The photographs must be
taken with views confirming the building description and diagram number
provided in section
9-7-4-1. To the extent possible, these photographs should show the entire
building including foundation. If the building has split-level or multi-level
areas, provide at least two (2) additional photographs showing side views of
the building. In addition, when applicable, provide a photograph of the
foundation showing a representative example of the flood openings or vents. All
photographs must be in color and measure at least three inches by three inches
(3" x 3"). Digital photographs are acceptable.)
      2.   Floodproofing Certificate: If non-residential floodproofing is used
to meet the flood protection elevation requirements, a Floodproofing
Certificate (FEMA Form 086-0-34), with supporting data, an operational plan,
and an inspection and maintenance plan are required prior to the actual start
of any new construction. It shall be the duty of the permit holder to submit to
the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the floodproofed design
elevation of the lowest floor and all attendant utilities, in relation to mean
sea level. Floodproofing certification shall be prepared by or under the direct
supervision of a professional engineer or architect and certified by same. The
Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate data, the operational
plan, and the inspection and maintenance plan. Deficiencies detected by such
review shall be corrected by the applicant prior to permit approval. Failure to
submit the certification or failure to make required corrections shall be
sufficient cause to deny a Floodplain Development Permit. Failure to construct
in accordance with the certified design shall be sufficient cause to withhold
the issuance of a Certificate of Compliance/Occupancy.
      3.   If a manufactured home is placed within Zone A, AE, AH, AO, or A1-30
and the elevation of the chassis is more than thirty-six inches (36") in height
above grade, an engineered foundation certification is required in accordance
with the provisions of subsection
9-7-5-2C2.
      4.   If a watercourse is to be altered or relocated, the following shall
all be submitted by the permit applicant prior to issuance of a floodplain
development permit:
         a.   A description of the extent of watercourse alteration or
relocation; and
         b.   A professional engineer's certified report on the effects of the
proposed project on the flood-carrying capacity of the watercourse and the
effects to properties located both upstream and downstream; and
         c.   A map showing the location of the proposed watercourse alteration
or relocation; and
         d.   An Idaho Stream Channel Alteration Permit approval shall be
provided by the applicant to the Floodplain Administrator.
      5.   Certification Exemptions: The following structures, if located
within Zone A, AE, AH, AO, or A1-30, are exempt from the elevation/
floodproofing certification requirements specified in subsections C1 and C2:
         a.   Recreational vehicles meeting requirements of subsection
9-7-5-2E1;
         b.   Temporary structures meeting requirements of subsection
9-7-5-2F; and
         c.   Accessory structures less than two hundred (200) square feet
meeting requirements of subsection
9-7-5-2G.
   D.   Determinations For Existing Buildings And Structures: For applications
for building permits to improve buildings and structures, including alteration,
movement, enlargement, replacement, repair, change of occupancy, addition,
rehabilitation, renovation, improvement, repair of damage, and any other
improvement of or work on such buildings and structures, the Floodplain
Administrator, in coordination with the Building Official, shall:
      1.   Estimate the market value or require the applicant to obtain an
appraisal of the market value prepared by a qualified independent appraiser of
the building or structure before the start of construction of the proposed
work. In the case of repair, the market value of the building or structure
shall be the market value before the damage occurred and before any repairs are
made;
      2.   Compare the cost to perform the improvement, the cost to repair a
damaged building to its pre-damaged condition, or the combined costs of
improvements and repairs, if applicable, to the market value of the building or
structure;
      3.   Determine and document whether the proposed work constitutes
substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage; and
      4.   Notify the applicant if it is determined that the work constitutes
substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage and that compliance
with the flood resistant construction requirements of the adopted Idaho
Building Code and this chapter is required. (Ord. 159, 5-6-2021)
9-7-4-4: CORRECTIVE PROCEDURES:
   A.   Violations To Be Corrected: When the Floodplain Administrator finds
violations of applicable State and local laws, it shall be his or her duty to
notify the owner or occupant of the building of the violation. The owner or
occupant shall immediately remedy each of the violations of law cited in such
notification.
   B.   Actions In Event Of Failure To Take Corrective Action: If the owner of
a building or property shall fail to take prompt corrective action, the
Floodplain Administrator shall give the owner written notice, by certified or
registered mail to the owner's last known address or by personal service,
stating:
      1.   That the building or property is in violation of the floodplain
management regulations;
      2.   That a hearing will be held before the Floodplain Administrator at a
designated place and time, not later than ten (10) days after the date of the
notice, at which time the owner shall be entitled to be heard in person or by
counsel and to present arguments and evidence pertaining to the matter; and
      3.   That following the hearing, the Floodplain Administrator may issue
an order to alter, vacate, or demolish the building, or to remove fill as
applicable.
   C.   Order To Take Corrective Action: If, upon a hearing held pursuant to
the notice prescribed above, the Floodplain Administrator shall find that the
building or development is in violation of the Flood Damage Prevention
Ordinance, he or she shall issue an order in writing to the owner, requiring
the owner to remedy the violation within a specified time period, not less than
sixty (60) calendar days, nor more than one hundred eighty (180) calendar days.
Where the Floodplain Administrator finds that there is imminent danger to life
or other property, he or she may order that corrective action be taken in such
lesser period as may be feasible.
   D.   Appeal: Any owner who has received an order to take corrective action
may appeal the order to the Planning and Zoning Commission by giving notice of
appeal in writing to the Floodplain Administrator and the clerk within ten (10)
days following issuance of the final order. In the absence of an appeal, the
order of the Floodplain Administrator shall be final. The Planning and Zoning
Commission shall hear an appeal within a reasonable time and may affirm, modify
and affirm, or revoke the order.
   E.   Failure To Comply With Order: If the owner of a building or property
fails to comply with an order to take corrective action for which no appeal has
been made or fails to comply with an order of the governing body following an
appeal, the owner shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished at the
discretion of the court. (Ord. 159, 5-6-2021)
9-7-4-5: VARIANCE PROCEDURES:
   A.   The Planning and Zoning Commission as established by Shoshone County,
hereinafter referred to as the "appeal board", shall hear and decide requests
for variances from the requirements of this chapter.
   B.   Variances may be issued for:
      1.   The repair or rehabilitation of historic structures upon the
determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the
structure's continued designation as a historic structure and that the variance
is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the
structure;
      2.   Functionally dependent facilities, if determined to meet the
definition as stated in section
9-7-2, provided provisions of subsections H2, H3 and H4, have been satisfied,
and such facilities are protected by methods that minimize flood damages during
the base flood and create no additional threats to public safety; or
      3.   Any other type of development provided it meets the requirements of
this section.
   C.   In passing upon variances, the appeal board shall consider all
technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in other
sections of this chapter, and:
      1.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      2.   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      3.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner; the
importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to the community;
      4.   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location as defined
under section
9-7-2 as a functionally dependent facility, where applicable;
      5.   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use;
      6.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      7.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      8.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      9.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and sediment
transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site; and
      10.   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, and streets and bridges.
   D.   The applicant shall include a written report addressing each of the
above factors in subsections C1 through C10 with their application for a
variance.
   E.   Upon consideration of the factors listed above and the purposes of this
chapter, the appeal board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary, to further the purposes and objectives of this
chapter.
   F.   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the base flood elevation (BFE) and the
elevation to which the structure is to be built and that such construction
below the BFE increases risks to life and property, and that the issuance of a
variance to construct a structure below the BFE will result in increased
premium rates for flood insurance up to twenty five dollars ($25.00) per one
hundred dollars ($100.00) of insurance coverage. Such notification shall be
maintained with a record of all variance actions, including justification for
their issuance.
   G.   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of all appeal
actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency and
the State of Idaho upon request.
   H.   Conditions For Variances:
      1.   Variances shall not be issued when the variance will make the
structure in violation of other Federal, State, or local laws, regulations, or
ordinances.
      2.   Variances shall not be issued within any designated flood way if the
variance would result in any increase in flood levels during the base flood
discharge.
      3.   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      4.   Variances shall only be issued prior to development permit approval.
      5.   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         a.   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         b.   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship; and
         c.   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisance, cause fraud on or victimization of the public,
or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
   I.   A variance may be issued for solid waste disposal facilities or sites,
hazardous waste management facilities, salvage yards, and chemical storage
facilities that are located in special flood hazard areas provided that all of
the following conditions are met:
      1.   The use serves a critical need in the community;
      2.   No feasible location exists for the use outside the special flood
hazard area;
      3.   The lowest floor of any structure is elevated or floodproofed to at
least the flood protection elevation; and
      4.   The use complies with all other applicable Federal, State and local
laws.
   J.   Shoshone County will notify the State NFIP Coordinator of the Idaho
Department of Water Resources of its intention to grant a variance at least
thirty (30) calendar days prior to granting the variance.
   K.   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the appeal board may appeal
such decision to the Court, as provided in Idaho Code section 67-6535. (Ord.
159, 5-6-2021)
9-7-5: PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION:
9-7-5-1: GENERAL STANDARDS:
In all special flood hazard areas, the following provisions are required:
   A.   All new construction, substantial improvements, and development shall
be designed (or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse, and lateral movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and
hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy.
   B.   All new construction, substantial improvements, and development shall
be constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage
in accordance with the Technical Bulletin 2, Flood Damage-Resistant Materials
Requirements, and available from the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   C.   All new construction, substantial improvements, and development shall
be constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
   D.   All new and replacement electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air
conditioning equipment, and other service facilities shall be designed and/or
located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions offloading to the flood protection elevation.
These include, but are not limited to, HVAC equipment, water softener units,
bath/kitchen fixtures, ductwork, electric/gas meter panels/boxes, utility/cable
boxes, hot water heaters, and electric outlets/switches.
   E.   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
   F.   All new and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into flood waters.
   G.   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   H.   A fully enclosed area, of new construction and substantially improved
structures, which is below the lowest floor used solely for parking, access
and/or storage shall:
      1.   Be constructed entirely of flood resistant materials at least to the
flood protection elevation; and
      2.   Include, in Zones A, AE, AH, AO, and A1-30, flood openings to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on walls by allowing for the
entry and exit of floodwaters. To meet this requirement, the openings must
either be certified by a professional engineer or architect, or meet/exceed the
following minimum design criteria:
         a.   A minimum of two (2) flood openings on different sides of each
enclosed area subject to flooding;
         b.   The total net area of all flood openings must be at least one (1)
square inch for each square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding;
         c.   If a building has more than one (1) enclosed area, each enclosed
area must have flood openings to allow floodwaters to automatically enter and
exit;
         d.   The bottom of all required flood openings shall be no higher than
one foot (1') above the interior or exterior adjacent grade
         e.   Flood openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, or other
coverings or devices, provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions; and
         f.   Enclosures made of flexible skirting are not considered
enclosures for regulatory purposes, and, therefore, do not require flood
openings. Masonry or wood underpinning, regardless of structural status, is
considered an enclosure and requires flood openings, as outlined above.
   I.   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction, or improvements to a structure,
which is in compliance with the provisions of this ordinance, shall meet the
requirements of "new construction" as contained in this chapter.
   J.   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the repair, reconstruction, or
replacement of a building or structure existing on the effective date of this
chapter and located totally or partially within the floodway, or stream
setback, provided that there is no additional encroachment below the flood
protection elevation in the floodway, or stream setback, and provided that such
repair, reconstruction, or replacement meets all of the other requirements of
this chapter.
   K.   New solid waste disposal facilities and sites, hazardous waste
management facilities, salvage yards, and chemical storage facilities shall not
be permitted, except by variance as specified in subsection
9-7-4-5I. A structure or tank for chemical or fuel storage incidental to an
allowed use or to the operation of a water treatment plant or wastewater
treatment facility may be located in a special flood hazard area only if the
structure or tank is either elevated or floodproofed to at least the flood
protection elevation and certified in accordance with the provisions of
subsection
9-7-4-3C.
   L.   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall be
consistent with the need to minimize flood damage and determined to be
reasonably safe from flooding.
   M.   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall have
public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water
systems located and constructed to minimize flood damage.
   N.   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall have
adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   O.   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall have
received all necessary permits from those governmental agencies for which
approval is required by Federal or State law, including Section 404 of the
Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, 33 USC § 1334.
   P.   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals greater than
fifty (50) lots or five (5) acres, whichever is the lesser, shall include
within such proposals base flood elevation data.
   Q.   When a structure is partially located in a special flood hazard area,
the entire structure shall meet the requirements for new construction and
substantial improvements.
   R.   When a structure is located in multiple flood hazard zones or in a
flood hazard risk zone with multiple base flood elevations, the provisions for
the more restrictive flood hazard risk zone and the highest base flood
elevation (BFE) shall apply.
   S.   All subdivision proposals within the SFHA shall provide a minimum of
two hundred feet (200') of water frontage for each parcel along the Ordinary
High-Water Mark (OHWM), excluding the South Fork of the Coeur d'Alene River
between the cities of Pinehurst and Mullan. (Ord. 159, 5-6-2021)
9-7-5-2: SPECIFIC STANDARDS:
In all special flood hazard areas where base flood elevation (BFE) data has
been provided, as set forth in sections
9-7-3-2 or
9-7-5-4, the following provisions, in addition to the provisions of section
9-7-5-1, are required:
   A.   Residential Construction: New construction, substantial improvement,
and development of any residential structure (including manufactured homes)
shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated no lower than the
flood protection elevation, as defined in section
9-7-2.
   B.   Non-Residential Construction: New construction, substantial
improvement, and development of any commercial, industrial, or other non-
residential structure shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated
no lower than the base flood elevation, as defined in section
9-7-2. Structures located in Zones A, AE, AH, AO, and A1-30 may be floodproofed
to the flood protection elevation in lieu of elevation provided that all areas
of the structure, together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities,
below the flood protection elevation are watertight with walls substantially
impermeable to the passage of water, using structural components having the
capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and the effect of
buoyancy. For AH and AO Zones, the floodproofing elevation shall be in
accordance with subsection
9-7-5-6B. A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the floodproofing standards of this subsection are satisfied. Such
certification shall be provided to the Floodplain Administrator as set forth in
subsection
9-7-4-3C, along with the operational plan and the inspection and maintenance
plan.
   C.   Manufactured Homes:
      1.   New and replacement manufactured homes shall be elevated so that the
lowest floor of the manufactured home is no lower than the flood protection
elevation, as defined in section
9-7-2.
      2.   Manufactured homes shall be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement, either
by certified engineered foundation system, or in accordance with the most
current edition of the Idaho Division of Building Safety's "Idaho Manufactured
Home Installation Standard" in accordance with Idaho Code section 44-2201(2).
Additionally, when the elevation would be met by an elevation of the chassis
thirty-six inches (36") or less above the grade at the site, the chassis shall
be supported by reinforced piers or engineered foundation. When the elevation
of the chassis is above thirty-six inches (36") in height, an engineering
certification is required.
      3.   All enclosures or skirting below the lowest floor shall meet the
requirements of subsection
9-7-5-1H1 and
9-7-5-1H2.
      4.   An evacuation plan must be developed for evacuation of all residents
of all new, substantially improved, or substantially damaged manufactured home
parks or subdivisions located within flood prone areas. This plan shall be
filed with and approved by the Floodplain Administrator and the local Emergency
Management Coordinator.
   D.   Additions/Improvements:
      1.   Additions and/or improvements to pre-FIRM structures when the
addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications to
the existing structure are:
         a.   Not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or improvements
must be designed to minimize flood damages and must not be any more
nonconforming than the existing structure; or
         b.   A substantial improvement, both the existing structure and the
addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new
construction.
      2.   Additions to non-compliant post-FIRM structures that are a
substantial improvement with no modifications to the existing structure other
than a standard door in the common wall shall require only the addition to
comply with the standards for new construction.
      3.   Additions and/or improvements to non-compliant post-FIRM structures
when the addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior
modifications to the existing structure are:
         a.   Not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or improvement
only must comply with the standards for new construction; or
         b.   A substantial improvement, both the existing structure and the
addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new
construction.
      4.   Any combination of repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition,
or improvement of a building or structure taking place during a five (5) year
period, the cumulative cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of
the market value of the structure before the improvement or repair is started,
must comply with the standards for new construction. For each building or
structure, the five (5) year period begins on the date of the first improvement
or repair of that building or structure subsequent to the effective date of
this chapter. If the structure has sustained substantial damage, any repairs
are considered substantial improvement regardless of the actual repair work
performed. The requirement does not, however, include:
         a.   Any project for improvement of a building required to correct
existing health, sanitary, or safety code violations identified by the building
official and that are the minimum necessary to assume safe living conditions;
or any alteration of a historic structure provided that the alteration will not
preclude the structure's continued designation as a historic structure.
   E.   Recreational Vehicles: Recreational vehicles shall be either:
      1.   Temporary Placement:
         a.   Be on site for fewer than one hundred eighty (180) consecutive
days and be fully licensed and ready for highway use (a recreational vehicle is
ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to
the site only by quick disconnect type utilities, and has no permanently
attached additions); or
      2.   Permanent Placement:
         a.   Recreational vehicles that do not meet the limitations of
temporary placement shall meet all the requirements for new construction, as
set forth in section
9-7-5-1.
   F.   Temporary Non-Residential Structures: Prior to the issuance of a
floodplain development permit for a temporary structure, the applicant must
submit to the Floodplain Administrator a plan for the removal of such structure
(s) in the event of a flash flood or other type of flood warning notification.
The following information shall be submitted in writing to the Floodplain
Administrator for review and written approval:
      1.   A specified time period for which the temporary use will be
permitted. Time specified may not exceed six (6) months, renewable up to one
(I) year;
      2.   The name, address, and phone number of the individual responsible
for the removal of the temporary structure;
      3.   The time frame prior to the event at which a structure will be
removed (i.e., immediately upon flood warning notification);
      4.   A copy of the contract or other suitable instrument with the entity
responsible for physical removal of the structure; and
      5.   Designation, accompanied by documentation, of a location outside the
special flood hazard area, to which the temporary structure will be moved.
      6.   Temporary structures in the floodway must provide a hydraulic and
hydrology analysis along with a no-rise certification.
   G.   Accessory Structures: When accessory structures (sheds, detached
garages, etc.) used solely for parking and/or storage are to be placed within a
special flood hazard area, elevation or floodproofing certifications are
required for all accessory structures in accordance with subsection
9-7-4-3C, and the following criteria shall be met:
      1.   Accessory structures shall not be used for human habitation
(including working, sleeping, living, cooking, or restroom areas);
      2.   Accessory structures shall not be temperature-controlled;
      3.   Accessory structures shall be designed to have low flood damage
potential;
      4.   Accessory structures shall be constructed and placed on the building
site so as to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters;
      5.   Accessory structures shall be finely anchored in accordance with the
provisions of subsection
9-7-5-1A;
      6.   All service facilities, such as electrical, shall be installed in
accordance with the provisions of subsection
9-7-5-1D; and flood openings to facilitate automatic equalization of
hydrostatic flood forces shall be provided below flood protection elevation in
conformance with the provisions of subsection
9-7-5-1H.
      7.   Accessory structures not used solely for parking, access, and
storage must be elevated per subsections
9-7-5-2A and
9-7-5-2B.
An accessory structure with a footprint less than two hundred (200) square feet
and is a minimal investment of seven thousand five hundred dollars ($7,500.00)
or less and satisfies the criteria outlined in subsections G1 through G7 above
is not required to provide the elevation certificate per subsection B.
   H.   Tanks: When gas and liquid storage tanks are to be placed within a
special flood hazard area, the following criteria shall be met:
      1.   Underground tanks in flood hazard areas shall be anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse, or lateral movement resulting from hydrodynamic and
hydrostatic loads during conditions of the base flood, including the effects of
buoyancy (assuming the tank is empty);
      2.   Elevated above-ground tanks, in flood hazard areas shall be attached
to an elevated to or above the design flood elevation on a supporting structure
that is designed to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement during
conditions of the base flood. Tank-supporting structures shall meet the
foundation requirements of the applicable flood hazard area;
      3.   Not elevated above-ground tanks, that do not meet the elevation
requirements of subsection B, may be permitted in flood hazard areas provided
the tanks are anchored or otherwise designed and constructed to prevent
flotation, collapse or lateral movement resulting from hydrodynamic and
hydrostatic loads during conditions of the design flood, including the effects
of buoyancy assuming the tank is empty and the effects of flood-borne debris.
      4.   Tank inlets, fill openings, outlets and vents shall be:
         a.   At or above the flood protection elevation or fitted with covers
designed to prevent the inflow of floodwater or outflow of the contents of the
tanks during conditions of the base flood; and
         b.   Anchored to prevent lateral movement resulting from hydrodynamic
and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy, during conditions of
the base flood.
   I.   Construction of Below-Grade Crawlspace:
      1.   The interior grade of a crawlspace must not be below the BFE and
must not be more than two feet (2') below the exterior lowest adjacent grade
(LAG).
      2.   The height of the below-grade crawlspace, measured from the interior
grade of the crawlspace to the top of the crawlspace foundation wall, must not
exceed four feet (4') at any point.
      3.   There must be an adequate drainage system that removes floodwaters
from the interior area of the crawlspace.
      4.   The velocity of floodwaters at the site should not exceed five feet
(5') per second for any crawlspace.
   J.   Other Development In Regulated Floodway:
      1.   Fences that have the potential to block the passage of floodwaters,
such as stockade fences and wire mesh fences, in regulated floodway shall meet
the limitations of section
9-7-5-5.
      2.   Retaining walls, bulkheads, sidewalks, and driveways that involve
the placement of fill in regulated floodway shall meet the limitations of
section
9-7-5-5.
      3.   Roads and watercourse crossings, including roads, bridges, culverts,
low-water crossings, and similar means for vehicles or pedestrians to travel
from one side of a watercourse to the other side, which encroach into regulated
floodway, shall meet the limitations of section
9-7-5-5.
      4.   Drilling water, oil, and/or gas wells including fuel storage tanks,
apparatuses, and any equipment at the site that encroach into regulated
floodway shall meet the limitations of section
9-7-5-5.
      5.   Docks, piers, boat ramps, marinas, moorings, decks, docking
facilities, port facilities, shipbuilding's, and ship repair facilities that
encroach into regulated floodway shall meet the limitations of section
9-7-5-5.
   K.   Subdivision Plats; Flood Zones:
      1.   A note must be provided on the final plat documenting the current
flood zone in which the property or properties are located. The boundary line
must be drawn on the plat in situations where two (2) or more flood zones
intersect over the property or properties being surveyed.
FEMA FIRM panel(s): #160xxxxxxC, & 160xxxxxxE, etc. FIRM effective date(s): mm/
dd/year Flood Zone(s): Zone X, Zone A, Zone AE, Zone AO, Zone, AH, Zone D, etc.
Base Flood Elevation(s): AE_.0 ft., etc. Flood Zones are subject to change by
FEMA & all land within a floodway or floodplain is regulated by chapter/section
of the City/County Code.
(Ord. 159, 5-6-2021)
9-7-5-3: STANDARDS FOR FLOODPLAINS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATIONS:
Within the special flood hazard areas designated as Zone A (also known as
Unnumbered A Zones) and established in section
9-7-3-2, where no base flood elevation (BFE) data has been provided by FEMA,
the following provisions, in addition to the provisions of section
9-7-5-1, shall apply:
The BFE used in determining the flood protection elevation (FPE) shall be
determined based on the following criteria:
   A.   When base flood elevation (BFE) data is available from other sources,
all new construction and substantial improvements within such areas shall also
comply with all applicable provisions of this chapter and shall be elevated or
floodproofed in accordance with standards in sections
9-7-5-1 and
9-7-5-2.
   B.   When floodway data is available from a Federal, State, or other source,
all new construction and substantial improvements within floodway areas shall
also comply with the requirements of sections
9-7-5-2 and
9-7-5-5.
   C.   All subdivision, manufactured home park, and other development
proposals shall provide base flood elevation (BFE) data if development is
greater than five (5) acres or has more than fifty (50) lots/manufactured home
sites. Such base flood elevation (BFE) data shall be adopted by reference in
accordance with section
9-7-3-2 and utilized in implementing this chapter. The applicant/developer
shall submit an application for a Conditional Letter of Map Revision (CLOMR)
prior to preliminary plat approval and have obtained a Letter of Map Revision
(LOMR) prior to any building permits for structures being issued.
See FEMA 480 and/or FEMA 265 for further information.
   D.   When base flood elevation (BFE) data is not available from a Federal,
State, or other source as outlined above, the lowest floor shall be elevated or
floodproofed (non-residential) to two feet (2') above the highest adjacent
grade (HAG) at the building site or to the flood protection elevation (FPE)
whichever is higher, as defined in section
9-7-2. All other applicable provisions of section
9-7-5-2 shall also apply. (Ord. 159, 5-6-2021)
9-7-5-4: STANDARDS FOR RIVERINE FLOODPLAINS WITH BASE FLOOD ELEVATIONS BUT
WITHOUT ESTABLISHED FLOODWAYS OR FLOOD FRINGE AREAS:
Along rivers and streams where base flood elevation (BFE) data is provided by
FEMA or is available from another source but floodways are not identified for a
special flood hazard area on the FIRM or in the FIS report, the following
requirements shall apply to all development within such areas:
   A.   Standards of sections
9-7-5-1 and
9-7-5-2; and
   B.   Until a regulatory floodway is designated, no encroachments, including
fill, new construction, substantial improvement, or other development shall be
permitted unless certification with supporting technical data by a registered
professional engineer is provided demonstrating that the cumulative effect of
the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated
development, will not increase the water surface elevation of the base flood
more than one foot (1') at any point within the community. (Ord. 159, 5-6-2021)
9-7-5-5: STANDARDS FOR FLOODWAYS:
Areas designated as floodways are located within the special flood hazard areas
established in section
9-7-3-2. The floodways are extremely hazardous areas due to the velocity of
floodwaters that have erosion potential and carry debris and potential
projectiles. The following provisions, in addition to standards outlined in
sections
9-7-5-1 and
9-7-5-2, shall apply to all development within such areas:
   A.   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements, and other developments shall be permitted unless:
      1.   It is demonstrated that the proposed encroachment would not result
in any increase in the flood levels during the occurrence of the base flood,
based on hydrologic and hydraulic analyses performed in accordance with
standard engineering practices and presented to the Floodplain Administrator
prior to issuance of floodplain development permit; or
      2.   A Conditional Letter of Map Revision (CLOMR) has been approved by
FEMA. A Letter of Map Revision (LOMR) must also be obtained within six (6)
months of completion of the proposed encroachment.
   B.   If subsection A is satisfied, all development shall comply with all
applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of this chapter.
   C.   Manufactured homes may be permitted provided the following provisions
are met:
      1.   The anchoring and the elevation standards of subsection
9-7-5-2C; and
      2.   The encroachment standards of subsection A. (Ord. 159, 5-6-2021)
9-7-5-6: STANDARDS FOR AREAS OF SHALLOW FLOODING (ZONE AO, AH, AR/AO, OR AR/
AH):
Located within the special flood hazard areas established in section
9-7-3-2, are areas designated as shallow flooding areas. These areas have
special flood hazards associated with base flood depths of one to three feet
(1' - 3') where a clearly defined channel does not exist and where the path of
flooding is unpredictable and indeterminate. In addition to sections
9-7-5-1 and
9-7-5-2, all new construction and substantial improvements shall meet the
following requirements:
   A.   The lowest floor shall be elevated at least as high as the depth number
specified on the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM), in feet, plus a freeboard of
two feet (2'), above the highest adjacent grade; or at least two feet (2')
above the highest adjacent grade if no depth number is specified.
   B.   Non-residential structures may, in lieu of elevation, be floodproofed
to the same level as required in subsection A. l so that the structure,
together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, below that level shall
be watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and
with structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. Certification is required in
accordance with subsections
9-7-4-3C and
9-7-5-2B.
   C.   Accessory Structure (Appurtenant Structure) (Sheds, Detached Garages,
Etc.):
      1.   Used solely for parking, and storage:
         a.   Shall have the lowest floor elevated at least as high as the
depth number specified on the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM), in feet, plus a
freeboard of two feet (2'), above the highest adjacent grade; or at least four
feet (4') above the highest adjacent grade if no depth number is specified.
         b.   Shall have flood openings to facilitate automatic equalization of
hydrostatic flood forces shall be provided below flood protection elevation in
conformance with the provisions of subsection
9-7-5-1H.
      2.   Not used solely for parking, and storage:
         a.   Shall be elevated per subsections
9-7-5-2A and
9-7-5-2B.
   D.   Adequate drainage paths shall be provided around structures on slopes
to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed structures. (Ord. 159, 5-6-
2021)
9-7-6: LEGAL STATUS PROVISIONS:
9-7-6-1: EFFECT ON RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES UNDER THE EXISTING FLOOD DAMAGE
PREVENTION ORDINANCE:
This chapter, in part, comes forward by re-enactment of some of the provisions
of the Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance enacted August 9, 2007 as amended, and
it is not the intention to repeal but rather to re-enact and continue to
enforce without interruption of such existing provisions, so that all rights
and liabilities that have accrued thereunder are reserved and may be enforced.
The enactment of this ordinance shall not affect any action, suit, or
proceeding instituted or pending. All provisions of the Flood Damage Prevention
Ordinance of Shoshone County enacted on August 9, 2007 as amended, which are
not reenacted herein are repealed. (Ord. 159, 5-6-2021)
9-7-6-2: EFFECT UPON OUTSTANDING FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMITS:
Nothing herein contained shall require any change in the plans, construction,
size, or designated use of any development or any part thereof for which a
Floodplain Development Permit has been granted by the Floodplain Administrator
or his or her authorized agents before the time of passage of this chapter.
Provided, however, that when construction is not begun under such outstanding
permit within a period of one hundred eighty (180) days subsequent to the date
of issuance of the outstanding permit, construction or use shall be in
conformity with the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 159, 5-6-2021)
9-7-6-3: SEVERABILITY:
The chapter is hereby declared to be severable. Should any portion of this
chapter be declared invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining
provisions shall continue in full force and effect and shall be read to carry
out the purpose(s) of the chapter before the declaration of partial invalidity.
(Ord. 159, 5-6-2021)
9-7-6-4: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This chapter shall be effective and be in full force, upon passage and
publication as provided for by law. (Ord. 159, 5-6-2021)
CHAPTER 7A
BUNKER HILL SUPERFUND SITE OVERLAY DISTRICT (BD) REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-7A-1: Purpose
9-7A-2: Methods Of Reducing Losses
9-7A-3: Definitions
9-7A-4: Application And Interpretation Of Provisions
9-7A-5: Administration Of Provisions
9-7A-6: Variance And Appeal Procedure
9-7A-1: PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare, and to minimize public and private losses due to the existence
of lead in specific areas by provisions designed:
   A.   To guide and control development and activities in the BD district by
ensuring compliance with environmental health code (EHC) and institutional
control program (ICP) developed for the BD district and administered by the
Panhandle health district I. (Ord. 78, 3-13-1995)
9-7A-2: METHODS OF REDUCING LOSSES:
In order to accomplish its purposes, this chapter includes methods and
provisions for:
   A.   Controlling activities and development in the BD district by requiring
compliance with the EHC and ICP in such district. (Ord. 78, 3-13-1995)
9-7A-3: DEFINITIONS:
Unless specifically defined below or elsewhere in this title, words or phrases
used in this chapter shall be interpreted so as to give them the meanings they
have in common usage and to give this chapter its most reasonable application.
Where in conflict with section
9-2-2 of this title, the following definitions will control for the enforcement
of standards in this chapter:
BUNKER HILL SUPERFUND SITE OVERLAY DISTRICT (BD): The Bunker Hill superfund
site overlay district includes parts of the west corridor of the county as
those areas are defined in the comprehensive plan and is synonymous with the
area known as the federally created Bunker Hill superfund site.
ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH CODE (EHC): The health code, as amended from time to time,
administered by Panhandle health district I in connection with the
institutional control program for the Bunker Hill superfund site.
INSTITUTIONAL CONTROL PROGRAM (ICP): The various actions and programs
undertaken to decrease human exposure to lead in the Bunker Hill superfund
site.
PANHANDLE HEALTH DISTRICT I: The local health agency at Kellogg charged with
the responsibility of overseeing compliance with and enforcement of the
environmental health code and the institutional control program developed for
the Bunker Hill superfund site pursuant to its duly and properly enacted rules
and regulations. (Ord. 49, 3-25-1987; amd. Ord. 78, 3-13-1995)
9-7A-4: APPLICATION AND INTERPRETATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Lands To Which This Chapter Applies: This chapter shall apply to all
areas of the BD district within the jurisdiction of the county.
   B.   Basis For Establishing Areas Of BD District: The area encompassing the
BD district is defined in other portions of this chapter. (Ord. 78, 3-13-1995)
   C.   Abrogation And Greater Restrictions: This chapter is not intended to
repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or deed
restrictions. However, where this chapter and another ordinance, easement,
covenant, or deed restriction conflict or overlay, whichever imposes the more
stringent restrictions shall prevail. (Ord. 49, 3-25-1987)
   D.   Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability: The degree of protection afforded
by the EHC and ICP applicable to the BD district is based on scientific and
engineering considerations. This chapter shall not create liability on the part
of the county, an officer or employee thereof or the Panhandle health district
I for any claims that result or arise from reliance upon this chapter or the
EHC or ICP or any administrative decision lawfully made thereunder. (Ord. 78,
3-13-1995)
9-7A-5: ADMINISTRATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Administrative Authority: Administration of the development, activities
and uses within the BD district, to the extent the same are controlled by the
environmental health code and the institutional control program, shall be
monitored and enforced by and be the responsibility of Panhandle health
district I pursuant to its duly and properly enacted rules and regulations.
   B.   Compliance Required: In addition to complying with any regulations
otherwise applicable to the area within the BD district, any development, uses
or activities occurring within such district shall also comply with the
requirements of the environmental health code and institutional control program
developed for the BD district.
   C.   ICP Permit: In addition to any other permits and/or certificates
required by this chapter, an ICP permit shall be obtained from Panhandle health
district I prior to commencement of any work or activities in the BD district
which are subject to the environmental health code and institutional control
program. (Ord. 78, 3-13-1995)
9-7A-6: VARIANCE AND APPEAL PROCEDURE:
   A.   Appeal: When it is alleged there is an error in any requirements,
decision, or determination made by the county engineer in the enforcement or
administration of this chapter, an appeal may be submitted to the county
planning and zoning commission. Those aggrieved by the decision of the planning
commission may appeal such decision in accordance with the requirements of
section
9-15-3 of this title.
   B.   Variance: Procedures for variance shall be in conformity with chapter
15 of this title. (Ord. 49, 3-25-1987)
CHAPTER 8
PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
SECTION:
9-8-1: Purpose
9-8-2: Supplemental Yard And Height Regulations
9-8-3: Supplemental General Provisions
9-8-4: Provisions For Commercial And Industrial Uses
9-8-5: Unique Land Uses
9-8-6: Private Road And Driveway Standards
9-8-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of performance standards is to set specific conditions for various
uses, classification of uses, or areas where problems are frequently
encountered. (Ord. 15, 7-11-1977)
9-8-2: SUPPLEMENTAL YARD AND HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
In addition to all yard regulations specified in section
9-6-2 of this title, and in other sections of this title, the following
provisions shall be adhered to:
   A.   Visibility At Intersections: On a corner lot in any district, nothing
shall be erected, placed, planted or allowed to grow in such a manner as to
materially impede vision between a height of two and one-half feet (21/2') and
ten feet (10') above the center line grades of the intersecting streets in the
area bounded by the right-of-way lines of such corner lots and a line joining
points along such street right-of-way lines twenty five feet (25') from the
point of intersection.
   B.   Yard Requirements For Multi-Family Dwellings: Multi-family dwellings
shall be considered as one building for the purpose of determining front, side
and rear yard requirements. The entire group as a unit shall require one front,
one rear and two (2) side yards as specified for dwellings in the appropriate
district. (Ord. 15, 7-11-1977)
   C.   Yard Requirements For Nonresidential Uses:
      1.   All uses with commercial and manufacturing districts:
         a.   Front Yard: Forty feet (40').
         b.   Rear Yard: Zero.
         c.   Side Yard: Zero.
         d.   Street Side Yard: Ten feet (10').
      2.   Where a commercial or manufacturing district abuts a residential
district, the building setback shall be forty feet (40') at the property line
of the abutting district.
      3.   All Other Nonresidential Uses:
         a.   Front Yard: Forty feet (40').
         b.   Rear Yard: Ten feet (10').
         c.   Side Yard: Ten feet (10').
         d.   Street Side Yard: Twenty feet (20'). (Ord. 33, 5-4-1983)
   D.   Architectural Projections: Open structures such as canopies, balconies,
platforms, carports, covered patios, and similar architectural projections
shall be considered part of the building to which attached and shall not
project into the required minimum front, side or rear yard.
   E.   Exceptions To Height Regulations: The height limitations contained in
section
9-6-2 of this title do not apply to spires, belfries, cupolas, antennas, water
tanks, ventilators, chimneys, or other appurtenances usually required to be
placed above the roof level and not intended for human occupancy, except where
the height of such structures will constitute a hazard to the safe landing and
take-off of aircraft at an established airport. (Ord. 15, 7-11-1977)
9-8-3: SUPPLEMENTAL GENERAL PROVISIONS:
In addition to all other regulations as specified in this title, the following
provisions shall be adhered to:
   A.   Conversion Of Dwelling To More Units: A residence may not be converted
to accommodate an increased number of dwelling units unless:
      1.   Yard Dimensions: The yard dimensions shall meet the yard dimensions
required by this title for new structures in that district.
      2.   Lot Area: The lot area per family equals the lot area requirements
for new structures.
      3.   Floor Area: The floor area per dwelling unit is not reduced to less
than that which is required for new construction in that district.
      4.   Compliance: The conversion is in compliance with all other relevant
codes and ordinances.
   B.   Temporary Buildings: Temporary buildings, construction trailers,
equipment and materials used in conjunction with construction work only may be
permitted in any district during the period construction work is in progress,
but such temporary facilities shall be removed upon completion of the
construction work. Storage of such facilities or equipment beyond the
completion date of the project shall require a zoning permit authorized by the
administrator.
   C.   Parking And Storage Of Certain Vehicles: Title 4, chapter 1 of this
code proclaims the following to be a public nuisance: any automobile body which
is not properly and currently licensed and it is not in operating condition or
has not been used for a period of six (6) months or more, whether left on
public or private property and which is offensive to the sight of the community
or neighborhood or to persons passing by on a public thoroughfare.
   D.   Required Trash Areas: All trash and/or garbage collection areas for
commercial, industrial and multi-family residential uses shall be enclosed on
at least three (3) sides by a solid wall or fence of at least four feet (4') in
height or within an enclosed building or trash and/or garbage collection
dumpster. Adequate vehicular access to and from such area for collection of
trash and/or garbage as determined by the administrator shall be provided.
   E.   Development Close To Airport: The location, building height and
lighting of residential and commercial development shall be restricted within
airport approach areas as required by the State Department of Transportation,
Division of Aeronautics and Public Transportation, and Federal Aviation
Administration. (Ord. 15, 7-11-1977)
9-8-4: PROVISIONS FOR COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL USES:
No land or building in any district shall be used or occupied in any manner
creating dangerous, injurious, noxious or otherwise objectionable conditions
which could adversely affect the surrounding areas or adjoining premises,
except that any use permitted by this title may be undertaken and maintained if
acceptable measures and safeguards to reduce dangerous and objectionable
conditions to acceptable limits are established by the following performance
requirements:
   A.   Fire Hazards: Any activity involving the use or storage of flammable or
explosive materials shall be protected by adequate firefighting and fire
prevention equipment. Such hazards shall be kept removed from adjacent
activities to a distance which is compatible with the potential danger involved
as specified in the Uniform Fire Code as adopted by the state.
   B.   Radioactivity Or Electrical Disturbance: No activity shall emit harmful
radioactivity at any point or electrical disturbance adversely affecting the
operation of any equipment at any point other than that of the creator of such
disturbance.
   C.   Noise: Objectionable noise as determined by the administrator which is
due to volume, frequency, or beat shall be muffled or otherwise controlled. Air
raid sirens and related apparatus used solely for public purposes are exempt
from this requirement.
   D.   Vibration: No vibration shall be permitted which is discernable without
the use of vibration detection instruments on any adjoining lot or property.
   E.   Air Pollution: Air pollution shall be subject to the requirements and
regulations established by the health authority.
   F.   Glare: No direct or reflected glare shall be permitted which is visible
from any property outside a manufacturing district or from any street.
   G.   Erosion: No erosion, by man, wind or water, shall be permitted which
will carry objectionable substances onto neighboring properties.
   H.   Water Pollution: Water pollution shall be subject to the requirements
and regulations established by the health authority.
   I.   Enforcement Provisions: The administrator, prior to giving zoning
approval, may require the submission of statements and plans indicating the
manner in which dangerous and objectionable elements involved in processing and
in equipment operations are to be eliminated or reduced to acceptable limits
and tolerances.
   J.   Measurement Procedures: Methods and procedures for the determination of
the existence of any dangerous and objectionable elements shall conform to
applicable standard measurement procedures published by the American Standards
Institute, New York; the Manufacturing Chemists' Association, Inc., Washington,
D.C.; the United States Bureau of Mines and the health authority. (Ord. 15, 7-
11-1977)
9-8-5: UNIQUE LAND USES:
Certain unique land uses pose special problems that may have detrimental
influences on surrounding land uses. The following performance standards for
such unique land uses shall be adhered to in addition to all other provisions
of this title: (Ord. 15, 7-11-1977)
   A.   Accessory Building: (Reserved) (Ord. 33, 5-4-1983)
   B.   Agriculture (Buffer Area): Will be maintained to minimize soil erosion,
sedimentation, contamination and nutrient enrichment of ground and surface
water.
   C.   Animal Clinic, Animal Hospital, Veterinary Office And Kennel:
      1.   Location: Will be located at least three hundred feet (300') from
any residence including motels and hotels, except for an owner's residence. The
administrator may modify these requirements if the animals are completely
housed in soundproof structures that completely screen them from view of the
abutting residential property.
      2.   Compliance Required; Housekeeping Practices: Will comply with all
state and local regulations, relative to such an operation, and maintain
adequate housekeeping practices designed to prevent the creation of a nuisance
and to reduce to a minimum the factors of noise and odor.
   D.   Animal Commercial Feedlots, Meat Packing, Processing Plant, And
Slaughterhouse Facilities:
      1.   Location; Setback: Will be located, when housing animals, feedlot or
holding pens, not less than six hundred feet (600') from any residence, except
for an owner's residence. Such facilities shall have a minimum setback of
thirty feet (30') from any property line.
      2.   Design: Will be designed and located with full consideration to
their proximity to adjacent uses, their effect upon adjacent and surrounding
properties, and to the reduction of such nuisance factors as odor.
      3.   Housekeeping Practices: Will be adequately maintained with
housekeeping practices subject to the health authority requirements as to the
elimination of waste materials and the maintenance of water quality control.
   E.   Bulk Storage Of Flammable Liquids And Gases And Explosive Materials
Aboveground And For Resale:
      1.   Location: Will be located at least three hundred feet (300') from a
residential zone, a residence, motel or hotel, except for the owner's
residence.
      2.   Fire Official Approval: Will be erected subject to the approval of
the appropriate fire official.
      3.   Loading/Unloading Spaces; Off-Street Parking: Will have suitable
loading and unloading spaces and off-street parking facilities subject to the
approval of the appropriate fire official. (Ord. 15, 7-11-1977)
   F.   Campgrounds:
      1.   Interior Access Roads: Interior access roads shall connect to a road
maintained by a public entity. Interior access roads will be constructed to
standards established by the planning and zoning commission upon approval of a
conditional use permit and will be privately maintained.
      2.   Campsites: Campsites shall be located on well-drained areas and
shall be properly graded to prevent accumulation of storm water.
      3.   Exposed Ground Surfaces: Exposed ground surfaces (other than
interior roads and defined campsites) shall be protected with a cover of
vegetative growth that is capable of providing dust abatement and preventing
soil erosion.
      4.   Water Supply: Shall supply adequate water safe for drinking and
domestic use in accordance with state and local health authorities with a
minimum of one water supply outlet within three hundred feet (300') of each
campsite.
      5.   Sewage Disposal Facilities: Shall provide sewage disposal facilities
(at a minimum, sealed vault privies) acceptable to state and local health
authorities. Such toilet areas shall be located not less than fifty feet (50')
or more than three hundred feet (300') from a campsite. There shall be a
minimum of one toilet for each sex for every ten (10) campsites.
      6.   Refuse Containers: Refuse containers (minimum 32 gallon capacity)
with lids shall be provided and maintained for every four (4) campsites.
      7.   Litter And Rubbish; Fire Extinguisher: All areas in the campground
shall be kept free of litter, rubbish, and other flammable materials. At least
one five (5) pound dry chemical portable fire extinguisher shall be installed
and maintained in the campground office.
      8.   Contained Campfire Area: Each campsite shall be provided with a
contained campfire area. Containment method shall be approved by the planning
and zoning commission.
      9.   Maintenance; Campground Rules: All areas in the campground shall be
maintained in a clean, orderly and sanitary condition at all times. Campground
rules in accordance with these regulations shall be posted. (Ord. 50, 5-22-
1987)
   G.   Hazardous Substances: Chemicals, pesticide, fertilizer storage and
manufacturing will have adequate fire protection, storage area, handling and
disposal as approved by the appropriate fire official.
   H.   Contractor's Yard (i.e., Road, Housing, Anything With Heavy Equipment):
      1.   Location: Will be located a minimum distance of three hundred feet
(300') from any residence, except for an owner's residence.
      2.   Screening: Will have a screening fence around areas utilized for
storage of equipment.
      3.   Limitations: Will be limited to storage, maintenance and processing
incidental to contracting work. There shall be no general industrial or
commercial uses.
   I.   Drive-In Restaurant:
      1.   Fencing; Landscaping: Will be enclosed on the property line with
landscaping and fencing except for ingress and egress, to prevent trash from
moving onto other properties.
      2.   Sight-Obscuring Fence: Will have a six foot (6') high sight-
obscuring fence along the property lines that adjoin a residence.
      3.   Trash Receptacles: Will provide for adequate trash receptacles.
      4.   Lighting: Will avoid the directing of night lighting toward any
residence.
   J.   Filling, Grading, Lagooning, Dredging Or Other Earth Moving Activity:
      1.   Bare Ground Exposure: The smallest amount of bare ground shall be
exposed for the shortest time feasible.
      2.   Temporary Ground Cover: Provide temporary ground cover, such as
mulch.
      3.   Sedimentation: Use diversions, silting basins, terraces and other
methods to trap sediment.
      4.   Lagooning: Provide lagooning in such a manner as to avoid conditions
which will create fish traps.
      5.   Restriction Of Drainageways: A floodway, channel or natural
drainageway shall not be restricted.
      6.   Stabilization: Construct and stabilize sides and bottom of cuts,
fills, channels and artificial watercourses to prevent erosion or soil failure.
      7.   Below-Grade Excavation: Below-grade excavation shall not occur,
except for drainageways, within fifty feet (50') of any lot line or public
right of way.
      8.   Restoration: Topsoil or loam will be restored to its existing
natural condition.
   K.   Gravel Pits, Rock Quarries, Sand And Clay Pits And Other Natural
Resources Of Commercial Value:
      1.   The extent and method of rehabilitation shall be determined in
advance of giving a zoning approval with due consideration given to what is
suitable and compatible with the surrounding area.
      2.   Upon depletion of the area, all temporary buildings and structures,
except property line fences and structures for the loading, measuring or
weighing of salable material in storage, shall be entirely removed from the
property.
      3.   Safety fencing shall be erected around all pits that create a safety
hazard.
   L.   Home Occupation:
      1.   Employees: No more than one person other than members of the family
residing on the premises shall be engaged in such occupation.
      2.   Incidental Use; Floor Area: The use of the dwelling unit for the
home occupation shall be clearly incidental and subordinate to its use for
residential purposes by its occupants, and not more than twenty five percent
(25%) of floor area of the dwelling unit shall be used to conduct the home
occupation.
      3.   Outside Appearance; Sign: There shall be no change in the outside
appearance of the building or premises, or other visible evidence of the
conduct of such home occupation other than one sign, not exceeding four (4)
square feet in area, nonilluminated and mounted flat against the wall of the
principal building.
      4.   Traffic; Parking: No significant traffic shall be generated by such
home occupation and any need for parking generated by the conduct of such home
occupation shall meet the off-street parking requirements as specified in this
title, and shall not be located in a required front yard.
      5.   Equipment Or Process Restrictions: No equipment or process shall be
used in such home occupation which creates noise, vibration, glare, fumes,
odors, or electrical interferences detectable to the normal senses off the lot,
if the occupation is conducted in a single-family residence, or outside the
dwelling unit if conducted in other than a single-family residence. In the case
of electrical interference, no equipment or process shall be used which creates
visual or audible interference in any radio or television receivers off the
premises, or causes fluctuations in line voltage off the premises. (Ord. 15, 7-
11-1977)
   M.   Mobile Home Park:
      1.   Unit Size: Each mobile home unit shall be provided the exclusive use
of a contiguous area of land of not less than five thousand (5,000) square
feet. Individual driveways and parking spaces and utility easements may be
included within the five thousand (5,000) square foot area. Interior park
drives, public street rights of way, and common areas used for parking or other
park purposes are excluded from the five thousand (5,000) square feet per unit
area requirement.
      2.   Units Numbered: Each mobile home space or stall shall be numbered.
Numbers shall be clearly visible from park interior drives.
      3.   Interior Spacing: All mobile home units shall be located a minimum
distance of twenty five feet (25') from any exterior park property line.
Accessory buildings shall be located at least ten feet (10') from a mobile home
unit.
         a.   Within Fire Protection District: Mobile home parks located within
a fire protection district shall require that mobile home units be located not
less than fifteen feet (15') from any other mobile home or permanent structure
within the mobile home park.
         b.   Not Within Fire Protection District: Mobile home parks not within
the jurisdiction of a fire protection district shall require that mobile home
units be located not less than twenty five feet (25') from any other mobile
home or permanent structure within the mobile home park.
Minimum distance between mobile homes shall be measured from two (2) points
being a straight line between the closest points of the units being measured.
      4.   Access:
         a.   Interior Park Drives: Each mobile home stall or space within a
mobile home park shall have direct access to an interior park drive and shall
not have individual access to a public right of way. Interior park drives shall
consist of a minimum of twenty feet (20') of unobstructed area with at least a
four inch (4") gravel surfacing at least twenty feet (20') in width. Interior
park drives shall be marked to provide continuous traffic flow.
         b.   Exterior Access Or Approach Points: All access or approach points
from interior park drives shall have direct connection to a major public street
and shall not enter into or upon local single-family area streets when another
alternative is feasible. Interior park drives will connect to a public street
which will adequately serve the mobile home park as determined by the planning
and zoning commission on advise of the county engineer. The number and location
of all ingress and egress points for access to the mobile home park shall be
approved by the planning and zoning commission on advise from the county
engineer.
      5.   Lighting: Interior drives and walkways designed for the use of the
mobile home park residents shall be adequately lighted during hours of
darkness.
      6.   Off-Street Parking; Storage Areas: Each mobile home unit shall be
provided with a minimum total of four hundred (400) square feet of off-street
parking space. One parking space of two hundred (200) square feet shall be
located within fifty feet (50') of each unit. One space may be located
elsewhere in the park. Storage of items such as boats, trailers, and campers
shall not be accomplished at the site of the mobile home unit. Storage areas
may be provided in separate screened areas within or adjacent to the mobile
home park. Storage areas shall not be included within the four hundred (400)
square feet of off-street parking space provided for each mobile home unit.
      7.   Provided Services: Each mobile home stall or space shall be provided
with utility connections, ground anchors, piers or pads, and stabilizing
connections of sufficient size to properly accommodate the mobile home unit in
accordance with manufacturer's specifications and code requirements. All mobile
homes within the park shall be skirted.
      8.   Landscaping: Landscaping in the mobile home park shall be provided
in accordance with the following minimum requirements:
         a.   Peripheral Screening: Trees or shrubs a minimum of six feet (6')
high spaced at a maximum of ten feet (10') on center; or other suitable sight-
obstructing screen or fence.
         b.   Lawn; Ground Cover: Lawn or other suitable ground cover shall be
provided for all open spaces other than access drives and parking and
circulation areas.
      9.   Water And Sewer: Centralized water, waste water disposal, and solid
waste facilities shall be provided in accordance with regulations set forth by
the appropriate state and local authorities.
      10.   Fire Protection: Compliance with the standards of the appropriate
fire protection agency shall be required for mobile home parks within the
respective jurisdictions.
      11.   Surface Water Runoff: Control of surface water runoff will be
provided to confine all runoff to the property or to drainage facilities within
public rights of way.
      12.   Maintenance Agreement: A maintenance agreement, acceptable to the
county, shall be provided to assure the continued operation and maintenance of
interior drives, utilities, landscaping, and solid waste management. The park
owner will be responsible for the provision of a suitable guarantee that the
park will be constructed within a two (2) year time period in accordance with
standards set forth by the planning and zoning commission. (Ord. 27, 9-9-1981)
   N.   Outdoor Storage Of Commercial And Industrial Materials:
      1.   Screening: Will be screened from view from any existing adjoining
residence or residentially zoned area, whether or not such property is
separated by an alley or street.
      2.   Location: Will not be located in any front yard setback area.
   O.   Riding Stables And Schools:
      1.   Location: Will locate all stables or loafing sheds not nearer than
one hundred feet (100') from any residence, except for an owner's residence.
All facilities shall be set back a distance of thirty feet (30') from any
property line.
      2.   Design: Will be designed and located with full consideration being
given to their proximity to adjacent uses and their effect upon adjacent and
surrounding properties, as to the storage of horse trailers and the factors of
noise and odor.
      3.   Housekeeping Practices: Will require that the owner or operator of
such use shall have a continuous obligation to maintain adequate housekeeping
practices to prevent the creation of a nuisance.
   P.   Outdoor Rifle And Pistol Range:
      1.   Backstop: Will be designed with a backstop.
      2.   Line Of Fire: Will be designed to avoid a line of fire that is
directed towards any residence or business within one mile.
      3.   Landscaping: Will incorporate landscaping that is compatible with
the surrounding landscaping.
      4.   Supervision And Security: Will provide supervision and security
measures during periods of use.
   Q.   Sanitary Landfill:
      1.   Time Limits: Will conform to time limits for daily operations as
defined by the board.
      2.   Bond: Will provide a bond, for privately owned sites, to ensure
compliance with the provisions of the zoning approval.
      3.   Paved Access: Will provide for a paved street to the facility.
      4.   Supervision: Will be supervised during the hours of operation.
   R.   Wrecking Yard: Will comply with title 3, chapter 3 of this code. (Ord.
15, 7-11-1977)
   S.   Bunker Hill Superfund Overlay District:
      1.   Administrative Authority: Administration of the development,
activities and uses within the BD district, to the extent the same are
controlled by the environmental health code and the institutional control
program, shall be monitored and enforced by and be the responsibility of
Panhandle Health District I pursuant to its duly and properly enacted rules and
regulations.
      2.   Compliance Required: In addition to complying with any regulations
otherwise applicable to the area within the BD district, any development, uses
or activities occurring within such district shall also comply with the
requirements of the environmental health code and the institutional control
program developed for the BD district.
      3.   ICP Permit: In addition to any other permits and/or certificates
required by this title, an ICP permit shall be obtained from Panhandle Health
District I prior to commencement of any work or activities in the BD district
which are subject to the environmental health code and institutional control
program.
(Ord. 78, 3-13-1995)
9-8-6: PRIVATE ROAD AND DRIVEWAY STANDARDS:
   With the exception of parcels which were legally created with access solely
from the shoreline of a lake or river, every residential lot shall have access
from a public or private road which complies with the following standards:
   These regulations apply to the area within the unincorporated areas of
Shoshone County, unless otherwise specified by an Area of City Impact ordinance
adopted pursuant to Idaho Code 67-6526.
   These regulations shall apply to all new and existing private roads,
driveways and common driveways wherein any new residential dwelling unit(s) are
being erected.
   A.   Access and Private Roads:
 
ACCESS: The primary means of vehicular ingress/egress to a parcel or structure.
PRIVATE A road which has not been accepted for maintenance by a public highway agency and
ROAD:   which does not meet the definition of a “driveway” or a “common driveway”.
 
      1.   All newly constructed private roads within a major subdivision,
minor subdivision, or condominium, or which connect a subdivision or
condominium with the nearest public road, shall comply with the applicable
requirements of Shoshone County Code Title 6: Public Ways and Property, Title
7: Building Regulations, and Title 10: Subdivisions.
      2.   All newly constructed private roads not associated with a major
subdivision, minor subdivision, or condominium shall comply with the standards
set forth in the then current international fire code as adopted pursuant to
Shoshone County Code Title 7: Building Regulations.
      3.   All new and existing private roads which provide access to property
for the purpose of establishing a new residential dwelling unit(s) shall comply
with the standards set forth in the then current international fire code as
adopted pursuant to Shoshone County Code Title 7, Building Regulations.
      4.   The Administrator may seek a recommendation from the highway
district, fire protection district or ambulance service district in which the
road is located as to whether a private road complies with the applicable
standards.
      5.   If the Administrator finds that the road complies with the
applicable standards and, if applicable, that it complies with the requirements
of Shoshone County Code Title 6: Public Ways and Property, Title 7: Building
Regulations, and Title 10: Subdivisions, then the Administrator shall approve
the road and provide final approval to the face of any associated permits.
      6.   If the Administrator, upon recommendation of the highway district,
fire protection district or ambulance service district, determines that a
private road should be approved with a variance, exception or deviation from
the applicable standards, the road will be deemed to comply with the applicable
standards for purposes of this article.   
   B.   Driveways and Common Driveways:
 
COMMON DRIVEWAY: A driveway that provides legal access from a public or private
                 road to between two (2) and four (4) parcels of land.
                 A means of vehicular access providing legal access to one
DRIVEWAY:        parcel which has an approach to a public road or connects to a
                 private road or common driveway.
 
      1.   All newly constructed driveways and common driveways within a major
subdivision, minor subdivision, or condominium, or which connect a subdivision
or condominium with the nearest public road, shall comply with the applicable
requirements of Shoshone County Code Title 6: Public Ways and Property, Title
7: Building Regulations, and Title 10: Subdivisions.
      2.   All newly constructed driveways and common driveways not associated
with a major subdivision, minor subdivision, or condominium shall comply with
the standards set forth in the then current international fire code as adopted
pursuant to Shoshone County Code Title 7: Building Regulations.
      3.   All new and existing driveways and common driveways which provide
access to property for the purpose of establishing a new residential dwelling
unit(s) shall comply with the standards set forth in the then current
international fire code as adopted pursuant to Shoshone County Code Title 7,
Building Regulations.
      4.   The Administrator may seek a recommendation from the highway
district, fire protection district or ambulance service district in which the
road is located as to whether a newly constructed private road complies with
the applicable standards.
      5.   If the Administrator finds that the road complies with the
applicable standards and, if applicable, that it complies with the requirements
of Shoshone County Code Title 6: Public Ways and Property, Title 7: Building
Regulations, and Title 10: Subdivisions, then the Administrator shall approve
the road and provide final approval to the face of any associated permits.
      6.   If the Administrator, upon recommendation of the highway district,
fire protection district or ambulance service district, determines that a
private road should be approved with a variance, exception, conditions, or
deviation from the applicable standards, the road will be deemed to comply with
the applicable standards for purposes of this article once such variance,
exception, condition, or deviation is achieved.
   C.   Easements:
      1.   New private road easements shall be at least fifty feet (50') in
width. New common driveway easements shall be at least forty feet (40') in
width. Cut and fill slopes and stormwater systems adjacent to roads and
driveways must either be shown as easements or rights of way in favor of the
applicable private maintenance entity.
         a.   Access (Road) Requirements: Legal access must be provided to all
lots or parcels pursuant to Shoshone County Code as it is currently enacted or
subsequently amended. (9-6-2-1; D 1, c)
(Ord. 171, 5-21-2024)
CHAPTER 9
CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS
SECTION:
9-9-1: General Provisions
9-9-2: Application
9-9-3: General Standards
9-9-4: Public Sites And Open Spaces
9-9-5: Supplemental Conditions And Safeguards
9-9-6: Hearing; Notice
9-9-7: Action By Commission
9-9-8: Notification To Applicant
9-9-9: Appeal To Board
9-9-1: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Individual Consideration: It is recognized that an increasing number of
new kinds of uses are appearing daily and that many of these and some other
more conventional uses possess characteristics of such unique and special
nature relative to location, design, size, method of operation, circulation,
and public facilities that each specific use must be considered individually.
   B.   Hearing Required: The commission shall hold a public hearing on each
conditional use permit application as specified in section
9-6-2 of this title. The commission may approve, conditionally approve or deny
a conditional use permit under the conditions as herein specified and
considering such additional safeguards as will uphold the intent of this title.
(Ord. 15, 7-11-1977)
9-9-2: APPLICATION:
An application for conditional use permit shall be filed with the administrator
by at least one owner or lessee of property for which such conditional use is
proposed. At a minimum, the application shall contain the following
information:
   A.   Name, address, and phone number of applicant.
   B.   Legal description of property.
   C.   Description of existing use.
   D.   Zoning district.
   E.   Description of proposed special use.
   F.   A plan of the proposed site for the conditional use showing the
location of all buildings, parking and loading area, traffic access and traffic
circulation, open spaces, landscaping, refuse and service areas, utilities,
signs, yards and such other information as the commission may require to
determine if the proposed conditional use meets the intent and requirements of
this title.
   G.   A narrative statement evaluating the effects or adjoining property; the
effect of such elements as noise, glare, odor, fumes and vibration on adjoining
property; a discussion of the general compatibility with adjacent and other
properties in the district; and the relationship of the proposed use to the
comprehensive plan. (Ord. 15, 7-11-1977)
9-9-3: GENERAL STANDARDS:
The commission shall review the particular facts and circumstances of each
proposed conditional use in terms of the following standards and shall find
adequate evidence showing that such use at the proposed location:
   A.   Will, in fact, constitute a conditional use as established in section
9-6-2 of this title for the zoning district involved.
   B.   Will be harmonious with and in accordance with the general objectives,
or with any specific objective of the comprehensive plan and/or this title.
   C.   Will be designed, constructed, operated, and maintained to be
harmonious and appropriate in appearance with the existing or intended
character of the general vicinity and that such use will not change the
essential character of the same area.
   D.   Will not be hazardous or disturbing to existing or future neighboring
uses.
   E.   Will be served adequately by essential public facilities and services
such as highways, streets, police and fire protection, drainage structures,
refuse disposal, water and sewer and schools, or that the persons or agencies
responsible for the establishment of the proposed use shall be able to provide
adequately any such services.
   F.   Will not create excessive additional requirements at public cost for
public facilities and services and will not be detrimental to the economic
welfare of the community.
   G.   Will not involve uses, activities, processes, materials, equipment and
conditions of operation that will be detrimental to any person, property, or
the general welfare by reason of excessive production of traffic, noise, smoke,
fumes, glare or odor.
   H.   Will have vehicular approaches to the property which shall be so
designed as not to create an interference with traffic on surrounding public
thoroughfares.
   I.   Will not result in the destruction, loss, or damage of a natural scenic
or historic feature of major importance. (Ord. 15, 7-11-1977)
9-9-4: PUBLIC SITES AND OPEN SPACES:
Shall conform to the following:
   A.   Public Uses: Where it is determined that a proposed park, playground,
school or other public use as shown on the future acquisition map, as
authorized in Idaho Code section 67-6517, is located in whole or in part within
a proposed development, the commission shall notify the appropriate public
agency concerning the land proposed to be acquired. Within thirty (30) days of
the date of notice, the public agency may request the governing body to suspend
consideration of the permit for sixty (60) days; however, if an agreement is
not reached within sixty (60) days, the commission shall resume consideration
of the conditional use application.
   B.   Natural Features: Existing natural features which add value to
residential developments and enhance the attractiveness of the community (such
historic spots and other similar irreplaceable assets) shall be preserved in
the design of the development.
   C.   Special Developments: In the case of planned unit developments and
large scale developments, the commission may require sufficient park or open
space facilities of acceptable size, location and site characteristics that may
be suitable for the proposed development. (Ord. 15, 7-11-1977)
9-9-5: SUPPLEMENTAL CONDITIONS AND SAFEGUARDS:
In granting any conditional use, the commission may prescribe appropriate
conditions, bonds and safeguards in conformity with this title. Violations of
such conditions, bonds or safeguards, when made a part of the terms under which
the conditional use is granted, shall be deemed a violation of this title.
(Ord. 15, 7-11-1977)
9-9-6: HEARING; NOTICE:
Notice shall also be provided to property owners within the land being
considered, and within three hundred feet (300') of the external boundaries of
the land being considered, and any additional area that may be substantially
impacted by the proposed special use as determined by the commission. When
notice is required to two hundred (200) or more property owners, in lieu of
mailing notice, two (2) additional hearing notices shall be provided. (Ord. 52,
10-1-1987)
9-9-7: ACTION BY COMMISSION:
   A.   Commission Action: Within thirty (30) days after the public hearing,
the commission shall either approve, conditionally approve, or disapprove the
application as presented. If the application is approved or approved with
modifications, the commission shall direct the administrator to issue a
conditional use permit listing the specific conditions specified by the
commission for approval.
   B.   Additional Conditions: Upon granting a conditional use permit,
conditions may be attached to a conditional use permit including, but not
limited to, those:
      1.   Minimizing adverse impact on other development;
      2.   Controlling the sequence and timing of development;
      3.   Controlling the duration of development;
      4.   Assuring that development is maintained properly;
      5.   Designating the exact location and nature of development;
      6.   Requiring the provision for on-site or off-site public facilities or
services;
      7.   Requiring more restrictive standards than those generally required
in an ordinance.
   C.   Studies; Precedent; Transferability: Prior to granting a conditional
use permit, studies may be required of the social, economic, fiscal and
environmental effects of the proposed conditional use. A conditional use permit
shall not be considered as establishing a binding precedent to grant other
conditional use permits. A conditional use permit is not transferrable from one
parcel of land to another.
   D.   Specifications Of Action: Upon granting or denying an application, the
commission shall specify:
      1.   The ordinance and standards used in evaluating the application;
      2.   The reasons for approval or denial; and
      3.   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain a
permit.
   E.   Appeal: The applicant or any affected person who appeared in person or
in writing before the commission may appeal the decision of the commission to
the board, in writing, provided the appeal is submitted to the board within
fifteen (15) days from the commission's action. (Ord. 15, 7-11-1977)
9-9-8: NOTIFICATION TO APPLICANT:
Within ten (10) days after a decision has been rendered, the administrator
shall provide the applicant with written notice of the action on the request.
(Ord. 15, 7-11-1977)
9-9-9: APPEAL TO BOARD:
Upon receipt of a written appeal from the action of the commission, the board
shall set a hearing date to consider all information; testimony and
commission's minutes of the public hearing to reach a decision to uphold,
conditionally uphold or overrule the decision of the commission. The board
shall only overrule the commission by a favorable two-thirds (2/3) vote. (Ord.
15, 7-11-1977)
CHAPTER 10
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS (PUD)
SECTION:
9-10-1: Purpose
9-10-2: Governing Provisions
9-10-3: Minimum Area
9-10-4: Permitted Uses
9-10-5: Ownership Requirements
9-10-6: Common Open Space
9-10-7: Utility Requirements
9-10-8: Increased Residential Density
9-10-9: Commercial Uses
9-10-10: Industrial Uses
9-10-11: Procedure For Approval
9-10-12: Preapplication Meeting
9-10-13: Application For Approval Of Preliminary Development Plan
9-10-14: Public Notice
9-10-15: Approval In Principle
9-10-16: Application For Approval Of Final Development Plan
9-10-17: Recommendation By Commission
9-10-18: Action By Board
9-10-19: Expiration Or Extension Of Approval
9-10-1: PURPOSE:
It shall be the policy to guide a major development of land and construction by
encouraging planned unit developments (PUD) to achieve the following:
   A.   A maximum choice of living environments by allowing a variety of
housing and building types and permitting an increased density per acre and a
reduction in lot dimensions, yards, building setbacks, and area requirements.
   B.   A more useful pattern of open space and recreation areas and, if
permitted as part of the project, more convenience in the location of accessory
commercial uses, industrial uses and services.
   C.   A development pattern which preserves and utilizes natural topography
and geologic features, scenic vistas, trees and other vegetation, and prevents
the disruption of natural drainage patterns.
   D.   A more efficient use of land than is generally achieved through
unplanned development.
   E.   A development pattern in harmony with land use density, transportation
facilities, and community facilities which are objectives of the comprehensive
plan. (Ord. 15, 7-11-1977)
9-10-2: GOVERNING PROVISIONS:
Whenever there is a conflict or difference between the provisions of this
chapter and those of the other chapters of this title, the provisions of this
chapter shall prevail. Subjects not covered by this chapter shall be governed
by the respective provisions found elsewhere in this title. (Ord. 15, 7-11-
1977)
9-10-3: MINIMUM AREA:
A planned unit development for the following principal uses shall contain an
area of not less than:
   A.   Three (3) acres for residential development.
   B.   Five (5) acres for residential use with subordinate commercial or
industrial uses.
   C.   Ten (10) acres for commercial use.
   D.   Ten (10) acres for industrial use. (Ord. 15, 7-11-1977)
9-10-4: PERMITTED USES:
All uses that may be allowed within the land use district are permitted within
a PUD. Also, up to ten percent (10%) of the gross land area may be directed to
other commercial, industrial, public and quasi-public uses that are not allowed
within the land use district, provided there is a favorable finding by the
commission; that
   A.   The uses are appropriate with the residential uses.
   B.   The uses are intended to serve principally the residents of the PUD.
   C.   The uses are planned as an integral part of the PUD.
   D.   The uses be located and so designed as to provide direct access to a
collector or an arterial street without creating congestion or traffic hazards.
   E.   A minimum of fifty percent (50%) of the residential development occurs
prior to the development of the related commercial or industrial land uses.
(Ord. 15, 7-11-1977)
9-10-5: OWNERSHIP REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Time Of Application: An application for approval of a PUD may be filed
by a property owner or a person having an existing interest in the property to
be included in the planned unit development. The PUD application shall be filed
in the name or names of the recorded owner of property included in the
development. However, the application may be filed by the holder of an
equitable interest in such property.
   B.   Time Of Final Development Plan Approval: Before approval is granted to
the final development plan, the entire project shall be under single ownership
or control and legal title must be presented with the final development plan.
(Ord. 15, 7-11-1977)
9-10-6: COMMON OPEN SPACE:
   A.   Minimum Required: A minimum of ten percent (10%) of the gross land area
developed in any residential planned unit development project shall be reserved
for common open space and recreational facilities for the residents or users of
the area being developed.
   B.   Ownership: The required amount of common open space land reserved under
a planned unit development shall either be held in corporate ownership by
owners of the project area for the use of each owner who buys property within
the development or be dedicated to the public and retained as common open space
for parks, recreation, and related uses. Public utility and similar easements
and rights of way for watercourses and other similar channels are not
acceptable for common open space dedication unless such land or right of way is
usable as a trail or other similar purpose and approved by the commission.
   C.   Maintenance: The responsibility for the maintenance of all open spaces
shall be specified by the developer before approval of the final development
plan.
   D.   Design: Every property developed under the planned unit development
approach should be designed to abut upon common open space or similar areas. A
clustering of dwellings is encouraged. In areas where townhouses are used,
there shall be no more than eight (8) townhouse units in any contiguous group.
(Ord. 15, 7-11-1977)
9-10-7: UTILITY REQUIREMENTS:
Underground utilities, including telephone and electrical systems, are required
within the limits of all planned unit developments. Appurtenances to these
systems which can be effectively screened may be excepted from this requirement
if the commission finds that such exemption will not violate the intent or
character of the proposed planned unit development. (Ord. 15, 7-11-1977)
9-10-8: INCREASED RESIDENTIAL DENSITY:
To provide for an incentive for quality PUD, the commission may authorize an
increased residential density of up to fifteen percent (15%) of the allowable
number of dwelling units. Character, identity, and architectural and siting
variation incorporated in a development shall be considered cause for density
increases, provided these factors make a substantial contribution to the
objectives of the PUD, which are as follows:
   A.   Landscaping (a maximum increase of 5 percent), streetscape, open spaces
and plazas, use of existing landscaping, pedestrianway treatment, and
recreational areas.
   B.   Siting (a maximum increase of 5 percent), visual focal points, use of
existing physical features such as topography, view, sun and wind orientation,
circulation pattern; physical environment, variation in building setbacks, and
building grouping (such as clustering).
   C.   Design features (a maximum increase of 5 percent), street sections,
architectural styles, harmonious use of materials, parking areas broken by
landscaping features, and varied use of housing types. (Ord. 15, 7-11-1977)
9-10-9: COMMERCIAL USES:
   A.   Groups; Common Areas; Screening: When planned unit development
districts may include commercial uses, commercial buildings and establishments
shall be planned as groups having common parking areas and common ingress and
egress points in order to reduce the number of potential accident locations at
intersections. Planting screens or fences shall be provided on the perimeter of
the commercial areas abutting residential areas.
   B.   Design: The plan of the project shall provide for the integrated and
harmonious design of buildings and for adequate and properly arranged
facilities for internal traffic circulation, landscaping, and such other
features and facilities as may be necessary to make the project attractive and
efficient from the standpoint of the adjoining and surrounding noncommercial
areas.
   C.   Future Expansion: All areas designed for future expansion or not
intended for immediate improvement or development shall be landscaped or
otherwise maintained in a neat and orderly manner. (Ord. 15, 7-11-1977)
9-10-10: INDUSTRIAL USES:
   A.   Permitted: Planned unit development districts may include industrial
uses if it can be shown that the development results in a more efficient and
desirable use of land.
   B.   Design: Industrial uses and parcels shall be developed in park-like
surroundings utilizing landscaping and existing woodlands as buffers to screen
lighting, parking areas, loading areas or docks, and/or outdoor storage of raw
materials or products. A planned industrial area shall provide for the harmony
of buildings and a compact grouping in order to economize in the provision of
such utility services as are required. Thoroughfares shall be kept to a minimum
throughout a planned industrial area in order to reduce through traffic.
   C.   Yard Requirements: Project site yards of forty feet (40') and a rear
yard of fifty feet (50') shall be required if the project is located adjacent
to any residential uses. All intervening spaces between buildings, driveways,
parking areas, and improved areas shall be landscaped with trees and plantings
and properly maintained at all times. (Ord. 15, 7-11-1977)
9-10-11: PROCEDURE FOR APPROVAL:
When the PUD also qualifies as a subdivision, the processing of the special use
permit and subdivision application shall occur at the same time. The granting
of a special use permit for a PUD shall require a preapplication, the
submission of a preliminary development specified within this title. (Ord. 15,
7-11-1977)
9-10-12: PREAPPLICATION MEETING:
The developer shall meet with the administrator prior to the submission of the
preliminary development plan. The purpose of this meeting is to discuss early
and informally the purpose and effect of this title and the criteria and
standards contained herein, and to familiarize the developer with the
comprehensive development plan, this title and title 10 of this code, and such
other plans and ordinances as deemed appropriate. (Ord. 15, 7-11-1977)
9-10-13: APPLICATION FOR APPROVAL OF PRELIMINARY DEVELOPMENT PLAN:
   A.   Filing: An application for preliminary planned unit development shall
be filed with the administrator by a property owner or person having existing
interest in the property for which the planned unit development is proposed.
   B.   Required Information: At a minimum, the application shall contain the
following information filed in triplicate:
      1.   Name, address and phone number of applicant.
      2.   Name, address and phone number of registered surveyor, registered
engineer and/or urban planning assisting in the preparation of the preliminary
development plan.
      3.   Legal description of property.
      4.   Description of existing use.
      5.   Zoning districts.
      6.   A vicinity map at a scale approved by the commission, showing
property lines, streets, existing and proposed zoning, and such other items as
the commission may require to show the relationship of the planned unit
development to the comprehensive plan and to existing schools and to the other
community facilities and services.
      7.   A preliminary development plan at a scale approved by the commission
showing topography at two foot (2') intervals; location and type of
residential, commercial and industrial land uses; layout dimensions, and names
of existing and proposed streets; rights of way; dimensions of lots and
building setback lines; preliminary improvement of drawings showing water,
sewer, drainage, electricity, telephone and natural gas; and such other
characteristics as the commission deems necessary.
      8.   Proposed schedule for the development of the site.
      9.   Evidence that the applicant has sufficient control over the land in
question to initiate the proposed development plan within one year.
   C.   Written Statement: The application for preliminary planned unit
development shall be accompanied by a written statement by the developer
setting forth reasons why, in his opinion, the planned unit development would
be in the public interest. (Ord. 15, 7-11-1977)
9-10-14: PUBLIC NOTICE:
The same provision for public hearing and legal notification as required for
conditional use permits shall be followed 1 . (Ord. 15, 7-11-1977)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  9-9-6 of this title.
9-10-15: APPROVAL IN PRINCIPLE:
   A.   Commission Review: Within thirty (30) days after the public hearing,
the commission shall review the preliminary development plan to determine if it
is consistent with the intent and purpose of this title; whether the proposed
development advances the general welfare of the community and neighborhood; and
whether the benefits, combination of various land uses, and the
interrelationship with the land uses in the surrounding area justify the
deviation from standard district regulations. The commission's approval in
principle of the preliminary development plan shall not be construed to endorse
a precise location of uses, configuration of parcels, or engineering
feasibility.
   B.   Considerations: The commission shall consider the general standards
applicable to conditional use permits and criteria for conditional uses before
approving in principle a preliminary development plan 1 . (Ord. 15, 7-11-1977)
 
Notes
  1. See sections
1 9-9-3 and
  9-9-4 of this title.
9-10-16: APPLICATION FOR APPROVAL OF FINAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN:
Upon approval in principle of a preliminary development plan, an application
for approval of the final development plan may be filed with the administrator
by at least one property owner or person having a presently existing interest
in the property for which the planned unit development is proposed. Each
application shall be signed by the owner or lessee, attesting to the truth and
exactness of all information supplied on the application for final development
plan. Each application shall clearly state that the development shall begin
within one year from the date of issuance of the approval. At a minimum, the
application shall contain the following information: (Ord. 15, 7-11-1977; amd.
2001 Code)
   A.   Survey: A survey of the proposed development site, showing the
dimensions and bearings of the property lines, area in acres, topography,
existing features of the development site, including major wooded areas,
structures, streets, easements, utility lines and land uses.
   B.   Required Information: All the information required on the preliminary
development plan; the location and sizes of lots, location and proposed density
of dwelling units, nonresidential building intensity; and land use considered
suitable for adjacent properties.
   C.   Schedule Of Development: A schedule for the development of units to be
constructed in progression and a description of the design principles for
buildings and streetscapes; tabulation of the number of acres in the proposed
project for various uses; the number housing units proposed by type; estimated
residential population; anticipated timing for each unit; and standards for
height, open space, building density, parking areas, population density and
public improvements proposed for each unit of the development whenever the
applicant proposes an exception from standard zoning districts or other
ordinances governing development.
   D.   Engineering Feasibility Studies And Plans: Engineering feasibility
studies and plans showing, as necessary, water, sewer, drainage, electricity,
telephone, and natural gas installations; waste disposal facilities; street
improvements; and nature and extent of earth work required for site preparation
and development.
   E.   Site Plan: Site plan, showing buildings, various functional use areas,
circulation, and their relationship.
   F.   Preliminary Building Plans: Preliminary building plans, including floor
plans and exterior elevations.
   G.   Landscaping: Landscaping plans.
   H.   Deed Restrictions; Protective Covenants: Deed restrictions, protective
covenants, and other legal statements or devices to be used to control the use,
development and maintenance of the land, and the improvements thereon,
including those areas which are to be commonly owned and maintained. (Ord. 15,
7-11-1977)
9-10-17: RECOMMENDATION BY COMMISSION:
   A.   Commission Recommendation; Transmittal To Board: Within sixty (60) days
after receipt of the final development plan, the commission shall recommend to
the board that the final development plan be approved as presented, approved
with supplementary conditions, or disapproved. The commission shall then
transmit all papers constituting the record an the recommendations to the
board. (Ord. 15, 7-11-1977; amd. 2001 Code)
   B.   Facts Established: The commission shall find that the facts submitted
with the application and presented to them establish; that
      1.   Initiation Of Development: The proposed development will be
initiated within one year of the date of approval.
      2.   Independency: Each individual unit of the development, as well as
the total development, can exist as an independent unit capable of creating an
environment of sustained desirability and stability or that adequate assurance
will be provided that such objective will be attained; the uses proposed will
not be detrimental to present and potential surrounding uses, but will have a
beneficial effect which would not be achieved under standard district
regulations.
      3.   Streets And Thoroughfares: The streets and thoroughfares proposed
are suitable and adequate to carry anticipated traffic and increased densities
will not generate traffic in such amounts as to overload the street network
outside the planned unit development.
      4.   Commercial Development: Any proposed commercial development can be
justified at the locations proposed.
      5.   Exceptions: Any exception from standard district requirements is
warranted by the design and other amenities incorporated in the final
development plan, in accordance with the planned unit development and the
adopted policy of the board.
      6.   Surrounding Area: The area surrounding such development can be
planned and zoned in coordination and substantial compatibility with the
proposed development.
      7.   Comprehensive Plan: The planned unit development is in general
conformance with the comprehensive plan.
      8.   Utility Services: The existing and proposed utility services are
adequate for the population densities and nonresidential uses proposed.
   C.   Notice Of Recommendation: The commission shall notify those persons who
either commented in writing or in person at the public hearing of the
commission's recommendations. (Ord. 15, 7-11-1977)
9-10-18: ACTION BY BOARD:
   A.   Board Action: Within sixty (60) days after receipt of the final
recommendation of the commission, the board shall either approve, approve with
supplementary conditions, or disapprove the application as presented.
   B.   Specifications Of Action: Upon granting or denying the application the
board shall specify:
      1.   The ordinance and standards used in evaluating the application;
      2.   The reasons for approval or denial; and
      3.   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain a
permit.
   C.   Issuance Of Approval: If the application is either approved or approved
with conditions, the board shall direct the administrator to issue zoning
approval only in accordance with the approved final development plan and the
supplementary conditions attached thereto. (Ord. 15, 7-11-1977)
9-10-19: EXPIRATION OR EXTENSION OF APPROVAL:
The approval of a final development plan for a planned unit development shall
be for a period not to exceed one year to allow for preparation and recording
of the required subdivision plat and the development of the project. If no
construction has begun within one year after approval is granted, the approved
final development plan shall be void. An extension of the time limit or
modification of the approved final development plan may be approved if the
commission finds that such extension or modification is not in conflict with
the public interest. (Ord. 15, 7-11-1977)
CHAPTER 11
NONCONFORMING USES
SECTION:
9-11-1: Intent
9-11-2: Incompatability
9-11-3: Undue Hardship
9-11-4: Nonconforming Lots Of Record
9-11-5: Nonconforming Uses
9-11-6: Repairs And Maintenance
9-11-7: Uses Under Special Use Provisions
9-11-1: INTENT:
It is the intent of this title to permit nonconforming uses to continue until
they are removed, but not to encourage their survival. It is further the intent
of this title that nonconforming uses shall not be enlarged upon, expanded or
extended, nor be used as grounds for adding other structures or uses prohibited
elsewhere in the same district. (Ord. 15, 7-11-1977)
9-11-2: INCOMPATIBILITY:
Nonconforming uses are declared by this title to be incompatible with permitted
uses in the districts in which such use is located. A nonconforming use shall
not be extended or enlarged after passage hereof by attachment on a building or
premises of additional signs intended to be seen from off the premises, or by
the addition of other uses of a nature which would be generally prohibited in
the district in which such use is located. (Ord. 15, 7-11-1977)
9-11-3: UNDUE HARDSHIP:
To avoid undue hardship, nothing in this title shall be deemed to require a
change in the plans, construction, or designated use of any building on which
actual construction was lawfully begun prior to the effective date hereof or
amendment of this title and upon which actual building construction has been
carried on diligently. (Ord. 15, 7-11-1977)
9-11-4: NONCONFORMING LOTS OF RECORD:
The following shall be exceptions to the required lot areas:
   A.   Lots of record with less than the area required by each use district or
by an imposed subdistrict which existed prior to the adoption hereof.
   B.   Lots or development sites which, as a process of their creation, were
approved with substandard area by the commission. (Ord. 15, 7-11-1977)
9-11-5: NONCONFORMING USES:
If a lawful use involving individual structures or of a structure and land in
combination exists at the effective date hereof or amendment of this title that
would not be allowed in the district under the terms of this title, the lawful
use may be continued so long as it remains otherwise lawful, subject to the
following provisions:
   A.   Enlarged; Altered; Moved: No existing structure devoted to a use not
permitted by this title in the district in which it is located shall be
enlarged, extended, constructed, reconstructed, moved, or structurally altered
except in changing the use of the structure to a use permitted in the district
in which it is located.
   B.   Extended: No nonconforming use shall be extended to occupy any
additional land area.
   C.   Change In Use: If no structural alterations are made, any nonconforming
use of a structure or structure and land, may, upon the issuance of a
conditional use permit by the commission, be changed to another nonconforming
use provided that the commission shall find that the proposed use is equally
appropriate or more appropriate to the district than the existing nonconforming
use. In permitting such change, the commission may require appropriate
conditions and safeguards in accord with other provisions of this title.
   D.   Superseded By Permitted Use: Any structure, or structure and land in
combination, in or on which a nonconforming use is superseded by a permitted
use shall thereafter conform to the regulations for the district, and the
nonconforming use may not thereafter be resumed. (Ord. 15, 7-11-1977)
   E.   Discontinued; Abandoned: When a nonconforming use of a structure, or
structure and land in combination, is discontinued or abandoned for more than
one year (except when government action impedes access to the premises), the
structure, or structure and land in combination, shall not thereafter be used
except in conformity with the regulations of the district in which it is
located. (Ord. 121, 9-24-2002)
   F.   Removal; Destruction: Where nonconforming use status applies to a
structure and land in combination, removal or destruction of the structure
shall eliminate the nonconforming status of the land. (Ord. 15, 7-11-1977)
9-11-6: REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE:
On any nonconforming structure, or portion of a structure containing a
nonconforming use, work may be done on ordinary repairs, or on repairs or
replacement of nonbearing walls, fixtures, wiring or plumbing, provided that
the cubic content existing when it became nonconforming shall not be increased.
Nothing in this section shall be deemed to prevent strengthening or restoring
to a safe condition of any building or part thereof which is unsafe. Not
replaceable if sixty six percent (66%) of the structure is destroyed. (Ord. 15,
7-11-1977)
9-11-7: USES UNDER SPECIAL USE PROVISIONS:
Any use which is permitted as a special use in a district under terms of this
title shall not be deemed a nonconforming use in such district, but shall
without further action be considered a conforming use. (Ord. 15, 7-11-1977)
CHAPTER 12
OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING
SECTION:
9-12-1: General Requirements
9-12-2: Standards
9-12-3: Off-Street Parking Design And Dimensional Tables
9-12-4: Parking Space Requirements
9-12-1: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Compliance Required: No building or structure shall be erected,
substantially altered, or its use changed unless permanently maintained off-
street parking and loading spaces have been provided in accordance with the
provisions of this title.
   B.   Existing Buildings Or Structures: The provisions of this chapter,
except where there is a change of use, shall not apply to any existing
buildings or structure. Where the new use involves no additions or
enlargements, there shall be provided as many such spaces as may be required by
this title.
   C.   Change: Whenever a building or structure constructed after the
effective date hereof is changed or enlarged in floor area, number of
employees, number of dwelling units, seating capacity, or otherwise, to create
a need for an increase in the number of existing parking spaces, additional
parking spaces shall be provided on the basis of the enlargement or change.
Whenever a building or structure existing prior to the effective date hereof is
enlarged to the extent of fifty percent (50%) or more of any of the following:
floor area, number of employees, number of housing units, seating capacity or
otherwise, such building or structure shall then and thereafter comply with the
full parking requirements set forth herein. (Ord. 15, 7-11-1977)
9-12-2: STANDARDS:
   A.   Location Of Parking Spaces: The following regulations shall govern the
location of off-street parking spaces and areas:
      1.   Parking spaces for all detached residential uses shall be located on
the same lot as the use which they are intended to serve.
      2.   Parking spaces for commercial, industrial, or institutional uses
shall be located not more than five hundred feet (500') from the principal use.
      3.   Parking spaces for apartments, dormitories, or similar residential
uses shall be located not more than three hundred feet (300') from the
principal use.
   B.   Loading Space Requirements And Dimensions:
      1.   Number Required: Off-street loading spaces for commercial uses shall
be provided in accordance with the following table:
 
Gross Floor Area (Square Feet) Quantity And Type
14,000 - 36,000                1      A
36,000 - 60,000                2      A
60,000 - 100,000               3      2-A; 1-B
 
For each additional 75,000 square feet or fraction thereof, an additional Type
B space will be provided.
      2.   Size: The size of an off-street loading space shall not be less than
the following, exclusive of access platform and loading areas:
 
Type A    Width: 12 feet Length: 35 feet
Type B  Width: 15 feet Length: 65 feet
 
      3.   Access: Convenient access to loading spaces from streets or alleys
shall be provided; they shall not be less than twelve feet (12') in width.
      4.   Location: The off-street loading facilities required for the uses
mentioned shall not project into the public right of way or setback area. In no
case shall the required off-street loading berths be part of the area used to
satisfy the off-street parking requirements.
      5.   Entrances; Exits: Design and location of entrances and exits for
required off-street loading areas shall be subject to review of the
administrator.
   C.   Maintenance: The owner of property used for parking and/or loading
shall maintain such area in good condition, without holes and free of all dust,
trash and other debris.
   D.   Paving: The required number of parking and loading spaces as set forth
in section
9-12-4 of this chapter, together with driveways, aisles and other circulation
areas, shall be improved with such material to provide a durable and reasonably
dustfree surface.
   E.   Drainage: All parking and loading areas shall provide for proper
drainage of surface water to prevent the drainage of such water onto adjacent
property or walkways.
   F.   Lighting: Any parking area which is intended to be used during
nondaylight hours shall be properly illuminated to avoid accidents. Any lights
used to illuminate a parking lot shall be so arranged as to reflect the light
away from the adjoining property.
   G.   Access: Any parking area shall be designed in such a manner that any
vehicle leaving or entering the parking area from or onto a public or private
street shall be traveling in a forward motion. Access driveways for parking
areas or loading spaces shall be located in such a way that any vehicle
entering or leaving such area shall be clearly visible by a pedestrian or
motorist approaching the access or driveway from a public or private street.
   H.   Striping: All parking areas with a capacity over twelve (12) vehicles
shall be striped.
   I.   Screening And/Or Landscaping:
      1.   Required: Whenever a parking area is located in or adjacent to a
residential district, it shall be effectively screened on all sides which
adjoin or face any property used for residential purposes by an acceptably
designed wall, fence or planting screen.
      2.   Height: Such fence, wall, or planting screen shall be not less than
four feet (4') nor more than six feet (6') in height and shall be maintained in
a safe condition.
      3.   Landscaping: The space between such fence, wall or planting screen
and the lot line of the adjoining premises in any residential district shall be
landscaped with grass, hardy shrubs or evergreen ground cover, and maintained
in good condition.
      4.   Exception: In the event that terrain or other natural features are
such that the erection of such fence, wall or planting screen will not serve
the intended purpose, then no such fence, wall, or planting screen and
landscaping shall be required.
   J.   Wheel Blocks: Whenever a parking lot extends to a property line, wheel
blocks or other suitable devices shall be used to prevent vehicles from
extending beyond the property line.
   K.   Minimum Distance And Setbacks: No part of any parking area for more
than ten (10) vehicles shall be closer than twenty feet (20') to any dwelling
unit, school, hospital, or other institution for human care located on an
adjoining lot. If on the same lot with a single-family residence, the parking
area shall not be located within the front yard required for such building. In
no case shall any part of a parking area be closer than four feet (4') to any
established street or alley right of way.
   L.   Vehicles: Any automobile body which is not properly and currently
licensed, and which is not in operating condition, whether left on public or
private property for a period of more than one month (30 days), shall be
prohibited pursuant to title 4, chapter 1 of this code.
   M.   Joint Use: Two (2) or more nonresidential uses may jointly provide and
use parking spaces when their hours of operation do not normally overlap,
providing that a written agreement approved by the administrator shall be filed
with the application for a zoning approval. (Ord. 15, 7-11-1977)
9-12-3: OFF-STREET PARKING DESIGN AND DIMENSIONAL TABLES:
 
                         45°       60°    90°       Parallel
A. Width of parking space  13 feet    10 feet 9 feet     9 feet
B. Length of parking space 15 feet    18 feet 19 feet  23 feet
C. Width of driveway aisle 13 feet  17 feet 25 feet    12 feet
 
(Ord. 15, 7-11-1977)
9-12-4: PARKING SPACE REQUIREMENTS:
For the purpose of this title the following parking space requirements shall
apply:
Type Of Use Parking Spaces Required
Type Of Use                             Parking Spaces Required
Residential:                             
Apartments, or multi-family dwellings   11/2 each unit
Boarding houses, rooming houses,        1 for each sleeping room or 1 for each
dormitories, and fraternity houses      permanent occupant
which have sleeping rooms
Mobile home park                        1 for each unit plus 1 space for each 5
                                        units
Single-family or two-family dwelling    2 for each unit
Commercial:                              
Automobile service garages which also   1 for each 2 gasoline pumps and 2 for
provide repair                          each service bay
Funeral parlors, mortuaries and similar 1 for each 100 square feet of floor
type uses                               area in slumber rooms, parlors, or
                                        service rooms
Hotels, motels                          1 per each sleeping room plus 1 space
                                        for each 2 employees
Recreational Or Entertainment:           
Auditoriums, sports arenas, theaters,   1 for each 4 seats
and similar uses
Banks, financial institutions and       1 for each 200 square feet of floor
similar uses                            area
                                        4 for each alley or lane plus 1
Bowling alleys                          additional space for each 100 square
                                        feet of the area used for restaurant,
                                        cocktail lounge, or similar use
Dance floors, skating rinks             1 for each 100 square feet of floor
                                        area used for the activity
Dining rooms, restaurants, taverns,     1 for each 100 square feet of floor
night clubs, etc.                       area
Offices, public or professional         1 for each 400 square feet of floor
administration, or service buildings    area
                                        1 for each 5 persons capacity plus 1 or
                                        community or club for each 4 seats or 1
Outdoor swimming pools, public          for each 30 square feet floor area used
                                        for seating purposes whichever is
                                        greater
Retail stores                           1 for each 250 square feet of floor
                                        area
All other types of business or          1 for each 300 square feet of floor
commercial uses permitted in any        area
business district
Institutional:                           
Churches and other places of religious  1 for each 5 seats
assembly
Hospitals                               1 for each bed
                                        1 for every 200 square feet of floor
Medical and dental clinics              area of examination, treating room,
                                        office and waiting room
Sanitariums, homes for aged, nursing
homes, childrens homes, asylums, and    1 for each 2 beds
similar uses
 
(Ord. 15, 7-11-1977)
CHAPTER 13
SIGNS
SECTION:
9-13-1: Intent
9-13-2: Exclusions
9-13-3: General Requirements
9-13-4: Permitted Signs
9-13-5: Violation
9-13-1: INTENT:
The purpose of this chapter is to promote and protect the public health,
welfare, and safety by regulating existing and proposed outdoor advertising
signs. It is intended to reduce sign or advertising distractions and
obstructions that may contribute to traffic accidents, reduce hazards that may
be caused by signs overhanging or projecting over public rights of way. (Ord.
15, 7-11-1977)
9-13-2: EXCLUSIONS:
For the purpose of this title, the term "sign" does not include signs erected
and maintained pursuant to and in the discharge of any governmental function,
or required by any law, ordinance or governmental regulation. (Ord. 15, 7-11-
1977)
9-13-3: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
The regulations contained in this section shall apply to all signs and all use
districts.
   A.   Illuminated Sign Or Lighting Device: In no event shall an illuminated
sign or lighting device be placed or directed to permit the beams and
illumination therefrom to be directed or beamed upon a public thoroughfare,
highway, sidewalk, or constitute a traffic hazard or nuisance.
   B.   Electrical Signs: All wiring, fittings, and materials used in the
construction, connection and operation of electrically illuminated signs shall
be in accordance with the provisions of the local electric code in effect, if
any.
   C.   Fire Escapes: No sign of any classification shall be installed,
erected, or attached in any form, shape or manner to a fire escape or any door
or window giving access to any fire escape.
   D.   Maintenance: All signs hung and erected shall be plainly marked with
the name of the person responsible for maintaining the sign.
   E.   Unsafe Or Dangerous: Should any sign be or become unsafe or in danger
of falling, the owner thereof or the person maintaining the sign shall, upon
receipt of written notice from the administrator, proceed at once to put such
sign in a safe and secure condition or remove the sign.
   F.   Public Right Of Way: No sign shall be placed in any public right of way
except publicly owned signs, such as traffic control signs and directional
signs. Signs directing and guiding traffic and parking on private property but
bearing no advertising matter shall be permitted on any property.
   G.   Interstate, Primary Highways: Signs along the interstate and primary
highways shall conform to the Idaho State Transportation Department
regulations. (Ord. 15, 7-11-1977)
9-13-4: PERMITTED SIGNS:
The following signs may be permitted: political signs, provided such signs
shall not be posted in any place or in any manner that is destructive to public
property upon posting or removal. No political sign shall be posted in a public
right of way nor shall any such sign be posted on a utility pole. All
candidates for public office, their campaign committees or other persons
responsible for the posting on public property of campaign material shall
remove such material within two (2) weeks following the general election day.
(Ord. 15, 7-11-1977)
9-13-5: VIOLATION:
   A.   Notice Of Violation: In case any sign shall be installed, erected,
constructed or maintained in violation of any of the terms of this title, the
administrator shall notify in writing the owner or lessee thereof to alter such
sign to comply with this title.
   B.   Political Signs: Political signs posted in violation of this title are
subject to removal by the administrator five (5) days after written notice of
violation. The cost of removal shall be born by the violator. (Ord. 15, 7-11-
1977)
CHAPTER 14
MANUFACTURED HOMES 1
SECTION:
9-14-1: Siting
9-14-2: Mobile Home Parks
9-14-3: Restrictive Covenants
9-14-4: Placement Standards
9-14-5: Building Permit
 
Notes
  1. See sections
  9-4-2 and
1 9-4-4 through
  9-4-7 of this title for regulations regarding single-family residential
  districts.
9-14-1: SITING:
"Manufactured homes", as defined in Idaho Code section 39-4105(13) shall be an
allowed use in all land zoned for single- family residential uses except for
lands falling within an area defined as an "historic district" under section
67-4607, Idaho Code. (Ord. 114, 11-17-1998)
9-14-2: MOBILE HOME PARKS:
Manufactured homes on individual lots zoned for single-family residential uses
as provided in section
9-14-1 of this chapter shall be in addition to manufactured homes on lots
within designated mobile home parks or manufactured home subdivisions. (Ord.
114, 11-17-1998)
9-14-3: RESTRICTIVE COVENANTS:
This chapter shall not be construed as abrogating a recorded restrictive
covenant. (Ord. 114, 11-17-1998)
9-14-4: PLACEMENT STANDARDS:
The following placement standards for the approval of manufactured homes
located outside manufactured home parks are hereby adopted: (Ord. 114, 11-17-
1998)
   A.   Minimum Size: The manufactured home shall enclose a space of not less
than one thousand (1,000) square feet. (Ord. 121, 9-24-2002)
   B.   Foundation; Skirting: The manufactured home shall be placed on an
excavated and backfilled foundation meeting UBC requirements and enclosed at
the perimeter such that the home is located not less than twelve inches (12")
above grade. Skirting shall be constructed of either masonry or similar
materials used for foundation materials in the neighborhood (no metal or
plastic materials shall be allowed).
   C.   Roof: The manufactured home shall have a pitched roof with a minimum
slope of three feet (3') in height for each twelve feet (12') in width.
   D.   Exterior Siding And Roofing: The manufactured home shall have exterior
siding and roofing which in color, material, and appearance is similar to the
exterior siding and roofing material commonly used on residential dwellings
within the community or which is comparable to the predominant materials used
on surrounding dwellings as determined by the planning administrator. (Ord.
114, 11-17-1998)
   E.   Compliance Required: A manufactured home shall comply with all other
zoning requirements, including, but not limited to, setback, density, and
dimensional requirements as specified in this title and shall comply with
setting requirements conforming to the Idaho manufactured home installation
standards. (Ord. 114, 11-17-1998; amd. Ord. 121, 9-24-2002)
   F.   Towing Apparatus: The tongue, axles, transporting lights, and removable
towing apparatus shall be removed prior to occupancy. (Ord. 114, 11-17-1998)
9-14-5: BUILDING PERMIT:
A building permit shall be obtained from the building department to ensure the
manufactured home meets stabilizing requirements as set forth in title 44
chapter 22, manufactured home setup code. (Ord. 114, 11-17-1998)
CHAPTER 15
VARIANCE AND APPEAL PROCEDURES
SECTION:
9-15-1: Authority
9-15-2: Variance
9-15-3: Appeals
9-15-1: AUTHORITY:
   A.   Planning And Zoning Commission: The planning and zoning commission
shall consider requests for variances from the terms of this title and actions
by affected persons as provided by Idaho Code section 67-6521.
   B.   Board Of County Commissioners: The board of county commissioners shall
consider requests for public hearing to appeal planning and zoning commission
decisions before the board as outlined herein and actions by affected persons
as may be authorized by Idaho Code 67-6521.
   C.   Notice Of Hearing: Notice of hearing on actions by affected persons
shall be as provided in section
9-9-6 of this title. (Ord. 23, 4-1-1981)
9-15-2: VARIANCE:
   A.   Authority To Authorize: The commission may authorize, in specific
cases, a variance or modification of the requirements of this title as to lot
size, lot coverage, lot width or depth, yard or setback requirements, parking
space, height of buildings, or other title provisions affecting the size or
shape of a structure or the placement of the structure upon the lot, or the
size of the lot.
   B.   Undue Hardship: A variance shall not be considered a right or special
privilege, but may be granted to an applicant only upon showing of undue
hardship because of characteristics of the site and that the variance is not in
conflict with the public interest.
   C.   Application; Fees: A variance from dimensional requirements set forth
in this title shall not be considered by the planning and zoning commission
until applicable fees have been paid and written application, containing the
following information, has been received by the administrator and determined to
be complete:
      1.   Name, address, and telephone number of applicant.
      2.   Legal description of affected property.
      3.   Description or nature of the variance requested.
      4.   A narrative statement demonstrating that the strict application of
this title would deprive the applicant of rights commonly enjoyed by other
properties under the same district classification.
      5.   A plot plan showing lot dimensions and size of site, location of
existing and proposed structures, distance of structures to property lines,
demonstration of variance.
      6.   The names and mailing addresses of all property owners whose land
lies adjacent or contiguous to the boundaries of the property involved in the
request. (Ord. 23, 4-1-1981)
   D.   Hearing; Notice:
      1.   Required: Upon receipt of the application for variance, the
commission shall hold at least one public hearing.
      2.   Notice Of Hearing: At least fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing,
notice of the time and place, and a summary of the proposal shall be published
in the official newspaper or paper of general circulation within the
jurisdiction. Notice shall also be provided to the property owners or residents
within the land being considered, and to property owners adjoining the parcel
under consideration. (Ord. 23, 4-1-1981; amd. Ord. 52, 10-1-1987)
   E.   Action By Commission: Upon review of the variance application and
evidence presented at public hearing, the commission shall approve,
conditionally approve, or deny the request for variance within fifteen (15)
days of the action taken, the commission shall furnish to the applicant a
summary of their decision and reasons for such decision.
      1.   Additional Conditions; Safeguards: Upon granting a variance, the
commission may prescribe such conditions and safeguards as to ensure that the
granted variance will not be materially detrimental to the public welfare or
injurious to the property or improvements in the vicinity and district in which
the subject is situated. Failure to comply with prescribed conditions and
safeguards shall be deemed a violation of this title.
      2.   Specifications Of Action: Upon granting or denying a variance, the
commission or governing board shall specify:
         a.   The title provisions and standards used in evaluating the
application;
         b.   The reasons for approval or denial;
         c.   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain a
permit. (Ord. 23, 4-1-1981)
9-15-3: APPEALS:
   A.   Request For Public Hearing:
      1.   Notice Of Appeal: The applicant or any affected person who appeared,
in person or in writing, before the planning and zoning commission may appeal
the decision of the planning and zoning commission to the board of county
commissioners, provided the appeal is submitted in writing to the board within
fifteen (15) days from the planning and zoning commission's action. (Ord. 23,
4-1-1981)
      2.   Contents Of Notice; Fee: Such request shall contain reference to the
specific decision contested and shall be accompanied by the fee as set forth on
the fee schedule adopted from time to time by resolution of the board of county
commissioners, to help defray the cost of legal advertisement and notice. (Ord.
23, 4-1-1981; amd. 2001 Code)
      3.   Hearing: Upon receipt of any such request, the board shall set a
date and time, not to exceed thirty (30) days, for a public hearing to consider
the planning and zoning commission's decision and the objections thereto.
   B.   Board Action:
      1.   Action: At the time of public hearing, the board may uphold or
overrule the decision of the planning and zoning commission. The action of the
board on an appeal from a decision of the planning and zoning commission shall
be final and conclusive unless within sixty (60) days from the date of the
action the applicant or affected party makes application to a court of
competent jurisdiction for judicial review as provided by Idaho Code.
      2.   Specifications Of Action: Whenever the board grants or denies a
permit, it shall specify:
         a.   The title provisions and standards used in evaluating the
application;
         b.   The reasons for approval or denial; and
         c.   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain a
permit.
   C.   Appeal Hearing; Notice: Upon receipt of an appeal, the board shall hold
a public hearing and give public notice as required in section
9-9-6 of this title. (Ord. 23, 4-1-1981)
CHAPTER 16
ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
9-16-1: Zoning Approval, Building Permit Required
9-16-2: Application For Zoning Approval
9-16-3: Zoning Approval
9-16-4: Expiration Of Zoning Approval
9-16-5: Record Of Approval
9-16-6: Failure To Obtain Approval
9-16-7: Construction And Use
9-16-8: Complaints Regarding Violations
9-16-9: Penalty
9-16-10: Schedule Of Fees, Charges And Expenses
9-16-1: ZONING APPROVAL, BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED:
Subsection
7-1-3A of this code, as amended from time to time, states no person shall
erect, construct, enlarge, alter, approve or convert any building or structure
used for human habitation including a garage attached thereto or any building
used for commercial or industrial purposes, or any agricultural building, or
any public building in an unincorporated area in the county without first
obtaining a separate building permit from the county building official for each
such building or structure involved. Zoning approval shall be issued only in
conformity with the provisions of this title. (Ord. 15, 7-11-1977; amd. Ord.
78, 3-13-1995)
9-16-2: APPLICATION FOR ZONING APPROVAL:
The application for zoning approval shall be signed by the owner or applicant
attesting to the truth and exactness of all information supplied on the
application. Each application shall clearly state that the permit shall expire
and may be revoked if substantial work has not begun within one year. At a
minimum, the application shall contain the following information:
   A.   Name, address and phone number of applicant.
   B.   Legal description of property.
   C.   Existing use.
   D.   Proposed use.
   E.   Zoning district.
   F.   Plan showing the actual dimensions and the shape of the lot to be built
upon; the exact size and approximate location of existing buildings on the lot,
if any; and the location and dimensions of the proposed building or alteration.
   G.   Building height.
   H.   Number of off-street parking spaces or loading berths.
   I.   Number of dwelling units.
   J.   Proposed sewer and other facilities.
   K.   Such other matters as may be necessary to determine conformance with,
and provide for, the enforcement of this title. (Ord. 15, 7-11-1977)
9-16-3: ZONING APPROVAL:
   A.   Action Of Administrator: Within thirty (30) days after the receipt of
an application, the administrator shall either approve or disapprove the
application in conformance with the provisions of this title. All zoning
approvals shall, however, be conditional upon the commencement of work within
one year.
   B.   Distribution Of Plans:
      1.   Applicant: One copy of the plan, when required, shall be returned to
the applicant by the administrator after the administrator shall have marked
such copy either as approved or disapproved and attested to same by his
signature on such copy.
      2.   County: One copy of the plan, similarly marked, shall be retained by
the administrator.
   C.   Placard: The administrator shall issue a placard, to be posted in a
conspicuous place on the property in question, attesting to the fact that the
use or alteration is in conformance with the provisions of this title. (Ord.
15, 7-11-1977)
9-16-4: EXPIRATION OF ZONING APPROVAL:
If the work described in any zoning approval has not begun within one year from
the date of issuance thereof, such approval shall expire; it shall be revoked
by the administrator; and written notice thereof shall be given to the persons
affected. (Ord. 15, 7-11-1977)
9-16-5: RECORD OF APPROVAL:
The administrator shall maintain a record of all zoning approvals and copies
shall be furnished upon request to any person. (Ord. 15, 7-11-1977)
9-16-6: FAILURE TO OBTAIN APPROVAL:
Failure to obtain a zoning approval shall be a violation of this title. (Ord.
15, 7-11-1977)
9-16-7: CONSTRUCTION AND USE:
Zoning approvals issued on the basis of plans and applications approved by the
administrator authorize only the use, and arrangement, set forth in such
approved plans and applications or amendments thereto, and no other use,
arrangement, or construction. Use, arrangement, or construction contrary to
that authorized shall be deemed a violation of this title. (Ord. 15, 7-11-1977)
9-16-8: COMPLAINTS REGARDING VIOLATIONS:
Whenever a violation of this title occurs or is discovered, or is alleged to
have occurred, any person may file a written complaint. Such complaint stating
fully the causes and basis thereof shall be filed with the administrator. The
administrator shall properly record such complaint, immediately investigate and
take action thereon as provided by this title. (Ord. 15, 7-11-1977)
9-16-9: PENALTY:
   A.   Power Of Prosecuting Attorney: The prosecuting attorney shall, in
addition to taking whatever criminal action deemed necessary, take steps to
civilly enjoin any violation of this title.
   B.   Penalty: Penalty for failure to comply with, or which violate, the
provisions of this title shall be as follows:
      1.   Misdemeanor: Violation of any of the provisions of this title or
failure to comply with any of its requirements shall constitute a misdemeanor.
      2.   Continuing Violation: Each day such violation continues shall be
considered a separate offense.
      3.   Separate Offense: The land owner, tenant, subdivider, builder,
public official or any other person who commits, participates in, assists in,
or maintains such violation may be found guilty of a separate offense.
      4.   Additional Remedies: Nothing herein contained shall prevent the
board or any other public official or private citizen from taking such lawful
action as is necessary to restrain or prevent any violation of this title or
the Idaho Code. (Ord. 15, 7-11-1977)
9-16-10: SCHEDULE OF FEES, CHARGES AND EXPENSES:
   A.   Schedule Of Fees: Reasonable fees shall be paid by any person
submitting an application or requesting a public hearing in accordance with the
provisions of this title. The schedule of fees cover the costs associated with
administration, inspection, publication of notice, and other expenses.
   B.   Payment Required: Until all fees have been paid in full no action shall
be taken on any application.
   C.   Waiver: The planning and zoning commission or the board of
commissioners, in its discretion, may waive fees or initiate action on any
change in a zoning district boundary or in the text of this title without a fee
being charged to the applicant. The board of county commissioners may amend the
fee schedule as necessary by resolution. (Ord. 113, 6-22-1998)
CHAPTER 17
AMENDMENT
SECTION:
9-17-1: Authority
9-17-2: Initiation
9-17-3: Application
9-17-4: Submitted To Commission
9-17-5: Public Hearing
9-17-6: Recommendation By Commission
9-17-7: Action By Board
9-17-8: Resubmission
9-17-1: AUTHORITY:
Whenever the public necessity, convenience, general welfare, or good zoning
practices require, the board may, by ordinance, after receipt of recommendation
thereon from the commission, and subject to procedures provided by law, amend,
supplement, change or repeal the regulations, restrictions, and boundaries or
classification of property. (Ord. 15, 7-11-1977)
9-17-2: INITIATION:
Amendments to this title may be initiated in one of the following ways:
   A.   By adoption of a motion by the commission;
   B.   By adoption of a motion by the board; or
   C.   By the filing of an application by a property owner or a person who has
existing interest in property within the area proposed to be changed or
affected by said amendment. (Ord. 15, 7-11-1977)
9-17-3: APPLICATION:
Applications for amendments to the official zoning map adopted as part of this
title shall contain at least the following information:
   A.   Name, address and phone number of applicant.
   B.   Proposed amending ordinance, approved as to form by the board.
   C.   Present land use.
   D.   Present zoning district.
   E.   Proposed use.
   F.   Proposed zoning district.
   G.   A vicinity map at a scale approved by the administrator showing
property lines, thoroughfares, existing and proposed zoning and such other
items as the administrator may require.
   H.   A list of all property owners and their mailing addresses who are
within three hundred feet (300') of the external boundaries of the land being
considered.
   I.   A statement on how the proposed amendment relates to the comprehensive
plan, availability of public facilities and compatibility with the surrounding
area.
   J.   A fee as established by board. (Ord. 15, 7-11-1977)
9-17-4: SUBMITTED TO COMMISSION:
Zoning districts shall be amended in the following manner:
   A.   Submission Of Request: Requests for an amendment to this title shall be
submitted to the commission which shall evaluate the request to determine the
extent and nature of the amendment requested. (Ord. 15, 7-11-1977)
   B.   Conforms To Comprehensive Plan: If the request is in accordance with
the adopted comprehensive plan, the commission may recommend and the board may
adopt or reject the ordinance amendment under the notice and hearing procedures
provided in chapter 14 of this title and the procedure in sections
9-9-6 through
9-9-9 of this title.
   C.   Nonconformance To Comprehensive Plan: If the request is not in
accordance with the adopted comprehensive plan, the request shall be submitted
to the planning and zoning commission or, in its absence, the board, which
shall recommend and the board may adopt or reject an amendment to the
comprehensive plan under the notice and hearing procedures provided in section
67-6509, Idaho Code. After the comprehensive plan has been amended, this title
be amended as hereinafter provided for. (Ord. 15, 7-11-1977; amd. 2001 Code)
9-17-5: PUBLIC HEARING:
   A.   Hearing Required: Prior to granting an amendment to the official zoning
map, at least one public hearing in which interested persons shall have an
opportunity to be heard shall be held.
   B.   Notice:
      1.   Publication: At least fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing, notice
of the time and place and a summary of the proposal shall be published in the
official newspaper or paper of general circulation within the jurisdiction.
      2.   Other Media: Notice may also be made available to other newspapers,
radio and television stations serving the jurisdiction for use as a public
service announcement.
      3.   Written Notice: Notice shall also be provided to property owners
within the land being considered, three hundred feet (300') of the external
boundaries of the land being considered, and any additional area that may be
substantially impacted by the proposed amendment to the zoning map as
determined by the commission.
      4.   Notice To Over Two Hundred: When notice is required to two hundred
(200) or more property owners, in lieu of the mailing notice, two (2)
additional hearing notices shall be provided.
   C.   Notification And Advertising Procedures: Notification and advertising
procedures outlined in Idaho Code section 67-6509 will apply to any proposed
change in the text of this title. (Ord. 21, 11-22-1982; amd. Ord. 52, 10-1-
1987)
9-17-6: RECOMMENDATION BY COMMISSION:
Within sixty (60) days from the receipt of the proposed amendment, the
commission shall transmit its recommendation to the board. The commission may
recommend that the amendment be granted as requested, or it may recommend a
modification of the amendment requested, or it may recommend that the amendment
be denied. The commission shall ensure that any favorable recommendations for
amendments are in accordance with the comprehensive plan and established goals
and objectives. (Ord. 15, 7-11-1977)
9-17-7: ACTION BY BOARD:
   A.   Board Action: The board, at the next official meeting following the
receipt of the commission's report, shall consider the recommendation of the
commission. The board shall accept the recommendation of the commission's
report unless rejected by a majority of the full board.
   B.   Specifications Of Action: Upon granting or denying an application the
board shall specify:
      1.   The title provisions and standards used in evaluating the
application;
      2.   The reasons for approval or denial; and
      3.   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain a
permit.
   C.   Passage Of Ordinance: In the event the board shall approve an
amendment, such amendment shall hereafter be made a part of this title upon the
preparation and passage of an ordinance. (Ord. 15, 7-11-1977)
9-17-8: RESUBMISSION:
No application for a reclassification of any property which has been denied by
the board shall be resubmitted in either substantially the same form or with
reference to substantially the same premises for the same purposes within a
period of one year from the date of such final action, unless there is an
amendment in the comprehensive plan which resulted from a change in conditions
as applying to the specific property under consideration. (Ord. 15, 7-11-1977)
CHAPTER 18
SITE DISTURBANCE
SECTION:
9-18-1: Title
9-18-2: Authority
9-18-3: Purpose
9-18-4: Definitions
9-18-5: Applicability
9-18-6: Application And Information Requirements
9-18-7: Standards
9-18-8: Disturbance Restrictions
9-18-9: Guarantee Of Installation
9-18-10: Administration Of Chapter
9-18-11: Inspections
9-18-12: Maintenance
9-18-13: Prohibited Conduct, Enforcement, And Penalties
9-18-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the SITE DISTURBANCE ORDINANCE of Shoshone
County. (Ord. 129, 7-11-2006)
9-18-2: AUTHORITY:
This chapter is authorized under the provisions of Idaho Code section 67-6518.
(Ord. 129, 7-11-2006)
9-18-3: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to protect property, surface water, and
groundwater against significant adverse effects from excavation, filling,
clearing, unstable earthworks, soil erosion, sedimentation, and stormwater
runoff and to provide reasonable safety and land protections in the development
and design of building sites, roads, and other service amenities. By requiring
certain surface water management techniques which rely upon natural on site
treatment and recycling of stormwater in applicable areas and the collection
and conveyance of untreated stormwater into groundwater sources or into surface
bodies of water in applicable areas. The underlying purposes to be achieved by
these regulations are the protection of groundwater quality through control of
stormwater prior to infiltration and protection of surface water resources from
the effects of contaminants, sedimentation, and erosion. (Ord. 129, 7-11-2006)
9-18-4: DEFINITIONS:
ADMINISTRATOR: An official appointed by the board of commissioners to
administer the provisions of this chapter.
BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPs): Physical, structural, and/or managerial
practices that, when used singularly or in combination, prevent or reduce
sedimentation pollution of water and erosion of soils.
COMMUNITY STORMWATER SYSTEM: A BMP or series of BMPs which serve(s) more than
one parcel.
CONVEYANCE: A mechanism for transporting water from one point to another,
including pipes, culverts, ditches, channels and grassy swales.
CUT: To excavate into a hillside to create a flat area or to steepen or flatten
a bank.
DESIGN PROFESSIONAL, EROSION, AND SEDIMENTATION CONTROL: A professional
engineer, landscape architect, architect, or geologist, registered for their
respective profession by the state of Idaho or a certified professional in
erosion and sediment control (CPESC) as determined by the Soil And Water
Conservation Society and the International Erosion Control Association.
DESIGN PROFESSIONAL, GRADING, DRAINAGE, OR STORMWATER MANAGEMENT: A
professional engineer, landscape architect, or geologist, registered for their
respective profession by the state of Idaho.
DETENTION: The temporary storage of storm runoff, used to control the peak
discharge rates and provide gravity settling of pollutants.
DRIVEWAY: For purposes of managing and treating stormwater, a driveway shall be
a means of vehicular access from a public or private road to a point within an
individual lot, which is less than two hundred feet (200') in length.
EASEMENT DRAINAGE: A legal encumbrance placed against a property's title for
maintenance access or to reserve other specified privileges for the users and
beneficiaries of the drainage facilities contained within the boundaries of the
easement.
EROSION: The detachment and movement of soil or rock fragments by water, wind,
ice, or gravity.
EROSION AND SEDIMENTATION CONTROL: Those best management practices (BMPs),
which are employed to prevent or reduce erosion or sedimentation and are
typically necessary when ground disturbance occurs. See definition of Best
Management Practices (BMPs).
EXCAVATE: Any act by which earth, sand, gravel, rock or other earthen material
is cut into, dug, uncovered, displaced, or relocated.
FILL: A solid material which increases the ground's surface elevation or the
act of depositing such material by mechanical means.
FLOOD CONTROL STRUCTURE: A manmade feature designed or constructed to reduce
damage caused by flood events, including, but not limited to, a dam, dike,
channel, levee, or similar device.
GRADING: Any excavation, filling, or movement of earth for the purposes of
changing the shape or topography of the land.
GROUNDWATER: Water in a structured zone or stratum beneath the land surface or
a surface water body.
GUARANTEE OF FINANCIAL SURETY: A surety bond, cash deposit, or escrow account,
irrevocable letter of credit, or other means acceptable to Shoshone County to
guarantee that infrastructure or improvements are completed in compliance with
the project's approval plans.
HIGH RISK SOIL TYPES: Soil classifications according to the 2002 USDA/NRCS soil
survey of the St. Joe area, parts of Benewah and Shoshone Counties, Idaho,
which are deemed severe hazard for water erosion; and moderate risk soils that
become high risk once disturbed.
HIGH WATER MARK: The point on the bank or shore up to which the presence and
action of the water is so continuous as to leave a distinct mark either by
erosion, destruction of terrestrial vegetation or other easily recognized
characteristic.
IMPERVIOUS SURFACE: Any hard surface area which either prevents or retards the
entry of water into the soil mantle as under natural conditions prior to
development, and/or hard surface area which causes water to run off the surface
in greater quantities or at an increased rate of flow from the flow present
under natural conditions prior to development. Common impervious surfaces
include, but are not limited to, roofs, walkways, patios, driveways, parking
lots or storage areas, concrete or asphalt paving, gravel compacted native
surface roads, compacted earthen materials, and oiled, macadam or other
surfaces which similarly impede the natural infiltration of stormwater.
LARGE ORGANIC DEBRIS: As defined by Idaho forest practices act.
LOW RISK SOIL TYPES: Soil classifications according to the 2002 USDA/NRCS soil
survey of the St. Joe area, parts of Benewah and Shoshone Counties, Idaho,
which are deemed slight hazard for water erosion.
MODERATE RISK SOIL TYPES: Soil classifications according to the 2002 USDA/NRCS
soil survey of the St. Joe area, parts of Benewah and Shoshone Counties, Idaho,
which are deemed moderate hazard for water erosion.
NATURALLY OCCURRING DRAINING SWALE: Natural drainage conveyances that provide
for the discharge of stormwater to class 1 or class 2 streams, but have bed and
banks which are vegetatively covered and stable.
PERVIOUS SURFACE: Any surface area which allows the entry of water into the
soil mantle.
PRIVATE ROAD: A means of vehicular access, which does not meet the definition
of "driveway" and is not maintained by a public highway agency.
PUBLIC HIGHWAY AGENCY: The Idaho transportation department, Shoshone County
public works department, or other political subdivision of the state with
jurisdiction over public highways, public streets, and public rights of way.
PUBLIC ROAD: Public highway or street, which has been accepted for maintenance
by a public highway agency.
RETENTION: The holding of runoff in a basin without release except by means of
evaporation, infiltration, or emergency bypass.
REVIEWING AUTHORITY: Shoshone County building official, planning administrator,
public works director and floodplain administrator.
SCARIFY: To break up or loosen the ground surface of an area.
SEDIMENT: Fragmented material that originates from weathering and erosion of
rocks or unconsolidated deposits and is transported by, suspended in, or
deposited by water.
SEDIMENTATION: The deposition of sediment on ground surfaces and in
watercourses.
SITE: The parcel of land in which grading or excavation activity is conducted.
A road of right shall be considered a separate site from adjacent properties.
SPOIL PILE: Soil and/or rock excavated from an area which will not be used for
backfill or final grading on site.
STABILIZED CONSTRUCTION ENTRANCE: A stabilized pad of clean, crushed rock
located where traffic enters or leaves a construction site onto a public or
private road. The pad shall be a minimum of six inches (6") thick, with a
minimum rock size of two (2) to three inches (3"), and a length sufficient to
minimize off site tracking.
STORMWATER: The portion of precipitation that does not naturally percolate into
the ground or evaporate, but flows via overland flow, interflow, channels,
swales or pipes into a defined surface water channel, or a constructed
infiltration facility.
STORMWATER CONTROL: Those best management practices (BMPs), which are employed
to convey, direct, or dissipate stormwater and are typically necessary when
impervious area is created or the natural drainage is interrupted. See
definition of Best Management Practices (BMPs).
STREAM: A water source of perceptible extent, which confines and conducts
continuously or intermittently flowing water. This definition is intended to
include streams in natural or manmade channels.
STREAM, CLASS 1: "Class 1 stream" is as defined by Idaho law.
STREAM, CLASS 2: "Class 2 stream" is as defined by Idaho law.
TREATMENT: Removal of sediment or other pollutants of stormwater.
UNDISTURBED NATURAL VEGETATION BUFFER: An area where no development activity
has occurred or will occur, including, but not limited to, logging,
construction of utility trenches, roads, structures, or surface and stormwater
facilities. Buffer areas shall be left in their natural state. (Ord. 129, 7-11-
2006)
9-18-5: APPLICABILITY:
All areas within the unincorporated portions of Shoshone County require a
permit application. Performance standards are to be met by all activities in
all soil types except where exempt in subsection B of this section.
   A.   Permit Required: A site disturbance permit shall be required only for
sites when the following activities are undertaken in addition to any permit
required by other agencies:
      1.   Construction of all new temporary or permanent driveways, private
roads, or infrastructure that involves the movement of earth.
      2.   Conversion of roads from private use to public use.
      3.   Excavation for the construction of any structures that involves the
movement of earth.
      4.   Creation of a new commercial or industrial access or parking lot,
and conversion or paving of an existing access or parking lot for commercial or
industrial development.
   B.   Exemptions: The following activities are exempt from the permit
requirements of this chapter:
      1.   Mining, quarrying, excavating, processing, stockpiling of rock,
sand, gravel, aggregate, or clay when approved for operation under applicable
federal, state, and local regulations.
      2.   Bona fide agricultural uses and practices.
      3.   Logging roads under jurisdiction of the Idaho forest practices act.
      4.   Opening and closing of cemetery graves.
      5.   Emergency activities where there exists immediate danger to life or
property, substantial for hazards or other public safety hazards as determined
by the county or during the period covered by an emergency declaration by the
county or state.
      6.   Refuse disposal or landfill operation authorized by permit from the
appropriate federal, state, and local agencies.
      7.   Construction and/or maintenance of public roads under county
jurisdiction, except the county is required to follow BMPs.
      8.   Private roads or driveway maintenance where work is limited to the
travelway, no cut or fill slopes are created, and no new drainage features are
created.
      9.   Excavation of test holes for soil testing activities, provided, that
no access road will be created for test hole excavation.
      10.   Public projects in subject of jurisdiction of state or federal
agencies.
      11.   Superfund remediation sites. (Ord. 129, 7-11-2006)
9-18-6: APPLICATION AND INFORMATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Applications: All applications for a site disturbance permit shall be
submitted to the county on a form provided by the county. At a minimum, the
following information shall be required:
      1.   Property owner's name, and applicant's name if different from the
owner.
      2.   Contractor's name and state contractor license number.
      3.   Legal description of property including parcel number.
      4.   A written description of the work to be done, including an estimate
of the number of cubic yards of earth to be moved and the intended purpose.
      5.   A site plan including property boundaries, north arrow, adjacent
roads, and location of purposed work, distances to property lines and prominent
features of land.
   B.   Improvement Plans: The required elements of the site disturbance plans
shall be outlined in the county's BMP management guidelines, adopted pursuant
to this chapter.
      1.   Plans prepared by a design professional shall be required in the
following circumstances:
         a.   High risk soil types when more than twenty five percent (25%) of
the disturbed area lies on slopes greater than fifteen percent (15%).
      2.   The reviewing authorities may waive the submission of plans for
minor improvements if the standards of this chapter can be met by existing site
conditions.
   C.   Interagency Coordination: The reviewing authority may request comment
from affected agencies where appropriate. Where coordinated permits are
necessary, signoffs from permitting agencies or copies of other permits may be
required. Permit authorities may include, but are not limited to:
      1.   Public highway agencies for work within public rights of way,
including approach permits.
      2.   Army corps of engineers.
      3.   Idaho department of water resources for work within stream channels.
(Ord. 129, 7-11-2006)
9-18-7: STANDARDS:
   A.   Grading:
      1.   Low Risk Soil Types: The slope of the cut and fill surfaces shall be
no steeper than is safe for the intended use.
      2.   Moderate Risk Soil Types: The slope of the cut and fill surfaces
shall be no steeper than is safe for the intended use.
      3.   High Risk Soil Types: The slope of the cut and fill surfaces shall
be no steeper than is safe for the intended use. High risk soil types on slopes
greater than fifteen percent (15%) require plans designed by a design
professional and monitored by the design professional during implementation.
   B.   Erosion And Sedimentation Control:
      1.   Erosion and sedimentation control plans for all sites must be
sufficient to prevent sediment from leaving the site.
      2.   Stabilized construction entrances and driveways shall be required
for all construction sites to minimize sediment tracking onto roadways.
      3.   The erosion and sedimentation control plans must be installed or
otherwise in effect, as indicated in the approved plan, prior to any site
disturbance.
      4.   All surfaces where bare soil is exposed during clearing and grading
operations, including spoil piles, shall be covered or otherwise protected from
erosion as needed.
      5.   The property owner, contractor, and design professional shall be
responsible for the design and construction of revised temporary erosion and
sedimentation control if the application of the approved plan fails. The
applicant shall immediately notify the county reviewing authority of
alterations to plans.
      6.   All of the disturbed area shall be revegetated to the greatest
extent possible and as soon as possible. Roadbed surfaces are to be constructed
to prevent surface erosion.
   C.   Stormwater Detention And Conveyance:
      1.   Stormwater conveyance mechanisms must be sized to convey runoff from
a 50-year storm event without causing flooding or other damage to public or
private property, the stormwater management system, or other improvements.
      2.   Culvert size within public right of way shall be determined by the
public highway agency with jurisdiction. All other culvert sizing shall be done
by an appropriate design professional and shall be subject to review by the
reviewing authority.
      3.   Stormwater systems shall provide for sufficient storage volume and
detention time to result in no increase in the peak rate of runoff from the
site for a 25-year storm. Runoff from impervious and pervious surfaces shall be
considered in meeting this requirement.
   D.   Stormwater Management: Management of stormwater runoff from all
impervious surfaces shall be required prior to discharge of the stormwater
overland or to surface waters.
      1.   Subdivisions: Stormwater management plans will be developed for
subdivisions utilizing calculations that include that runoff from the future
developed portions of each lot. Stormwater shall be managed by a combination of
stormwater treatment and erosion control BMPs.
      2.   Commercial Or Industrial Development: Stormwater shall be managed
utilizing a combination of stormwater treatment and erosion control BMPs.
      3.   Development Of Public And Private Roads: Stormwater shall be managed
utilizing a combination of stormwater treatment and erosion control BMPs.
      4.   Residential Development On Individual Lots:
         a.   For all lots of record, as defined by the Shoshone County zoning
ordinance, stormwater shall be managed utilizing a combination of stormwater
treatment and erosion control BMPs.
         b.   For replacement, additions or alterations to existing site
improvements where no stormwater system has previously been required,
stormwater shall be managed to produce no net increase in the stormwater export
from the site's previously existing conditions. For additions or alterations to
existing improvements on a site with a previously approved and implemented
stormwater system, the stormwater treatment level shall be based on the total
impervious area on the site as outlined in subsection D4a of this section.
The development of the BMPs list and required range of effectiveness is not
intended to limit the use of new or innovative control procedures that may be
developed through the creativity of the owners or design professional preparing
the stormwater management plan. New approaches and procedures will be
considered and approved with the submittal of the appropriate support
information that confirms the effectiveness of the proposed new treatment
method, its use related to site constraints, and the maintenance burden it will
produce if adopted and utilized. (Ord. 129, 7-11-2006)
9-18-8: DISTURBANCE RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Stream Protection Zones: During and after construction operations,
streambeds and streamside vegetation shall be protected to leave them in the
most natural condition possible to maintain water quality and aquatic habitat.
      1.   Protection Zone Dimensions:
         a.   Class 1 stream protection zone: The area encompassed by a slope
distance of seventy five feet (75') on each side of the high water marks.
         b.   Class 2 stream protection zone: The area encompassed by a minimum
slope distance of thirty feet (30') on each side of the high water marks of a
class 2 stream.
         c.   Naturally occurring drainage swale protection zone: The area
encompassed by a minimum slope distance of five feet (5') on each side of the
top of a naturally occurring drainage swale. In no case shall this protection
zone have a total width greater than thirty feet (30').
         d.   For roads legally created prior to the effective date hereof, the
width of any protection zone may be reduced to be no greater than forty percent
(40%) of the dimension of the lot perpendicular to the stream or water body.
      2.   Protection Zone Regulations:
         a.   No mechanical ground disturbance shall be permitted within the
protection zone except at identified and permitted crossings by the appropriate
agencies. The extent of such disturbance shall be clearly indicated in the
approval plans.
         b.   Large organic debris (LOD), shading, wildlife cover, and water
filtering effects of vegetation shall be maintained along streams as outlined
in the Idaho forest practices act.
   B.   Flood Zones: Grading activity, which may result in damage to a flood
control structure, shall not be permitted by this chapter. All work within
floodways and other areas of special flood hazard, as identified on the FEMA
flood insurance maps, shall be in conformance with the Shoshone County flood
damage prevention ordinance, and approved by the Shoshone County floodplain
administrator. (Ord. 129, 7-11-2006)
9-18-9: GUARANTEE OF INSTALLATION:
No final plat of a major subdivision as defined in title 10 of this code shall
be recorded until the stormwater management facilities are in place and
functioning as designed or until a guarantee of financial surety is provided to
and accepted by the county. No certificate of occupancy will be issued until
the stormwater management system has been installed and is functioning as
designed. If, in the judgment of the reviewing authorities, project occupancy
can be achieved without harm to the environment or potential occupants,
occupancy may proceed upon receipt of an acceptable guarantee of financial
surety to complete installation when weather conditions or other variables
allow. In no case shall such guarantee be allowed if the incomplete
improvements would result in increased erosion, sedimentation, or other damage
to the development, public improvements, subsurface or surface waters, or the
proposed stormwater management system.
At any time, the county is authorized to stop work on the installation of
subdivision improvements, to embargo further issuance of building permits in a
development, to stop work on any individual building or development of any
individual building site, or to otherwise take steps necessary to protect the
waters of the county from damage as a result of development. (Ord. 129, 7-11-
2006)
9-18-10: ADMINISTRATION OF CHAPTER:
   A.   General: This chapter shall be administered in a manner consistent with
other ordinances of Shoshone County by an administrator as approved by the
board of county commissioners. Shoshone County may, by resolution, adopt design
standards, plan criteria, best management practices, administrative procedures,
fee schedules, etc., intended to implement the requirements and standards set
forth in this chapter. Changes in the supporting documents may be accomplished
by subsequently adopted resolution.
   B.   Duration Of Permit: Permits shall expire if the work authorized by the
permit is not started within one year of issuance of the permit, or if work is
suspended or abandoned at any time after the work has started for a period of
one hundred eighty (180) days. The reviewing authorities may grant a onetime
extension for an additional one hundred eighty (180) days on written request by
the permittee showing that circumstances beyond the control of the permittee
have prevented work authorized by the permit. The reviewing authorities may set
specific time limits to the permit for project initiation and completion for
environmental reasons or for coordination with other permitted site work.
   C.   Appeals: The Shoshone County planning and zoning commission shall hear
all appeals at public hearing.
Any person aggrieved may make appeals concerning interpretation of
administration of this chapter. Such appeals shall be filed within fifteen (15)
days of the action being appealed. A notice of appeal specifying the grounds of
the appeal shall be filed with the administrator. The administrator shall
transmit to the planning and zoning commission all papers constituting the
record upon which the action appealed was taken. The administrator shall
schedule the item for the next planning and zoning hearing to be commenced
within thirty (30) days of filing the notice of appeal and shall give legal
public notice, as well as due notice to the parties in interest. The planning
and zoning commission shall decide the matter within thirty (30) days of
completion of the appeal hearing.
The decision of the planning and zoning commission may be appealed to the board
of county commissioners, provided that a notice of appeal is submitted in
writing to the board of county commissioners within fifteen (15) days of the
planning and zoning commission decision. The board of county commissioners
shall also decide the matter within sixty (60) days.
   D.   Permit Fee: Application for site disturbance activities requiring a
permit in accordance with section
9-18-5 of this chapter shall be submitted to the administrator with a fee as
set forth on the fee schedule as adopted from time to time by resolution of the
board of county commissioners. (Ord. 129, 7-11-2006)
9-18-11: INSPECTIONS:
   A.   General: All development sites governed by these regulations shall be
subject to inspections by the county. An approved set of plans and permit must
be available for review on site whenever work is in progress. It shall be the
permittee's responsibility to keep the county notified of the progress of the
project.
   B.   High Risk Soil Types: At a minimum, two (2) inspections shall be
required for high risk sites: 1) after erosion and sedimentation controls have
been installed, prior to ground disturbance, and 2) after the project has been
completed, including revegetation. For sites which are active during the
winter, two (2) additional inspections may be required: 1) after the site has
been prepared for the winter, and 2) sometime in the spring to ensure that the
erosion and sedimentation control measures are adequate and maintained. The
permittee's design professional if required shall perform the inspections and
submit inspection reports to the county. (Ord. 129, 7-11-2006)
9-18-12: MAINTENANCE:
Maintenance requirements shall be the responsibility of the landowner.
In the event that appropriate maintenance of any stormwater system is not
conducted, the county shall have the option of requiring the property owner or
association to provide for maintenance, or take other enforcement measures as
outlined in section
9-18-13 of this chapter. (Ord. 129, 7-11-2006)
9-18-13: PROHIBITED CONDUCT, ENFORCEMENT, AND PENALTIES:
The following actions shall be considered violations of this chapter:
   A.   Failure to obtain a permit prior to the start of activity;
   B.   Failure to call for inspections as required by this chapter;
   C.   Once activity has begun, failure to complete the activity and install
the necessary erosion and sedimentation control, stormwater management, and
slope stabilization measures, in a timely manner;
   D.   Failure to maintain temporary and permanent erosion and sedimentation
control measures, the stormwater management system, or slope stabilization
measures;
   E.   Conduct work on site which exceeds the scope of work outlined in the
approved plans;
   F.   Damage or otherwise impede the function of stormwater system;
   G.   Export sediment from a site in manner not authorized by this chapter;
   H.   Continue work at a site after a stop work order has been placed;
   I.   Discharge stormwater in manner not authorized by this chapter.
If any of the above violations have occurred, the reviewing authorities may
revoke the permit or order the work stopped by notice, in writing, served on
any persons engaged in doing or causing such work to be done. Such person shall
stop all site work until authorized by the reviewing authorities to proceed.
The reviewing authorities may also withhold further issuance of permits. Stop
work orders may be appealed in the same manner as other appeals.
Violations of this chapter may be considered a criminal misdemeanor and shall
be punishable by a maximum fine of three hundred dollars ($300.00) or six (6)
months in jail, or both. Each day of violations shall constitute a separate
offense. The county may also take civil action to compel performance and
completion of, or maintenance of, improvements installed pursuant to this
chapter. (Ord. 129, 7-11-2006)
CHAPTER 19
MOUNTAIN OVERLAY DISTRICT
SECTION:
9-19-1: Statement of Intent and Purposes
9-19-2: Establishment
9-19-3: Base Density
9-19-4: Uses Permitted
9-19-5: Outdoor Storage
9-19-6: Categorical Exclusions and Exemptions
9-19-7: Mountain Overlay District Permit Procedure
9-19-8: Enforcement
9-19-9: Amendment of Code and Repeal of Conflicting Ordinances
9-19-10: Severability
9-19-11: Effective Date
9-19-1: STATEMENT OF INTENT AND PURPOSES:
   Intent: The Mountain Overlay District (MOD) is intended to preserve the
natural beauty and integrity of mountains surrounding the City of Wallace.
Nearly every structure in the city is federally protected on the National
Register of Historic Places and the City of Wallace is recognized as a historic
site by Shoshone County. The intent of this chapter is to closely regulate
structural and other development on hillsides visible from within and
approaching the City of Wallace. This chapter is not intended to apply to lands
or hillsides within Shoshone County that are outside of the City of Wallace
viewshed.
   Shoshone County is directed by its comprehensive plan and this chapter to
protect the natural environment surrounding the City of Wallace and closely
regulate development through adoption of a mountain overlay zone. The design
review standards of this chapter and any conditions of approval shall be used
to ensure any site alteration will be limited in bulk, design, and use of
materials to minimize site disturbance and visibility from the City of Wallace.
This chapter shall be read as a whole and construed to effectuate its purposes
and the intent of this chapter.
   Purpose:
   A.   The purposes of the MOD are:
      1.   To preserve scenic beauty and natural character of mountains
surrounding the City of Wallace by regulating development thereon;
      2.   To maintain slope stability and soil structure;
      3.   To prevent visible scarring of hillsides and mountains by cuts and
fills and/or by access roads to hillside and mountainous areas;
      4.   To ensure accessibility by emergency vehicles on hillside roads;
      5.   To prevent unsafe conditions for access, circulation, and road
maintenance and unwarranted problems associated therewith in hillside and
mountainous areas;
      6.   To maintain water quality and prevent deterioration due to
sedimentation or inadequately performing septic systems;
      7.   To reduce development in areas with elevated wildfire risk;
      8.   To protect hillside and mountainous areas functioning as essential
wildlife habitat; and
      9.   To carry out the provisions contained in the Shoshone County
comprehensive plan.
(Ord. 170, 3-13-2024)
9-19-2: ESTABLISHMENT:
   A.   District Established: The Mountain Overlay District (MOD) shall include
those privately-owned lands under Shoshone County jurisdiction visible from a
public vantage point entering the City of Wallace or within the City of Wallace
as shown in the Shoshone County viewshed map attached as Exhibit 1.
   B.   MOD Permit Required: Site alteration within the MOD is prohibited
unless a MOD permit has been issued in accordance with this chapter, or the
administrator has determined in writing pursuant to this title that the site
alteration falls within a categorical exclusion. A MOD permit or a written
categorical exclusion is required prior to issuance of a building permit within
the MOD, and applications for any MOD permit shall include plans for all
proposed buildings, structures, hillside roads, and any associated development
or construction.
   C.   Mining: Mining activity on private property in the MOD is subject to a
MOD permit.
(Ord. 170, 3-13-2024)
9-19-3: BASE DENSITY:
   Base density shall be one residential dwelling unit per fifty (50) acres.
(Ord. 170, 3-13-2024)
9-19-4: USES PERMITTED:
   A.   Land use shall be restricted to single family only.
   B.   Setback to adjacent residential and accessory structures shall be 50
feet.
   C.   One accessory structure shall be allowed. Accessory structures shall
not be used for human habitation (including working, sleeping, living, cooking,
or restroom areas) and must comply with current code.
(Ord. 170, 3-13-2024)
9-19-5: OUTDOOR STORAGE:
   A.   Outdoor storage and the area of storage shall not be visible from a
public vantage point as shown in the Shoshone County viewshed map attached as
Exhibit 1 to the ordinance codified herein.
(Ord. 170, 3-13-2024)
9-19-6: CATEGORICAL EXCLUSIONS AND EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Exemptions: Firebreaks and related site alterations made by fire
incident command personnel and used to protect public and private property from
an active wildfire shall not be subject to the requirements of this chapter.
   B.   Exclusions: Unless the intent of the landowner or his/her authorized
agent is to circumvent the purposes of the Mountain Overlay District (MOD)
regulations, the requirements of this chapter shall not apply if before
commencing any site alteration, the landowner or agent first obtains a written
confirmation from the administrator in consultation with the planning and
zoning commission designated representative, that the site alteration falls
within and meets one of the following categorical exclusions:
      1.   Roads used for logging purposes as permitted through the Idaho
Department of Lands.
      2.   Valid permits and platted building envelopes approved prior to the
effective date of Ordinance No. 170 dated March 13, 2024. This exception
includes all structures built within the platted building envelope.
      3.   The locations of unbuilt, platted roads within platted subdivisions
existing prior to the effective date of March 13, 2024, will be allowed. The
unbuilt, platted roads and associated approaches shall meet the evaluation
standards as set forth in
9-19-7 of this chapter. This may require realignment of the unbuilt, platted
road.
      4.   Incidental planting and transplanting of vegetation by hand tools.
      5.   Maintenance, repair, and improvement of any building, other
structure, or hillside road that was in existence and lawful before March 13,
2024 or lawfully constructed thereafter, which does not increase its visibility
from a public vantage point entering or within the City of Wallace as shown in
the Shoshone County viewshed map, provided the plans for such maintenance,
repair, and improvement demonstrate appropriate measures or design features to
prevent soil erosion, silting of lower slopes, slide damage, flooding, and any
other geologic instability.
   C.   Subdivision Exclusion: Upon application to the board, subdivisions
platted before March 13, 2024, may propose to enter into agreement with
Shoshone County to exempt building lots within that subdivision from the MOD
permit procedures contained herein. To qualify for this exclusion, the
subdivision shall meet, at a minimum, the following criteria and conditions:
      1.   Architectural design review standards of the subdivision are
submitted to the county for review and approval to ensure that the standards of
subsection 9-19-7 of this chapter are included.
      2.   Once approved by Shoshone County, the subdivision design review
standards may not be changed by the subdivision without the approval of
Shoshone County.
      3.   The administrator or planning and zoning commission shall be
notified and is allowed to attend subdivision design review sessions to ensure
the goal of minimizing visual impact is emphasized.
      4.   Shoshone County shall revoke a subdivision exclusion if the
subdivision design does not comply with approved design standards or the intent
of this chapter. Should the subdivision fail to conduct design review according
to the agreement with Shoshone County, the county shall terminate said
agreement and revoke exemption.
   D.   Administrator’s Review of Categorical Exclusions: The administrator, in
consultation with the planning and zoning commission designated representative,
shall review all written requests for determinations of categorical exclusions
under subsection B of this section, and promulgate appropriate forms to be used
for such requests. The applicant shall have the burden of demonstrating
proposed site alterations fall within and meets the requirements of a
categorical exclusion. The administrator shall issue a written decision within
thirty (30) days of receipt of an application for determination of categorical
exclusion. The administrator, prior to issuance of its decision, may request
additional information from the applicant, including, without limitation,
technical review from the planning and zoning commission designated
representative at the applicant’s expense, and the failure to provide such
requested information within sixty (60) days of request shall be grounds for
denial of the request for determination of categorical exclusion. The thirty
(30) day time period for issuance of the administrator’s decision shall begin
to run anew following the date of the administrator’s receipt of additional
information from the applicant. Such period also shall be tolled during any
periods that the administrator does not have reasonably safe access to the site
of the proposed site alteration. Any person aggrieved by the written decision
of the administrator as to a categorical exclusion may appeal the
administrator’s decision to county commissioners according to Section
9-15-3 of this title.
(Ord. 170, 3-13-2024)
9-19-7: MOUNTAIN OVERLAY DISTRICT PERMIT PROCEDURE:
   A.   Application Form, Contents, and Review: Application for a Mountain
Overlay District (MOD) permit shall be made on a form furnished by the
administrator. All MOD permit applications shall include the plans for all
proposed buildings, additions to existing buildings, other structures, and
hillside roads. The planning and zoning commission shall review all such
elements of the development simultaneously but shall evaluate under the
provisions of this chapter only those portions which lie within the MOD. Upon
receipt of the completed form, together with the information listed below, and
following an on-site inspection by the administrator, the completed application
shall be placed on the agenda of the next available regular meeting of the
planning and zoning commission and shall meet the requirements for notification
contained in Section
9-15-2 of this code.
   B.   Application and Submittal Requirements and Fees: An application for a
MOD permit shall be filed with the administrator by at least one holder of an
interest in the property, or their agent, accompanied by the fee established by
resolution of the board of county commissioners. If deemed necessary, planning
and zoning may request comprehensive engineering review addressing, but not
limited to, compliance with road standards, drainage, and erosion mitigation.
Fees resulting from review by the planning and zoning commission designated
representative are the responsibility of the applicant, according to the fee
resolution of the board and shall be paid prior to public hearing. No
application shall be certified as complete unless it includes the following
information in sufficient detail for the commission to determine compliance
with the design review standards of evaluation:
      1.   Name, address, and phone number of landowner for which the permit is
requested and of the person, firm, or corporation (contractor) that will
physically alter the land, if known.
      2.   The proposed date site alteration will commence and projected date
of completion.
      3.   A description of the land which the proposed work is to be done, by
lot, block, tract and house and street address, or similar description that
will readily identify and definitively locate the proposed site. A vicinity map
shall be included.
      4.   A report including text, designs, and visual representations
including simulations which indicate how the design and construction of
improvements shall mitigate visibility. The report shall also include specific
engineering, public safety, revegetation, site review, building and other
information demonstrating compliance with the design review standards of
evaluation. Where applicable, the report shall include a visual resource
contrast rating worksheet and other forms promulgated and required by the
administrator.
      5.   A description of the work to be performed, an estimate of the depth
of soil disturbed, the type of equipment to be used, the total area of
disturbance, and the amount and type of material to be removed or deposited,
all in sufficient detail to evaluate impacts of such activities.
      6.   A graphic representation of the proposal. This plan shall include
property lines and delineate the proposed areas for improvement or alteration,
existing and proposed contours, drainage and drainage structures, landscaping
and revegetation plans, including a plan for the control of noxious weeds,
location for placement of the septic system including drain fields, and
retaining walls.
      7.   A statement that the proposed areas of disturbance have been staked
and are ready for administrative review.
      8.   A signature by the property owner or his/her authorized agent that
the application is certified as true and accurate.
      9.   Slope and elevation analysis by a licensed engineer or surveyor and
a report from a licensed engineer or professional geologist describing the
risks of soil erosion, silting of lower slopes, slide damage, flooding, severe
scarring, or any other geological instability associated with the site
alteration, and plans for mitigation of those risks.
      10.   Evidence that Panhandle Health District has reviewed the site and
determined the property is found appropriate for on-site sewage disposal.
      11.   Written input from the applicable rural fire district and/or
ambulance service district, if the parcel is located outside an established
fire district, addressing adequacy of the proposed access for emergency
vehicles and compliance with fire protection requirements.
      12.   When the proposed use involves a potential contaminant source or
potential contaminant, and is located within a wellhead protection area, the
applicant shall depict on a map the general location of potable water sources
within three hundred feet (300') of the subject property and identify any ten
(10) year time of travel zones of public water system(s) affecting the
property. The applicant shall provide a report and plans by an Idaho licensed
engineer or professional geologist which describes how the project will be
designed and constructed to mitigate adverse impact on potable water sources.
The applicant shall solicit and document the request for written comment from
Idaho Department of Environmental Quality and, in addition, written comment
from any other appropriate agency, including, but not limited to, owners of
public water systems located within the wellhead protection area.
   C.   Commission Review and Action: Decisions shall be based on the standards
of evaluation contained herein. Review of the application and receipt of public
input shall be conducted at a scheduled public hearing as set forth
hereinabove. Public input required for variance provided in Section
9-15-2 of this title. The commission may order the hearing to be continued up
to thirty (30) days at the same place, in which case no further published
notice shall be required other than that requested by the commission.
Continuation beyond thirty (30) days shall require further published notice,
according to this section. The commission shall approve, approve with
conditions, or deny said application, making appropriate findings to support
its decision. The commission shall enter an order or adopt its written findings
of fact and decision within thirty (30) days after the action is taken by the
commission. The granting of a MOD permit shall not be considered as
establishing a binding precedent to grant other MOD permits. A MOD permit is
not transferable from one parcel of land to another. The applicant may appeal
the planning and zoning commission decision per Section
9-15-3 of this title.
   D.   Design Review Standards of Evaluation: The applicant has the burden of
demonstrating compliance with this chapter, including each of the following
design review standards of evaluation. Before approving or conditionally
approving a MOD permit, the commission shall review and find adequate evidence
that the proposed development or site alteration meets the following standards.
      1.   No sufficient available area for the site alteration exists on the
lot outside of the MOD. “Available area” excludes land located within the 100-
year floodplain, floodway, wetlands, avalanche, or landslide hazards created by
offsite conditions where such environmental concerns outweigh the hillside
concerns for the particular project. Existing structures that are nonconforming
to this chapter may be improved, moved, or replaced within the MOD, provided
the commission finds the proposal is less nonconforming than what is existing
and is in substantial compliance with this section.
      2.   Visibility of the site alteration as viewed from a public vantage
point entering or within the City of Wallace as shown in the Shoshone County
viewshed map shall be minimized through design, landscaping, and siting. Except
where extraordinary circumstances (or natural circumstances as defined in
subsection D-3 of this section) exist that are peculiar to the physical
characteristics of the site, site alterations, particularly buildings, other
structures, and hillside roads, are less visible the lower in elevation they
are as determined by topographic contour lines. The maximum bulk of structures
shall be hidden or minimized by design, landscaping, and siting. Landscaping
shall blend harmoniously with the surrounding area and shall not create
excessive contrast with the surrounding area.
      3.   Site alterations for property protection and hillside stabilization
and rehabilitation due to natural circumstances may be permitted, if the
applicant can demonstrate and a licensed engineer certifies that the site
alterations are designed to remedy a substantial threat of significant damage
to permanent structures. Natural circumstances examples include the following:
avalanches, postfire and postfire debris flows, landslides, and post flood.
      4.   The site alteration, and any grading and excavation relating
thereto, shall include measures or designs to mitigate the risk of soil
erosion, silting of lower slopes, slide damage, flooding, and any other
geologic instability. All excavation, grading and fill shall be revegetated as
provided herein (except for roadway surfaces) and otherwise stabilized to
control erosion.
      5.   Any proposed building or other structure shall remain below the
skyline and shall be sited in such a manner so as not to create a silhouette
against the sky as viewed from any a public vantage point entering or within
the City of Wallace as shown in the Shoshone County viewshed map.
      6.   Manmade slopes, road alignments, driveways, improvements, grading,
excavation, berming, and fill activities shall conform as closely as possible
to the natural terrain. Alteration and severe scarring of the natural drainage
of the site shall be minimized and mitigated, except where natural
circumstances exist as defined in subsection D-3 of this section, in which
cases protective factors of the site alteration shall be considered. Hillside
roads shall also meet state road standards and all other applicable road or
driveway standards under Shoshone County ordinances and adopted codes,
including, but not limited to, those for grades and emergency vehicles. Legal,
existing roads/driveways to existing nonconforming structures located within
the MOD may be moved or improved to reduce the degree of noncompliance with
requirements for grades and emergency vehicles.
      7.   All utilities shall be underground.
      8.   Native or native compatible vegetation shall be preserved to the
greatest extent possible, and revegetation adjacent to residences shall be with
low combustible plant species. Revegetation and rehabilitation of disturbed
areas shall utilize plant materials harmonious with and/or native to the area.
The method for control and prevention of noxious weeds shall be demonstrated.
Disturbed areas shall be regraded, landscaped, or revegetated in a timely
manner after completion of the site alteration activities. Components of the
revegetation plan shall include the techniques that will be used to ensure the
establishment of the proposed vegetation for a period of not less than five (5)
years. The most current version of the United States Forest Service Field Guide
to Forest Plants of Northern Idaho lists will be used to verify native
vegetative plantings.
      9.   Exterior building materials shall be of nonreflective materials. The
visibility of hillside development shall be lessened by limited glazing and
exterior lighting, and by use of materials and colors compatible with the
natural surrounding setting. Nonreflective windows and glass are required.
Roofs shall be designed to minimize the visibility of the structure. Reflective
metal roofs are prohibited; nonreflective metal roofs may be approved. The
albedo of materials used on all exterior walls and roof areas shall be similar
to the albedo of the surrounding terrain. Roofs shall have a maximum albedo of
0.3. Albedo is measured on a scale of 0 to 1 (0% - 100%). A value of 0 means
there is no reflection of light (0%) and a value of 1 means there is full
reflection of light (100%). Forested areas tend to have an albedo of 0.15
meaning they reflect 15% of the incoming solar radiation.
      10.   All outdoor lighting shall comply with the Shoshone County MOD
lighting reference document attached as Exhibit 2 to the ordinance codified
herein.
      11.   Construction proposed as part of a MOD permit application shall
comply with other applicable codes and ordinances, including, but not limited
to, the fire code; sewage disposal facilities, and the building code, as
amended, in effect at the time.
      12.   If the applicant or landowner with respect to an application for a
MOD permit under this chapter is the state of Idaho, or any agency, board,
department, institution, or district thereof, the commission or the board, in
addition to all other applicable standards and criteria hereunder, shall take
into account the plans and needs of the state, or any agency, board,
department, institution or district thereof, as required by Idaho Code Section
67-6528.
      13.   When the proposed use involves a potential contaminant source or
potential contaminant and is located within a wellhead protection area, the
applicant has adequately demonstrated that the project has been designed to
mitigate any adverse impact to a potable water source.
   E.   Conditions: The commission may attach reasonable conditions upon
granting a MOD permit, including, but not limited to:
      1.   Providing bonding or other sufficient financial guarantee to
complete the site alteration; at a minimum, the grading and revegetation of
disturbed areas, including weed control, and new vegetation or landscaping
proposed to minimize the visibility of the project on the hillside shall be
financially guaranteed at one hundred fifty percent (150%) of the estimated
cost for five (5) growing seasons;
      2.   Modification of the property development or site alteration;
      3.   Providing road design modifications to avoid undue scarring;
      4.   When the proposed use involves a potential contaminant source or
potential contaminant and is located within a wellhead protection area, the
commission may impose reasonable conditions of approval to protect the surface
and/or ground water from contamination, including, without limitation, the
installation by the applicant of monitoring wells and the granting of easements
relating to such wells; and/or
      5.   Further mitigation of visibility not included on the application.
   F.   Expiration of Permit: Any MOD permit granted under this chapter after
March 13, 2024, shall expire one year following the date of its approval if
construction of the site alteration has not been substantially commenced. If
good cause for delay in commencement of construction is shown, the
administrator may once only extend the period for commencement of construction
for a period not exceeding one year, provided application is made for an
extension before expiration of the permit.
   G.   Emergency MOD Permit Procedure: There are times and circumstances in
which immediate action must be taken to prevent major property loss. Wildfires
and other natural disasters may create such situations. In these limited
situations the normal application and review procedure may be waived and an
emergency MOD permit granted or amended.
      1.   Submittal and Application Requirements: The applicant shall own land
within an area affected by wildfire or other natural disasters. A complete
application for an emergency MOD permit shall be submitted with the following
attachments:
         a.   An aerial photo or site map/drawing of the subject property
showing the approximate location and scope of work for the site alteration
being applied for.
         b.   Dated photographs showing the condition of the property for which
the work is proposed before alteration.
         c.   A timeframe whereby the site alteration will commence and a date
when alteration will be completed. If the site alteration is not completed
within the specified timeframe, administrative approval shall be sought prior
to the expiration date.
      2.   Review and Decision: An emergency MOD permit shall be reviewed and
either approved or denied in writing by the planning and zoning administrator,
planning and zoning staff, or planning and zoning commission designated
representative.
         a.   A site visit shall be conducted with the Shoshone County planning
and zoning administrator, planning and zoning staff, or planning and zoning
commission designated representative.
         b.   Approval may be granted if the following criteria are met:
            (1)   Permanent structures are imminently threatened and would
sustain considerable damage if emergency stabilization measures are not
undertaken;
            (2)   Emergency stabilization measures will not unreasonably
increase the threat of damage to permanent structures on neighboring property;
            (3)   The emergency stabilization measures are limited in scope to
protecting permanent structures, as set forth in the emergency permit;
            (4)   The applicant posts financial security of one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00) or more as determined by the commission for the purpose of
ensuring that a regular MOD permit application will be filed; and
            (5)   The applicant shall apply for a regular MOD permit by the
date set forth in the emergency permit and commence implementation of any
regularly approved MOD permit as may be required, following emergency
stabilization. In such cases, the regular MOD permit application shall be
reviewed, and a decision rendered by the commission.
   H.   Notice And Reconsideration Procedure:
      1.   Notice: Once an emergency MOD permit has been approved, the planning
and zoning administrator shall within two (2) business days post notice on the
property of such approval and mail notice to property owners within three
hundred feet (300') and two thousand feet (2,000') down gradient of the
exterior boundaries of the subject property.
      2.   Reconsideration: The applicant may appeal the decision per Section
9-15-3 of this title.
(Ord. 170, 3-13-2024)
9-19-8: ENFORCEMENT:
   Provisions of this title shall be enforced according to Section
9-16 of this Title.
(Ord. 170, 3-13-2024)
9-19-9: AMENDMENT OF CODE AND REPEAL OF CONFLICTING ORDINANCES:
   Shoshone County Code, Title 9 Zoning Regulations, is hereby amended, along
with any associated ordinance. Any other such ordinances of Shoshone County in
conflict with this ordinance are hereby repealed to the extent of such
conflict.
   If any conflict occurs between provisions of this title, and a provision of
this code, the more restrictive provision shall take precedence.
(Ord. 170, 3-13-2024)
9-19-10: SEVERABILITY:
   The provisions of this ordinance are declared to be severable. If any
section, sentence, clause, or phrase of the ordinance shall for any reason be
held to be invalid or unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction,
such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining sections,
sentences, clauses, and phrases of this ordinance, but they shall remain in
effect, it being the legislative intent that this ordinance shall remain in
effect notwithstanding the invalidity of any part.
(Ord. 170, 3-13-2024)
9-19-11: EFFECTIVE DATE:
   This ordinance shall be effective and be in full force immediately upon
passage and publication as required by law.
(Ord. 170, 3-13-2024)
TITLE 10
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10-1-1: Title
10-1-2: Authority
10-1-3: Purposes
10-1-4: Applicability And Exemptions
10-1-5: Bunker Hill Superfund Site Overlay District And Operable Unit Three
Institutional Controls Program Administrative Area Standards
10-1-6: Floodway Provisions
10-1-7: Jurisdiction
10-1-8: Interpretation
10-1-9: Severability
10-1-1: TITLE:
These regulations shall be known and cited as the SHOSHONE COUNTY SUBDIVISION
REGULATIONS, hereinafter referred to as "these regulations". (Ord. 139, 12-22-
2009)
10-1-2: AUTHORITY:
These regulations are authorized by title 31, chapter 7; title 50, chapter 13;
title 67, chapter 65 of the Idaho Code; and article 12, section 2 of the Idaho
constitution, as amended or subsequently codified. (Ord. 139, 12-22-2009)
10-1-3: PURPOSES:
The purposes of these regulations are to promote the public comfort, welfare,
and safety and to provide for:
   A.   The harmonious development of the region.
   B.   The coordination of streets and roads within the subdivision with other
existing or planned roads or with the state or regional plan.
   C.   Adequate open spaces for travel, light, air and recreation.
   D.   The conservation of or provision of adequate transportation, water,
drainage, and sanitary facilities.
   E.   The avoidance of population congestion and of scattered subdivision of
land so as to:
      1.   Ensure adequate water supply, drainage, sanitary facilities,
transportation, or other public services; and
      2.   Ensure the subdivision would not necessitate an expenditure of
public funds for the supply of such services.
   F.   The requirements as to extent and the manner in which:
      1.   Roads shall be created and improved; and
      2.   Water and sewer and other utility mains, piping connections, or
other facilities shall be installed as a condition prior to the approval of a
plat.
   G.   The manner and form of making and filing of any plat of subdivided
lands.
   H.   The administration of these regulations by:
      1.   Defining the powers and duties of approval authorities including
procedures for the equitable review of all plats of subdivisions covered by
these provisions.
   I.   Ensuring that development is in conformance with Idaho Code, with the
goals and policies of the Shoshone County comprehensive plan, with the
requirements of the Shoshone County ordinances and with the requirements of
other applicable agencies.
   J.   Ensuring that development mitigates negative environmental, social, and
economic impacts. (Ord. 139, 12-22-2009)
10-1-4: APPLICABILITY AND EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Applicability: These regulations apply to the division of land into two
(2) or more contiguous lots, tracts, or parcels, and to the reconfiguration,
combination or change in status of a platted lot or right-of-way (e.g.
conversion of a utility lot to a building lot) within the unincorporated areas
of Shoshone County, unless otherwise specified by an area of city impact
ordinance adopted pursuant to Idaho Code section 67-6526.
   B.   Exemptions: The following divisions of land are exempt from the
remainder of the requirements of this Subdivision Ordinance or title, however
all other County Code requirements may still apply.
All divisions created under an 'Exemption' shall be reviewed and approved by
the Planning Administrator prior to recordation. Applicable processing and
review requirements shall be provided by the Administrator, and shall be
submitted to the Administrator with a fee as set forth on the fee schedule as
adopted from time to time by resolution of the Board of County Commissioners.
All exception approvals shall file a Record of Survey (ROS) per Idaho Code
Title 55, Chapter 19-Recording of Surveys. The ROS shall have a signature block
on the face for Planning Administrator approval. The corresponding conveyance
deed(s) with ingress/egress/utility easements granted shall be filed in
conjunction with the ROS and referenced with the recorded instrument number.
Ingress and egress from proposed parcel shall adjoin a public road, and access
shall be demonstrated to comply with subsection
10-5-1B5 of this title and the appropriate ingress/egress easements shall be
provided and may be required to be applied to the ROS face. Parcels of land
created under these provisions will be recognized as separate pieces of
property on the day the instrument creating them is legally recorded.
      1.   Division made for cemeteries or burial plots while used for that
purpose.
      2.   An adjustment of lot or boundary lines which does not reduce the
area, frontage, width, depth, or building setback lines of each lot below the
minimum zoning requirements for the applicable zone and is otherwise in
conformance with all County Ordinances, and does not create additional parcels,
lots, or tracts. All lot line adjustments must be approved by the Planning
Administrator prior to recordation. (Note: Lot and boundary line adjustments
are accomplished by recording a deed of conveyance for the property that will
be transferred, and then, for the receiving parcel, recording a second deed
describing the new, exterior parcel boundaries - so that an additional parcel
of land is not inadvertently created.)
      3.   Division made by the acquisition of right-of-way for road
improvement purposes by a public agency.
      4.   Division resulting from the unwilling sale of land as a result of
legal condemnation as defined and allowed in the Idaho and United States
constitution and laws.
      5.   Divisions resulting from the conveyance of a parcel of land to a
taxing district, government agency, or utility regulated by the Public
Utilities Commission, providing the parcel will not be used for habitable
structures such as offices or service centers. Divisions used for the purpose
of housing emergency service responders such as fire stations, police stations
or ambulance services are permitted.
      6.   The division of one (1) non-contiguous parcel in which each newly
created parcel conforms with all County ordinances and has legal ingress/
egress/utility access. Non-contiguous status is defined as: created by a
natural or geological separation, such as surface waterways (excluding Class II
streams and drainage areas); or separations created by public dedication of
right-of-way or easement. (i.e. local, State or Federal roads, highways, and
interstates including private railroad right-of-way).
      7.   Divisions made pursuant to a court order or the execution of a Last
Will and Testament, each having a recorded access easement to a public road (or
road built to public road standards), and each conforming with all applicable
County ordinances. (Ord. 139, 12-22-2009; amd. Ord. 164, 6-15-2021)
10-1-5: BUNKER HILL SUPERFUND SITE OVERLAY DISTRICT AND OPERABLE UNIT THREE
INSTITUTIONAL CONTROLS PROGRAM ADMINISTRATIVE AREA STANDARDS:
All subdivision procedures, improvements, activities, and uses which are in
theBunker Hill superfund site overlay district (BD) or the operable unit
threeinstitutional controls program administrative area (OUTICPAA) shall also
besubject to and in compliance with the environmental health code and
theinstitutional controls program. In addition to any other permits and/or
certificatesrequired by this title, an ICP permit may be required from
Panhandlehealth district 1 prior to the commencement of any work activities in
the BD district or OUTICPAA district which are subject to the environmental
health code and institutional control program. It is the responsibility of the
applicant to determine if the proposed subdivision is subject to ICP
regulations. (Ord. 139, 12-22-2009)
10-1-6: FLOODWAY PROVISIONS:
If any portion of the site or infrastructure to serve the subdivision is in an
area of special flood hazard, the plat and the development plans must conform
to the Shoshone County floodplain overlay district (FP) regulations. (Ord. 139,
12-22-2009)
10-1-7: JURISDICTION:
These regulations shall apply to subdividing of all lands within the
unincorporated territory of the county including the property within one mile
outside the limits of an incorporated city or as mutually defined by both city
and county and the requirements of sections 50-1306 and 67-6526 Idaho Code as
amended or subsequently codified, except as otherwise provided in any valid
area of impact agreement. (Ord. 139, 12-22-2009)
10-1-8: INTERPRETATION:
All "subdivisions" as defined in section
10-2-2 of this title shall be submitted for approval pursuant to these
regulations, and shall comply with the provisions of these regulations. These
regulations shall supplement all other regulations, and where at variance with
other laws, regulations, ordinances, or resolutions, the more restrictive
requirements shall apply. (Ord. 139, 12-22-2009)
10-1-9: SEVERABILITY:
Where any word, phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph, or section, or other part
of these regulations are held invalid by a court or competent jurisdiction,
such judgment shall affect only that part so held invalid. All other portions
of this title shall remain in full force and effect; and to this end, the
provisions of this title are hereby declared to be severable. (Ord. 139, 12-22-
2009)
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
10-2-1: Interpretation Of Terms And Words
10-2-2: General Definitions
10-2-1: INTERPRETATION OF TERMS AND WORDS:
For purposes of these regulations, certain terms or words used herein shall be
interpreted as follows:
   A.   The present tense includes the past or future tense, the singular
includes the plural, and the plural includes the singular.
   B.   The words "shall" and "must" are mandatory requirements; "may" is a
discretionary requirement; and the word "should" is a preferred requirement.
   C.   The masculine shall include the feminine. (Ord. 139, 12-22-2009)
10-2-2: GENERAL DEFINITIONS:
ADMINISTRATOR: An official having knowledge in the principles and practices of
subdividing who is appointed by the board to administer this title or his
designee.
AGENCY: Any city or political subdivision of the state, including, but not
limited to, counties, school districts, highway districts, and any agency of
state or federal government, and any city or political subdivision of another
state or federal government.
ALIQUOT PART: An exact division of a section. Example: N.W. 1/4, S.W. 1/4, S.E.
1/4, section 36.
APPLICANT: Any individual, firm, association, partnership, corporation, private
individuals, trust, or other legal entity creating or proposing a subdivision
for himself or another.
BLOCK: A parcel or tract of land entirely surrounded by public streets or
areas, watercourses and culverts, railroad rights of way, unsubdivided lands,
or a combination thereof.
BOARD: The Shoshone County board of commissioners.
BONUS LOTS: Additional building lots earned within a conservation design
subdivision pursuant to these regulations.
BUILDING: A structure which is built or constructed, an edifice or building of
any kind, or any piece of work artificially built up or composed of parts
joined together in some manner.
BUILDING SETBACK LINE: An imaginary line established by this title or title 9
of this code designating the distance at which all buildings are to be set back
from lot lines and street rights of way.
BUILDING SITE: An area proposed or provided and improved by grading, filling,
excavation or other means for erecting pads for building. Also including any
area in which a structure is located.
BUNKER HILL SUPERFUND SITE OVERLAY DISTRICT (BD): The Bunker Hill superfund
site overlay district includes parts of the west corridor of the county as
those areas are defined in the comprehensive plan and is synonymous with the
area known as the federally created Bunker Hill superfund site.
COMMERCIAL COACH: A manufactured building equipped with the necessary service
connections and made so as to be readily movable as a unit on its own running
gear and originally designed to be used either as a temporary dwelling unit or
other use without a permanent foundation. A commercial coach is limited to use
other than a single-family dwelling.
COMMISSION: The Shoshone County planning and zoning commission appointed by the
county board of commissioners.
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: A plan or any major portion thereof, adopted by the board
and showing the general location and extent of present and proposed
development, including, but not limited to, housing, industrial and commercial
uses, streets, parks, schools and other community facilities as provided for in
title 67, chapter 65 of the Idaho Code.
CONTIGUOUS: Sharing a mutual boundary line.
COVENANT: A written promise or pledge.
CULVERT: A drain that channels water under a bridge, street, road or driveway.
DEAD END STREET: See definition of Street Types.
DEPARTMENT: The department authorized by the Shoshone County board of
commissioners to administer the planning and zoning regulations for Shoshone
County.
DUPLEX: A structure comprised of two (2) dwelling units.
DWELLING UNIT: A building, whose primary design or use is for residential
purposes, including single-family, two-family, multi- family structures, but
not including hotels, motels, and boarding houses.
EASEMENT: A right of use of a portion of land falling short of ownership, and
usually for a certain stated purpose.
ENGINEER: Any person allowed to practice professional engineering in Idaho and
registered in accordance with Idaho law.
ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH CODE (EHC): The health code, as amended from time to time,
administered by Panhandle health district 1 in connection with the
institutional control program for the Bunker Hill superfund site.
FINANCIAL GUARANTEE: An irrevocable letter of credit, cash deposit, bank
account, or surety bond, pledged to secure the performance of an obligation.
FLOOD OR FLOODING: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from the overflow of inland waters and/or
the unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters from any source.
FLOODPLAIN: A plain bordering a stream or river that is subject to flooding as
designated or approved by FEMA.
FLOODWAY: The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot (1').
Floodways are delineated on FEMA maps.
HYDROLOGIC PROTECTION AREAS: The interface of land and a lake, river, stream,
or drainageways.
IMPROVEMENT: Any alteration to the land or other physical construction
associated with subdivision and building site development.
INFRASTRUCTURE: Support facilities for a subdivision including, but not limited
to, water, sewer, road, fire protection, stormwater and utility systems. This
term includes both project support facilities, and public system facilities
serving the area.
INSTITUTIONAL CONTROL PROGRAM (ICP): The various actions and programs
undertaken to decrease human exposure to lead in the Bunker Hill superfund
site, and its area of control.
KEY PLAN: A map or drawing showing the location of a tract of land in relation
to a larger land area.
LOCATION MAP: A small scale map showing the location of a tract of land in
relation to a larger area, such as the whole community or county. Synonymous
with key plan.
LOT: See definition of Parcel.
LOT AREA: The area of any lot shall be determined exclusive of street, highway,
alley, road, or other rights of way. May include access easements.
LOT FRONTAGE: The portion of a lot that is contiguous with the road used to
access the lot.
LOT MEASUREMENTS:
   Lot Area: The area encompassed by the boundaries of the lot, including
easements and excluding right of way.
   Lot Depth: The average distance from the front of the lot to the back of the
lot measured perpendicular to the road right of way or access easement.
   Lot Width: The average distance from one side of the lot to the other side
of the lot measured parallel to the road right of way or access easement.
LOT TYPES: As used in these regulations, lot types are as follows:
   Corner Lot: A lot located at the intersection of two (2) or more streets.
   Interior Lot: A lot other than a corner lot, with frontage on only one local
street.
   Through Lot: A lot with frontage on more than one street, not a corner lot.
Also known as double frontage lot.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A single-family dwelling structure built since July 1, 1976,
that bears the department of housing and urban development certification that
it has been constructed in conformance with the mobile home construction and
safety standards in effect at time of its construction, is constructed of
materials generally acceptable for site built housing and is to be used as a
permanent residential dwelling.
MASTER GRADING PLAN: Any plan, map, drawing or other illustration, accurately
showing grading plans and proposals, including any lot or neighborhood grading
plan.
MASTER PLAN: A plan, comprehensive plan, comprehensive development plan, or any
major portion thereof, adopted by the local authority and showing the general
location and extent of present and proposed development, including, but not
limited to, housing, industrial and commercial uses, streets, parks, schools
and other community facilities.
MOBILE HOME: A structure which is mass produced in a factory; is designed and
constructed for transportation to a site for installation and use when
connected to required utilities; is built on a chassis; and is designed for
long term residential use by a family, containing kitchen, bath and sleeping
facilities. For purposes of these regulations, mobile/manufactured homes shall
be divided into the following classes:
   A.   Class A: A structure built since July 1, 1976, certified as meeting the
mobile home and safety standards promulgated by the department of housing and
urban development; or the HUD manufactured home construction and safety
standards as amended June 29, 1982, and meeting the definition of a
manufactured home as established by this title. Class A mobile homes are
manufactured homes on permanent foundations.
   B.   Class B: Mobile/manufactured homes certified as meeting department of
housing and urban development mobile home construction and safety standards
promulgated in 1976 but not necessarily meeting the definition of a class A
mobile home. Class B mobile homes may or may not be placed on permanent
foundations.
   C.   Class C: Mobile homes constructed prior to 1976 which are found upon
inspection to be in good condition and suitable for residential occupancy.
   D.   Class D: Mobile homes found upon inspection to be in poor condition and
unsafe and/or unfit for residential occupancy due to conditions or defects
which are deemed to endanger the life, health, property or safety of the
occupants or of the public. Applicable conditions and/or defects are identified
in chapter 3, section 302 of the uniform code for the abatement of dangerous
buildings.
MONUMENT: Any permanent stone, iron, concrete or other marker used to
permanently establish any tract, parcel, lot or street lines.
MULTIPLE-FAMILY DWELLING: A dwelling comprised of more than two (2) units.
OPEN SPACE: Land with natural, cultural or historic resources of value to the
community, including, but not limited to, parks, yards, playgrounds, beaches,
waterways, parkways, and pedestrian trails.
PARCEL: A single piece of land with common property lines, as recognized by the
Shoshone County assessor, and created in accordance with this title in effect
at the time of creation. Taxing district boundaries do not create property
lines.
PERFORMANCE BOND: An amount of money, irrevocable letter of credit, surety
bond, or other negotiable security paid by the applicant or his surety to the
clerk of the district court and recorder which guarantees that the applicant
will perform all actions required by an approved plat, and provides that if the
applicant defaults and fails to comply with the provisions of an approved plat,
the subdivider or his surety will pay damages up to the limit of the bond, or
the surety will itself complete the requirements of the approved plat.
This provision does not prevent the county or any other affected party from
pursuing all other rights and remedies afforded to it by law.
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD): An integrated design for development of
residential, commercial or industrial uses, or combinations of uses, under
single ownership or control, in which the standards of the Shoshone County
zoning ordinance may be varied. PUDs allow flexibility and creativity in site
and building design and location, in accordance with an approved plan, and the
goals and policies of the Shoshone County zoning ordinance and comprehensive
plan.
PLAT: The map, drawing, or chart of a subdivision of land into lots, blocks,
roads, and open space, along with associated conveyances, to be submitted in
accordance with this title and to be filed as a public document.
   Engineering Plan: The final and formal presentation by drawings or maps of
particular engineering features and specifications required in a final plat and
filed separately with the final plat, the original of which is submitted to the
administrator in accordance with this title.
   Final Plat: The final and formal presentation by maps or drawings of an
approved subdivision development and associated conveyances, the original and
one copy of which is filed with the clerk of the district court and recorder.
   Preliminary Plat: The first formal presentation by maps or drawings of a
proposed subdivision and associated conveyances as required in this title.
PUBLIC SITE: An area established for the use of the public, or a place where
the public has a right to go and be.
RECORD OF SURVEY: Survey of land according to Idaho Code title 55, chapter 19.
RIGHT OF WAY: A strip of land dedicated or reserved for use as a public way,
and sometimes incorporating sidewalks and lawn strips between the sidewalk and
street pavement or for use in the provision of other public utilities or
services.
SENSITIVE AREAS:
   A.   Land in, or within three hundred feet (300') of wetlands, streams, or
lakes,
   B.   Areas where the water table is within six feet (6') of ground surface
at any time of the year,
   C.   Areas with slopes greater than or equal to twenty five percent (25%) or
that exhibit signs of instability,
   D.   Habitat for rare, threatened or endangered plants or animals,
   E.   Areas where the ground surface is within fifty feet (50') of an
unconsolidated, sand or gravel aquifer, and
   F.   Areas of special flood hazard (flood zones).
SEWAGE SYSTEM: A system of piping, treatment devices, receptacles, structures,
or areas of land designed, used or dedicated to convey, store, stabilize,
neutralize, treat or dispose of wastewater. This definition includes individual
sewage disposal systems such as a septic system and drain field.
SIDEWALK: An improved route, off road trail, lanes or walkways designated for
pedestrian traffic. Sidewalk shall not be less than four feet (4') wide, four
inch (4") thick concrete or other approved material, with a two percent (2%)
cross slope for drainage.
SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING: A structure comprised of one dwelling unit. Includes
group home facilities.
STATE: The state of Idaho.
STREET ALIGNMENT:
   Horizontal Alignment: The lining up of streets in a plane of horizontal
direction.
   Vertical Alignment: The lining up of streets in an overhead or vertical
direction.
STREET TYPES: As used in these regulations, streets, or street types are as
follows:
   Alley: A minor street primarily used for service access to properties.
   Arterial: A highway or major street mainly for through traffic carrying
heavy loads and volumes of traffic in a continuous route.
   Collector: A major thoroughfare or street primarily for traffic exchange
between local streets and arterials carrying traffic volume and loads.
   Cul-De-Sac: A local street of fairly short length with a turnaround at one
end, and the other end connecting to either a local or collector street.
   Dead End Street: A street temporarily providing access to properties and
having only one outlet for traffic, and intended to be continued in the future.
   Local: A street mainly providing access to individual properties, often
called a "minor street".
   Loop: A local street which starts and ends on the same collector or arterial
street, generally used for access to properties.
   Marginal Access: A local or collector street usually parallel and adjacent
to an arterial or major collector street, which provides access to abutting
properties and safer control of traffic access to arterials or collectors.
Required for properties adjoining major state or federal highways. Also known
as "frontage street" or "road".
SUBDIVISION: The result of an act of dividing land into two (2) or more
contiguous lots, tracts, or parcels, in accordance with this title.
SUBDIVISION, MINOR: A division of land, so as to create nine (9) or fewer
contiguous platted lots, tracts or parcels wherein all of said lots, tracts or
parcels shall meet the minimum lot size requirements of the applicable zone or
the minimum of two (2) acres whichever is greater, and which shall be pursuant
to and meet all requirements of these regulations.
SURETY: A person who engages under a contract of suretyship to answer for the
debt, default, or miscarriage of another.
SURVEYOR: Any person who is licensed in the state as a public land surveyor to
provide professional surveying.
SWALES: A low area used for the detention or retention of water, and where
applicable provide stormwater treatment.
TECHNICAL REVIEW COMMITTEE: A technical review and advisory committee selected
by and serving at the pleasure of the administrator consisting of agencies and
experts with relevant input to a given application. The technical review
committee may include, but is not limited to, representation of engineers,
technicians, fire departments, law enforcement, school districts, hospitals,
Panhandle health district, and any state or federal agencies, and any other
specialist.
TRACT: See definition of Parcel.
VACATED PLAT: A recorded plat which has been removed from the county record
under provision of Idaho Code.
VARIANCE 1 : A modification of the bulk and placement requirements of the
ordinance as to lot size, lot coverage, width, depth, front yard, side yard,
rear yard, setbacks, parking space, height of buildings, or other ordinance
provision affecting the size or shape of a structure or the placement of the
structure upon lots, or the size of lots. A variance shall not be considered a
right or special privilege, but may be granted to an applicant only upon a
showing of undue hardship because of characteristics of the site and that the
variance is not in conflict with the public interest.
WATERCOURSE: Any depression two feet (2') or more below the surrounding land
level which gives direction to a current of water at any time of the year.
(Ord. 139, 12-22-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 67-6516.
CHAPTER 3
DESIGN AND IMPROVEMENT STANDARDS
SECTION:
10-3-1: Applicability
10-3-2: General Standards
10-3-3: Streets
10-3-4: Sidewalks
10-3-5: Lighting
10-3-6: Blocks
10-3-7: Lots
10-3-8: Easements
10-3-9: Grading And Drainage
10-3-10: Water Supply
10-3-11: Sewage Disposal Facilities
10-3-12: Utilities
10-3-13: Applicable Fees
10-3-14: Sensitive Areas
10-3-15: Improvement Requirements
10-3-16: Operation And Maintenance Requirements
10-3-17: Appendix A
10-3-1: APPLICABILITY:
All subdivisions approved by the board shall comply with the provisions of this
chapter, except those specifically exempted in subsection
10-1-4B of this title. This chapter establishes the minimum requirements for
subdivisions. While off site improvements may also be required to mitigate the
effects of development, these will be considered on a project by project basis.
When the regulations provide for a discretionary application of the
requirements by the administrator, commission, or board, such discretion will
be exercised reasonably and consistently with the purpose of these regulations
as set forth in section
10-1-3 of this title. (Ord. 139, 12-22-2009)
10-3-2: GENERAL STANDARDS:
The design and development of subdivisions shall preserve the natural terrain,
natural drainage, existing topsoil, trees and natural vegetation to the
greatest extent possible. Land subject to hazardous conditions such as slides,
mudflows, rockfalls, snow avalanches, possible subsidence, shallow water table,
open quarries, floods, polluted or nonpotable water supply, inadequate sewer
disposal capabilities, high voltage power lines, high pressure gas lines, poor
air quality, and traffic hazards, or any other situation that may be
detrimental to the health, safety, or welfare of residents or the public, shall
be identified and shall not be subdivided until the hazards have been
eliminated or will be eliminated by approved subdivision design and
construction plans and required surety, when applicable. (Ord. 139, 12-22-2009)
10-3-3: STREETS:
The street or highway layout shall conform to existing or planned streets.
Local streets shall be designed to discourage through traffic. Half streets
shall not be permitted. Service or marginal access roads shall be required
where subdivisions abut major state or federal highways. Street improvements
for corner lots shall be installed on side streets and alleys. In addition, all
roads within the proposed subdivision shall comply with title 6, chapter 1,
"Highways, Streets And Public Ways", of this code, "Use Of Public Right Of Way,
Standard Approach Policy", and with the current "Highway And Street Guidelines
For Design And Construction" by the local highway technical assistance council.
(Ord. 139, 12-22-2009)
10-3-4: SIDEWALKS:
Sidewalks shall be provided when required by the administrator, commission, or
board on one or both sides of all streets. Sidewalks shall not be less than
four feet (4') wide, four inch (4") thick concrete or other approved material,
with a two percent (2%) cross slope for drainage.
Sidewalks, off road trails, lanes or walkways may be required: a) if shown on a
bicycle facilities plan adopted by a road agency, b) along through streets in
subdivisions within 1.5 miles of a school, park, bicycle trail, recreational
area, or community facility, or c) when necessary to ensure the safety of
pedestrians and bicyclists. The trail shall be designed to serve the intended
use and except for bicycle lanes, shall be separated from the road by a
vegetation strip at least five feet (5') wide. If there is no direct route
through a subdivision, or if cul-de- sacs are proposed, one or more trails may
be required to provide short, direct routes for pedestrians. For safety, trails
should be located in close proximity to and visible from homes and streets. If
a trail or walkway is required, an easement or right of way must be dedicated
or conveyed to Shoshone County if acceptable to the board, or to the entity
that will provide maintenance as approved by the board. (Ord. 139, 12-22-2009)
10-3-5: LIGHTING:
Lighting shall be provided when reasonably required by the administrator,
commission or board; this requirement may include lighting for roads,
driveways, sidewalks, parking lots, and common areas. (Ord. 139, 12-22-2009)
10-3-6: BLOCKS:
The following items apply to block design:
   A.   Size: Blocks shall be reasonable in length and shall be compatible with
surrounding topography and adjacent uses. The block width shall accommodate two
(2) tiers of lots, except where unusual topography or other acceptable designs
provide suitable building sites and public areas. (Ord. 139, 12-22-2009)
10-3-7: LOTS:
Satisfactory building sites shall be provided on each lot, which are properly
related to topography and conform to health district regulations, the Shoshone
County zoning ordinance and comprehensive plan regulations.
   A.   Boundary Line: No single lot shall be divided by a municipal or county
boundary line.
   B.   Rights Of Way: No single lot shall be divided by a street, road, alley,
existing right of way, or other lot, unless approved by the board.
   C.   Street Frontage: Each lot shall have frontage on a road meeting the
standards required in section
10-3-3 of this chapter. Dedication to the public may be required by the board
and the board may, at the time of preliminary or final plat approval, prescribe
both the timing and nature of the dedication (e.g., the board may require that
the road be maintained by the applicant or owners as described herein until the
fiscal analysis shows no undue financial burden upon the county, then the road
shall be dedicated and conveyed to the county). All roads dedicated and
conveyed to the county shall meet all current applicable standards at the time
of dedication. Any maintenance, repairs, or other work necessary to bring the
road to such standards shall be the responsibility of the applicant or owners
of the road in question and shall not be borne by the county. In the event that
a substandard road is dedicated to the county, the county may assess the costs
of bringing the road to acceptable standards to the individual owners or may
decline acceptance of the dedication, at the board's discretion.
   D.   Corner Lot Frontage: Corner lots shall be considered fronting on the
same street as interior lots.
   E.   Double Frontage Interior Lots: Double frontage interior lots shall not
be permitted on local streets, except where unusual topography or acceptable
designs provide suitable building sites and public areas.
   F.   Corner Lots:
      1.   Size: Corner lots should be larger than interior lots to provide for
proper building setback from each street and to provide a desirable building
site.
      2.   Design; Visibility: Corner lots shall be designed to provide
acceptable visibility for traffic safety.
   G.   Side Lot Lines: Side lot lines shall be at substantially right angles
to street lines and radial to curved street lines, except where a design
variation is approved by the board.
   H.   Minimum Frontage: Lots shall have a minimum width of seventy feet (70')
measured at the building setback or front lot line. (Ord. 139, 12-22-2009)
10-3-8: EASEMENTS:
Easements at least ten feet (10') wide shall be provided, centered along rear
and side lot lines whenever practical for maintenance and servicing of
improvements and utilities. Additionally, easements at least ten feet (10')
wide shall be provided along all watercourses and drainageways as measured from
the ordinary high water mark.
   A.   Utilities: Any shared components of sewage, water, stormwater or other
infrastructure systems, shall either be within the general utility easement or
an easement dedicated or conveyed to the entity responsible for maintenance.
Easements must also be provided for individual sewage lines and drain fields
that will not be located on the same parcel as residences.
   B.   Trail Easements: Public trail easements or rights of way may be
required, depending on the location of the subdivision and the need for
pedestrian trails and/or sidewalks. If required, they shall be dedicated or
conveyed to Shoshone County or to the entity that will provide maintenance as
approved by the board. The width of trail easements and rights of way shall be
adequate for the intended use, and shall meet the requirements of the county or
maintenance entity. When future access may be needed to adjacent parcels of
land, trail easements and rights of way shall extend to the property line of
the subdivision.
   C.   Public Access, Parks And Facilities: Public access easements or the
conveyance of land for public access, parks or facilities may be required for
subdivisions that are contiguous to: 1) public lands, 2) streams, lakes, ponds,
wetlands or similar areas, or 3) for areas designated in a county facilities
acquisition plan. If so required, the property owner shall be paid fair market
value for the easement or land, or grant the easement to the county as may be
negotiated by way of a development agreement. (Ord. 139, 12-22-2009)
10-3-9: GRADING AND DRAINAGE:
Subdivisions shall be designed so as to provide drainage away from building
sites. Subdivision grading and drainage systems shall be designed, signed and
certified by a qualified and registered engineer, and shall comply with the
Shoshone County site disturbance ordinance. (Ord. 139, 12-22-2009)
10-3-10: WATER SUPPLY:
All subdivisions shall be provided with or connect to adequate and approved
domestic water supply systems that shall meet the minimum standards of the
applicable local, state or federal agencies. When a water district or utility
regulated under Idaho Code title 61 (public utility regulation) provides a
"will serve" letter for a subdivision, annexation and/or connection may be
required.
Residential subdivisions that propose to use individual wells shall demonstrate
the available resource by a summary statement and evaluation of an attached
representative number of existing groundwater well logs from adjoining
properties of similar physical and topographic features. (Ord. 139, 12-22-2009)
10-3-11: SEWAGE DISPOSAL FACILITIES:
All subdivisions shall be provided with or connect to adequate and approved
sewage disposal/wastewater system. Minimum standards of title 9 of this code
and of any of the applicable local, state or federal agency regulations shall
be met. If a public sewage system is available and provides a "will serve"
letter, connection shall be required. If a private, shared sewage system is
available and provides a "will serve" letter, connection may be required. If
connection to a shared system is required, collection lines shall be installed
to each lot. All sewage disposal systems shall meet the standards of the
Panhandle health district and/or DEQ. If required, shared sewage systems shall
be installed and approved, or the necessary improvements secured by a financial
guarantee, prior to final approval of the subdivision. Individual septic
systems may be installed after final subdivision approval, in conjunction with
building permits. (Ord. 139, 12-22-2009)
10-3-12: UTILITIES:
Unless utility providers determine site conditions preclude underground utility
installation, utilities shall be placed underground in the street right of way
between the paved roadway and street line to simplify location and repair of
lines when required. The applicant shall install underground service
connections to the property line of each lot within the subdivision for such
required utilities before the street is paved. Overhead utility lines, when
permitted, shall be located at the rear property line with adequate easements.
The design of utility facilities shall conform to the appropriate standards
acceptable by the utility provider and regulatory agencies involved. (Ord. 139,
12-22-2009)
10-3-13: APPLICABLE FEES:
At least fifteen (15) days prior to commencing construction of required
improvements, the subdivider shall pay in full any inspection, application
review, administrative, etc., fees as shown on the fee schedule adopted by
resolution from time to time by the board of county commissioners. (Ord. 139,
12-22-2009)
10-3-14: SENSITIVE AREAS:
   A.   Subdivisions In Viewsheds: Mountain views and vistas are an important
part of the character of Shoshone County, contributing to the visual quality of
the area, increasing property values, attracting visitors, and enhancing the
desirability and livability of the community. As such, it is in the public
interest that land be developed in a manner that is visually unobtrusive,
environmentally responsible, and is compatible with the character of the area.
      1.   Subdivisions with natural slopes (particularly those areas proposed
for building envelopes and access roadways) that equal or exceed thirty five
percent (35%), must be designed to fit the houses, structures and roads into
and around the hillside in a manner that minimizes disturbance of the terrain,
vegetation and drainageways, that will not result in a net increase of soil
erosion, and that is compatible with the natural characteristics of the area.
      2.   If the vertical height of any cut or fill slope, or any combination
thereof, will exceed thirty feet (30'), effective measures must be taken to
mitigate the visibility of the slope.
   B.   Hydrologic Protection Areas: When a subdivision abuts a lake, river,
stream, wetland, or drainageway, a hydrologic protection area must be reserved
and shown on the plat. The purpose of this area is to protect downstream
property owners and water resources from increased or decreased flows, to
prevent sedimentation, to promote good water quality, and to protect fish and
wildlife habitat. The area shall be labeled "stream (lake or wetland, as
applicable) protection area", and within this area native vegetation and large
organic debris shall be protected or replanted to leave the area in the most
natural condition possible. Any necessary maintenance must be in conformance
with the Shoshone County site disturbance ordinance, floodplain overlay
district regulations, and with applicable best management practices. Proposed
road and utility crossings must be shown on the plat, must be kept to a
minimum, and must take the shortest possible route across the area. Other than
approved crossings, roads and utilities shall not be constructed within this
area. Fences, walkways which do not exceed four feet (4') in width, stairway
landings which do not exceed six feet (6') in length or width, and trams may be
constructed in hydrologic protection areas, providing there is minimal
disturbance of the ground and vegetation. The board may require that this area
be shown as an easement, including a conservation easement, or that ownership
of the area be transferred to a homeowners' association, highway district or
other maintenance entity.
Hydrologic protection areas shall be as required by the Shoshone County site
disturbance ordinance. (Ord. 139, 12-22-2009)
10-3-15: IMPROVEMENT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Installation Of Improvements: Before application for final approval of
any plat, required improvements shall either: 1) be installed and approved by
the design professional who developed the plans and the agencies with
jurisdiction, or 2) a financial guarantee and subdivision completion agreement,
in conformance with section
10-7-3 of this title, and approved by the board, shall be provided to ensure
installation. If a portion of the work has been completed and approved by the
design professional and agency with jurisdiction, only the remaining work need
be covered by the financial guarantee.
   B.   Plan Approval And Site Disturbance Permit:
      1.   Requirements Prior To Start Of Site Work: No site disturbance,
terrain modification, construction or clearing shall take place until
preliminary subdivision approval has been granted, construction plans have been
approved by the appropriate agencies, and a site disturbance permit has been
issued by Shoshone County.
      2.   Preparation Of Construction Plans: All construction plans shall be
prepared by an Idaho licensed professional engineer or other appropriate design
professional.
      3.   Dust Control Required: Dust control is required on all construction
sites, and a dust control plan must be submitted for review and approval by the
county prior to the start of any site work. (Ord. 139, 12-22-2009)
10-3-16: OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Operation And Maintenance Required: All subdivision improvements,
common areas and green space shall be operated and maintained by the owner(s),
in accordance with applicable best management practices (BMPs) and approved
plans. An organization that will operate and maintain shared land and
improvements must be established prior to or concurrent with final approval and
recordation of the plat. Organizational options include taxing districts (such
as water or sewer districts), for profit corporations, including utility
corporations, and cooperative corporations such as homeowners' associations. If
private maintenance by a cooperative corporation is proposed, the documents
establishing the organization must meet the minimum requirements outlined in
appendix A, must be approved by the board, and must be recorded concurrently
with the plat. In addition, if land or improvements are going to be owned and
managed by a cooperative corporation, and the corporation ceases to exist, or
fails to fulfill its obligations, the individual lot owners must be responsible
for operation and maintenance of the land and improvements. (Ord. 139, 12-22-
2009)
10-3-17: APPENDIX A:
   A.   Minimum Requirements For Legal Entities Established To Operate And
Maintain Shared Land Or Improvements Within Subdivisions: In all cases where
shared land or improvements will exist within a subdivision, a valid legal
entity registered with the state of Idaho, complying with all statutory
requirements, must be created to operate and maintain said land improvements.
In addition to the documents required by Idaho Code, all such entities must
contain the following governing documents:
      1.   Capital Improvement Plan: This plan must be developed by the project
engineer and must include an inventory, projected service life and estimated
replacement cost for all components of all improvements that will be operated
and maintained by the corporation (water, sewer, and stormwater systems, etc.).
This document is necessary to allow the corporation to plan for periodic, major
expenses associated with replacement of system components.
      2.   Operation And Maintenance Plan And Manual For Infrastructure
Improvements: O&M plans must be developed by the project engineer, and must
include:
         a.   A schedule of routine maintenance, performance checks and
preventive practices.
         b.   Manufacturer's literature.
         c.   A contact list for system repairs.
         d.   Operational procedures.
      3.   Budget: This document summarizes anticipated expenses and revenues
over the first five (5) years of operation, including accrual of an emergency
fund (adequate to replace the largest system component), a cash operating fund
(adequate to operate the systems for 2 months in case there is a revenue
shortfall), and a capital replacement fund (based on the capital replacement
plan). This budget must include costs associated with any land owned by the
corporation such as taxes, insurance, upkeep, etc.
      4.   Land Management Plan: If property will be owned by the corporation,
a land management plan must be provided. This plan must conform to applicable
BMPs, and if bonus lots were granted, it must ensure that designated green
space land will remain in conformance with this title.
   B.   Minimum Requirements For Declaration Of Covenants, Conditions And
Restrictions: In all cases where a declaration of covenants, conditions and
restrictions (CC&Rs) are required by this title, the CC&R document must contain
the following minimum elements:
      1.   Consent To Membership And Agreement To Terms: A statement that the
owner of any lot in the subdivision, by acceptance of a deed or other
conveyance, is deemed to consent to membership in the corporation, and to
covenant and agree to the terms and requirements of the CC&Rs, which constitute
a contract between the corporation and each lot owner.
      2.   Use Of Services Required: A statement that use of the services
provided by the corporation is required.
      3.   Assessments: A statement that each lot owner shall pay to the
corporation, assessments for the operation and maintenance of commonly owned
land, shared infrastructure or improvements, together with applicable interest,
late charges, attorney fees, court and other collection costs. The CC&Rs must
also state that assessments and other charges are the personal obligation of
the owner of each lot at the time the assessment was due, and that his or her
grantee shall be jointly and severally liable for such portion thereof as may
be due and payable at the time of conveyance.
      4.   Payment Of Assessments; Enforcement: Effective methods of enforcing
payment of assessments, which must include the authority to withhold service,
to take civil action to recover a money judgment for unpaid assessments, and to
assess, record and foreclose a lien against the real property of corporation
members. Other, optional methods of enforcing payment include late fees and
restrictions on voting. Individual lot owners must also have the ability to
enforce the CC&Rs.
      5.   Conformance With BMPs And Approved Land Management Plans: A
statement that commonly owned land and improvements shall be operated and
maintained in conformance with applicable best management practices and
approved land management plans.
      6.   Capital Replacement Plan: A requirement that the corporation
maintain a capital replacement plan for improvements managed by the corporation
and a statement that annual assessments must be adequate to cover anticipated
capital expenses. Funds collected as reserves for capital expenses must be
deposited in separate accounts and held in trust.
      7.   Action Upon Failure To Operate And Maintain Land, Infrastructure Or
Improvements: A statement that if the corporation, or individual lot owners,
fail to operate and maintain commonly owned land, shared infrastructure or
improvements in accordance with approved plans and applicable best management
practices, the county may contract for necessary operation and maintenance and
bill the individual lot owners on a pro rata basis. If the county assumes this
responsibility, the county shall have the same authority as the corporation
board, including the right to suspend service for nonpayment of assessments.
      8.   Enforcement: Enforcement procedures, including recourse for improper
use of common property.
      9.   Notification: Notification procedures.
      10.   Amendments: Procedures for amending the CC&Rs and a requirement
that amendments be recorded.
      11.   Responsibility: A statement that the corporation shall not divest
itself of responsibility for operating and maintaining common land or shared
improvements except to the individual lot owners or a public agency or
organization that agrees to assume the responsibilities. At a minimum, the
individual lot owners must have a means of taking over the responsibilities and
authorities of the corporation if it fails to carry out its obligations, and if
that occurs, each lot owner must be given an equal and undivided interest in
property previously owned by the corporation.
      12.   Duration: The CC&Rs of a corporation that has operation or
maintenance responsibilities must be of perpetual duration unless the
individual lot owners, a public agency or other organization agrees to assume
those duties.
      13.   Duties And Responsibilities Of Developer Prior To Transfer: A
statement that until management of the corporation is transferred from the
developer to the corporation board, the developer must fulfill all of the
duties and responsibilities of the corporation, and have the authority to
exercise the rights and powers of the corporation. At the time the corporation
is turned over to the corporation board, commonly owned land and all components
of shared improvements must be in good operating order and in compliance with
applicable laws, regulations, conditions of approval, BMPs, and approved O&M
and land management plans. Prior to transfer to the corporation board, the
corporation must be fully funded and operational, and the developer must
provide sufficient funds to meet anticipated expenses for one year.
      14.   Location Of Documents: Statement of the location of the articles of
incorporation, bylaws, CC&Rs, rules and amendments.
      15.   Severability: Severability clause.
      16.   Signatures: Required approval signatures. (Ord. 139, 12-22-2009)
CHAPTER 4
PROCEDURES FOR SUBDIVISION APPROVAL
SECTION:
10-4-1: Applicability
10-4-2: Approval Required
10-4-3: Preapplication
10-4-3-1: Preapplication Meeting
10-4-3-2: Fee
10-4-4: Preliminary Plats
10-4-4-1: Application
10-4-4-2: Preliminary Plat Requirements
10-4-4-3: Fee
10-4-4-4: Combining Preliminary And Final Plats
10-4-4-5: Technical Review Committee And Agency Review
10-4-4-6: Planning And Zoning Commission Review
10-4-4-7: Public Notice
10-4-4-8: Commission Action
10-4-4-9: Board Decision
10-4-4-10: Appeals
10-4-4-11: Approval Period
10-4-5: Final Plat
10-4-5-1: Application
10-4-5-2: Administrator Review And Recommendation
10-4-5-3: Agency Review
10-4-5-4: Board Action
10-4-5-5: Approval Period
10-4-5-6: Recording
10-4-1: APPLICABILITY:
All subdivisions approved by the board shall comply with the provisions of this
chapter, except those specifically exempted in subsection
10-1-4B of this title. This chapter establishes the minimum procedural
requirements for subdivisions. (Ord. 139, 12-22-2009)
10-4-2: APPROVAL REQUIRED:
   A.   Subdivision Approval Required: Any person desiring to create a
"subdivision" as herein defined shall submit all necessary applications and
accompanying documents, along with any requested copies of the same, to the
administrator. The administrator shall determine which agencies will receive
applications and shall forward copies of the application and accompanying
documents to them as appropriate. Applications shall not be processed or
scheduled for public hearing until complete. The determination of completeness
shall be made by the administrator and may be appealed pursuant to section
10-4-4-10 of this chapter. An application shall be governed by the rules and
policies in effect on the day a complete application is submitted to and
accepted by the administrator. No final plat shall be filed with the county
recorder or improvements made on the property until the plat has been acted
upon by the commission and approved by the board. No lots shall be sold until
the plat has been recorded in the office of the county recorder.
The subdivision application and plat shall contain the information that the
board needs to make a decision on the proposal. To gain approval, adequate
information must be provided to demonstrate that the project can meet the
requirements of the county and other applicable agencies. A completed
application packet shall comply with the requirements of this title. (Ord. 139,
12-22-2009)
10-4-3: PREAPPLICATION:
10-4-3-1: PREAPPLICATION MEETING:
The developer shall meet with the administrator prior to the submission of the
preliminary subdivision plan. The purpose of this meeting is to discuss early
and informally the purpose and effect of this title and the criteria and
standards contained herein, and to familiarize the developer with the
comprehensive development plan requirements, this title and title 9 of this
code and such other plans and ordinances as deemed appropriate. (Ord. 139, 12-
22-2009)
10-4-3-2: FEE:
None required for a preapplication meeting. (Ord. 139, 12-22-2009)
10-4-4: PRELIMINARY PLATS:
10-4-4-1: APPLICATION:
The applicant shall file with the administrator a completed subdivision
application form and preliminary plat data, along with all designated fees, as
required in this title. (Ord. 139, 12-22-2009)
10-4-4-2: PRELIMINARY PLAT REQUIREMENTS:
The following shall be shown on the preliminary plat or shall be submitted
separately:
   A.   Narrative: Listing the acreage of the subdivision; the number of lots
proposed; the location, approximate dimensions, and intended use of any
nonresidential lots (e.g., for utilities, schools, churches, parks or open
space); the characteristics of the site, including existing vegetation, soils,
and wildlife, what is proposed for water, sewer service, roads, trails or other
improvements; plans for preserving the land for various uses; proposed phasing;
proposed conveyances, including conservation easements; special design features
of the subdivision (e.g., clustering or conservation design); proposed
completion schedule; and proposed methods of ownership and maintenance of open
or green space, shared infrastructure and improvements. A general statement of
the intended use of the proposed subdivision, such as: residential single-
family; two-family and multiple housing; commercial; industrial; recreational;
or agricultural and a showing of any sites proposed for parks, playgrounds,
schools, churches or other public uses shall also be included.
   B.   Legal Description: The legal description of the subdivision.
   C.   Adjoining Property Owners: A list of property owners within three
hundred feet (300') of the site (including any contiguous lots or parcels under
the same ownership). Names and addresses to be provided on mailing labels.
Adjacent property owner list shall be accurate to within thirty (30) days (see
subsection N of this section).
   D.   Name: The name of the proposed subdivision, meeting the requirements of
Idaho Code 50-1307.
   E.   Map Showing: Boundary lines and dimensions of proposed lots within the
subdivision. Two (2) copies at least eighteen inches by twenty seven inches
(18"x27") in size and one copy eight and one-half inches by eleven inches (81/
2"x11") in size.
   F.   Applicant: The names, addresses and telephone numbers of the applicant,
the property owners, project engineer (Idaho licensed), and the professional
land surveyor (Idaho licensed) who prepared the plat. The application shall
either be signed by the owner or include a notarized letter from the property
owner authorizing the applicant to file the subdivision application.
   G.   Vicinity Map: Three (3) copies showing the relationship of the proposed
plat to the surrounding area (1/2 mile minimum radius), at a scale to legibly
and accurately depict, showing adjoining subdivisions, street and lot layout
sufficiently distant from the project to illustrate the relationship to
proposed streets and lots; neighboring land owned by the same applicant, and
surrounding properties within one-fourth (1/4) mile or two (2) parcels
(whichever is greater) in every direction.
   H.   Land Use; Existing Zoning: The land use and existing zoning of the
proposed subdivision and the adjacent land.
   I.   Streets: Streets, street names, right of way and roadway widths,
approximate centerline grade and curve radius, including adjoining streets or
roadways.
   J.   Lot Lines; Blocks: Lot lines and blocks showing the approximate
dimensions, area, and numbers of each.
   K.   Contour Lines: Contour lines, slope at five foot (5') intervals where
land slope is greater than fifteen percent (15%).
   L.   Proposed, Existing Utilities: Any proposed or existing utilities,
including, but not limited to, storm and sanitary sewers, irrigation laterals,
ditches, drainages, bridges, culverts, water mains, fire hydrants, electrical
conduits, and their respective profiles at the county's discretion.
   M.   Common Lots: Common lot(s) will be owned by the homeowners'
association.
   N.   Title Report: Current title report no more than thirty (30) days old.
(Ord. 139, 12-22-2009)
10-4-4-3: FEE:
At the time of submission of an application for a preliminary plat, or an
approved combined preliminary and final plat application, the fee as shown on
the fee schedule adopted by resolution from time to time by the board of county
commissioners shall be paid. There shall be no additional fee for the combining
of the preliminary and final plats. (Ord. 139, 12-22-2009)
10-4-4-4: COMBINING PRELIMINARY AND FINAL PLATS:
The applicant may request that the subdivision application be processed as both
a preliminary and final plat if all the following exist:
   A.   The proposed subdivision is less than five (5) lots.
   B.   No new street dedication or street widening is involved.
   C.   No major special development considerations are involved, such as
development in a floodplain, hillside development or the like.
   D.   All required information for both preliminary and final plat is
complete and in an acceptable form. The decision of whether or not the
preliminary and final plat may be combined in one application process shall be
made by the commission. If accepted as a combined preliminary and final plat
application, the application will proceed through the notice and hearing
provisions to a final determination by the board as provided herein. (Ord. 139,
12-22-2009)
10-4-4-5: TECHNICAL REVIEW COMMITTEE AND AGENCY REVIEW:
   A.   Certification: Upon receipt of the application for a preliminary plat
and all other required data and fees as provided for herein, the administrator
shall certify the application as complete and shall affix the date of
application acceptance thereon.
   B.   Review By Technical Review Committee And Other Agencies: The
administrator shall be responsible for determining if a review of the proposed
application is warranted. The administrator shall refer the preliminary plat
and application to the technical review committee and as many agencies as
deemed necessary by the administrator for a thirty (30) day comment period.
Such agencies may include any agencies or entities as determined by the
administrator. The technical review committee and/or agencies shall review the
preliminary plat from the viewpoint of the technical disciplines represented on
the committee. Any fees or charges are the responsibility of the applicant.
   C.   Recommendation: The committee's and/or agency recommendation should
include how deficiencies or shortcomings of the preliminary plat might be
overcome. Responses should also indicate any negative effects that may result
from the subdivision, additional information that may be needed, and what will
be required or recommended prior to final approval. (Ord. 139, 12-22-2009)
10-4-4-6: PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION REVIEW:
   A.   Placement On Agenda: Following receipt of the technical review
committee's recommendations and any other agency or entity comment required
within the thirty (30) day comment period, the administrator shall place the
preliminary plat application on the next available regular planning and zoning
commission meeting agenda. Prior to scheduling, the applicant may make minor
changes, but once the application is scheduled for hearing, the proposal should
not be modified. If new information is provided after scheduling, the
administrator or commission may require new agency letters, additional public
notice, rescheduling or continuation of the hearing to allow time for review.
Additional fees for legal notice and adjacent property owners mailing will be
the responsibility of the applicant. (Ord. 139, 12-22-2009)
10-4-4-7: PUBLIC NOTICE:
At least thirty (30) days prior to the hearing before the planning and zoning
commission, the department shall publish notice of the hearing in the
newspaper. Once notice is published, no new information can be received from
the applicant. The applicant shall provide the department with an adjacent
property owners (APO) report establishing all adjacent property owners within
three hundred feet (300') of the site (including any contiguous lots or parcels
under the same ownership). The department shall mail notice to these neighbors
on or before the newspaper publication date. At least thirty (30) days prior to
the hearing, the department shall also post a notice on the site. All written
comments from property owners must be submitted fifteen (15) days prior to the
hearing. Nothing in this section precludes submission of additional evidence or
testimony at the time of public hearing. (Ord. 139, 12-22-2009)
10-4-4-8: COMMISSION ACTION:
   A.   Hearing: The planning and zoning commission shall conduct a hearing in
accordance with current county ordinances. The applicant presents their
proposal, addresses any issues that have been identified, and demonstrates that
the project can meet the requirements of all agencies. The administrator will
present the staff evaluation. Public testimony is taken, followed by closing
remarks by the applicant. The commission shall review the preliminary plat, the
recommendations and comments of the technical review committee, and comments
from concerned persons and agencies to arrive at a recommendation on the
preliminary plat.
   B.   Findings: In making a recommendation to the board, the planning and
zoning commission shall consider the objectives of this title, including, but
not limited to, the following:
      1.   The conformance of the subdivision with the comprehensive plan.
      2.   The availability of public services to accommodate the proposed
development.
      3.   The compatibility of the proposed development with the capital
improvement program.
      4.   The public financial capability of supporting services for the
proposed development.
      5.   Any health, safety or environmental problems that may be brought to
the planning and zoning commission's attention.
      6.   Conformance with the surrounding land uses.
      7.   Whether the applicant provided adequate information to determine
compliance with requirements.
      8.   Whether the subdivision proposal meets (or is capable of meeting)
the requirements of this title.
      9.   Whether the plan, project and proposed lots are capable of meeting
all other applicable county ordinances without variances (e.g., the zoning,
site disturbance, road naming, area of city impact and flood ordinances).
      10.   Whether the plan, project and proposed lots are capable of meeting
the requirements of other agencies.
      11.   Whether the proposal will contribute to orderly development of the
area. Proposed uses, design and density are compatible with existing homes,
businesses, neighborhoods, and with the natural characteristics of the area.
The subdivision will create lots of reasonable utility and livability, which
are capable of being built upon without imposing an unreasonable burden on
future owners. Areas not suited for development are designated as open space.
      12.   Where appropriate, whether the proposed subdivision will have
adequate open space for recreation, wildlife, agriculture or timber production.
Road construction and disturbance of the terrain, vegetation and drainageways
will be minimized and will not result in soil erosion. The design will
adequately address site constraints or hazards and will adequately mitigate any
negative environmental, social or economic impacts.
      13.   Whether services and facilities such as schools, electricity,
water, sewer, stormwater management, garbage disposal, EMS, police and fire
protection are feasible, available and adequate. The proposal includes on and
off site improvements, and if necessary payments, to mitigate the impacts of
the subdivision so that it does not compromise the quality, or increase the
cost, of public services. Mitigation actions or fees must be commensurate with
the impacts of the subdivision, and fees must be authorized by law.
      14.   Whether proposed roads, sidewalks and trails establish or
adequately contribute to a transportation system for vehicles, bicycles and
pedestrians that is safe, efficient and that minimizes traffic congestion.
      15.   Whether the proposal is anticipated to result in significant
degradation of surface or ground water quality as determined by DEQ.
      16.   Whether public notice and the processing of this application meet
the requirements set forth in this title, county adopted hearing procedures and
Idaho Code.
   C.   Action On Preliminary Plat Application: The commission may recommend
approval, with or without conditions, recommend denial, or table the
preliminary plat application for additional information. (If the hearing is
continued to allow for additional information, action must be taken within 6
weeks, unless otherwise approved in writing by the applicant.)
Recommendations for approval, denial, or continuances shall occur within thirty
(30) days of the date of the regular meeting at which the application is first
considered by the planning and zoning commission. The action and the reasons
for such action shall be stated in writing by the planning and zoning
commission and forwarded to the applicant. The planning and zoning commission
shall also forward a statement of the action taken and the reasons for such
action, together with a copy of the preliminary plat, to the board. In the
event the commission fails to carry out its responsibilities according to these
regulations, the board shall assume the duties of the commission.
   D.   Action On Combined Preliminary And Final Plat: If the planning and
zoning commission's conclusion is favorable to the applicant's request for the
subdivision to be considered as both a preliminary plat and final subdivision
plat, then a recommendation shall be forwarded to the board in the same manner
as herein specified for a final plat. The planning and zoning commission may
recommend that the combined application be approved, approved conditionally or
disapproved, or tabled for additional information. (Ord. 139, 12-22-2009)
10-4-4-9: BOARD DECISION:
The board makes the final decision on subdivision applications. Upon receipt of
the commission's recommendation, the board is to consider the application at
its next available board deliberation agenda. After reviewing the evidence in
the record and the above standards, the board must then take one of the
following actions:
   A.   Approve the request, with or without conditions;
   B.   Deny the request;
   C.   Remand to the commission;
   D.   Schedule its own public hearing to allow additional information to be
entered into the record, and then make a decision following the close of that
hearing.
After a decision is made, the board shall issue an order of decision, citing
the applicable legal standards; stating the evidence and conclusions on which
the decision was based; explaining any relevant contested facts and the board's
evaluation of these facts; and if the decision is a denial, the actions, if
any, the applicant may take to gain approval.
Unless otherwise approved in writing by the applicant, the board shall take one
of the above actions within four (4) weeks of receipt of a recommendation from
the commission. (Ord. 139, 12-22-2009)
10-4-4-10: APPEALS:
Any affected person may appeal, in writing, the decision of the administrator
concerning the completeness of an application or a decision of the planning and
zoning commission relative to the final action taken by the planning and zoning
commission. Such appeal must be in writing, include an explanation of the
grounds for the appeal, be accompanied by all applicable fees, and must be
submitted to the board within fifteen (15) days from the effective date of the
action being appealed. An affected person is one having an interest in real
property which may be affected by the decision. The hearing and public notice
shall be conducted according to sections
10-4-4-7,
10-4-4-8 and
10-4-4-9 of this chapter. The final decision on the appeal shall be made by the
board. Decisions made by the board may be appealed to the district court as
provided by law. (Ord. 139, 12-22-2009)
10-4-4-11: APPROVAL PERIOD:
   A.   Failure To File And Obtain Certification: Failure to file and obtain
the certification or the acceptance of the final plat by the board within two
(2) years after action by the board shall cause all approvals of such
preliminary plat application to be null and void, unless an extension of time
is applied for (prior to the end of the 2 year period) by the applicant and
granted by the board.
   B.   Developed In Phases: In the event that the development of the
preliminary plat is made in successive continuous segments in an orderly and
reasonable manner, and conforms substantially to the approved preliminary plat,
such segments, if submitted within successive intervals of one year, may be
considered for final approval without resubmission for preliminary plat
approval.
   C.   Construction Approval: After receiving preliminary subdivision
approval, construction plans may be developed for review and approval by
Shoshone County and other agencies with jurisdiction, and construction permits
may be issued. No construction or site disturbance may commence until plans are
approved and a county site disturbance permit is issued. At this time, the
administrator will review the plans for conformance with the design standards
of chapter 3 of this title, and with any applicable conditions of approval.
Construction plans may include plans for roads, water and sewer systems,
trails, vegetation buffers, and stormwater, erosion and dust control.
After construction plans are approved and permits issued, the applicant may
either: 1) install the improvements, obtain written approval of the
construction by the design professionals and applicable agencies, and apply for
final subdivision approval, or 2) submit a financial guarantee and subdivision
completion agreement meeting the requirements of section
10-7-3 of this title, and approved by the administrator and agencies with
jurisdiction, and then apply for final subdivision approval. If an agency is
unable or unwilling to approve a financial guarantee, the administrator or his
designee shall assume this authority. (Ord. 139, 12-22-2009)
10-4-5: FINAL PLAT:
10-4-5-1: APPLICATION:
After the approval or conditional approval of the preliminary plat, the
applicant may cause the total parcel, or any part thereof, to be surveyed and a
final plat prepared in accordance with the approved preliminary plat. The
applicant shall submit to the administrator for processing the following, which
shall be in conformance with all requirements and provisions of this title
including the provisions applicable to the Bunker Hill superfund site overlay
district, and title 50, chapter 13 of the Idaho Code:
   A.   Application For Approval: A written application for approval of such
final plat as stipulated by the administrator.
   B.   Proof Of Ownership: Proof of current ownership of the real property
included in the proposed final plat.
   C.   Required Drawings Or Certification: One set of final as built drawings,
stamped certification letter(s), or final engineering construction drawings for
streets, water, sewers, sidewalks, stormwater control, and any other required
development improvements. Such other information as the county may deem
necessary to establish whether or not all proper parties have signed and/or
approved such final plat.
   D.   Conformance With Preliminary Plat: Conformance with the approved
preliminary plat and meeting all requirements or conditions thereof.
   E.   Copies: Two (2) exact copies of the final plat on eighteen inch by
twenty seven inch (18"x27") paper for review by the administrator and the
county surveyor. Upon acceptance by the administrator and county surveyor, the
applicant will provide two (2) original drawings on drafting film three (3) mil
or thicker for the county assessor and county engineer and three (3) paper
copies of the final plat. Review plats and final plats shall meet the
requirements set forth in this section.
The applicant bears the burden of demonstrating compliance with all
requirements.
   F.   Fee: At the time of submission of an application for approval of the
final plat, a fee as shown on the fee schedule adopted by resolution from time
to time by the board of county commissioners shall be paid in full. (Ord. 139,
12-22-2009)
10-4-5-2: ADMINISTRATOR REVIEW AND RECOMMENDATION:
   A.   Acceptance: Upon receipt of the final plat and compliance with all
other requirements as provided for herein, the administrator shall certify the
application as complete and shall affix the date of acceptance thereon.
   B.   Resubmittal Of Final Plat: The administrator shall review the final
plat for compliance with the approved or conditionally approved preliminary
plat. If the administrator determines that there is substantial difference in
the final plat or conditions which have not been met, the administrator may
require that the final plat be submitted to the technical review committee and/
or planning and zoning commission in the same manner as required in the
preliminary plat process.
   C.   Submission To Board: Upon the determination that the final plat is in
compliance with the preliminary plat and all conditional requirements have been
met, and that the application meets all requirements of this title, the
administrator shall place the final plat on the next available board agenda.
(Ord. 139, 12-22-2009)
10-4-5-3: AGENCY REVIEW:
The administrator may transmit one copy of the final plat, or other documents
submitted, for review and recommendation to the departments and agencies as he
deems necessary to ensure compliance with the preliminary approval and/or
conditions of preliminary plat approval. Such agency review may also include
the construction standards of improvements and the legal review of the
performance bond. (Ord. 139, 12-22-2009)
10-4-5-4: BOARD ACTION:
The board at its next available meeting following receipt of the
administrator's report shall consider the administrator's recommendation, and
comments from concerned persons and agencies to arrive at a decision on the
final plat. The board shall approve, approve conditionally, disapprove, or
schedule a public hearing to allow for additional information within thirty
(30) days of the date of the regular meeting at which the plat is first
considered and then make a decision.
Unless otherwise approved in writing by the applicant, the board shall take one
of the above actions within four (4) weeks of receipt of a recommendation from
the administrator.
After a decision is made, the board issues an order of decision, citing the
applicable legal standards; stating the evidence and conclusions on which the
decision was based; explaining any relevant contested facts and the board's
evaluation of these facts; and if the decision is a denial, the actions, if
any, the applicant could take to gain approval. (Ord. 139, 12-22-2009)
10-4-5-5: APPROVAL PERIOD:
Final plat, including the mylar plat and associated documents (e.g., CC&Rs,
conservation easements, etc.) shall be filed with the county recorder, in a
form ready to record, within one year after written approval by the board;
otherwise, such approval shall become null and void and a new application for
final approval must be submitted, unless prior to such expiration date an
extension of time is applied for by the applicant and granted by the board.
(Ord. 139, 12-22-2009)
10-4-5-6: RECORDING:
Upon approval of the final plat by the board, the applicant's prepayment of
recording fees for construction of off site improvements or posting of surety
bond, and the inclusion of the following signatures on the final plat. All
signatures and stamps must be in reproducible, quick drying, permanent,
indelible, black ink. The applicant shall submit the final plat to the county
recorder for recording.
   A.   Certification and signature of the board verifying that the subdivision
has been approved, and acceptance of dedications as required or appropriate.
   B.   Certification and signature of the clerk of the district court, if
required, and the county engineer or surveyor verifying that the subdivision
plat meets the county requirements and has been approved by the board.
   C.   Certification of the sanitation restrictions on the face of the plat
per section 50-1326, Idaho Code.
   D.   Auditor's certification and signature.
   E.   Treasurer's certification and signature.
   F.   Planning administrator's certification and signature. (Ord. 139, 12-22-
2009)
CHAPTER 5
MINOR SUBDIVISION
SECTION:
10-5-1: General Provisions
10-5-2: Administrative Procedure
10-5-3: Application, Content And Form
10-5-4: Final Plat And Approval Procedure
10-5-1: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Purpose: In addition to the purposes previously set forth in chapter 1
of this title, the purpose of these regulations is to provide for the manner
and form of making and filing a minor subdivision. This is an administrative
procedure that does not require a public hearing.
   B.   Requirements: A minor subdivision procedure is acceptable when an owner
desires to subdivide land, when the land has not been subdivided within the
past five (5) years (or if it has been subdivided, the 2 subdivisions together
will create 9 or fewer lots) and the owner desires to subdivide the land so as
to create nine (9) or fewer contiguous platted lots, tracts or parcels wherein
all of said lots, tracts or parcels shall meet the following requirements:
      1.   The minimum lot size requirements of the zone in which the land is
located or the minimum of two (2) acres, whichever is greater.
      2.   The application proposes no shared infrastructure or improvements,
other than a water system and/or a common driveway that would require
engineering to meet the requirements of the county or other agencies.
      3.   Conformance with the Shoshone County comprehensive plan and zoning
ordinances.
      4.   In any proposed minor subdivision, except those for subdivisions in
which mining, agricultural, or timber uses, recognized as such by the
assessor's office, each lot shall be provided with road and utility access as
described herein. A homeowners' association shall be formed to provide
provisions for road maintenance and improvements, which may be dissolved only
upon the event of dedication to the public. Documents establishing the
homeowners' association must meet the administrator's approval and upon
approval, shall be recorded with the plat.
      5.   All roads within the proposed minor subdivision, except those for
subdivisions with mining, agricultural, or timber uses, recognized as such by
the assessor's office, shall be compliant to title 6, chapter 1, "Highways,
Streets And Public Ways", of this code, "Use Of Public Right Of Way, Standard
Approach Policy", and with the current "Highway And Street Guidelines For
Design And Construction" by the local highway technical assistance council with
the following amendments:
         a.   Roads shall have an all weather driving surface with a minimum of
four (4) to six inches (6") of in place subbase/ballast and/or base course with
a minimum width of twenty feet (20') with a two foot (2') shoulder on both
sides for a total road width of twenty four feet (24') together with
appropriately sized and adequately functioning cut and fill slopes, drainage
ditches and features.
         b.   Driving surface of roads shall have a minimum exterior curve
radius of fifty feet (50').
         c.   Road gradient shall not exceed ten percent (10%) slope, except
where the applicable fire district has granted a variance or approval.
         d.   All roads within the proposed subdivision shall comply with the
Shoshone County site disturbance ordinance.
         e.   All private roads shall be named "lanes"; names shall be approved
by the administrator. Signage shall be provided and installed by the applicant
conforming to the "Uniform Manual Of Traffic Control Devices" as adopted in
Idaho.
         f.   Any private road(s) shall be constructed on a perpetual fifty
foot (50') access and utility easement, controlled and maintained by the
homeowners' association.
      6.   Ingress and egress from subdivision shall adjoin a public road, or
access shall be demonstrated to comply with subsection B4 of this section and
the appropriate egress/ingress easements shall be provided and may be required
to be applied to the plat face.
      7.   All residential subdivision applications shall meet all other
applicable regulations, requirements and provisions of this title. Proof of
such approval shall be provided to the administrator in order for the
application to be deemed complete. (Ord. 139, 12-22-2009)
10-5-2: ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE:
   A.   Administrative Duties: The administrator is vested with the duty of
administering the provisions of this chapter, not specifically delegated to the
board herein. The administrator may prepare and require the use of such forms
as are deemed necessary.
   B.   Application; Fee: Application for any minor subdivision shall be
submitted to the administrator with a fee as set forth on the fee schedule as
adopted from time to time by resolution of the board of county commissioners.
An application not accompanied by the appropriate fee, unless the fee is
expressly waived by the board of county commissioners, shall not be deemed
complete.
   C.   Action By Administrator: Upon receipt of an application for minor
subdivision and all other required data and fees as provided for herein, the
administrator shall certify the application as complete and shall affix the
date of application acceptance thereon. The administrator shall determine if a
review of the proposed application by agencies or the technical review
committee is warranted. The administrator shall refer the preliminary plat and
application to the technical review committee and as many agencies as deemed
necessary by the administrator for a thirty (30) day comment period. Such
agencies may include any agencies or entities as determined by the
administrator. The technical review committee and/or agencies shall review the
preliminary plat from the viewpoint of the technical disciplines represented on
the committee. Any fees or charges are the responsibility of the applicant. At
the conclusion of the thirty (30) day comment period, the administrator shall
determine if the application meets the standards for a minor subdivision.
If the application meets the requirements of this chapter, the applicant may
proceed with the remaining regulations delineated for the processing and
approval of a minor subdivision.
The applicant shall provide the department with an adjacent property owners
(APO) report establishing all adjacent property owners within three hundred
feet (300') of the site (including any contiguous lots or parcels under the
same ownership).
The planning department shall publish a thirty (30) day notice of public
comment period and shall mail the notice to those property owners listed on the
report. Notices to property owners within three hundred feet (300') must be
mailed on or before the first day of the comment period.
Information submitted prior to the close of the comment period will become a
part of the record on the application.
Within twenty one (21) days after the close of the comment period, the
administrator shall review the relevant evidence in the record and determine
whether the proposed minor subdivision satisfies the requirements of this
title. If the administrator determines that the proposed minor subdivision
application is complete and satisfies the requirements of this title, and if
there were no public comments received requesting a public hearing, the
administrator shall make a recommendation to the board of county commissioners
for action pursuant to subsection D of this section.
The administrator's recommendation shall cite the applicable legal standards,
state the evidence and conclusions on which the decision was based, explain any
relevant contested facts and his/her evaluation of these facts, and if the
decision is a denial, the actions, if any, the applicant could take to gain
approval. The applicant bears the burden of demonstrating compliance with
requirements. Conditions may be attached to an approval and the plat may not be
recorded until compliance with the conditions is demonstrated.
If public comments requesting a public hearing are received, the administrator
shall schedule the matter for the next available agenda of a regular meeting of
the planning and zoning commission, and proceed with the applicable
requirements of this title. Notice for the hearing before the planning and
zoning commission shall comply with the provisions of section
10-4-4-7 of this title.
If the administrator determines that the requirements of this title have not
been met, the application shall be disapproved and notice shall be sent to the
applicant together with the reasons for disapproval. The applicant may, within
fifteen (15) days of the notice of disapproval, submit a notice of appeal
together with the appropriate fee to the planning and zoning commission. The
planning and zoning commission shall consider the appeal on completeness of an
application and all submissions of the applicant in support thereof at its next
available public meeting agenda. The commission may consider the appeal without
a public hearing and render a decision on the completeness of the application
in writing within fourteen (14) days of the meeting at which the appeal was
considered.
The planning and zoning commission shall conduct a hearing in accordance with
current county ordinances. The applicant presents their proposal, addresses any
issues that have been identified, and demonstrates that the project can meet
the requirements of all these regulations and all applicable agencies. The
administrator will present the staff evaluation. Public testimony is taken,
followed by closing remarks by the applicant. The commission shall consider all
of the relevant evidence and testimony and then make a recommendation to the
board. The commission may recommend approval, with or without conditions,
recommend denial, or table the preliminary plat application for additional
information. (If the hearing is continued to allow for additional information,
action must be taken within 6 weeks, unless otherwise approved in writing by
the applicant.)
Recommendations for approval, denial, or continuances shall occur within thirty
(30) days of the date of the regular meeting at which the application is first
considered by the planning and zoning commission. The action and the reasons
for such action shall be stated in writing by the planning and zoning
commission and forwarded to the applicant. The planning and zoning commission
shall also forward a statement of the action taken and the reasons for such
action, to the board. In the event the commission fails to carry out its
responsibilities according to these regulations, the board shall assume the
duties of the commission.
   D.   Board Action: The board, at its next available meeting following
receipt of the administrator's recommendation or the receipt of the
recommendation from the planning and zoning commission, shall consider the
findings and recommendation(s). If, prior to that meeting, a request is made by
any affected party for a public hearing before the board, the board may set the
matter for public hearing, consistent with the established hearing procedures,
to be held at the next available board meeting. Notice for the hearing shall be
in accord with the notice provisions of section
10-4-4-7 of this title. The board shall approve, approve conditionally,
disapprove, set the matter for hearing, or table the application for additional
information within thirty (30) days of the date of the regular meeting at which
the application is first considered. If the application is tabled for
additional information, the board shall then approve, approve conditionally, or
disapprove the application within thirty (30) days of receipt of the requested
information by the board. If the matter is set for public hearing, the board
shall issue an order of decision within fifteen (15) days of the close of the
public hearing. The board's order of decision shall cite the applicable legal
standards, state the evidence and conclusions on which the decision was based,
explain any relevant contested facts and his/her evaluation of these facts, and
if the decision is a denial, the actions, if any, the applicant could take to
gain approval. The applicant bears the burden of demonstrating compliance with
requirements. Conditions may be attached to an approval and the plat may not be
recorded until compliance with the conditions is demonstrated. (Ord. 139, 12-
22-2009)
10-5-3: APPLICATION, CONTENT AND FORM:
An application and drawing disclosing the following information in an accurate,
clear legible manner shall be submitted to the administrator for consideration
and processing pursuant to this chapter:
   A.   Legal description to include section, township, and range.
   B.   Name, address and phone number of all persons holding an interest in
the property.
   C.   Date of application acceptance.
   D.   Boundary lines and dimensions of proposed lots within the minor
subdivision.
   E.   North arrow and scale.
   F.   The location and dimensions of all roads and easements within or
serving the lots in the minor subdivision.
   G.   Plans of proposed water systems, sewage disposal systems, drainage
systems or other utilities proposed within the minor subdivision, if
applicable.
   H.   A consent to subdivide statement bearing the typed names of all persons
having an interest in surface rights to the land to be divided, signed and
acknowledged by them before a notary public, which states their consent to the
division of land.
   I.   Current title report.
   J.   List of property owners within three hundred feet (300') of the site
(including any contiguous lots or parcels under the same ownership). Names and
addresses are to be provided on mailing labels.
   K.   Any other information deemed necessary and/or useful by the
administrator and/or planning and zoning commission. (Ord. 139, 12-22-2009)
10-5-4: FINAL PLAT AND APPROVAL PROCEDURE:
   A.   Requirements: For a minor subdivision plat containing lots, tracts, or
parcels, the following requirements shall be met:
      1.   A minor subdivision plat shall be filed in compliance with Idaho
Code title 50, chapter 13 (plats and vacations) and shall be required for final
approval of a minor subdivision.
      2.   The planning administrator's approval shall appear on the face of
the minor subdivision plat, if the plat has been approved pursuant to this
chapter. All appropriate signature blocks shall be indicated on the plat and
all signatures shall have been obtained.
      3.   There shall be placed on the face of the minor subdivision plat,
prior to it being recorded, the sanitary restriction required by Idaho Code
sections 50-1326 through 1329. The provisions of the foregoing Idaho Code
sections are applicable to all minor subdivisions.
      4.   On the face of the minor subdivision plat, prior to it being
recorded, the source of drinking water shall be identified as required by Idaho
Code section 50-1334.
      5.   If required, there shall be placed on the face of the minor
subdivision plat, prior to being recorded, the recorded instrument number of
the established homeowners' association agreement and conditions, covenants,
and restrictions.
   B.   Final Plat: Two (2) reproducible and three (3) paper copies, together
with the current filing fee shall be submitted for filing with the county
recorder. (Ord. 139, 12-22-2009)
CHAPTER 6
CONSERVATION DESIGN SUBDIVISIONS AND BONUS DENSITY
SECTION:
10-6-1: Applicability
10-6-2: Conservation Design Subdivisions; Purpose
10-6-3: Bonus Densities (Suburban Residential And Natural Resource Zones Only)
10-6-4: Open Space
10-6-5: Public Access
10-6-6: Conservation Design Procedure
10-6-7: Additional Requirements For Conservation Design Subdivisions
10-6-8: Conservation Design Subdivisions Without Bonus Lots
10-6-9: Ownership Options For Open Space
10-6-1: APPLICABILITY:
This chapter may be used in conjunction with any major subdivision application
submitted pursuant to this title (or these regulations). (Ord. 139, 12-22-2009)
10-6-2: CONSERVATION DESIGN SUBDIVISIONS; PURPOSE:
Shoshone County encourages the use of conservation designs for subdivisions.
The purpose of a conservation design is to fit the development to the land, to
cluster homes on smaller lots, to minimize road construction, to reduce
stormwater and water quality impacts, to make it possible to develop shared
water and sewage systems, and to save large areas of open space for farming,
pasture, timber production, wildlife habitat, recreation and other uses that
benefit the community. In suburban residential and natural resource zones,
bonus lots may be granted as an incentive to do this type of development (i.e.,
the county may allow the platting of additional lots that otherwise could not
be approved). This chapter explains the requirements for conservation design
subdivisions and for obtaining approval of bonus lots.
Note: The density of this type of subdivision will be considered to be as
compatible as that of a traditional subdivision, and clustered lots in a
conservation design subdivision are not considered to be urban density. (Ord.
139, 12-22-2009)
10-6-3: BONUS DENSITIES (SUBURBAN RESIDENTIAL AND NATURAL RESOURCE ZONES ONLY):
In conservation design subdivisions in the suburban residential and natural
resource zones, the following actions, when done in conformance with this
chapter, may earn additional building lots. For each action, the number of lots
that can be approved in a standard subdivision (base density) may be increased
by the listed percentage. After the bonus is applied, fractions of a lot are
rounded up to the next whole number. If bonus lots are requested in more than
one category, the percentage figures are added together, multiplied by the base
number of lots for the zone, and then rounded up to a whole number. If the
property being subdivided is located in one or more of the suburban
residential, and natural resource zones, the base number of lots is calculated
for the acreage in each zone, then added together to yield the base number of
lots for the project. Density may not be transferred from other zones.
   A.   Conserve Open Space (conservation of at least 50 percent of the
property is required of all subdivisions requesting bonus lots):
 
Amount Of Land Preserved As Open Space (Net Increase In Approved Building Lots
Acreage)
20 - 49%                                    0%
50 - 64%                                    10%
65 - 79%                                    15%
80%                                         20%
 
   B.   Other Actions:
 
                                        Additional Increase In Approved
                                        Building Lots
1. Provide subdivision residents with
usable access to open space or adjacent 5%
streams, lakes or public land.
2. Provide the general public with
usable access to open space, or
adjacent streams, lakes or public land. 10%
(Note: This option is in lieu of, not
in addition to, option 1.)
3. Provide other public amenities. The
commission may approve bonus lots for
other actions and amenities, both on
and off site, if they benefit and are
desired by the public. In all such      10%
cases the value of the extra lots shall
be commensurate with the cost of
proposed amenities, and the bonus lots
granted shall not exceed 10%.
 
Improvements required to mitigate impacts shall not be used to earn bonus lots.
Example: If an applicant proposes to retain eighty percent (80%) of their land
as open space (20 percent lot bonus), and to allow subdivision residents access
to a road along the open space (5 percent lot bonus), the number of building
lots would be increased by twenty five percent (25%). To determine the total
number of building lots that would be allowed, the base number of lots for the
zone would be multiplied by 1.25. For a one hundred (100) acre parcel in a zone
with a base density of one lot per five (5.00) acres, twenty (20) lots could be
approved in a standard subdivision and twenty five (25) lots could be approved
in a conservation design subdivision. (Ord. 139, 12-22-2009)
10-6-4: OPEN SPACE:
Open space is land with natural, cultural or historic resources of value to the
community. To qualify for bonus lots, open space land that is to be preserved
must be a part of the land being divided, must be unencumbered by existing
conservation easements, must be in good condition (e.g., stable, in conformance
with applicable best management practices), and must fall into one or more of
the following categories:
   A.   Actively managed pasture, farm or timber land, except agricultural uses
the commission deems incompatible in a residential area. Appurtenant structures
are allowed, including residential structures in conformance with the Shoshone
County zoning ordinance. If the open space lot will have residential
structures, it must, however, be counted as one of the allowable building lots.
If the proposed agricultural use requires irrigation, water rights, sufficient
to support the use, must be retained with the land.
   B.   Wildlife habitat or wildlife corridors as identified by the Idaho
department of fish and game. These areas might include stream corridors, draws,
wetlands, grassland, stands of mature timber, areas with snags, wintering
areas, nesting and roosting sites, waterfront areas and travel corridors
between habitat blocks and sources of food and water. Note: Any fencing in
these areas must allow for the safe movement of wildlife.
   C.   Areas with native vegetation, including native grassland, or unique
vegetative communities as identified by the Idaho conservation data center.
   D.   Recreational areas, including trails and wildlife viewing areas, but
excluding uses the commission deems incompatible in a residential area.
   E.   Historic or culturally significant areas.
   F.   Natural landmarks and scenic areas.
   G.   Parks, playgrounds, picnic areas, community gardens and similar uses.
Up to ten percent (10%) of the open space area may be used for structures
appurtenant to such uses, in conformance with county ordinances and the
requirements of other agencies.
   H.   "Sensitive areas" as defined by this title.
   I.   If required by the commission to allow public use of open space, up to
two percent (2%) of the open space may be used for public parking.
   J.   Ridge tops and other prominent, natural features.
   K.   Hydrologic protection areas and land adjacent to these areas.
   L.   Land preserved to protect drinking water supplies.
   M.   Sites for shared water, wastewater or stormwater systems.
   N.   Other land with natural, cultural or historic value as approved by the
commission. (Ord. 139, 12-22-2009)
10-6-5: PUBLIC ACCESS:
   A.   To earn density bonuses for public access (either to residents of the
subdivision or to the public in general), a trail must be provided to and
either through, around or next to the open space area. This trail must be
convenient and accessible to lots that are not adjacent to the open space. This
does not mean the public necessarily has access to the entire site. For
example, granting an easement that allows people to walk on a road along the
edge of a field or pasture is adequate to qualify for bonus lots. If the trail
does not already exist, it must be constructed as part of the subdivision
improvements.
   B.   To earn density bonuses for providing access to the general public, the
commission may require installation of a small parking area, and may require a
vegetative buffer and/or fencing to separate it from nearby residences. (Ord.
139, 12-22-2009)
10-6-6: CONSERVATION DESIGN PROCEDURE:
Conservation subdivisions shall be designed according to the following
procedure:
Step 1: Identify potential open space areas that meet the requirements of this
chapter.
Step 2: If requesting bonus lots, develop an existing resources report and site
analysis map. Requirements for the report and map are as follows:
Existing resources report and site analysis map (only required for conservation
design subdivisions requesting bonus lots): The report and map must be prepared
by a landscape architect in consultation with a professional wildlife or
conservation biologist or the Idaho department of fish and game. The map shall
be shown as a supplemental page to the plan at a scale between one inch equals
forty feet (1"=40') and one inch equals one hundred feet (1"=100'). The map
shall clearly show the conditions on and within five hundred feet (500') of the
property and must show woodlands and timber; functioning farm and pasture land;
adjacent public lands and lands under conservation easement; habitat for rare,
threatened or endangered plants or animals (if known); important wildlife
habitat; historic or cultural features; areas with scenic views; hillsides and
other areas visible to the public; disturbed areas; natural features such as
streams, ponds, rock outcrops, unusual geologic formations, forested areas, and
wetlands; and existing roads. In addition to a paper copy, at least one clear
overlay copy of the map shall be provided. If available, an aerial photograph
of the site, with boundaries marked, shall also be submitted.
The written report shall:
Describe the subject site boundaries. Explain in a brief paragraph of the
proposed project.
Explain the different resources found on site that include, but are not limited
to, timbered areas, cultural resources, wildlife habitat, streams and other
surface water areas.
Describe how these resources will be impacted by the proposed project. If
streams are found on the project site, list the classification of the streams.
If the land falls within a timbered area, as determined by staff, a wildfire
mitigation plan will be required.
Explain what mitigation will be done for the impacted areas of the project. The
resource map should reflect all resources delineated in the report.
Step 3: Determine zoning districts and expected numbers of base and bonus lots.
Select building sites positioned to avoid slopes in excess of fifteen percent
(15%) and to take advantage of views and open space. Note: Though building
sites should be designed to avoid slopes, this is a recommendation, not a
requirement.
Step 4: Align streets and trails to be compatible with topography, to minimize
road length and site disturbance, to avoid drainageways, sensitive areas, open
space lands, and slopes greater than fifteen percent (15%), and to meet the
requirements of this title and the highway district.
Step 5: Draw lot lines. (Ord. 139, 12-22-2009)
10-6-7: ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR CONSERVATION DESIGN SUBDIVISIONS:
   A.   To the extent possible, open space must be contiguous within the
subdivision, and must be contiguous with that on adjacent properties, so as to
eventually develop a network of interconnected open space.
   B.   Concurrent with recordation of the subdivision plat, a perpetual
conservation easement meeting the requirements of the uniform conservation
easement act, Idaho Code title 55, chapter 21, and approved by the
administrator and the entities accepting the easement, must be recorded on the
land that is to be conserved. Each easement will be tailored to the specific
situation, and though it limits future development of the property, it does not
affect the landowner's ability to sell the land or use it within the parameters
of allowed open space uses and the easement. As approved by the board,
conservation easements shall be dedicated or conveyed to a land trust, a
governmental body, or a conservation organization that has expertise in
managing the type of open space that is proposed, and who meets the
requirements of Idaho Code section 55-2101(2). Prior to any preliminary
application submittal for a conservation design subdivision, as part of the
application package, the applicant shall provide the conceptual boundaries of
the conservation easement and the name of the entity that will receive and hold
the future easement. As part of the plat submittal, the applicant shall provide
Shoshone County with a letter from the proposed holder of the easement that
indicates the organization will accept the conservation easement. Shoshone
County, as a government entity, will not be considered as a holder of
conservation easements.
   C.   Prior to application for final subdivision approval, any required
payments must be made to the stewardship fund of the organization that will
hold the conservation easement. This payment is to cover the easement holder's
yearly costs for site inspections and, if necessary, enforcement.
   D.   Open space lands must be actively managed by the landowner, in
conformance with applicable best management practices and approved land
management plans.
   E.   If the open space is going to be owned by a homeowners' association,
documents establishing the association must be approved by the administrator,
and must be recorded concurrently with the plat.
   F.   Conservation design subdivisions are subject to all other provisions of
this title.
   G.   If necessary to bring the site into conformance with applicable BMPs, a
land management plan must be developed and approved by the agency with
jurisdiction. (Ord. 139, 12-22-2009)
10-6-8: CONSERVATION DESIGN SUBDIVISIONS WITHOUT BONUS LOTS:
Conservation design subdivisions which conserve twenty (20) to forty nine
percent (49%) of the property as open space, or which conserve property that
does not fall into one of the approved open space categories are permitted,
however, no bonus lots will be granted. The subdivision must follow the
conservation design procedure in section
10-6-6 of this chapter, as well as the requirements outlined in section
10-6-7 of this chapter. Conservation of at least twenty percent (20%) of the
property is required for all conservation design subdivisions. (Ord. 139, 12-
22-2009)
10-6-9: OWNERSHIP OPTIONS FOR OPEN SPACE:
Open space may be owned and managed by one of the following, providing all open
space is under the same ownership:
   A.   An individual or individuals.
   B.   A corporation (for profit or nonprofit).
   C.   An incorporated homeowners' or condominium association. The CC&Rs must
state that the common open space cannot be encumbered, and that the homeowners'
association is responsible for upkeep, taxes, insurance and other ownership
responsibilities.
   D.   A nonprofit conservation organization. If open space is to be held by a
conservation organization, appropriate provisions must be made for transfer to
another conservation organization or agency in the event that the organization
becomes unwilling or unable to manage the land.
   E.   A public agency or governmental body. (Ord. 139, 12-22-2009)
CHAPTER 7
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10-7-1: Applicability
10-7-2: Administrative Authority And Requirements
10-7-3: Financial Guarantees
10-7-4: Vacating Recorded Plats
10-7-5: Enforcement
10-7-6: Penalty
10-7-7: Sunsetting Of Unrecorded Plats
10-7-8: Development Agreement
10-7-1: APPLICABILITY:
The requirements of the provisions of this chapter apply to all subdivisions
regulated by this title. This chapter establishes minimum administrative
requirements for subdivisions. (Ord. 139, 12-22-2009)
10-7-2: ADMINISTRATIVE AUTHORITY AND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Fee Schedule: Fees shall be as provided on the fee schedule adopted
from time to time by resolution of the board of county commissioners.
   B.   Administrator's Authority: The administrator shall be responsible for
administering this title within the unincorporated areas of Shoshone County.
   C.   Adoption Of Criteria For Supporting Documents: The board may adopt, by
resolution, criteria for supporting documents that may be necessary in the
administration of this title.
   D.   Interpretation: In applying this title to situations that are not
specifically addressed, the actions taken shall be in conformance with the
purpose and intent of this title, and shall be in the best interest of the
public.
   E.   Right To Inspect: The property owner or authorized applicant's
signature on the subdivision application shall constitute approval for the
department or its designee to enter onto and inspect the subdivision property.
   F.   Amendments: The board may, from time to time, amend, supplement, or
repeal the provisions of this title in accordance with Idaho Code. When any
provision of this title is amended after the county accepts a complete
application for subdivision approval, the applicant may elect to have the
application processed under either the provisions of this title in existence at
the time of application, or under the provisions of this title as amended. A
request to proceed under the provisions of this title as amended must be
submitted in writing, and the applicant shall be bound by all the provisions of
this title as amended. Where no written request is made, the application shall
be processed under the provisions of this title in effect on the date a
complete application was received.
   G.   Penalty For Sale Of Lots: In accordance with Idaho Code section 50-
1316, any person who shall dispose of or offer for sale any lots prior to
recordation of a plat, as provided in sections 50-1301 through 1325, shall pay
one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each lot and part of a lot sold or disposed
of or offered for sale. Enforcement of this penalty does not preclude the
county from taking additional enforcement action as authorized by law.
      1.   Notice Of Penalty And Hearing:
         a.   A person upon whom a penalty is imposed shall receive a written
notice of the penalty to be assessed and the factual basis upon which the
penalty has been imposed. Such notice shall be sent by first class mail,
postage prepaid, to the owner(s) of record, at the address on file with the
county assessor.
         b.   A person cited for violating this title shall have the right to
file, within five (5) days after receiving notice, a written request for a
hearing before the board of county commissioners to contest the citation.
         c.   The hearing shall be informal and strict rules of evidence shall
not apply. The alleged violator may be represented by counsel, present oral and
written evidence and cross examine witnesses.
         d.   The board of county commissioners shall issue a decision within a
reasonable time after the close of the hearing and shall notify the alleged
violator in writing of the decision.
         e.   If the alleged violator fails to appear at a hearing or fails to
request a hearing, it shall be conclusively established that this title was
violated, and the one hundred dollar ($100.00) forfeiture shall be applied as
well as any applicable appropriate criminal and civil sanctions.
In addition to the above penalty, if a portion of the property that is the
subject of a subdivision request is divided prior to recordation of the plat,
the application becomes null and void, and a new application must be filed by
the owners. If the property is not divided, and is sold in its entirety, a new
application is not required and the new owner or owners may proceed through the
subdivision process with the existing application.
   H.   Mediation: Pursuant to Idaho Code section 67-6510, the board may
require an applicant and affected persons objecting to a subdivision
application to participate in at least one mediation session. If required, the
board shall select and pay the expense of the mediator for the first meeting.
Compensation of the mediator for additional meetings shall be determined among
the parties at the outset of any mediation undertaking. Requests for mediation
must be submitted to the board in writing, and may be submitted by the
applicant, an affected person, the planning commission, or a hearing examiner.
Mediation may occur at any point during the decision making process or after a
final decision has been made, however, if mediation occurs after a final
decision, any resolution of differences must be the subject of another public
hearing before the hearing body. The mediation session shall not be a part of
the official record for an application. During mediation, any relevant time
limitation on the application shall be tolled. Such tolling shall cease when
the applicant or other affected person, after having participated in at least
one mediation session, provides the county with a written statement that no
further participation is desired, and the other parties are notified. If no
mediation is scheduled, tolling shall cease twenty eight (28) days from the
date of the request. (Ord. 139, 12-22-2009)
10-7-3: FINANCIAL GUARANTEES:
   A.   Financial Guarantee In Lieu Of Improvements: Financial guarantees
provided in lieu of improvements shall be reviewed and approved by the board
and affected agencies prior to application for final approval of a subdivision.
If an agency is unwilling or unable to approve a financial guarantee, the board
shall assume this authority. The amount of the guarantee shall be one hundred
fifty percent (150%) of the estimated cost of construction and the expiration
date of the guarantee shall be at least sixty (60) days after the agency
approval date for the improvements. Cost estimates shall be developed by the
design professionals who developed the construction plans. If it is anticipated
that improvements will be completed over a period of time, separate financial
guarantees should be provided (e.g., 1 for roads, another for the water
system). Partial releases are not permitted.
   B.   Warranty: A separate financial guarantee is required as a warranty to
ensure correction of any deficiencies identified within twelve (12) months of
final agency approval of improvements. The amount of this warranty shall be ten
percent (10%) of the total cost of construction. If improvements are completed
and approved by applicable agencies and design professionals prior to
application for final subdivision approval, the warranty shall be provided with
the application. If improvements are to be completed after final approval, the
warranty shall be provided prior to release of the financial guarantee for
construction. If the applicant fails to provide this warranty, the county may
withdraw a portion of the construction guarantee to meet this requirement, or
take other enforcement action as authorized by law.
   C.   Subdivision Completion And Warranty Agreements: A subdivision
completion and/or warranty agreement, meeting the requirements of appendix B on
file with the county and approved by the board, shall accompany each financial
guarantee. These agreements shall be considered to be contracts between
Shoshone County, the property owner, and if a party to the agreement, the
contractor. Financial guarantees shall provide for installation and agency
approval of improvements within two (2) years from the date of final
subdivision approval. Upon written request by the property owner submitted
prior to the expiration of the two (2) year period, the board may grant one
extension of up to one year for cause.
   D.   Types Of Financial Guarantees: The county will accept the following
types of financial guarantees:
      1.   Cash deposit (cash, cashier's check, bank draft, or money order).
      2.   CD or other bank account, providing the board of commissioners has
exclusive access to the account.
The county may, at its discretion, accept surety bonds for required warranties,
and for a portion of financial guarantees for incomplete improvements, except
those related to stormwater and erosion control. A surety bond will not be
accepted for stormwater/erosion control work. If accepted for other incomplete
improvements, at least seven thousand five hundred dollars ($7,500.00) of the
required financial guarantee must be provided in the form of cash or a bank
account.
   E.   Failure To Complete Improvements: Failure to complete improvements or
correct deficiencies in accordance with a subdivision completion or warranty
agreement and approved plans, shall be cause for the county to take enforcement
action as authorized by law, and/or to draw on the funds and contract for
completion of the work. In addition to direct costs to complete the work, the
county may also withdraw funds to cover their administrative costs. The county
shall give the property owner written notice, by first class mail, prior to
taking action. The property owner shall permit the county, or its agent, access
to the property to complete improvements. If the county is unable to gain
access to the funds, or if costs exceed the value of the financial guarantee,
the property owner will be billed for the outstanding balance.
   F.   Release Of Financial Guarantee: No financial guarantee shall be
released until the associated improvements have been approved in writing by the
applicable agencies, the developer's design professionals and the board. No
partial releases are permitted. (Ord. 139, 12-22-2009)
10-7-4: VACATING RECORDED PLATS:
Any plat prepared and recorded as herein required may be vacated, in whole or
in part, as provided by section 50-1306A, Idaho Code. Easements shall remain to
continue operation and maintenance of existing public utility facilities. (Ord.
139, 12-22-2009)
10-7-5: ENFORCEMENT:
No subdivision plat required by this title or the Idaho Code shall be admitted
to the public land records of the county or recorded by the county recorder,
until such subdivision plat has received final approval by the board. No public
board, agency, commission, official or other authority shall proceed with the
construction of or authorize the construction of any of the public improvements
required by this title until the final plat has received the approval by the
board. The prosecuting attorney may, in addition to taking whatever criminal
action deemed necessary, take steps to civilly enjoin any violation of this
title. (Ord. 139, 12-22-2009)
10-7-6: PENALTY:
Penalties for failure to comply with the provisions of this title shall be as
follows:
   A.   Unlawful Subdivision And Site Work: As provided in Idaho Code sections
67-6518 and 67-6527, it shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation,
or their agent, to knowingly and wilfully participate in constructing a road,
installing utilities or otherwise developing a subdivision, except in
conformance with this title. In addition to the actions and penalties provided
in Idaho Code title 50, chapter 13, any person, firm or corporation, or their
agent, who knowingly and wilfully commits, participates in, assists in or
maintains a violation of this title may be subject to the following criminal
and civil remedies, fines and penalties.
   B.   Criminal Penalties: Violation of any of the provisions of this title or
failure to comply with any of its requirements shall constitute a misdemeanor,
with each day of an ongoing offense considered a separate violation. In
addition to any jail and/or fines imposed, if found guilty, the violator shall
pay all reasonable expenses incurred in enforcing this title. In cases where
multiple individuals, firms, corporations or agents participated in violating
this title, they shall be held jointly and severally liable for the above
payment and any restitution awarded by the court and each person so involved,
either as a principal or a coconspirator, shall be subject to the full criminal
penalties.
   C.   Civil Enforcement: The county may also take civil action in district
court to prevent, restrain, correct, abate, or otherwise enforce this title. In
addition to other actions that may be ordered by the court, if the county
prevails, the violator shall pay to the county a sum equal to two (2) times the
monetary gain associated with the violation and shall pay all reasonable
expenses incurred in enforcing this title. In cases where multiple individuals,
firms, corporations or agents participated in violating this title, they shall
be held jointly and severally liable for the above penalties and payments.
   D.   Stop Work Order: Whenever any terrain modification, construction, or
other site work is not in compliance with this title, specific conditions of
approval, or other related laws, ordinances, or requirements, the administrator
may order the work stopped by written notice. Such notice shall be served on
any persons engaged in doing or causing such work to be done, and persons shall
forthwith stop such work until authorized by the administrator to proceed. Stop
work orders may be appealed according to the procedure outlined in section
10-4-4-10 of this title.
   E.   Withholding Of Permits: The administrator may withhold issuance of
permits, including building permits, for subdivisions, lots, or parcels of land
that are in violation of this title. Withholding of permits may be appealed
according to the procedure outlined in section
10-4-4-10 of this title.
   F.   Processing Of Applications: Applications for approvals authorized by
this title will not be accepted until all violations of county ordinances are
corrected, and the property is brought into compliance. If any unpermitted site
disturbance or subdivision development has previously occurred (e.g.,
construction of roads, driveways, building pads), a site disturbance permit
must be obtained, a financial guarantee must be provided, and stormwater and
erosion control systems meeting the requirements of the Shoshone County site
disturbance ordinance and applicable BMPs, must be installed and approved
before an application will be accepted. These requirements may be appealed
according to the procedure outlined in these regulations.
   G.   Additional Remedies: Nothing herein contained shall prevent the board
or any other public official or private citizen from taking such lawful action
as is necessary to restrain or prevent any violation of this title or of the
Idaho Code. (Ord. 139, 12-22-2009)
10-7-7: SUNSETTING OF UNRECORDED PLATS:
Any plats previously approved without recordation deadlines, including Idaho
Code plats, shall be null and void if not recorded within ninety (90) days of
the effective date of this title. (Ord. 139, 12-22-2009)
10-7-8: DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT:
If the technical review committee identifies deficiencies or concerns then the
applicant may negotiate a development agreement to mitigate the deficiencies
pursuant to chapter 8, "Development Agreements", of this title and Idaho Code
section 67-6511A. (Ord. 139, 12-22-2009)
CHAPTER 8
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS
SECTION:
10-8-1: Purpose
10-8-2: Applicability
10-8-3: Process
10-8-4: General Regulations
10-8-5: Required Finding
10-8-6: Periodic Review
10-8-7: Amendment Or Termination Of Final Development Agreement
10-8-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the creation and administration
of development agreements, as provided in Idaho Code section 67-6511A. (Ord.
124, 2-21-2006)
10-8-2: APPLICABILITY:
Dependent on the impact report and the compatibility rating including the
applicant's proposed site improvements and structure to be used or constructed,
the administrator may recommend bonds; a development agreement; reimbursement
of fees or impact fees of the applicant. The board of county commissioners
shall have the option of exclusively dealing with the issues of bonds,
reimbursement fees, and/or application fees, in the case of developments, which
are deemed by the board of county commissioners to be large enough in scale to
have significant impact on county services and infrastructure. In such case,
pursuant to the direction of the board of county commissioners, the planning
and zoning commission shall defer such matters to the board of county
commissioners.
The commission or administrator may impose and collect fees from the applicant
for the cost of monitoring and enforcement of standards. (Ord. 124, 2-21-2006)
10-8-3: PROCESS:
   A.   An application shall be submitted to the planning administrator. The
application shall include the following materials:
      1.   An affidavit by the property owner agreeing to the submission of the
development agreement.
      2.   A listing of any proposed modifications to the standards imposed by
other regulations of this title.
      3.   A legal description for the property subject to the development
agreement.
      4.   A project description shall be provided which sets forth the uses
proposed for the property subject to the development agreement describing the
following:
         a.   The specific uses proposed for the property.
         b.   The form, and name if available, of the organization proposed to
own and maintain any dedicated open space.
         c.   The proposed systems for water supply, sewage, and storm water
management.
         d.   The proposed covenants, grants, easements, or other restrictions
to be imposed upon the use of property and structures including any easements
for public utilities.
         e.   A project schedule and plan showing the proposed times when all
other applications subject to the development agreement are intended to be
filed, or in the case of a plan which provides for a development over a period
of years, the periods within which application for final approval of each phase
is intended to be filed.
         f.   Proposed financing for the necessary public facilities with or
without subsequent reimbursement over time.
         g.   Other terms and conditions related to the proposed project.
      5.   A draft development agreement prepared by the applicant in
conformance with a model agreement provided by the administrator.
   B.   The administrator shall forward the draft development agreement to the
board of county commissioners and the prosecuting attorney of Shoshone County
for review. The commission shall not make a recommendation upon the draft
development agreement prior to review by the prosecuting attorney.
   C.   The applicant or owner may sign the development agreement prior to
board action on the final development agreement.
   D.   Upon approval by the board, the development agreement shall be recorded
in the Shoshone County recorder's office. (Ord. 124, 2-21-2006)
10-8-4: GENERAL REGULATIONS:
   A.   A development agreement shall not prevent the board, in subsequent
actions applicable to the property, from adopting new ordinances, resolutions,
and regulations that conflict with those ordinances, resolutions and
regulations in effect at the time the agreement is made, except that any
subsequent action by the board shall not prevent the development of the
property as set forth in the approved development agreement.
   B.   The board of county commissioners may suspend the issuance of any
permits after a noticed public hearing if it finds that a clear and imminent
danger to the public health, safety, or welfare requires the suspension.
   C.   In the event that state or federal laws or regulations, enacted after a
development agreement has been entered into, prevent or preclude compliance
with one or more regulations of the development agreement, such agreement may
be amended or terminated as may be necessary to comply with the new state or
federal laws or regulations. (Ord. 124, 2-21-2006)
10-8-5: REQUIRED FINDING:
In order to approve the application, the board shall find that the proposed
development agreement complies with the regulations of this chapter. (Ord. 124,
2-21-2006)
10-8-6: PERIODIC REVIEW:
   A.   The administrator shall monitor the terms and conditions of the final
development agreement as set forth in the final development agreement. A more
frequent review may be undertaken at the administrator's discretion or at the
direction of the board.
      1.   As part of the review, the applicant, owner, or successor in
interest shall be required to demonstrate good faith compliance with the final
development agreement.
      2.   If the administrator finds that the applicant or owner has failed to
perform or comply with the terms of this agreement, the administrator shall
notify the applicant or owner of the failure of performance or compliance. If
after ninety (90) days the applicant or owner has not made a good faith effort
toward compliance with the terms of this agreement, the administrator shall
forward the development agreement to the board for review and action.
      3.   If the board finds and determines, on the basis of substantial
evidence, that the applicant, owner, or successor in interest has not complied
in good faith with the terms and/or conditions of the final development
agreement, action may be taken to terminate the agreement by the board. (Ord.
124, 2-21-2006)
10-8-7: AMENDMENT OR TERMINATION OF FINAL DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT:
A final development agreement may be amended or terminated in whole or in part,
by either a request of the parties to the agreement, or their successors in
interest, with approval by the board or by action initiated by the board as set
forth in this section.
   A.   Notice of intention to amend or terminate any portion of the final
development agreement shall be in accord with this section.
   B.   To amend a development agreement, the board shall make the required
finding as specified in section
10-8-5 of this chapter for approval of an amendment to the final development
agreement.
   C.   The board may terminate a final development agreement if one of
following applies:
      1.   The termination is requested by the parties to the agreement or
their successors in interest, and the board determines that the termination
would not be materially detrimental to the general public, health, safety, and
welfare of the county.
      2.   The board determines that the parties to the agreement, or their
successors in interest, have failed to comply with the terms of the development
agreement.
   D.   Any action by the board to amend or terminate a previously recorded
development agreement shall be recorded in the office of the Shoshone County
recorder by the clerk to the board. (Ord. 124, 2-21-2006)
