CITY CODE
of
SUN VALLEY, IDAHO
1990
Code current through:
Ord. 584, passed 6-5-2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
   This code of the City of Sun Valley, as supplemented, contains ordinances up
to and including ordinance 584, passed June 5, 2025. Ordinances of the City
adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the
extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the City
office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has
been amended, superseded or repealed.
      American Legal Publishing
      Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not affect the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
RESOLUTION 2023-12
RESOLUTION OF THE CITY OF SUN VALLEY, IDAHO, REVISING THE PLANNING AND ZONING
APPLICATION FEE SCHEDULE TO INCREASE APPLICATION FEES, AND INCLUDE
REIMBURSEMENT OF CITY ENGINEER AND ATTORNEY FEES FOR ALL APPLICATION TYPES, AND
REVISING THE BUILDING APPLICATION FEE SCHEDULE TO INCREASE THE FIRE PLAN CHECK
FEE
 
WHEREAS, the City of Sun Valley Community Development Department maintains a
planning and zoning application fee schedule and a building and grading permit
fee schedule; and
 
WHEREAS, the City of Sun Valley Community Development Department planning and
zoning application fee schedule was last updated in 2018 to include a fee for
applicants to reimburse the City for the cost of City Engineer review services
for a limited number of applications (September 6, 2018) and to revise
application fees, remove the fee for temporary signs, and add a fee fore
encroachment permits (October 18, 2018); and
 
WHEREAS, the City of Sun Valley Community Development Department building
permit fee schedule was updated in 2020 (Resolution 2020-13) to include a fee
for applicants to reimburse the City for the cost of City Engineer review
services, and was updated in 2022 to include impact fees (January 6 th , 2022,
Ord. 564); and
 
WHEREAS, the size and complexity of new planning and building projects is
increasing, requiring additional staff time for review, and additional
consultant review; and
 
WHEREAS, the parcels of land in city limits not previously developed are often
characterized by steep slopes and other environmental factors, such as wetlands
and streams, are these parcels are now being developed, which is also
increasing the staff and consultant resources necessary for review; and
 
WHEREAS, Exhibit A displays revisions to the planning and zoning application
fee schedule by indicating deletion of text with a strike-through feature and
addition of text with an underline feature; and
 
WHEREAS, Exhibit B displays revisions to the building fee table by indicating
deletion of text with a strike-through feature and addition of text with an
underline feature; and
 
WHEREAS, the City Council discussed revisions to the fee schedules during their
August 3 rd , 2023 meeting, followed by consideration of the fee schedule
during a public hearing noticed in accordance with Idaho State Statute 63-1311
on September 7 th , 2023.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SUN VALLEY,
IDAHO, that the City of Sun Valley approves revising the Community Development
Department’s planning and zoning application fee and building permit fee
schedules to increase application fees and to allow for City Engineer and City
Attorney fees to be paid by applicants on all application types.
 
 
   PASSED BY THE CITY COUNCIL AND APPROVED BY THE MAYOR THIS _______ DAY OF
SEPTEMBER, 2023

____________________________________
Peter M. Hendricks, Mayor
   
 
ATTEST:
 
 
________________________________
Nancy Flannigan, City Clerk
   
 
EXHIBIT A
 
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2299c78b80534ce5d04cf25b9a6ae06e6e31344a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1283_5580x1222.jpg]
 
 
 
City of Sun Valley Community Development Department Planning and Zoning
Application Fees
Updated  October 1, 2023
 
Category /  Application Type                 Fee (US$)                                                         Note
Service
Residential:
             Pre-Application Conference       $240                                                              (1,
                                                                                                                9)
             Design Review with the Planning   $1,500 for the initial / primary unit
             and Zoning Commission            $300 for each additional unit
             Administrative Design Review -    $375 for the first unit impacted, and landscape / exterior     (2,7,
             Major                            modifications                                                     9)
Design                                        $90 for each additional unit
Review       Administrative Design Review – $150 per unit                                                     (3,7,
             Minor                                                                                              9)
             Revisions to approved Design                                                                       (1,
             Review                           $150                                                              9)
             plans
             Extension of Design Review       $120 prior to expiration                                          (4,
             Approval                         60 days or less after expiration, 50% of the original fee or      9)
                                              $210, whichever is greater
Commercial:
             Pre-Application Conference       $240                                                              (1,
                                                                                                                9)
             New Commercial and Other          $1,500 base fee, plus
             Commercial Requiring Review by   $120 per 1,000 gross square feet (or portion thereof) Additional (5,
             the Planning and Zoning          $240 for a mixed-use development                                9)
             Commission
Design       Administrative Commercial        $420 base fee, plus                                                
Review       Remodel                          $90 per 1,000 gross square feet of new area (or portion thereof) (5,
                                              Additional $120 for a mixed-use development                     9)
             Revisions to approved Design
             Review                           25% of original application fee                                   (1,7)
             plans
             Extension of Design Review       $120 prior to expiration                                          (4,
             Approval                         60 days or less after expiration, 50% of the original fee or      9)
                                              $270, whichever is greater
 
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2299c78b80534ce5d04cf25b9a6ae06e6e31344a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1289_5220x1115.jpg]
 
 
 
 
City of Sun Valley
Community Development Department
Planning and Zoning Application Fees
Updated  October 1, 2023
Subdivisions:
              Pre-Application Conference for       $360                                                     (1,
              Subdivision                                                                                   9)
              Land Subdivision / Preliminary Plat  $330 per lot, plus
                                                   $36 per lot for the final plat                         (6,9)
              Townhouse / Condominium Subdivision  $270 per sub-lot, plus $180 per lot or unit, plus
                                                   $30 per lot for the final plat                         (6,9)
              Planned Unit Development (PUD)       $540 base fee, plus
                                                   $180 per lot or unit
                                                   Additional fees for Design Review, if any               (6,9)
              Plat Amendment, Replat, or Lot Line $270 per affected lot                                    (6,9)
              Shift
              Preliminary Plat Extension           $150 prior to expiration
                                                   60 days or less after expiration, 50% of the original    (4,
                                                   fee or                                                   9)
                                                   $210, whichever is greater
Planning &
Zoning        Comprehensive Plan Amendment         $1,750                                                   (6,
                                                                                                            9)
Amendment:    Development Code Amendment           $1,750                                                   (6,
                                                                                                            9)
              Official Zoning Map Amendment        $1,750                                                   (6,
                                                                                                            9)
              Area of City Impact Amendment        $900 and additional cost for updating ACI boundary map,(6,
              (Agreement / Map)                    if applicable                                           9)
                                                   $900 for 1 acre and less
              Annexation of Land to the City of  $1,800 for more than 1 ace but less than 5 acres
              Sun Valley                           $2,400 for more than 5 acres and up to 10 acres
                                                   For over 10 acres, $2,400 base fee, plus $180 per each   (6,
                                                   additional acre (or portion thereof)                    9)
 
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2299c78b80534ce5d04cf25b9a6ae06e6e31344a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1292_5400x1008.jpg]
 
 
 
 
City of Sun Valley
Community Development Department
Planning and Zoning Application Fees
Updated  October 1, 2023
Others:
Master Plan Development                     $2,550 base fee, plus
                                            $180 per lot or unit
                                            (Additional fees for
                                            Design Review, if     (6, 9)
                                            applicable)
Conditional Use Permit (CUP)                $950                  (6, 9)
Variance                                    $780                  (6, 9)
Appeal                                      $1,110                (8, 9)
Application to vacate a street, alley, or $420                  (6, 9)
subdivision
Sign Permit                                 $120                  (7,1, 9)
Flood Hazard Protection Permit              $1,200                (7,9)
Encroachment Permit                         $50                   (7, 9)
Notes:
(1) May be waived by the Community Development Director.
(2) A major residential remodel or addition is defined as being greater
than $42,000 in estimated total cost.
(3) A minor residential remodel includes decks, hot tubs, new pavers,
landscaping etc. at an estimated total cost of
less than $42,000.
(4) New application and fees are required if application is expired over
sixty (60) days.
(5) Mixed use refers to a project with both commercial and residential
uses.
(6) The cost of up to $150 for  publication of legal notices is included
in the application fee. Additional legal publication costs may be billed
to the applicant(s).
(7) May be administrative review, as determined by Community Development
Director.
(8) The cost for public and/or legal notices, as well as the cost of
verbatim transcripts, if any, may be billed to the
applicant(s).
(9) The cost for City Engineer and City Attorney review services may be
billed to the applicant(s).
 
 
EXHIBIT B
 
 
 
City of Sun Valley Impact Fees
Established by Ordinance No. 564; Effective January 6th, 2022
 
On December 6th, 2021 Sun Valley City Council adopted Ordinance No. 564, the
Impact Fee Ordinance. The Impact Fees are applicable to all new residential and
commercial development that receive a building permit after January 6th, 2022.
For multi-family and townhouse developments, each unit is assessed the Impact
Fee on an individual basis.
 
The Impact Fees are as follows:
 
Police
Residential (per Dwelling Unit)   $ 300.00
Non-Residential (per square foot)   $ 0.05
 
Fire
Residential (per Dwelling Unit)   $9,676.00
Non-Residential (per square foot)   $ 3.87
 
TOTAL Residential: $9,976 per residential dwelling unit
 
TOTAL non-residential: $3.92 per square foot for new commercial development
 
 
City of Sun Valley TABLE 1-A
Established by Resolution2023-12; Effective October 1, 2023
 
TABLE 1-A
TOTAL VALULATION             PERMIT FEES
$1.00 to $500.00             $24.75
                             $24.75 for the first $500.00 plus $3.20 for each
$501.00 to $2,000.00         additional $100.00 or fraction thereof, to and
                             including $2,000.
                             $410.75 for the first $25,000 plus $10.60 for each
$2001.00 to $50,000.00       additional $1,000 or fraction thereof, to and
                             including $50,000.
                             $676.00 for the first $50,000 plus $7.35 for each
$50,001.00 to $100,000.00    additional $1,000 or fraction thereof, to and
                             including $100,000.
                             $1043.50 for the first $100,000 plus $5.90 for
$100,001.00 to $500,000.00   each additional $1,000 or fraction thereof, to and
                             including $500,000.
                             $3,395.50 for the first $500,000 plus $5.00 for
$500,001.00 to $1,000,000.00 each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof, to
                             and including $1,000,000.
$1,000,001.00 and up         $5889.25 for the first $1,000,000 plus $3.85 for
                             each additional $1,000 or fraction thereof.
LOCAL JURISDICTIONAL PLAN CHECK FEES: 
Building Permit Fee shall be calculated according to the Table above. An
additional 65% of the Building Permit Fee shall be paid as Plan Check Fee
(Excluding: Additions, Alterations & Repairs to Residential Structures with a
valuation amount less than $50,000) and an additional amount, 40% of the Plan
Check fee, shall be paid for the Fire Department Plan Check Fee.
OTHER INSPECTIONS AND FEES:
Inspections outside of normal business hours (minimum charge - two hours):
$65.00 per hour*
Inspection for which no fee is specifically indicated (minimum fee - one half
hour): $65.00 per hour*
For use of outside consultants for plan checking and inspections or both:
Actual Costs**
Existing Deck Repair (minimum): $150.00
Re-Roof Permit (minimum): $150.00
Demolition Permit: $150.00 (flat fee)
Minimum Permit Charge: $150.00
Solar Permit Fee: $350.00 (flat fee)
Grading Permit Fee: Determined by the building permit fee table above based on
the total value of grading work.
City Engineer Fee: City engineer fees may be billed to an applicant and shall
be based on time and materials. ***
*Or the total hourly cost to the jurisdiction, whichever is the greatest. This
cost shall include supervision, overhead, equipment, hourly wages and fringe
benefits of the employees involved.
** Actual costs include administrative and overhead cost.
*** City engineer review may be required during the building permit review
process. Examples of projects which may require City engineer review include,
but are not limited to, proposed construction in avalanche risk or flood zone
areas. City engineer review may be determined to be required by the Community
Development Director or Building Official. City engineer review costs shall be
in addition to building permit fees of other inspections and fees, as
identified above.
OTHER INSPECTIONS AND FEES:
Inspections outside of normal business hours (minimum charge - two hours):
$65.00 per hour*
Inspection for which no fee is specifically indicated (minimum fee - one half
hour): $65.00 per hour*
For use of outside consultants for plan checking and inspections or both:
Actual Costs**
Existing Deck Repair (minimum): $150.00
Re-Roof Permit (minimum): $150.00
Demolition Permit: $150.00 (flat fee)
Minimum Permit Charge: $150.00
Solar Permit Fee: $350.00 (flat fee)
Grading Permit Fee: Determined by the building permit fee table above based on
the total value of grading work.
City Engineer Fee: City engineer fees may be billed to an applicant and shall
be based on time and materials. ***
*Or the total hourly cost to the jurisdiction, whichever is the greatest. This
cost shall include supervision, overhead, equipment, hourly wages and fringe
benefits of the employees involved.
** Actual costs include administrative and overhead cost.
*** City engineer review may be required during the building permit review
process. Examples of projects which may require City engineer review include,
but are not limited to, proposed construction in avalanche risk or flood zone
areas. City engineer review may be determined to be required by the Community
Development Director or Building Official. City engineer review costs shall be
in addition to building permit fees of other inspections and fees, as
identified above.
 
City of Sun Valley Fire Permit Fees
 
FIRE PERMITS
Fire permits are issued for work defined exclusively under the provisions of
the International Fire Code. Examples of work requiring a fire permit include
but are not limited to tents, canopies, membrane structures, and temporary
structures. (Note: a Fire Permit and associated Fire Permit fees are different
than the Fire Plan Check fee discussed and included with the Fee Table
associated with Building Permits.)
 
FIRE PERMIT FEES
Fire permit fees shall be determined by the Fire Code Official or Fire Chief.
 
 
 
 
 
ORDINANCE NO. 582
AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF SUN VALLEY, IDAHO, AMENDING TITLE 9, DEVELOPMENT
CODE, CHAPTER 3, DESIGN AND DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS, ARTICLE A. DESIGN REVIEW
REGULATIONS OF THE SUN VALLEY MUNICIPAL CODE
WHEREAS, the City of Sun Valley municipal code contains Design Review standards
that ensure development is designed and built in a manner that is context
sensitive, protects the natural landscape, is of high quality design and is
compatible with the character and scale of the surrounding neighborhood; and
 
WHEREAS, wildfire events have increased locally and within the region since the
time the Design Review regulations were last substantially updated in 2006, via
Ordinance 382, which led to recent amendments in May 2025, via Ordinance 578,
that encourage landscaping practices intended to mitigate wildfire event; and
 
WHEREAS, major wildfire events that have occurred locally and regionally
including Castle Rock (2007, 48,000 acres burned), Beaver Creek (2013, 114,000
acres burned), Sharps Fire (2018, 65,000 acres burned), Glendale (lighting
ignited 9/2/2024, 7,000+ acres) and the Wapiti Fire (110,000+ acres); and
 
WHEREAS, the exterior materials used to construct buildings, and the types of
materials and vegetation present within five feet of a structure (the Zero-to-
Five-Foot or Immediate Zone), have significant bearing on a structure’s ability
to survive a wildfire event; and
 
WHEREAS, due to increased wildfire risks regionally and locally the property
insurance industry has been issuing non-renewal statements, increasing rate
premiums, and declining to issue new policies, making it difficult for Sun
Valley property owners to insure and protect their properties;
 
WHEREAS, the ability to obtain and retain property insurance policies has a
direct economic impact on the Sun Valley economy; and
 
WHEREAS, the City of Sun Valley deems it necessary to enact Design Review
standards that encourage the use of non-combustible exterior materials and
firewise construction methods; and
 
WHEREAS, the City of Sun Valley held public hearings with the Planning and
Zoning Commission regarding Ordinance 582 on May 22nd, June 26th, and July
14th, 2025; and
 
WHEREAS, the City of Sun Valley held public hearings with the City Council for
Ordinance 582 on August 7th, September 4th, and October 2nd 2025; and    
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Mayor and City Council of the City of Sun
Valley, Idaho, as follows:
 
SECTION 1: Title 9, Chapter 3, Article A. Design Review Regulations shall be
amended as indicated in Exhibit A.
 
SECTION 2: REPEALER. All previous ordinances, resolutions, orders, or parts
thereof, that are in in conflict are hereby repealed.
 
SECTION 3: SAVINGS AND SEVERABILITY. It is hereby declared to be the
legislative intent that the provisions and parts of this ordinance shall be
severable. If any paragraph, part, section, subsection, sentence, clause or
phrase of this ordinance is held to be invalid for any reason by a court of
competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions of this ordinance.
 
SECTION 4: EFFECTIVE DATE. This ordinance shall be in full force and effect
after its passage, approval, and publication, according to law.
 
 
PASSED BY THE CITY COUNCIL AND APPROVED BY THE MAYOR THIS __2nd ____ DAY OF
____October______, 2025.
 
                     APPROVED:
 
 
                     ________________________
                     Peter M. Hendricks, Mayor
                  
 
ATTEST:
 
 
_______________________                                                                                                                               
Nancy Flannigan, City Clerk
 
 
ARTICLE A. DESIGN REVIEW REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-3A-1: Purpose
9-3A-2: Applicability
9-3A-3: Evaluation Standards
9-3A-4: Completion Of Improvements
9-3A-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the design review standards isare to ensure that development is
designed and built in a manner that is context sensitive, complementary to
adjacent property, protects the natural landscape, is of high design quality,
and is compatible with the character and scale of the neighborhood. These
standards are intended to prohibit buildings and related improvements that
significantly impact the natural, scenic character and aesthetic value of
hillsides, ridgelines, ridge tops, knolls, saddles, and summits in the city.
(Ord. 382, 10-25-2006)
9-3A-2: APPLICABILITY:
A.   Application Of Standards: These standards shall apply to:
1.   Driveways, streets or trails;
2.   Excavation or land alteration;
3.   Any new building or structure;
4.   Other improvements including, but not limited to, decks over thirty inches
(30"), fences, walls, landscaping, and lighting;
5.   Commercial, multi-tenant, or directional signs;
6.   Substantial demolition of significant principal structures or facilities,
as determined by the director; and
7.   Any addition or alteration to the exterior of any existing building,
structure, or other related improvement as described above.
B.   Application Approval Required: No construction shall commence on any new
building, structure, related improvement, or sign nor on any addition or
alteration to the exterior of any existing building, structure, related
improvement, or sign until the commission or its designee has approved the
design review application for the proposed improvement. No application shall be
considered for review until it is certified complete by the director or his/her
authorized staff in accordance with chapter 5 of this title.
C.   Projects Exempt from Application Processes:
1.   The following types of projects are exempt from design review application
processes and approvals, but must still comply with all applicable design
review regulations, zoning district standards, and other code requirements
without requiring a variance or other exception:
a.   Landscaping alterations up to the lesser of four hundred (400) square feet
or ten percent (10%) of the property provided record grade slopes exceeding
twenty-five percent (25%) are not disturbed.
b.   Changes to driveway materials only, without hydronic or heating systems;
title 7, chapter 4, "Encroachments," of this code may still apply when working
in the right of way.
c.   Removal of trees lesser than eight inches (8") diameter at breast height
(dbh).
d.   Removal of any high-risk, diseased, declining, or dead tree as certified
by an International Society of Arboriculture (ISA) Certified Arborist, American
Society of Consulting Arborist, or arborist holding a certification by other
arboriculture certification bodies, provided stumps and root systems remain in
place for trees located within a Stream Buffer required by Chapter 3, Article
J., Riparian Zones.
e. Removal of trees greater than eight inches (8") diameter breast height (dbh)
that pose an immediate threat to safety, as determined by the Community
Development Director or their designee.
f.   Reroofing from shake to a Class A fire rated roof coveringcomposition
shingles. Class A represents the highest rating of fire protection achievable,
indicating a flame spread of 0-25 and smoke development between 0-450 verified
by approved testing agencies.
g.   Replacing existing components or materials which are similar in color,
nature, and styling.
h.   Interior remodels, except where such remodels require the installation of
fire suppression systems.
i.   Repainting the exterior of a residence or unit in a neutral, natural,
earth toned color.
2.   The community development director, or his/her assignee, may issue a
letter or form declaring the project exempt, if requested or determined to be
necessary.
3.   If extenuating circumstances are present, the director may require any
project to submit a design review application for the project to the commission
for review and approval.
4.   Approvals, denials, and imposed conditions may all be appealed in writing
to the commission within ten (10) calendar days from the date of the action.
D.   Projects Requiring Approval by Public Hearing At The Commission:
1.   The following types of projects must receive design review approval by the
planning and zoning commission:
a.   Demolition.
b.   New construction.
c.   Additions greater than twenty five percent (25%) of the original floor
area in residential zoning districts (For additions less than or equal to
twenty-five percent (25%), use subsection F of this section).
d.   Exterior alterations in the CC, SC, and PI zoning districts, excluding
alterations to windows and doors, including the addition of doors, windows, and
skylights.
e.   Any development in the REC and OS zoning districts.
f.   Manufactured home installation and placement.
g.   Changes of principal use.
h.   Projects subject to hillside development standards in article H of this
chapter; excluding minor encroachments or disturbances of slopes exceeding
twenty-five percent (25%) record grade that may be approved through the
administrative design review process with notice to adjoining property owners.
i.   Projects located within riparian zones in article J of this chapter.
j.   Wireless facilities and overhead utilities, in all zones and within the
right -of-way.
E.   Projects Requiring Administrative Approvals Without Public Notice:
1.   The following types of projects may receive design review approval
administratively by the community development department but do not require
public notice or comment; the projects must still comply with all applicable
design review regulations, zoning district standards, and other code
requirements without requiring a variance or other exception:
a.   Address monuments.
b.   Alterations to windows and doors, including the addition of doors,
windows, and skylights.
c.   Decks and deck extensions under one hundred fifty (150) square feet in the
RS-1 and RA zones.
d.   Ground floor decks and deck extensions under one hundred fifty (150)
square feet in all other zones.
e.   Additions of habitable floor area less than one hundred (100) square feet
which do not require a plat amendment.
f.   Additions of non-habitable floor area less than two hundred (200) square
feet which do not require a plat amendment.
g.   Signs, other than monument style signs, per article F of this chapter.
h.   Fences, wherein approval is provided by directly adjacent neighbors.
i.   Trellises and arbors less than two hundred (200) square feet.
j.   Interior remodels requiring fire sprinkler installations.
k.   Temporary use permits.
l.   Floodplain development permits, and stream alteration permits, provided
the following noticing requirements specific to stream alteration and contained
in Article I., Flood Hazard Protection, are met: notice to adjacent
jurisdictions, the Idaho Department of Water Resources (IDWR) state coordinator
for the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP), and the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA).
m.   Changes to exterior lighting which is compliant with article B of this
chapter.
n. Removal of trees located within one hundred feet (100’) of a structure in
order to enhance survivable space. Survivable space is the area around a
structure that has been cleared of combustible materials in order to slow the
spread of fire. For measurement of the distance from a structure Geographic
Information Systems (GIS) measuring tools, in conjunction with aerial imagery
of the subject property, may be utilized.
i. When a tree is located within fifteen feet (15’) from the mean high-water
mark of a natural perennial or intermittent stream, or a stream buffer required
by Chapter 3, Article J., Riparian Zones, trees may be cut down provided the
tree stumps and root systems remain in place.
ii. When an application proposes to remove trees within one hundred feet (100’)
of a structure located on an adjacent parcel, and the application includes
removal of trees within a required setback for the subject parcel, courtesy
notification to the adjacent property owner is required. The city shall mail a
courtesy notice to inform the owner of the adjacent parcel of pending tree
removal action. The courtesy notice does not require a public comment time
period prior to the city taking action on the application.
In Figure 1. below Property A represents the applicant proposing to remove
trees and Property B is the property containing a structure within one hundred
feet (100’) of the subject trees. In accordance with this subsection, a
courtesy notification would be required to be mailed to the owner of Property
B.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2299c78b80534ce5d04cf25b9a6ae06e6e31344a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1705.gif]
2.   The community development director, or his/her assignee, shall issue a
letter or form approving the project, if the project complies with all mandated
code standards without requiring a variance or exception; such an approval may
include reasonable conditions to mitigate impacts of the proposed action.
3.   If extenuating circumstances are present, the director may make a finding
in that regard and refer the project to the commission for review and approval.
4.   Approvals, denials, and imposed conditions may all be appealed in writing
to the commission within ten (10) calendar days from the date of the action.
F.   Projects Requiring Administrative Approvals With Notice:
1.   Any proposal subject to a land use or building permit that encroaches into
with a structure, or otherwise disturbs, record grade slopes exceeding 25%.
2.   Any other project types not specifically identified in subsection C, D, or
E of this section, and not requiring any exception or variance, will be
reviewed administratively by the community development director after
appropriate public notice in accordance with section 9-5A-5 of this title.
a. This includes tree removal actions not specifically identified in subsection
C, D, or E of this section.
3.   The community development director, or his/her assignee, shall issue a
letter or form approving the project, if the project complies with all mandated
code standards without requiring a variance or exception; such an approval may
include reasonable conditions to mitigate impacts of the proposed action.
4.   If extenuating circumstances are present, the director may make a finding
in that regard and refer the project to the commission for review and approval.
5.   Approvals, denials, and imposed conditions may all be appealed in writing
to the commission within ten (10) calendar days from the date of the action.
(Ord. 382, 10-25-2006; amd. Ord. 502, 2-2-2017; Ord. 563, 2021; Ord. 578 05-01-
2025; Ord. 582 10-02-2025)
 
9-3A-3: EVALUATION STANDARDS:
The following criteria shall be used in evaluating proposed developments
seeking design review approval and shall be the basis for the findings as set
forth in chapter 5 of this title.
A.   Design And Siting:
1.   The design of proposed improvements, including landscaping and other site
improvements, is appropriate and compatible with the lot and the surrounding
neighborhood. Attention has been given to the location and design of streets,
view corridors, privacy of adjacent properties, outdoor spaces, survivable
space, fire-resistant construction methodologies, including the use of fire-
resistant and non-combustible materials, shadows, solar access, view access,
lighting, vehicular access, building massing, locations of noise generating
equipment, and openings and doors as these elements impact adjacent properties.
Survivable space is the area around a structure that has been cleared of
combustible materials in order to slow the spread of fire. Non-combustible
means a material that, under the conditions anticipated, will not ignite or
burn when subjected to fire or heat. Fire-resistant means materials that are
designed and rated to prevent the spread of fire, smoke, and heat for a
specified period of time.
2.   The location and design of the proposed improvements, including
landscaping and other site improvements, has given consideration to special
sites of historical, natural, ecological, architectural, archaeological, and
scenic value or significance, including, but not limited to, those identified
in the city's comprehensive plan. The essential character of special sites
should be preserved and protected with any proposed site or structure
improvements.
3.   The siting of the proposed improvements complies with the adopted uniform
fire code and any other applicable regulations regarding emergency vehicle
access and circulation as set forth in title 7 of this code. 
4.   The proposed improvements are sited to meet the ingress, egress, and
driveway standards and requirements set forth in title 7 of this code, and the
siting standard in subsection A1 of this section.
5.   The proposed improvements are sited to take into consideration and to
mitigate natural hazards such as floodplains , and avalanches, and wildfires,
as set forth in this chapter. Mitigation measures shall not adversely impact
other properties.
6.   The siting of the proposed improvements minimizes interference with
natural drainage patterns and is designed to minimize adverse impact on other
properties. All drainage shall comply with the standards set forth in title 7
of this code; be contained on site, or be connected to drainage easements or
rights of way. No drainage shall be diverted off site onto private property.
7.   The site design provides for adequate space or means to maintain snow
storage. Hardscape, gravel, and other non-combustible materials, when located
within the zero-to-five-foot Immediate Zone, are exempt from snow storage
requirements. Otherwise, Ssnow storage areas are in accordance with the
requirements set forth in article G of this chapter.
8.   Appropriate address numbers and monuments are shown in accordance with the
requirements as set forth in article G of this chapter.
9.   The siting of the proposed improvements, including streets and driveways,
where applicable, minimizes hillside visibility and, where applicable,
skylining by using a combination of stepped building forms, natural colors and
materials, sloped roofs, and landscaping.
10.   Every lot shall be designed to be connected to public water and sewer
systems, unless the property is over five hundred feet (500') from a public
system as measured from the closest property line and an alternative utility
system is approved by the city engineer.
B.   Grading:
1.   Essential grading is shaped to blend with natural landforms and to
minimize the necessity of padding and/or terracing of building sites. Cut and
fill are shaped, rounded, minimized and nonuniform to simulate natural existing
contours.
2.   Areas which are not well suited for development because of existing soil
conditions, ridges, ridgelines, ridge tops, knolls, saddles, summits, wildlife
habitat, natural features or hydrology are allocated for open site area or
recreational uses.
3.   The development is in accordance with the design criteria, as applicable,
as set forth in article H of this chapter and title 7 of this code.
C.   Architectural Quality:
1.   The proposed project maintains the quality of materials and design that is
appropriate to the location, the lot and the neighborhood.
2.   The proposed improvements conform to natural landscape features by
minimizing the degree of cuts and fills.
3.   The plan includes the location of all exterior lighting. All lighting
shall be directed onto the subject lot and shall not be directed towards other
properties.
4.   Building design includes weather protection that prevents water from
dripping or snow from sliding onto pedestrian or vehicle areas or onto adjacent
properties.
5.   Any exterior addition or alteration to an existing building is compatible
with the design character of the original building. Any new detached structure
is compatible with the design character of the existing buildings and/or
structure(s).
6.   All improvements are designed to minimize light and sound emanating to
other properties as set forth in article B of this chapter.
7.   Rooftop chimneys and utilities are enclosed and design is consistent with
the primary structure.
D. Wildland Fire Resistant Design: This subsection contains evaluation criteria
intended to mitigate risk to structures due to wildland fire events, thereby
enhancing health, safety, and general welfare. The criteria herein are not
intended to prevent the use of alternative methodology that has been
demonstrated to mitigate wildland fire risk to structures, or to limit the use
of new technologies or construction methods that emerge after adoption of this
subsection. In addition to the evaluation criteria contained within this
subsection all new construction, additions to existing structures, and
alterations to existing structures are encouraged to incorporate fire-resistant
construction techniques detailed in the latest publication of the International
Code Council Wildland-Urban Interface (IWUI) code and the Insurance Institute
for Business and Home Safety’s National Fire Protection Association
publications, where practical.
1. Zero-to-Five-Foot Non-Combustible or Immediate Zone: In addition to
landscaping and other standards discussed in Article A. Design Review
Regulations, all new construction, all additions to existing structures, and
all landscape alteration projects are encouraged to create and maintain a non-
combustible zone within the first zero to five feet (5’) in width as measured
from the perimeter of a structure’s foundation and any appendages attached to
the structure such as decks, fences, porte cocheres, pergolas, and utility
screening. Concrete, metal, gravel, bricks and pavers are examples of non-
combustible materials.
a. Vegetation: Plants, trees, grasses, shrubs and other forms of vegetation are
generally discouraged from being located in the Immediate Zone, however, low-
growing shrubs, ornamental grasses, and perennials that are considered highly
fire-resistant according to publications such as the Fire Resistance of Plants
Master Database for Southern Idaho, and are widely spaced and sparsely planted,
are acceptable.
i. All trees however are encouraged to be sited in locations that will ensure
limbs and branches, at maturity, maintain a ten foot (10’) distance from all
structures, including fences and other accessory structures. The intent is to
reduce the spread of fire from the tree canopy to adjacent structures.
b. Exterior furnishings and accessories made from combustible materials, as
well as wood mulch, and firewood are discouraged from being located within the
Zero-to-Five-Foot Non-combustible or Immediate Zone.
2. Decks, fences, and other appendages to buildings:
a. First story decks: New first story decks, deck expansions, and existing
decks that are being reconstructed are encouraged to be constructed with fire-
resistant materials or to be designed and constructed as a hardscape patio
instead. All first story decks are encouraged to have ember- resistant
screening installed in such a manner to prevent leaves and other debris, as
well as embers, from accumulating underneath the deck. Parcels with existing
decks that undergo other landscape alteration activities are encouraged to
retrofit existing first story decks with ember-resistant screening.
b. Second story and above decks: New second story and above decks, deck
expansions, and decks that are being reconstructed are encouraged to be
constructed with fire-resistant materials. This includes use of non-combustible
posts, or posts clad in non-combustible materials, use of non- combustible
railings and use of non-combustible surface materials.
c. Fences, walls, retaining walls, screens, and dog runs are encouraged to be
constructed of non- combustible materials within the Immediate Zone (Zero-to-
Five-Foot Non-combustible Zone) of all structures. Fences, walls, retaining
walls, screens and dog runs are encouraged to have non- combustible edging
located at grade in order to mitigate the spread of fire.
d. Other appendages: Other appendages such as utility screening fences and
enclosures are encouraged to be constructed of fire-resistant materials and to
be designed in a manner that mitigates the accumulation of debris or embers
within and adjacent to the appendage.
3. Cladding: Cladding installed on new construction, additions to existing
structures, and replacement cladding installed on existing structures is
encouraged to be non-combustible. Non-combustible materials that are high-
quality and otherwise consistent with Article A, Design Review, are preferred.
Additionally, the use of specialized paint or coatings that enhance the fire or
ignition resistance of building materials is encouraged, provided ongoing
maintenance occurs in alignment with manufacture’s specification.
4. Windows and Doors: Where feasible, dual-tempered pane glass is encouraged
for all fenestration for new construction, additions, and window and door
replacement projects. Non-combustible materials are encouraged to be used for
all fenestration assemblies as well. Use of dual-tempered pane glass is highly
encouraged in locations where vegetation is located within the Zero-to-Five-
Foot Non-combustible Zone.
5. Gutters: New construction, additions, and gutter replacement projects are
encouraged to install non- combustible gutters with guards that prevent the
accumulation of leaves or embers within the gutters.
6. Soffits and rafters: All new construction and additions are encouraged to
utilize enclosed soffits and to enclose rafters. Exterior remodels to existing
structures are encouraged to utilize enclosed soffits and to enclose rafters.
7. Openings: Ember-resistant screens are encouraged to be used for all
penetrations and openings to new and existing structures, in accordance with
applicable building codes and appliance manufacturer’s specifications, with the
exception of plumbing vents.
DE.   Pedestrian And Vehicle Circulation Design:
1.   Pedestrian and vehicle accesses are provided that meet the requirements
set forth in title 7 of this code and comply with the current and future
circulation plans for streets and nonvehicular paths contained in the 2015 Sun
Valley transportation plan and any amendments thereto.
2.   The site plan provides for safe and uninhibited traffic flow both within
the project and onto adjacent streets. Site distances and proper signage are in
accordance with title 7 of this code.
3.   Parking areas meet aisle dimensions, backup space and turning radius
requirements in accordance with title 7 of this code.
4.   Parking areas are designed to minimize adverse impacts upon living areas
and upon adjacent properties with regard to noise, light, and visual impact.
5.   Unobstructed access for fire and emergency vehicles complies with title 8
of this code and other applicable city regulations. Unobstructed access for
snowplows, garbage trucks and similar service vehicles is provided to all
necessary locations within the project.
EF.   Landscaping Quality: "Landscaping" is defined in Chapter 1, Article C,
Definitions. In addition to the criteria contained in 9-3A-3-A-1 and 9-3A-3-A-
2, and 9-3A-3-D, landscape plans shall be evaluated with the criteria in this
section. In addition, application materials shall include a narrative statement
addressing the criteria in this section.
1. Landscape plans and renderings shall identify the proposed height range of
each vegetation species at the time of planting and the potential height range
of each vegetation species at maturity.
2.   Landscape materials and vegetation types and sizes specified are
appropriate and readily adaptable to the microclimate and soil conditions of
the project location. Fire-resistant, native drought resistant, and winter
hardy plant materials are encouraged.
3. Landscape materials and vegetation types, planting locations, and planting
density take into consideration survivable space around a structure at the time
of planting and at maturity. The spacing, density, and placement of landscaping
at the time of planting and at maturity shall ensure that firefighters can
easily navigate around a structure’s perimeter.
a. As stated in subsection D, Wildland Fire Resistant Design, all trees are
encouraged to be sited in locations that will ensure limbs and branches, at
maturity, maintain a ten-foot (10’) distance from all structures, including
fences and other accessory structures. The intent is to reduce the spread of
fire from the tree canopy to adjacent structures.
4. Tree species with potential mature heights that do not exceed the height of
the building or structure being screened are recommended and encouraged in
order to mitigate impacts to view corridors. In addition, consideration to view
corridors shall be given with respect to the potential mature heights of trees
planted within required setbacks. In order to mitigate crown fires, the spacing
between tree canopies at mature height should be considered, with greater space
provided relative to the trees’ potential mature height.
5. The locations of tree and shrub species that sucker (the growth of new
shoots from the base of the tree, shrub, or its roots) should be evaluated in
terms of their immediate planting density at time of planting as well as long-
term density at maturity. Landscape plans shall identify trees and shrub
species that sucker. Trees and shrubs that sucker are discouraged from being
planted within thirty feet (30’) from structures in order to promote survivable
space.
6. For all vegetation planted in required property setbacks the impact of
canopy shading on ground cover vegetation, suckering (the growth of new shoots
from the base of the tree, shrub, or its roots), and canopy and root system
encroachment into adjacent properties and rights-of-ways should be evaluated.
The planting of vegetation in property setbacks that has the potential to
become denser (due to suckering or canopy growth) or to have negative off-site
impacts (due to suckering or root system growth) is discouraged, except in
instances where such vegetation enhances a riparian zone.
7. Japanese yew (Taxus cuspidata), European or English yew (Taxus baccata), and
Chinese yew (Taxus chinensis) and their hybrids are prohibited due to their
toxicity to animals, including wildlife, and humans.    
38.   Existing trees, shrub masses, and important landscape features are
encouraged to be preserved when a site is developed or redeveloped, where
reasonable, and when not in conflict with other criteria in this section. The
removal of trees, shrubs, and nonhazardous plant materials is generally limited
to those essential for a sensitive development of the site, and to create
survivable space around structures.
49.   Landscape buffer areas that provide screening between adjacent
properties, different land use zones, and between streets and off-street
parking lots are provided. Landscape buffers should balance the benefits of
screening and buffering with the benefits of selecting fire-resistant
vegetation species, greater spacing, and lower density of plantings in order to
reduce the spread of wildfires. Street trees, public courtyards and appropriate
pedestrian and bicycle path linkages are encouraged.
10. The ability to prune, irrigate, service or otherwise maintain all
vegetation and landscaping materials has informed the siting and locations of
all such improvements. (Ord. 382, 10-25-2006; Ord. 578 05-01-2025)
FG.   Irrigation Limits:
1.   In order to fairly distribute available domestic irrigation water to all
residential lots and parcels served by the Sun Valley Water and Sewer District,
the total area of any lot or parcel irrigated with Sun Valley water and sewer
district water shall not exceed the following:
a.   For RA and RS-1 single-family lots, the total area of all irrigated
portions of the lot or parcel shall not exceed twenty two thousand (22,000)
square feet (approximately 1/2 acre).
b.   For RS-2 cluster single-family development parcels, and for RM-1 and RM-
2 multiple-family development parcels, the total area of all irrigated portions
of the development parcel shall not exceed fifty percent (50%) of the total
development parcel size or one-half (1/2) acre of irrigated area per acre of
development parcel.
c.   Temporary irrigation for revegetation of areas that were disturbed during
construction and that when included exceed the maximum allowable irrigated area
set forth herein, may be allowed up to two (2) growing seasons after landscape
completion to irrigate and revegetate the disturbed areas. Application
materials shall include a narrative statement addressing how the irrigation
system is zoned and the methodology that will be used to decommission temporary
irrigation.
d.   When trees are approved in "natural grass areas" where there is little or
no irrigation planned or installed, a subsurface drip system that does not
irrigate beyond the "drip line" of the tree or trees may be installed to water
just the trees and as such, will not count as part of the irrigation limits set
forth above. (Ord. 421, 1-21-2010; Ord. 578, 05-01-2025)
GH.   Fences, Walls, Retaining Walls, Screens, And Dog Runs:
1.   Fences, screens, and dog runs are designed to be consistent with the
architectural character of the structures on the property.
2.   Fencing and screening materials are finished on both sides.
3.   Fences, walls, retaining walls, screens, and dog runs are in accordance
with the requirements set forth in article G, "Standard Regulations", of this
chapter, including the provision that in all zoning districts, fences, screens,
retaining walls, and freestanding walls may be approved in excess of the
maximum height limit through the design review process. (Ord. 455, 12-6-2012)
4. Fences, walls, retaining walls and dog runs are encouraged to be designed
consistent with the guidelines included in subsection D.
HI.   Sign Design:
1.   Consideration shall be given to sign location, configuration, scale,
design, materials, and colors in evaluating sign applications.
2.   Sign materials shall be predominately natural such as, but not limited to,
wood, native stone, or integrally colored stucco. Plastic and other machine
made materials are discouraged.
3.   Signs and supporting structures shall be architecturally compatible with
the surrounding
4.   Signs comply with the requirements set forth in article F of this chapter.
IJ.   Exterior Lighting:
1.   All light sources shall comply with an approved exterior lighting plan as
set forth in article B of this chapter.
JK.   Additional Evaluation Standards For Commercial, Public, And Multiple-Unit
Projects (PUDs, RM-1, RM-2, SC, CC And OS-1 Zones, And Condominium And
Townhouse Projects):
1.   Proposed improvements are designed to maximize usable public/common space
throughout the project.
2.   Building walls that are exposed to street(s) are designed proportionally
to human scale through the use of stepped building walls; undulating building
walls; windows; balconies; mixture of materials, textures, and colors; and
other architectural means.
3.   Exterior circulation to public sidewalks and streets is provided.
Sidewalks and thoroughfares that are covered by awnings, arcades, or other
canopies for weather protection are encouraged.
4.   Service and delivery vehicle (garbage, supplies, laundry, etc.) access,
circulation, and areas are appropriate for the size of the development. Access,
circulation, snow storage, and screened trash and storage areas are depicted on
the plans using flow diagrams. (Ord. 382, 10-25-2006; amd. Ord. 421, 1-21-
2010; Ord. 578, 05-01-2025)
9-3A-4: COMPLETION OF IMPROVEMENTS:
An applicant shall follow the procedures set forth below to ensure substantial
completion of the proposed project and improvements according to the plans and
specifications as approved:
A.   Agreement: The applicant shall complete the construction of the
improvements according to the approved plans, specifications, and findings of
fact.
B.   Time Limitations: Approval duration and extensions of approvals shall
follow the regulations contained in section 9-5A-8.
C.   Request For Surety Guarantee: When a Certificate of Occupancy or
Completion for the Building Permit associated with the Design Review
application is sought, if non-life safety improvements approved through Design
Review are not completed the applicant shall do one of the following:
1.   Post a performance or completion bond for one hundred fifty percent (150%)
of the estimated cost to complete the improvements specified in the approved
plans, specifications and findings of fact. Or;
2.   Post an irrevocable letter of credit with a bank or lending institution
acceptable to the city for one hundred fifty percent (150%) of the estimated
cost to complete the improvements specified in the approved plans,
specifications, and findings of fact.
D.   Written Estimate: A written estimate for the cost to complete all
improvements and specifications according to the approved Findings of Fact
shall be submitted and approved by the director or their designee. (Ord. 418,
2-19- 2009; Ord. 578, 05-01-2025)
 
 
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL MUNICIPAL CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon the adoption by the city council, this code is hereby declared to be and
shall hereafter constitute the official code of the city. This code of
ordinances shall be known and cited as the CITY OF SUN VALLEY MUNICIPAL CODE
and it is hereby published by authority of the council and shall be kept up to
date as provided in section
1-1-3 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this code by title in any legal documents. (1990 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
The city code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be offered
in all courts and in administrative tribunals of this state as the ordinances
of the city of general and permanent effect, except the excluded ordinances
enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (1990 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending the city code shall set forth the title, chapter and
section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this code. Each such replacement page shall be
properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of the city
code. (1990 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages may
be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by the
city council. The city clerk shall see that the replacement pages are properly
inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of the clerk. Any
person having in his custody an official copy of the city code shall make every
effort to maintain said code in an up to date and efficient manner. He shall
see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement pages when such are
delivered to him or made available to him through the office of the city clerk.
Said code books, while in actual possession of officials and other interested
persons, shall be and remain the property of the city and shall be returned to
the office of the clerk when directed to do so by order of the city council.
(1990 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-5: Change From Village To City
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the city passed prior to the adoption of this code
are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this code or are by
necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances; appropriation
ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations; franchise
ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances
establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public places;
improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to elections;
ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the
city; and all special ordinances. (1990 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this code or by virtue of the
preceding section, excepting as this code may contain provisions for such
matters, in which case this code shall be considered as amending such ordinance
or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (1990 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former ordinance
whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to any offense
committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any penalty,
forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising
under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such offense
or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so
incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance takes
effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform to the
ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as practicable. If
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment be mitigated by any provision of a new
ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party affected, applied to
any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes effect.
This section shall extend to all repeals, either by express words or
implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any new provisions
upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as abating any action now pending
under or by virtue of any general ordinance of the city herein repealed and the
provisions of all general ordinances contained in this code shall be deemed to
be continuing provisions and not a new enactment of the same provision; nor
shall this chapter be deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering
any penalty accrued or to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person,
firm or corporation, or as waiving any right of the city under any ordinance or
provision thereof in force at the time of the adoption of this code. (1990
Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this code or any part thereof is for any reason held to be unconstitutional
or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision
shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of the remaining portions of
this code, or any part thereof. The city council hereby declares that it would
have passed each section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause
or phrase thereof, individually and without reference to the other,
irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections, subsections,
subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases be declared
unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective. (1990 Code)
1-2-5: CHANGE FROM VILLAGE TO CITY:
All bylaws, ordinances and resolutions lawfully passed and in force in the city
of Sun Valley, Idaho, under its former organization as the village of Sun
Valley, Idaho, shall remain in full force and effect until altered or repealed
by the mayor and city council. (Ord. 16, 8-1-1967; amd. 1990 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: Definitions, General
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
Whenever any word in any section of this code importing the plural number is
used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or persons, any single
matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included, although distributive
words may not have been used. When any subject matter, party or person is
referred to in this code by words importing the singular number only, or the
masculine gender, several matters, parties or persons and females as well as
males and bodies corporate shall be deemed to be included; provided, that these
rules of construction shall not be applied to any section of this code which
contains any express provision excluding such construction or where the subject
matter or context may be repugnant thereto.
The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the city has been changed
in the content of this code to "title", "chapter", "section" and/or
"subsection" or words of like import for organizational and clarification
purposes only. Such change to the city's ordinances is not meant to amend
passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (1990 Code)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another.
CITY: The city of Sun Valley, county of Blaine, state of Idaho.
CITY CODE: The municipal code of the city of Sun Valley. Municipal code and
city code shall be synonymous.
EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this code to a city employee by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the city of
Sun Valley".
FEE: A sum of money charged by the city for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
INFRACTION: A civil public offense, not constituting a crime, punishable by a
penalty not exceeding one hundred dollars ($100.00) and for which no
incarceration may be imposed 1 .
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
MISDEMEANOR: Any offense not defined as a felony or infraction under state law
2 . Except in cases where a different punishment is prescribed by the Idaho
Code or by this code, a misdemeanor is punishable by imprisonment in a county
jail not exceeding six (6) months or by a fine not exceeding one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00), or both 3 .
NUISANCE: Anything offensive or obnoxious to the health and welfare of the
inhabitants of the city; or any act or thing repugnant to, or creating a hazard
to, or having a detrimental effect on the property of another person or to the
community.
OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this code.
OFFICERS: Whenever reference is made in this code to a city officer by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the city of
Sun Valley".
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person, and any such person's agent, employee, contractor or
subcontractor.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Shall include every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things in small quantities
directly to the consumer.
RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
STREET: Shall include alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places and sidewalks.
TENANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who occupies
the whole or any part of such buildings or land, whether alone or with others.
WHOLESALER: The terms "wholesaler" and "wholesale dealer" as used in this code,
unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate to the
sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things in quantity to persons who
purchase for the purpose of resale.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person, or in case he is unable to write, by his proper
mark. (1990 Code; amd. Ord. 310, 10-16-1998; Ord. 455, 12-6-2012; Ord. 466, 1-
9-2014)
 
Notes
1 1. IC §§18-111, 18-113A.
2 2. IC §§18-111, 18-113.
3 3. IC §18-113.
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of this code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or
reenacted. (1990 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Application Of Provisions
1-4-3: Liability Of Officers
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY 1 :
Any person convicted of a violation of any section or provision of this Code
deemed a misdemeanor may be fined in a sum not to exceed one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) for any offense and may be confined in jail for a period of not
more than six (6) months. Either or both such fine and imprisonment may be
imposed; and in addition thereto, any person so convicted shall pay such costs
as the court may assess. (Ord. 466, 1-9-2014)
When the offense is designated as an infraction by any section or provision of
this Code or by State law, it is punishable only by a penalty not exceeding one
hundred dollars ($100.00) and no incarceration may be imposed. (1990 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. IC §§18-113, 18-113A, 50-302.
1-4-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
The penalty provided in this chapter shall be applicable to every section of
this Code the same as though it were a part of each and every separate section.
Any person convicted of a violation of any section of this Code where any duty
is prescribed, or obligation imposed, or where any action which is of a
continuing nature is forbidden or is declared to be unlawful, shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor or an infraction. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed upon each day such duty or obligation remains unperformed or such act
continues, unless otherwise specifically provided in this Code. (Ord. 537, 1-3-
2019)
In all cases where the same offense is made punishable or is created by
different clauses or sections of this Code, the Blaine County Prosecuting
Attorney may elect under which to proceed; but not more than one recovery shall
be had against the same person for the same offense; provided, that the
revocation of a license or permit shall not be considered a recovery or penalty
so as to bar any other penalty being enforced.
Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act constitutes a
breach of any section or provision of this Code and there shall be no fine or
penalty specifically declared for such breach, the provisions of this chapter
shall apply. (1990 Code)
1-4-3: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this Code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intention of
the City Council to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or employee is
specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the duty. (1990
Code)
CHAPTER 5
MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-5-1: Mayor
1-5-2: Meetings Of The City Council
1-5-3: Mayor And Council Compensation
1-5-4: City Council Seats
1-5-1: MAYOR:
   A.   Qualifications: Any person shall be eligible to hold the Office of
Mayor of the City who is a qualified elector of the City at the time of his
election and remains a qualified elector during his term of office.
   B.   Elected Official: Any person eligible to hold the Office of Mayor, as
specified in subsection A of this section, may be elected to said office by
having his name placed on the ballot at the general City election or special
election 1  called for the purpose of electing the Mayor and other City
officials, and the ballot shall specifically state that said person is running
for the position of Mayor of the City and that his term of office shall be four
(4) years.
   C.   Term Of Office: The term of Office of the Mayor of the City shall be
for a period of four (4) years. (Ord. 98, 8-18-1975, eff. 9-1-1975)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 7 of this title.
1-5-2: MEETINGS OF THE CITY COUNCIL:
The regular monthly meetings of the City Council shall be scheduled in advance
consistent with Idaho Code section 67-2343, as amended from time to time, and
such schedule of regular meetings shall be noticed at least once each year at
the January City Council meeting. (Ord. 377, 6-12-2006)
1-5-3: MAYOR AND COUNCIL COMPENSATION:
Commencing January 1, 2024, the annual salaries of the Mayor and Council of the
City of Sun Valley shall be as follows:
   A.   The Mayor of the City of Sun Valley shall receive an annual salary in
the sum of thirty-eight thousand dollars ($38,000) to be paid in equal
installments once per month.
   B.   Each member of the City Council of the City of Sun Valley shall receive
an annual salary in the sum of twenty-thousand dollars ($20,000) to be paid in
equal sums once per month.
   C.   The Mayor and each member of the Council shall receive health, dental,
retirement, life insurance and wellness benefits commensurate with the benefits
afforded City employees. "Commensurate" shall mean equal or similar to
something in size, amount, or degree, and does not mean exactly the same as or
identical to the benefits afforded City employees.
   D.   The Mayor and any member of the Council may opt to receive
reimbursement for their own qualifying health insurance coverage (or coverage
under a partner's policy) in lieu of coverage under the City's health insurance
plan provided however, that the total amount of such reimbursement does not
exceed the amount of premium that would otherwise be paid to the City's health
insurance carrier or carriers. Such reimbursement may be made directly or
through a Voluntary Employees Beneficiary Association (VEBA) plan or similar
plan as approved and adopted by resolution of the City Council and to the
extent permitted by Federal and State law.
(Ord. 492, 11-3-2016, eff. 1-1-2018; amd. Ord. 571, 1-5-2023)
1-5-4: CITY COUNCIL SEATS:
   A.   Open Seating: The method for determining results of elections for City
Council members is changed from seat number assignment to open seating as
follows: In the case of a single office to be filled, the candidate with the
highest number of votes shall be declared elected; in the case where more than
one office is to be filled, that number of candidates receiving the highest
number of votes, equal to the number of offices to be filled, shall be declared
elected.
   B.   Seat Number: A seat number is hereby assigned to each of the four (4)
City Council Offices. The seat number shall correspond to the current seat
occupied on the effective date hereof. Therefore, the seat currently occupied
by Blair Boand is designated as and shall hereinafter be deemed seat 1. The
seat currently occupied by Lud Renick is designated as and shall hereinafter be
deemed seat 2. The seat currently occupied by Kevin Laird is designated as and
shall hereinafter be deemed seat 3. The seat currently occupied by Ann Agnew is
designated as and shall hereinafter be deemed seat 4.
   C.   Elections: The City shall hold an election for seats 3 and 4 on
November 8, 2005, and on the first Tuesday following the first Monday in
November of every fourth year thereafter. The City shall hold an election for
seats 1 and 2 on November 6, 2007, and on the first Tuesday following the first
Monday in November of every fourth year thereafter. (Res. 2005-07, 6-1-2005)
CHAPTER 6
GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
1-6-1: Depositories Designated
1-6-2: Official Newspaper
1-6-3: Police Training Aid
1-6-1: DEPOSITORIES DESIGNATED:
Wells Fargo Bank is hereby designated as the official depository for funds of
the city. The city treasurer is hereby ordered, required and directed to keep
monies belonging to or in the care of the city treasurer in the above named
depository; provided, however, when so authorized by the mayor and council,
said funds may be invested by said treasurer in securities authorized by law 1
. (Ord. 466, 1-9-2014)
 
Notes
1 1. IC §50-1013.
1-6-2: OFFICIAL NEWSPAPER:
The Idaho Mountain Express is hereby designated as the official newspaper of
the city of Sun Valley, and such ordinances, notices and publications as are
required by law to be given publication in a newspaper shall be published in
the Idaho Mountain Express. (Ord. 419, 4-16-2009)
1-6-3: POLICE TRAINING AID:
The city declares that it desires to qualify to receive aid for police training
from the Idaho police officers' standards and training council pursuant to
Idaho Code section 19-5101 et seq., and while receiving such aid will adhere to
the standards for recruitment and training established by that council. (1990
Code)
CHAPTER 7
MUNICIPAL ELECTIONS
SECTION:
1-7-1: Polls
1-7-1-1: Hours Polls Open; Compliance With State Election Code
1-7-1-2: Election Precinct
1-7-2: Initiative And Referendum
1-7-2-1: Creation Of Right
1-7-2-2: Number Of Petitioners' Signatures Required
1-7-2-3: Petitions
1-7-2-4: Verification, Examination And Certification Of Signatures
1-7-2-5: Sufficiency Of Petition; Council Action; Election
1-7-2-6: Election Ballot
1-7-2-7: Conduct Of Election
1-7-2-8: Canvass Of Returns; Election Results
1-7-2-9: Prohibited Acts; Violations
1-7-1: POLLS:
1-7-1-1: HOURS POLLS OPEN; COMPLIANCE WITH STATE ELECTION CODE:
The polls for all general and special city elections shall be opened from eight
o'clock (8:00) A.M. and remain open until all registered electors of that
precinct have voted or until eight o'clock (8:00) P.M., whichever comes first.
(Ord. 200, 9-9-1987)
All municipal elections shall be conducted in accordance with and in conformity
with the election code of the state of Idaho 1  for the conduct of general or
special elections. (1990 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. IC title 34, §50-401 et seq.
1-7-1-2: ELECTION PRECINCT:
There is hereby established a single election precinct for the city which shall
include all lands now contained within the adopted corporate boundaries of the
said city, together with all lands which may be annexed into such corporate
boundaries in the future. (Ord. 93-261, 9-2-1993)
1-7-2: INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM:
1-7-2-1: CREATION OF RIGHT:
The people of this city shall have the right to enact ordinances through the
initiative process, and to repeal ordinances through the referendum process,
according to the procedures set forth herein. (1990 Code)
1-7-2-2: NUMBER OF PETITIONERS' SIGNATURES REQUIRED:
To enact an ordinance by initiative or to repeal an ordinance by referendum,
there shall be attached or appended to the petition the signatures of the legal
voters of the city equal to at least twenty percent (20%) of the total number
of voters registered to vote at the last general election in the city. (1990
Code)
1-7-2-3: PETITIONS:
   A.   Form Of Petitions:
      1.   The initiative petition shall be in substantially the following
form:
         Initiative petition to the mayor and council of the city of Sun
Valley, Idaho: We, the undersigned citizens and legal voters of the city of Sun
Valley, respectfully demand that the following proposed ordinance, to-wit:
(setting out full text of measure proposed) shall be submitted to the legal
voters of the city of Sun Valley, for their approval or rejection at an
election to be called in accordance with Idaho Code section 50-501(3), and each
for himself says: I have personally signed this petition; I am a legal voter of
the city of Sun Valley; my residence and post office are correctly written
after my name.
Name       Street and Number    
Post Office       (Here follow numbered lines for signatures)
      2.   The petition for referendum on any ordinance passed by the city
council shall be in substantially the same form with appropriate title and
changes, setting out in full the text of the ordinance to be referred to the
people for their approval or rejection.
   B.   Time For Filing Referendum Petitions: Referendum petitions with the
requisite number of signatures attached shall be filed with the city clerk not
less than sixty (60) days following the final adoption of the ordinance to be
subject to referendum.
   C.   Printing Of Petition And Signature Sheets; Time Limits For Perfecting
Petition: Before or at the time of beginning to circulate any petition for
initiative or referendum, the person or persons under whose authority the
petition is to be circulated shall send or deliver to the city clerk a copy of
such petition duly signed by at least twenty (20) electors eligible to sign
such petition. The clerk shall immediately examine the petition and specify the
form and kind and size of paper on which the petition shall be printed and
circulated for further signatures. All petitions and sheets for signatures
shall be printed on a good quality bond or ledger paper, on pages eight and
one-half inches (81/2") in width by thirteen inches (13") in length, with a
margin of one and three-fourths inches (13/4") at the top for binding, and the
sheets for signatures shall have numbered lines thereon from one to twenty (20)
for signatures. The petition shall be prepared in sections, with each section
numbered consecutively. Each section of a petition must have a printed copy of
the petition as the first page, and each section shall have attached to it not
more than ten (10) sheets for signatures.
The city clerk shall indicate, in writing, on the petition that he has approved
it as to form and the clerk shall inform the person or persons whose authority
the petition is to be circulated, in writing, that the petition must be
perfected with the required number of certified signatures within sixty (60)
days following the date of approval as to form. Any petition that has not been
perfected with the required number of certified signatures within the sixty
(60) days allowed shall be declared null and void ab initio in its entirety.
(1990 Code)
1-7-2-4: VERIFICATION, EXAMINATION AND CERTIFICATION OF SIGNATURES:
   A.   Signatures Verified: Each and every signature sheet of each petition
containing signatures shall be verified on the face thereof in substantially
the following form by the person who circulated said sheet of the petition, by
his or her affidavit thereon, as a part thereof:
      State of Idaho   )
         ) SS.
      County of    )
I,                    , swear, under penalty of perjury, that every person who
signed this sheet of the foregoing petition signed his or her name thereto in
my presence. I believe that each has stated his or her name and the
accompanying required information on the signature sheet correctly, and that
the person was eligible to sign this petition.
         Signature
         Post Office Address    
Subscribed and sworn to before me this          day of               ,
19       .
(Notary Seal)   Notary Public    
         Residing At    
   B.   Examination Of Signatures: All petitions with attached signature sheets
shall be presented on the same day to the city clerk who shall make a cursory
examination of them to determine whether the petitions apparently contain the
necessary number of signatures.
If the total number of signatures on the petitions is not sufficient to satisfy
the number required by section
1-7-2-2 of this chapter, all petitions with attached signature sheets shall be
retained by the city clerk who shall notify, in writing, the person filing the
petition of the number of signatures needed, and further signatures may be
gathered, if within the time limit of subsection
1-7-2-3C of this chapter.
If the cursory examination of the signature sheets reveals:
      1.   Erasures on any signature;
      2.   Illegible or undecipherable signatures;
      3.   Signatures not properly identified by all of the information
required on the sheet;
      4.   Duplicate signatures;
      5.   Signatures of persons who have requested, in writing, to have their
names removed from the petition; the city clerk shall summarily reject such
signatures and they shall not be counted. Each rejected signature shall be
drawn through with ink and initialed by the clerk. If the total number of
signatures not rejected is not sufficient to satisfy the number required by
section
1-7-2-2 of this chapter, all petitions with attached signature sheets shall be
retained by the clerk who shall notify, in writing, the person filing the
petition of the number of signatures needed, and further signatures may be
gathered, if within the time limit of subsection
1-7-2-3C of this chapter.
   C.   Certification Of Signatures: All petitions presented to the city clerk
found to apparently contain the necessary number of signatures, after the
cursory examination provided for above, shall be filed with the city clerk and
become public records of the city not to be returned. The city clerk shall
examine each such signature purported to be that of a registered elector of the
city, and compare each such signature with the registration documents available
to the city clerk. The city clerk shall summarily reject all signatures which
are not the signatures of a registered elector of the city, and such rejected
signatures shall not be counted. Each rejected signature shall be drawn through
with ink and initialed by the city clerk. The city clerk may take not to exceed
ten (10) days after filing of the petition to complete his examination. He
shall certify each signature found to comply with all of the requirements of
this section
1-7-2 by an appropriate mark following each signature. The city clerk shall
total the number of certified signatures, and if found to total the number of
signatures required by section
1-7-2-2 of this section, shall proceed as provided in section
1-7-2-5 of this chapter. (1990 Code)
1-7-2-5: SUFFICIENCY OF PETITION; COUNCIL ACTION; ELECTION:
   A.   Insufficient Petition: In the event that a petition filed with the city
clerk does not contain the required number of certified signatures, the city
clerk shall inform the person under whose authority the petition was circulated
that the petition is defective for lack of certified signatures, and specify
the number of additional signatures required to make the petition valid. The
petition must be perfected within thirty (30) days of the date that the city
clerk finds the petition defective for lack of certified signatures. If the
petition is not perfected within the thirty (30) day period, the clerk shall
declare the petition null and void ab initio in its entirety.
   B.   Sufficient Petition: In the event that a petition filed with a city
clerk is found by him to contain the required number of certified signatures,
the city clerk shall promptly, by certified mail, inform the petitioners, and
shall also notify the city council at its next meeting, that the initiative or
referendum petition is in proper form.
   C.   Action By City Council; Election:
      1.   If the petition is for a referendum, the city council shall have
thirty (30) days from the date of certification of the petition to repeal the
ordinance being referred to the voters. In the event the council repeals the
ordinance, the referendum petition shall be declared null and void.
      2.   If the petition is an initiative petition, the city council shall
have thirty (30) days to pass an ordinance substantially as proposed by the
petition. In the event the council passes such an ordinance, the initiative
petition shall be null and void.
      3.   In the event the city council neither repeals the ordinance which is
the subject of a referendum petition, nor enacts an ordinance which is the
subject of an initiative petition, an election shall be ordered by the city
clerk to be conducted citywide. A special election for initiative or referendum
shall be provided not more than ninety (90) days following the certification of
the petition; provided, that in the event a municipal election will occur
within the ninety (90) days, the initiative or referendum shall be submitted at
the time of the municipal election. (1990 Code)
1-7-2-6: ELECTION BALLOT:
The city council shall prepare a ballot for an initiative or referendum
election in one of the following ways:
   A.   If the full text of the ordinance or proposed ordinance to be voted
upon does not exceed three hundred (300) words in length, it may be set out in
full on the election ballot; or
   B.   If the full text of the ordinance or proposed ordinance to be voted
upon exceeds three hundred (300) words in length, and the council votes not to
have it printed at length on the election ballot, it shall, with the assistance
of the city attorney, prepare a short title and description of the ordinance or
proposed ordinance which shall clearly and impartially state its purpose and
effect, which short title and description shall be printed on the election
ballot. (1990 Code)
1-7-2-7: CONDUCT OF ELECTION:
Initiative or referendum elections, whether special or general, shall be
conducted and the results thereof canvassed and certified in all respects as
near as practicable in like manner as general elections, except as otherwise
provided. (1990 Code)
1-7-2-8: CANVASS OF RETURNS; ELECTION RESULTS:
The mayor and council shall meet within five (5) days after said election to
canvass the votes cast at such election, and the city clerk shall immediately
announce the results. Any initiative measure approved by a majority of the
votes cast shall be in full force and effect from the date of such
announcement. Any ordinance which is the subject of a referendum receiving less
than a majority of the votes cast shall be repealed, effective on the date of
such announcement. (1990 Code)
1-7-2-9: PROHIBITED ACTS; VIOLATIONS:
A person is guilty of a misdemeanor who:
   A.   Signs any name other than his own to any initiative or referendum
petition;
   B.   Knowingly signs his name more than once on the same initiative or
referendum petition;
   C.   Knowingly signs his name to any initiative or referendum petition if he
is not a registered city elector;
   D.   Wilfully or knowing circulates, publishes or exhibits any false
statement or representation concerning the contents, purport or effect of any
initiative or referendum petition for the purpose of obtaining any signature to
any such petition, or for the purpose of persuading any person to sign any such
petition;
   E.   Presents to any officer for filing any initiative or referendum
petition to which is attached, appended or subscribed any signature which the
person so filing such petition knows to be false or fraudulent, or not the
genuine signature of the person purporting to sign such petition, or whose name
is attached, appended or subscribed thereto;
   F.   Circulates or causes to circulate any initiative or referendum
petition, knowing the same to contain false, forged or fictitious names;
   G.   Makes any false affidavit concerning any initiative or referendum
petition or the signatures appended thereto;
   H.   Offers, proposes or threatens for any pecuniary reward or
consideration:
      1.   To offer, propose, threaten or attempt to sell, hinder or delay any
initiative or referendum petition or any part thereof or any signatures
thereon;
      2.   To offer, propose or threaten to desist from beginning, promoting or
circulating any initiative or referendum petition;
      3.   To offer, propose, attempt or threaten in any manner or form to use
any recall petition or any power of promotion or opposition in any manner or
form for extortion, blackmail or secret or private intimidation of any person
or business interest. (Ord. 117, 8-15-1977)
CHAPTER 8
FINANCES
SECTION:
1-8-1: Procedures
1-8-2: General Fund
1-8-3: Contracts And Expenses
1-8-4: Contingencies
1-8-5: Transfer Of Monies
1-8-6: Special Funds
1-8-7: Capital Improvement Fund
1-8-8: Purpose
1-8-9: Capital Improvement Fund Revenues
1-8-10: Capital Improvement Fund, Appropriations Not To Lapse
1-8-11: Balance Transfers
1-8-12: Debt Service Funds
1-8-13: Debt Service Fund Revenues
1-8-14: Investments
1-8-1: PROCEDURES:
The collection, budgeting, appropriation, expenditure and accounting of
revenues and expenditures of the city shall be done according to the
requirements contained in Idaho Code title 50, chapter 10, except where
otherwise regulated. (Ord. 264, 9-23-1993)
1-8-2: GENERAL FUND:
There is hereby established a fund to be known as the general fund. All
revenues not specifically allocated to any other fund shall be placed into the
general fund. All general functions of the city shall be financed by
expenditures from the general fund following appropriation by the city council.
(Ord. 264, 9-23-1993)
1-8-3: CONTRACTS AND EXPENSES:
No contract shall be made and no expense shall be incurred by any officer or
department of the city, whether the object of the expenditure shall have been
ordered by the city council or not, unless an appropriation shall have been
previously made concerning such expense, except as otherwise provided herein.
(Ord. 264, 9-23-1993)
1-8-4: CONTINGENCIES:
The general fund may contain a reserved item for contingencies. Except in those
cases where there is no logical account to which an expenditure can be charged,
expenditures shall not be charged directly to contingencies; but instead, the
necessary part of the appropriation for contingencies shall be transferred to
the logical account, and the expenditure charged to such account. No such
transfer shall be made without the express approval of the council, and then
only for expenditures which could not readily be foreseen at the time the
budget was adopted. (Ord. 264, 9-23-1993)
1-8-5: TRANSFER OF MONIES:
The council may, by a majority affirmative vote, transfer any general fund
unencumbered appropriation balance, or portion thereof, from one department to
another or from any account within a department to any other account within the
same department at any time; except that no transfer shall be made from any
street fund, debt service fund, encumbered fund, or capital improvement fund.
(Ord. 264, 9-23-1993)
1-8-6: SPECIAL FUNDS:
Additional funds which shall be known as special funds shall be created by
ordinance to provide for monies to be held for special purposes, such as:
depreciation and obsolescence; debt service; equipment and building
replacement; special services; local improvements; enterprise activities; trust
funds and endowments; and such other purposes as the council may determine.
(Ord. 264, 9-23-1993)
1-8-7: CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT FUND:
There is hereby created a capital improvement fund of the city pursuant to
authority granted in Idaho Code section 50-236. (Ord. 424, 9-17-2009)
1-8-8: PURPOSE:
The capital improvement fund shall be used to aggregate monies to pay for land
acquisition, for construction and replacement of buildings or other public
improvements, for purchase or replacement of equipment, and for any legal
capital expenditure of the city. (Ord. 424, 9-17-2009)
1-8-9: CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT FUND REVENUES:
The capital improvement fund shall be financed with revenues from an ad valorem
tax levy authorized by Idaho Code section 50-236, together with revenue from
approved bond sales, and appropriations made from time to time by the city
council from the general revenues of the city. (Ord. 424, 9-17-2009)
1-8-10: CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT FUND, APPROPRIATIONS NOT TO LAPSE:
Appropriations from the capital improvement fund shall not lapse until the
purpose for which the appropriation was made shall have been accomplished or
abandoned. (Ord. 424, 9-17-2009)
1-8-11: BALANCE TRANSFERS:
Unencumbered balances within the capital improvement fund from projects
accomplished or abandoned may be appropriated to other projects within the
fund, or transferred to the general fund by a majority affirmative vote of the
council. (Ord. 424, 9-17-2009)
1-8-12: DEBT SERVICE FUNDS:
The debt service fund shall be established for the purpose of aggregating
monies to pay bond principal and interest on outstanding bonded indebtedness of
the city. Additional "debt service funds", if required by bond indentures, may
be set up to pay the costs of individual bond issues. (Ord. 424, 9-17-2009)
1-8-13: DEBT SERVICE FUND REVENUES:
Revenues of the debt service fund(s) shall be made up of ad valorem taxes
approved by voters for specific capital expenditures and from revenues which
may be pledged to the payment of revenue bond issues. (Ord. 424, 9-17-2009)
1-8-14: INVESTMENTS:
Balances on hand in any fund of the city which are not then needed in the
conduct of the affairs of the city shall be invested in repositories or
securities which are legal investments for public funds under the Idaho
statutes in force at the time of such investments; provided, that where monies
from several funds are invested together, interest earned shall be credited to
each fund in the proportional amount of which the fund contributed to the
investment. (Ord. 424, 9-17-2009)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-1-1: Commission Created; Terms; Qualifications; Appointments; Vacancies
2-1-2: Elections; Meetings
2-1-3: Duties
2-1-1: COMMISSION CREATED; TERMS; QUALIFICATIONS; APPOINTMENTS; VACANCIES:
   A.   There is hereby created and established a planning and zoning
commission of the city consisting of members to be appointed by the mayor and
confirmed by a majority vote of the city council. The number of members on the
commission shall be as established by the bylaws adopted by the city council.
   B.   Except as provided herein, each member must have resided in the county
for at least two (2) years prior to his appointment and shall be a resident of
the city at the time of appointment and throughout the duration of the term on
the commission.
      1.   For purposes of this chapter "resident" shall be determined by
considering the location of the member's principal or primary home or place of
abode of a person.
         a.   "Principal or primary home or place of abode" is that home or
place in which his habitation is fixed and to which a person, whenever he is
absent, has the present intention of returning after a departure or absence. In
determining what is a principal or primary home or place of abode of a person
the following circumstances relating to such person may be taken into account:
business pursuits, employment, income sources, residence for income tax
purposes, residence of parents, spouse, and children, if any, leaseholds, situs
or personal and real property, and motor vehicle registration.
         b.   A resident member shall not be considered to have gained
residence in any city of this state into which he comes for temporary purposes
only without the intention of making it his home but with the intention of
leaving it when he has accomplished the purpose that brought him there.
         c.   A resident member who has left his home and gone to another area
outside the city, for a temporary purpose only shall not be considered to have
lost his residency.
         d.   If a member moves outside the city, with the intention of making
it his permanent home, he shall be considered to have lost his residency in the
city.
   C.   The term of office shall be four (4) years; provided, however, that any
member may be removed from the commission for cause, or not for cause, prior to
the expiration of his term of office by a majority vote of the city council.
   D.   Vacancies occurring otherwise than through the expiration of terms
shall be filled in the same manner as stated in subsection A of this section.
   E.   Members shall be appointed without respect to political affiliation and
may receive compensation and reimbursement for mileage and expenses as may be
established from time to time by resolution of the city council.
   F.   No member of the commission shall, during the term of office, serve on
the city council. Absent prior approval by the mayor and the city council, no
member of the commission shall, during the term of office, serve on any other
elected or appointed government position in Blaine County. (Ord. 459, 1-3-2013)
2-1-2: ELECTIONS; MEETINGS:
The commission shall elect its own chairperson and vice chairperson and create
and fill such other offices as it may determine necessary for the proper
conduct of the business of the commission. At least one regular meeting shall
be held each month for not less than nine (9) months in each calendar year, and
the commission may hold such other special meetings as it deems necessary or
appropriate to properly conduct its business. Regular meetings shall be
scheduled in accordance with the adopted bylaws of the planning and zoning
commission. A majority of the members of the commission shall constitute a
quorum. All meetings shall be open to the public, and written records of
meetings, decisions and findings, studies, permits and actions shall be
maintained and made available at reasonable times and places for inspection by
the public. (Ord. 294, 10-24-1996)
2-1-3: DUTIES:
It shall be the duty of the planning and zoning commission to:
   A.   Hold public meetings, hearings, work sessions, or use other appropriate
means, to obtain information for the planning and zoning process and for
submittal of recommendations to the council concerning the planning and zoning
process. The commission shall primarily deal with the matters set forth in the
local planning act, Idaho Code section 67-6501 et seq. Further, the commission
is empowered to, but not limited to, the following:
      1.   Initiate amendments to the city land use ordinances and the
comprehensive plan and make recommendations to the city council;
      2.   Review all proposed amendments to the city land use ordinances and
the comprehensive plan, and make recommendations to the city council;
      3.   Review development proposals according to the processes outlined in
this code;
      4.   Initiate and/or review proposed interim land use ordinances or
moratoriums, and make recommendations to the city council;
      5.   Process conditional use permits, special permits, variances and all
other applications as required by this code;
      6.   Review annexation proposals for comprehensive plan and/or Sun Valley
municipal code compliance and/or changes, and make recommendations to the city
council;
      7.   Conduct site plan and architectural review of projects as required
by applicable Sun Valley ordinances.
   B.   The commission shall have the right to seek judicial process, as may be
necessary to enable it to fulfill its functions. This shall not include the
right to file a lawsuit or retain an attorney for the filing of a lawsuit
unless otherwise approved by the city council.
   C.   The commission shall recommend, and the city council shall adopt by
resolution, bylaws for the planning and zoning commission. (Ord. 294, 10-24-
1996)
CHAPTER 2
HOSPITAL BOARD
SECTION:
2-2-1: Board Created; Appointment; Terms; Removal; Compensation
2-2-2: Duties
2-2-1: BOARD CREATED; APPOINTMENT; TERMS; REMOVAL; COMPENSATION:
There is hereby created for the purpose of overseeing the activities of the
facilities of the campus of Moritz Community Hospital, Sun Valley, Idaho, the
reorganized Moritz Community Hospital board of trustees. (Ord. 257, 9-24-1992)
   A.   Selection Of Voting Members: The membership of the board shall consist
of six (6) members appointed by the mayor of the city, with the consent and
approval of the city council, and the makeup of the board shall be as
prescribed by the healthcare partnership agreement by and between Blaine County
and the city dated June 4, 1991, effective February 1, 1992, as amended. (Ord.
274, 10-27-1994)
   B.   Terms Of Office: Members of the board shall serve three (3) year terms.
   C.   Resignation And Removal: A member of the board may resign at any time
by giving written notice of said resignation to the chairman of the board. In
addition, any trustee may be removed by a majority of the voting members of the
board at a meeting called for that purpose, exclusive of the trustee being
requested to resign. Further, any member of the board of trustees absent for
three (3) consecutive board meetings, without good cause, shall be deemed to
have resigned. Existence of good cause for such absences shall be determined by
the chairman of the board of trustees.
   D.   Vacancies: Vacancies on the board of trustees arising from death,
resignation, removal or other cause shall be filled in the same manner as the
original appointments. Any trustee so appointed shall hold office for the
unexpired term of his predecessor.
   E.   Compensation: The members of the board shall be entitled to receive
such compensation for their services as the city council may establish, and
from time to time amend, by resolution. (Ord. 257, 9-24-1992)
2-2-2: DUTIES:
The duties of the board of trustees of the reorganized board of Moritz
Community Hospital shall be as follows: (Ord. 257, 9-24-1992)
   A.   Partnership Agreement Duties: As prescribed by the healthcare
partnership agreement by and between Blaine County and the city dated June 4,
1991, effective February 1, 1992, as amended, the trustees shall serve as six
(6) of the twelve (12) members of the joint operating board of the partnership
known generally as Wood River Medical Center. (Ord. 274, 10-27-1994)
   B.   Fiscal Affairs: By participating in the actions of the joint operating
board with respect to the care, custody, management, upkeep and operation of
all property devoted to hospital purposes and all monies received by both the
Blaine County Medical Center and Moritz Community Hospital, the members of the
reorganized Moritz Community Hospital board shall satisfy their statutory
duties in that regard under Idaho Code title 50, chapter 3 and the municipal
code of the city.
   C.   Funds: By participating in the actions of the joint operating board
with respect to the care, custody, and disbursement of all funds received by
both Blaine County Medical Center and Moritz Community Hospital, complying with
the public depositary law and keeping financial records in compliance with the
requirements of the partnership agreement, the members of the reorganized
Moritz Community Hospital board shall satisfy their statutory duties in that
regard under Idaho Code title 50, chapter 3 and the municipal code of the city.
   D.   Reports: The board shall make such reports as may be required by the
joint operating board and the mayor.
   E.   Minutes: The board shall keep and maintain minutes as required by law.
   F.   Annual Budget: The members of the reorganized board shall, in serving
as members of the joint operating board, participate in the development and
adoption of an annual budget for the affiliated healthcare organization which
shall provide sufficient detail on separate financial affairs to serve as an
annual budget for the Moritz Community Hospital. The annual budget of the
Moritz Community Hospital shall be the budget submitted to the city council by
the reorganized Moritz Community Hospital board, subject to such amendment or
modification as the city council deems appropriate prior to approval. (Ord.
257, 9-24-1992)
CHAPTER 3
TRAFFIC ADVISORY COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-3-1: Appointment; Members; Compensation
2-3-1: APPOINTMENT; MEMBERS; COMPENSATION:
The mayor may appoint, with the approval of the city council, a special traffic
advisory commission to study and make recommendations on special traffic
problems of public interest. The members of the traffic advisory commission
shall serve without compensation as such. The mayor, police chief and the city
clerk shall be ex officio members of such commission. (Ord. 29, 8-19-1970; amd.
1990 Code)
CHAPTER 4
PUBLIC INFORMATION, EDUCATION AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT ADVISORY COMMITTEE
SECTION:
2-4-1: Creation
2-4-2: Purpose
2-4-3: Membership
2-4-4: Organization
2-4-5: Duties
2-4-6: Tourism Promotion
2-4-1: CREATION:
There is hereby established an advisory committee for public information,
education, and economic development of the city hereinafter referred to as the
committee. (1990 Code)
2-4-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the committee shall be to review, evaluate, study and to make
recommendations to the city council on all matters relating to public
information, education, and economic development of the city, its residents,
its commerce or industry and its visitors. The committee shall devote its
attention to the creation, distribution or broadcasting of advertisement of any
program or activity which presents positive, enhancing information concerning
present or future commercial, recreational, cultural, social and industrial
characteristics or programs of the city. (1990 Code)
2-4-3: MEMBERSHIP:
The committee shall be composed of three (3) residents of the Sun Valley area,
one member to be a representative proposed by the management of the Sun Valley
Resort, one member to be a representative proposed by the management of Elkhorn
Resort and a third member to be a representative of the city proposed by the
mayor with all representatives approved by the city council. (Ord. 233, 8-23-
1991)
2-4-4: ORGANIZATION:
The committee shall meet at the call of the chairman or the mayor. The
committee shall elect a chairman and a vice chairman from its membership. All
meetings of the committee shall be open to the public in full compliance with
the Idaho open meetings law 1  as it now exists or may be amended. A majority
of the committee members shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of
business. The committee shall determine a regular order of business for its
meetings. The city administrator shall be an ex officio member of the
committee. (Ord. 250, 2-20-1992)
 
Notes
1 1. IC §67-2340 et seq.
2-4-5: DUTIES:
The committee shall have the responsibility to review and recommend to the city
council on all matters of public information, education, and economic
development, including amounts to be expended for tourist information and
marketing, the appropriate levels of public involvement and public support for
marketing and advertising, and the most efficient and economical methods of
effecting the purposes contained herein. (1990 Code)
2-4-6: TOURISM PROMOTION:
The committee shall evaluate past activity in tourist promotion, advertising,
and marketing for its effectiveness. The committee shall formulate a long range
strategy and plan for promotion, education, and advertisement of the city,
including, but not limited to, a development of comprehensive media campaign
for such promotion, integrating such a campaign with the marketing and tourist
promotion activities of the resorts and businesses within and without the city,
and further may recommend upon the selection of advertising and marketing
consultants (including the Sun Valley-Ketchum chamber of commerce) to provide
effective, professional expertise. (Ord. 233, 8-23-1991)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
SALES TAX
SECTION:
3-1-1: Findings
3-1-2: Definitions
3-1-3: Imposition And Rate Of Certain Local-Option Nonproperty Sales Taxes
3-1-4: Calculation And Collection Of Tax
3-1-5: Duration Of Taxes
3-1-6: Purposes For Which The Revenues Derived From The Nonproperty Sales Taxes
Shall Be Used
3-1-7: Creation Of Nonproperty Tax Relief Fund
3-1-8: Authorization To Administer, Regulate And Collect Sales Tax
3-1-9: Method For Payment Of Taxes
3-1-10: Audits - Deficiency Determinations
3-1-11: Redetermination Of Deficiency
3-1-12: Appeals, Interest On Deficiency
3-1-13: Collections And Enforcement
3-1-14: Refunds, Limitations, And Interest
3-1-15: Responsibility For Payment Of Taxes
3-1-16: Period Of Limitation Upon Assessment And Collection
3-1-17: Successor's Liability
3-1-18: General Administration By The City Clerk
3-1-19: Penalties
3-1-20: Penalty Charge
3-1-21: Exemptions
3-1-22: Idaho Sales Tax Act
3-1-1: FINDINGS:
The City Council of the City of Sun Valley, State of Idaho, hereby finds that
the City of Sun Valley is a resort city with a population not in excess of ten
thousand (10,000) persons according to the most recent census within the State
of Idaho, and is a city organized under the general laws of the State of Idaho.
The City Council of the City of Sun Valley further finds that as a resort city,
the City of Sun Valley derives a major portion of its economic well being from
businesses catering to recreational needs and meeting the needs of people
traveling to the City of Sun Valley as a destination city for an extended
period of time; and that the City of Sun Valley has a significant economic
dependence upon visitors and travelers passing through or staying in the City
of Sun Valley and those visitors and travelers require services of the City of
Sun Valley. (Ord. 484, 7-7-2016, eff. 10-1-2017)
3-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this chapter, the terms defined in the following subsections shall
have the meanings respectively ascribed to them:
   A.   The terms "in this City" or "in the City" mean within the exterior
limits of the City of Sun Valley, Blaine County, Idaho.
   B.   Except as specifically noted herein, the terms used in this chapter
shall have the same definitions as such terms have been defined in the Idaho
Sales Tax Act, found at chapter 36, title 63, Idaho Code, as that legislation
may from time to time be amended; and the Idaho Sales and Use Tax regulations
as adopted by the Department of Revenue and Taxation, State Tax Commission, as
those regulations may from time to time be amended; and the Retail Sale of
Liquor By-the-Drink Act as that legislation and regulation may from time to
time be amended. Whenever in the definitions contained in the Idaho Sales Tax
Act or the Idaho Sales and Use Tax regulations, reference is made to the "State
of Idaho", "Tax Collector", "Idaho Sales Tax Act" or "Tax Commission", such
reference shall be deemed to be to the City of Sun Valley, City Clerk, this
chapter, City of Sun Valley, respectively, unless the context of the reference
clearly demonstrates that such interpretation is unreasonable.
   C.   Certain definitions instructive to this chapter currently include but
are not limited to the following:
    BUILDING AND CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS: All tangible personal property used in
constructing, altering, repairing or improving real property. They include, but
are not limited to: all structural, electrical, plumbing, and mechanical
components necessary to make a structure suitable for all occupancies. Such
building materials shall also include any materials used in the finish of a
structure, including, but not limited to, design elements and attached
fixtures, such as: floor coverings, attached television antennae, attached
plumbing, bathroom and lighting fixtures, window screens, window coverings,
screen doors, storm doors, garage door openers and transmitters, exterior
trees, plants, shrubbery, water heating apparatus and fixtures, cabinetry,
attached fireplaces and free-standing fireplaces, awnings, ventilating, cooling
and heating systems, built-in and drop-in ranges (but excepting all other
ranges) and barbecues, hardscape and patio features, any alarms (burglar, fire,
etc.), fences and gates, fuel tanks, irrigation fixtures, and irrigation
equipment.
   HOTEL-MOTEL: Any business including hotels, motels, condominiums, tourist
homes, vacation rentals and any other business which in the regular course of
business rents or leases for occupancy temporary lodging and sleeping
accommodations to individuals with or without meals, for a period of thirty
(30) days or less.
   LIQUOR BY-THE-DRINK: Includes without limitation:
      1.   Alcohol: The product of distillation of any fermented liquor,
rectified either once or more often, whatever may be the origin thereof, or
synthetic ethyl alcohol.
      2.   Spirits: Any beverage which contains alcohol obtained by
distillation mixed with drinkable water and other substances in solution,
including, among other things, brandy, rum, gin, and whiskey.
      3.   Wine: Any alcohol beverage obtained by the fermentation of the
natural sugar content of fruits (grapes, apples, etc.) or other agricultural
products containing sugar (honey, milk, etc.).
      4.   Beer: Any alcohol beverage obtained from the fermentation of sugar,
barley, hops, malt, yeast, and similar ingredients.
      5.   Any liquid or solid, patented or not, containing alcohol, spirits,
or wine and susceptible of being consumed by a human being, for beverage
purposes.
   PERSON: Any individual, firm, copartnership, joint venture, association,
social club, fraternal organization, corporation, estate, trust, business
trust, receiver, trustee, syndicate, cooperative, assignee, or any other group
or combination acting as a unit.
   PURCHASE: Any transfer, rental, exchange, or barter, conditional or
otherwise, in any manner or by any means whatsoever, of tangible personal
property for a consideration. A transaction whereby the possession of property
is transferred but the seller retains the title as security for the payment of
the price is a purchase. A transfer for consideration of any publication or of
tangible personal property which has been produced, fabricated, or printed to
the special order of the customer is also a purchase.
   RETAIL SALE OR SALE AT RETAIL: A sale of tangible personal property for any
purpose other than resale of that property in the regular course of business,
or lease or rental of that property in the regular course of business where
such rental or lease is taxable under section 63-3612(h), Idaho Code.
      1.   All persons engaged in constructing, altering, repairing, or
improving real estate, which includes construction of prefabricated buildings
as defined in Idaho Code section 63-3606A, are consumers of the material used
by them.
      2.   The delivery in this State of tangible personal property by an owner
or former owner thereof or by a factor or agent of such owner, former owner or
factor, if the delivery is to a consumer or person for redelivery to a
consumer, pursuant to a retail sale made by a retailer not engaged in business
in this State, is a retail sale in this State by the person making the
delivery. He or she shall include the retail selling price of the property in
historical sales subject to tax under this chapter.
      3.   For the purposes of this chapter as enacted, the sale or purchase of
personal property incidental to the sale of real property or used mobile homes
is deemed a sale of real property.
   RETAILER: 1. Every seller who makes any retail sale or sales of tangible
personal property and every person engaged in the business of making retail
sales at auction of tangible personal property owned by the person or others.
      2.   Every person engaged in the business of making sales for storage,
use, or other consumption or in the business of making sales at auction of
tangible personal property owned by the person or others for storage, use, or
other consumption.
      3.   Every person making more than two (2) retail sales of tangible
personal property during any twelve (12) month period, including sales made in
the capacity of assignee for the benefit of creditors, or receiver or trustee
in bankruptcy, or every person making fewer sales who holds himself out as
engaging in the business of selling such tangible personal property at retail
or who sells a self propelled motor vehicle.
      4.   When the City Clerk determines that it is necessary for the
efficient administration of this chapter to regard any salesmen,
representatives, peddlers, or canvassers as agents of the dealers,
distributors, supervisors, or employers under whom they operate or from whom
they obtain the tangible personal property sold by them, irrespective of
whether they are making sales on their own behalf or on behalf of such dealers,
distributors, supervisors, or employers, the City Clerk may so regard them and
may regard the dealers, distributors, supervisors, or employers as retailers
for the purpose of this chapter.
      5.   Persons conducting both contracting and retailing activities. Such
persons must keep separate accounts for the retail portion of their business
and pay tax in the usual fashion on this portion.
   ROOM OCCUPANCY CHARGE: The total amount charged for, or allocated to, the
rental, use or temporary occupancy of a room, hotel, motel, condominium or
other sleeping accommodation or living unit, valued in money, whether paid in
money or otherwise, without any deduction.
   SALE: Any transfer of title, exchange or barter, conditional or otherwise,
of tangible personal property for a consideration and shall include any similar
transfer of possession found by the State Tax Commission to be in lieu of, or
equivalent to, a transfer of title, exchange or barter.
      1.   "Sale" shall also include the following transactions when a
consideration is transferred, exchanged or bartered in connection with or
related to an activity conducted in the City of Sun Valley:
         a.   Producing, fabricating, processing, printing, or imprinting of
tangible personal property for consumers who furnish, either directly or
indirectly the tangible personal property used in the producing, fabricating,
processing, printing, or imprinting.
         b.   Furnishing, preparing, or serving food, meals, or drinks and
nondepreciable goods and services directly consumed by customers included in
the charge thereof.
         c.   A transfer of possession of property where the seller retains the
title as security of the payment of the sales price.
         d.   A transfer of the title or possession of tangible personal
property which has been produced, fabricated, or printed to the special order
of the customer, or of any publication.
         e.   Admission to a place or for an event in the City of Sun Valley.
         f.   The use of or the privilege of using tangible personal property
or facilities for recreation.
         g.   Providing hotel, motel, campground, or trailer court
accommodations, nondepreciable goods directly consumed by customers and
included services, except where residence is maintained continuously under the
terms of a lease or similar agreement for a period in excess of thirty (30)
days.
         h.   The lease or rental of tangible personal property.
         i.   The intrastate transportation for hire by air of freight or
passengers, except: 1) as part of a regularly scheduled flight by a certified
air carrier, under authority of the United States, or 2) when providing air
ambulance services.
         j.   Any sale at retail within the City of Sun Valley, including the
sale of liquor by-the-drink.
         k.   Any sale, regardless where generated, for admission to a place or
for an event taking place within the City of Sun Valley.
         l.   Any sale, regardless where generated, for the use of or the
privilege of using tangible personal property or facilities for recreation
within the City of Sun Valley;
         m.   Providing hotel, motel, vacation rental and other sleeping
accommodations rented or leased for a period of thirty (30) days or less.
         n.   The transfer of title, exchange or barter, conditional or
otherwise, of tangible personal property for a consideration of "building and
construction materials" as defined in this section.
      2.   As used in subsections 1b and 1g of this definition, goods "directly
consumed by customers" shall not be interpreted to mean any linens, bedding,
cloth napkins or similar nondisposable property.
   SALE OF LIQUOR BY-THE-DRINK: The sale at retail of liquor by-the-drink for
consumption on the premises, as defined in Idaho Code section 23-902, or at any
event or activity within the City and includes any transfer of money, title,
exchange, barter, or credit, conditional or otherwise, in any manner or by any
means whatsoever as consideration.
   SALES PRICE: 1. The total amount for which tangible personal property
including services agreed to be rendered as a part of the sale, is sold,
rented, or leased, valued in money, whether paid in money or otherwise, without
any deduction on account of any of the following:
         a.   The cost of the property sold. However, in accordance with such
rules and regulations as the State Tax Commission may prescribe, a deduction
may be taken if the retailer has purchased property for some purpose other than
resale or rental, has reimbursed his or her vendor for tax which the vendor is
required to pay to the State or has paid the use tax with respect to the
property, and has resold or rented the property prior to making any use of the
property other than retention, demonstration, or display while holding it for
sale in the regular course of business. If such a deduction is taken by the
retailer, no refund or credit will be allowed to his or her vendor with respect
to the sale of the property.
         b.   The cost of materials used, labor or service cost, losses, or any
other expense.
         c.   The cost of transportation of the property prior to its sale.
      2.   The term "sales price" does not include those items defined in Idaho
Code section 63-3613(b)1 - 10.
      3.   The sales price of a "new manufactured home" or a "modular building"
as defined in the Act shall be limited to and include only fifty five percent
(55%) of the sales price as otherwise defined herein.
      4.   Tangible personal property when sold at retail for more than eleven
cents ($0.11) but less than one dollar one cent ($1.01) through a vending
machine shall be deemed to have sold at a sales price equal to one hundred
seventeen percent (117%) of the price which is paid for such tangible personal
property and/or its component parts including packaging by the owner or
operator of the vending machines.
   SALES TAX ACT: The Idaho Sales Tax Act, Idaho Code 63-3601 et seq.,
including subsequent amendments thereto, which is hereby adopted by reference.
   SELLER: Every person making sales at retail or retail sales to a buyer or
consumer, whether as agent, broker, or principal.
   TANGIBLE PERSONAL PROPERTY: Personal property which may be seen, weighed,
measured, felt, or touched, or which is in any other manner perceptible to the
senses.
   TAX: Any nonproperty sales tax imposed by this chapter.
   TAXPAYER: Any person subject to or liable for any taxes imposed by this
chapter. (Ord. 484, 7-7-2016, eff. 10-1-2017)
3-1-3: IMPOSITION AND RATE OF CERTAIN LOCAL-OPTION NONPROPERTY SALES TAXES:
The City of Sun Valley hereby imposes and shall collect certain local-option
nonproperty taxes:
   A.   A Municipal Sales Tax on the sales price of all sales subject to
taxation under this chapter and Idaho Code 63-3601 et seq., Idaho Sales Tax
Act, including subsequent amendments thereto as follows:
      1.   A three percent (3%) tax on the sales price of all sales
transactions described as furnishing, preparing, or serving food, meals, or
drinks and nondepreciable goods and services directly consumed by customers
included in the charge thereof;
      2.   A three percent (3%) tax on the sales price of all sales
transactions described as:
         a.   Admission to a place or for an event in the City of Sun Valley;
         b.   The use of or the privilege of using tangible personal property
or facilities for recreation, including golf membership and fees, but not ski
lift facilities;
         c.   Providing hotel, motel, vacation rentals, campground, or trailer
court accommodations, nondepreciable goods directly consumed by customers and
included services, except where residence is maintained continuously under the
terms of a lease or similar agreement for a period in excess of thirty (30)
days;
         d.   The lease or rental of tangible personal property;
         e.   The intrastate transportation for hire by air of freight or
passengers, except: 1) as part of a regularly scheduled flight by a certified
air carrier, under authority of the United States, or 2) when providing air
ambulance services;
         f.   Any sale, regardless where generated, for admission to a place or
for an event taking place within the City of Sun Valley;
         g.   Any sale, regardless where generated, for the use of or the
privilege of using tangible personal property or facilities for recreation
within the City of Sun Valley;
      3.   A two percent (2%) tax on the sales price of all tangible personal
property including:
         a.   Producing, fabricating, processing, printing, or imprinting of
tangible personal property for consumers who furnish, either directly or
indirectly the tangible personal property used in producing, fabricating,
processing, printing, or imprinting;
         b.   A transfer of possession of property where the seller retains the
title as security of the payment of the sales price;
         c.   A transfer of the title or possession of tangible personal
property which has been produced, fabricated, or printed to the special order
of the customer, or of any publication;
      4.   A one percent (1%) tax on the sales price of sales of ski lift
tickets and season ski lift passes;
      5.   A three percent (3%) room occupancy charge on receipts from all
short-term rental (30 days or less) charges for hotel-motel rooms, condominium
units, tourist homes, vacation rentals or other sleeping accommodations;
      6.   A one percent (1%) tax on the sales price of all "building and
construction materials", as defined in section
3-1-2 of this chapter; and
      7.   A three percent (3%) Liquor By-The-Drink Sales Tax on all sales at
retail of liquor by-the-drink including liquor, beer, wine, and all other
alcoholic beverages, for consumption on the premises, or at any event or
activity in the City of Sun Valley. (Ord. 484, 7-7-2016, eff. 10-1-2017)
3-1-4: CALCULATION AND COLLECTION OF TAX:
   A.   The Municipal Sales Tax shall apply to, be computed on, and collected
for all credit, installment, conditional or similar sales at the time of the
sale, or, in the case of rentals, at the time the rental is charged.
   B.   The tax hereby imposed shall be collected by the retailer from the
consumer.
   C.   The retailer shall calculate the tax upon the entire amount of the
purchases of the consumer made at a particular time and not separately upon
each item purchased. The retailer may retain any amount collected under the
bracket system prescribed herein which is in excess of the amount of tax for
which he is liable to the City of Sun Valley during the period as compensation
for the work of collecting the tax.
   D.   When the sales price involves a fraction of a dollar, the Municipal
Sales Tax shall be collected on that fractional portion of the price by adding
thereto the tax based upon a bracket system. The bracket system for the
collection of the Municipal Sales Tax shall be as set forth in exhibit A of
this section.
   E.   All monies collected and/or retained under the provisions of this
chapter shall be held in trust for the City of Sun Valley and for payment
thereof to the City Clerk in the manner and at the times in this chapter
provided.
EXHIBIT A
CITY OF SUN VALLEY SALES TAX SCHEDULE BRACKET SYSTEM
(DOLLARS)
            Tax Percentage Rate
Sale Amount 1 Percent 2 Percent 3 Percent
             Tax Percentage Rate
Sale Amount  1 Percent 2 Percent 3 Percent
0.01 - 0.16  0.00      0.00      0.00
0.17 - 0.49  0.00      0.01      0.01
0.50 - 0.83  0.01      0.02      0.02
0.84 - 1.16  0.01      0.02      0.03
1.17 - 1.49  0.01      0.03      0.04
1.50 - 1.83  0.02      0.04      0.05
1.84 - 2.16  0.02      0.04      0.06
2.17 - 2.49  0.02      0.05      0.07
2.50 - 2.83  0.03      0.06      0.08
2.84 - 3.16  0.03      0.06      0.09
3.17 - 3.49  0.03      0.07      0.10
3.50 - 3.83  0.04      0.08      0.11
3.84 - 4.16  0.04      0.08      0.12
4.17 - 4.49  0.04      0.09      0.13
4.50 - 4.83  0.05      0.10      0.14
4.84 - 5.16  0.05      0.10      0.15
5.17 - 5.49  0.05      0.11      0.16
5.50 - 5.83  0.06      0.12      0.17
5.84 - 6.16  0.06      0.12      0.18
6.17 - 6.49  0.06      0.13      0.19
6.50 - 6.83  0.07      0.14      0.20
6.84 - 7.16  0.07      0.14      0.21
7.17 - 7.49  0.07      0.15      0.22
7.50 - 7.83  0.08      0.16      0.23
7.84 - 8.16  0.08      0.16      0.24
8.17 - 8.49  0.08      0.17      0.25
8.50 - 8.83  0.09      0.18      0.26
8.84 - 9.16  0.09      0.18      0.27
9.17 - 9.49  0.09      0.19      0.28
9.50 - 9.83  0.10      0.20      0.29
9.84 - 10.16 0.10      0.20      0.30
 
(Ord. 484, 7-7-2016, eff. 10-1-2017)
3-1-5: DURATION OF TAXES:
The Municipal Nonproperty Taxes authorized and collected under this chapter are
hereby imposed for a duration of ten (10) years from the effective date of this
chapter. (Ord. 484, 7-7-2016, eff. 10-1-2017)
3-1-6: PURPOSES FOR WHICH THE REVENUES DERIVED FROM THE NONPROPERTY SALES TAXES
SHALL BE USED:
The Nonproperty Sales Tax revenue derived from and collected under this chapter
shall be used for the following purposes:
Administration and legal expenses.
Economic development activity.
Fire protection.
Land acquisition.
Law enforcement.
Municipal transportation.
Parks, trails, and recreation.
Property tax relief.
Public information and education.
Roads, buildings and grounds. (Ord. 484, 7-7-2016, eff. 10-1-2017)
3-1-7: CREATION OF NONPROPERTY TAX RELIEF FUND:
In the Office of the City Clerk, a fund is created to be designated as the
"Municipal Nonproperty Tax Relief Fund". All monies collected under this
chapter, and not otherwise budgeted by the City Council of the City of Sun
Valley, shall be placed by the City Clerk into the Municipal Nonproperty Tax
Relief Fund. All monies collected and placed into that fund shall be used to
replace City property taxes in the ensuing fiscal year. (Ord. 484, 7-7-2016,
eff. 10-1-2017)
3-1-8: AUTHORIZATION TO ADMINISTER, REGULATE AND COLLECT SALES TAX:
   A.   Every person desiring to engage in or conduct a business of retail
sales, including building and construction materials, and/or renting a hotel-
motel room as defined, and/or selling liquor by-the-drink, and/or the business
of sales as defined in this chapter within the City of Sun Valley, irrespective
of where the sale occurs, shall file with the City Clerk an application for a
Municipal Sales Tax permit ("permit") for each place of business. A separate
permit is required for each place of business within the City of Sun Valley.
Every application for a permit shall be made upon a form prescribed by the City
Clerk and shall set forth the name under which the applicant transacts or
intends to transact business, the location of the business or places of
business, and such other information as the City Clerk may reasonably require.
The application shall be signed by the owner, if he is a natural person; or in
the case of an association or partnership, by a member or partner; or in the
case of a corporation, by an executive officer or other person authorized by
the corporation to sign the application. The initial permit shall be issued
upon completion of the application and payment of a ten dollar ($10.00)
application fee for each permit sought. By resolution duly adopted by the City
Council, the amount of the application fee may be changed from time to time as
may be reasonably required.
   B.   Upon filing an application meeting the requirements set out above, the
City Clerk shall issue to each applicant a permit for each place of business. A
permit shall not be assignable, and shall be valid only for the person in whose
name it is issued and for the transaction of business at the place designated
therein. It shall at all times be conspicuously displayed at the location for
which it was issued. Issuance of a permit may be subject to additional
requirements as set forth in this chapter.
   C.   On the face of the permit shall be fixed the Municipal Sales Tax number
which shall be used by the applicant as an identifying number on all filing,
payment and correspondence with regard to the Nonproperty Tax imposed under
this chapter.
   D.   The City Clerk may provide by rule of the temporary suspension of
permits held by persons engaged in seasonal business or who may otherwise
temporarily not be actively engaged in the business of making sales subject to
tax under this chapter. (Ord. 484, 7-7-2016, eff. 10-1-2017)
3-1-9: METHOD FOR PAYMENT OF TAXES:
   A.   The taxes imposed by this chapter shall be computed and paid for each
calendar month, quarterly, or annually, as selected by the taxpayer in its
Municipal Sales Tax permit application. The taxes are due and payable to the
City Clerk on or before the twentieth day of the succeeding month. The amount
of tax paid shall be computed on the total dollar value of all sales subject to
taxation under this chapter. Each person required to hold a permit and number
shall file a Municipal Nonproperty Sales Tax return ("return") and copy of
their Idaho State Sales Tax return for the relevant time period at the same
time said taxes are paid to the City Clerk.
   B.   The first payment of taxes under this chapter shall be due and payable
on November 20, 2017.
   C.   A return shall be filed for each selected tax period (monthly,
quarterly, or annually) by every person engaging in sales subject to taxation
under this chapter regardless of whether or not any tax is due. Returns shall
be signed by the person required to file the return or by a duly authorized
agent.
   D.   A late payment fee of five percent (5%) of the amount owed shall be
assessed for each delinquent return. In addition, an interest payment at the
rate of twelve percent (12%) per annum from the due date from whom such
deficiency amount is due shall be paid.
   E.   No officer, agent or employee of the City shall divulge or make known
to any persons, in any manner except pursuant to the order of a court of
competent jurisdiction, any information whatsoever submitted or obtained
directly or indirectly pursuant to this chapter, or permit any return or
information supplied with regard thereto, or any copy thereof or any note,
paper or book submitted to be seen or examined by any person except as provided
by law; provided that in any action or proceeding brought for the collection,
remission, cancellation, or refund of the whole or any part of a tax imposed
under this chapter, or for enforcing the penalties prescribed for making false
or fraudulent returns, any and all information contained in or provided with
said return may be made accessible to the elected and appointed officials,
officers and representatives of the City charged with enforcing or defending
same. All such returns, information, statements and correspondence relating
thereto may be produced into evidence in any action, civil or criminal,
directly pertaining to such returns or the tax imposed on the basis of such
returns.
   F.   The City Council, under such rules and provisions as it may prescribe,
may permit the Commissioner of the Internal Revenue Service of the United
States or his authorized representative or the proper officer of any state
imposing a tax to inspect the returns or information provided or obtained in
connection therewith, or may furnish to such officer, or his authorized agent,
copies or an abstract thereof.
   G.   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a taxpayer or his authorized
representative, upon proper identification, from inspecting and copying his own
returns and information supplied therewith. (Ord. 484, 7-7-2016, eff. 10-1-
2017)
3-1-10: AUDITS - DEFICIENCY DETERMINATIONS:
   A.   The City Clerk may demand any relevant information be delivered within
ten (10) days of demand, or may order an audit of any taxpayer under this
chapter for the purpose of ascertaining the correctness or completeness of any
return or payment.
   B.   If any error or omission is discovered in such audits or in any other
way, the City Clerk may compute and determine the amount of tax due upon the
basis of facts obtained from such information within its possession and assess
a deficiency. One (1) or more deficiency determinations may be made for the
amount due for one (1) or more than one (1) period. In making such a
determination, the City Clerk may offset any overpayment against amounts due.
Further, said determination shall be made for the period or periods in respect
to which the person fails to make a return and shall be based upon any
information which is in the City Clerk's possession.
   C.   The City Clerk shall give written notice of its determination and the
amount of the deficiency together with the costs of any required examinations,
investigations and/or audits, including interest (in the amount provided by
law), from the date due, to the person from whom such deficiency amount is due.
Service of such notice may be given personally or mailed to the person at the
address furnished to the City Clerk in the permit application. Interest upon
any deficiency (in the amount provided by law), together with all costs of
determination and collection of such deficiency, shall become due and payable
upon notice and demand from the City Clerk and shall be collected as part of
the tax from the date prescribed for payment of the tax. (Ord. 484, 7-7-2016,
eff. 10-1-2017)
3-1-11: REDETERMINATION OF DEFICIENCY:
   A.   Any person against whom a deficiency determination is made under this
chapter, or any person directly interested, may petition in writing for a
redetermination within thirty (30) days after service upon the person of notice
thereof. If the petition for redetermination is not filed within the thirty
(30) day period, the determination shall be deemed final at the expiration of
the period.
   B.   If a petition for redetermination is filed within the thirty (30) day
period, the City Clerk shall reconsider the determination and, if the person so
requests in the petition, grant the person an oral hearing and give said person
ten (10) days' notice of the time and place of the hearing by mail, addressed
to the person at the address furnished to the City Clerk in the permit
application. (Ord. 484, 7-7-2016, eff. 10-1-2017)
3-1-12: APPEALS, INTEREST ON DEFICIENCY:
   A.   When a redetermination is made, the City Clerk shall give notice to the
taxpayer against whom the redetermination is made. Within thirty (30) days of
the date upon which notice of redetermination is mailed or served, the taxpayer
may file an appeal with the City Council or may file a complaint with the
District Court for review of the City Clerk's redetermination. There shall be
no right to appeal to the City Council nor to file a complaint with the
District Court on the redetermination of taxes due made by the City Clerk
unless a petition for redetermination was timely filed. No assessment of a
deficiency in respect to the tax imposed by this chapter or a proceeding for
its collection shall be made, begun or prosecuted until such notice of
redetermination has been mailed to the taxpayer and expiration of such thirty
(30) day period after notice of redetermination, or if an appeal/complaint is
filed until a decision on the appeal/complaint becomes final. If the taxpayer
does not file an appeal with the City Council or file a complaint in District
Court within the time prescribed in this section, the deficiency shall be
assessed and shall become due and payable upon notice and demand from the City
Clerk.
   B.   Interest upon any deficiency (in the amount provided by law) shall be
assessed at the same time as the deficiency and shall become due and payable
upon notice and demand from the City Clerk and shall be collected as part of
the tax from the date prescribed for payment of the tax. (Ord. 484, 7-7-2016,
eff. 10-1-2017)
3-1-13: COLLECTIONS AND ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   As soon as practical after the monthly return and payment is filed, the
City Clerk shall examine the same and determine the correct amount of the tax.
For the purpose of ascertaining the correctness of any payment determining the
amount of tax due when none has been made, determining liability of any person
for any tax payable under this chapter, or the liability at law or in equity of
any person in respect to any tax provided by this chapter or collecting any
such liability, the City Clerk, or duly authorized deputy, is authorized: 1) to
examine the books, papers, records, or other data which may be relevant or
material to the inquiry; 2) to summon the person liable for the tax or any
officer, agent, or employee of such person, or any person having possession,
custody, or care of books of accounting containing entries relating to the
business of the person liable for the tax, to appear before the City Clerk, or
designee, at a time and place named in its summons and to there produce such
books, papers, records, or other data and/or give such testimony under oath as
may be relevant or material to such inquiry. (Ord. 484, 7-7-2016, eff. 10-1-
2017)
3-1-14: REFUNDS, LIMITATIONS, AND INTEREST:
   A.   If the City Clerk determines that any amount due under this chapter has
been paid more than once, or has been erroneously or illegally collected or
computed, the City Clerk shall set forth that fact in its records and the
excess amount paid or collected may be credited on any amount due or payable to
the City Clerk for taxes from that person, and any balance refunded to the
person by whom it was paid or to his successors, administrators, or executors.
   B.   No such credit or refund shall be allowed or made after one (1) year
from the time the payment was made unless before the expiration of such period
a claim therefor is filed by the taxpayer.
   C.   Interest (in the amount provided by law) shall be allowed on that
amount of such credits or refunds, from the date which such was paid.
   D.   Any appeal from the City Clerk's decision denying in part or in whole a
claim for refund shall be made in accordance with the laws of the State of
Idaho with regard to claims against municipalities. (Ord. 484, 7-7-2016, eff.
10-1-2017)
3-1-15: RESPONSIBILITY FOR PAYMENT OF TAXES:
Every person with a duty to account for or pay over any tax imposed by this
chapter on behalf of a corporation, partnership or limited liability company as
an officer, member or employee of such corporation, partnership or limited
liability company shall be personally liable for payment of such tax, plus
penalties and interest if he fails to carry out his duty. (Ord. 484, 7-7-2016,
eff. 10-1-2017)
3-1-16: PERIOD OF LIMITATION UPON ASSESSMENT AND COLLECTION:
   A.   The amount of taxes imposed under this chapter shall be assessed within
three (3) years of the time the return upon which the tax asserted to be due
was or should have been filed, whichever is later, unless the unpaid taxes
shall have been the result of any improper or illegal exemption, in which case
there shall be no limitation of time upon collection of such taxes; provided,
however, if a deficiency determination or assessment has been made within the
prescribed time, such tax may be collected within a period of six (6) years
after assessment. The running of limitations provided by this section shall be
suspended for the period during which the City Clerk is prohibited from making
the assessment or from collecting or proceeding in court due to a petition for
redetermination or an appeal therefrom, and for thirty (30) days thereafter.
   B.   In the cases of taxes due during the lifetime of a decedent, the tax
shall be assessed in any proceedings for collection begun within six (6) months
after written request therefor (filed after the return is made) by the
executor, administrator, or other fiduciary representing the estate of such
decedent unless the assessment is stayed by a petition for redetermination or
any appeal therefrom.
   C.   In the case of a false or fraudulent return with intent to evade tax,
or of a failure to file a return, the tax may be assessed, or a proceeding in
the court for collection of such tax may be begun without assessment, at any
time within three (3) years after the date of the discovery of the facts
constituting the fraud. (Ord. 484, 7-7-2016, eff. 10-1-2017)
3-1-17: SUCCESSOR'S LIABILITY:
   A.   If a person liable for any amount of tax under this chapter sells its
business or stock of goods, the buyer shall make an inquiry to the City Clerk
and withhold from the purchase price any amount of tax that may be due under
this chapter until such time as said person produces a receipt stating that no
amount is due.
   B.   If the buyer of such business or stock of goods fails to withhold from
the purchase price as above required, he shall be personally liable for the
payment of the amount required to be withheld by him. (Ord. 484, 7-7-2016, eff.
10-1-2017)
3-1-18: GENERAL ADMINISTRATION BY THE CITY CLERK:
   A.   The City Clerk shall enforce the provisions of this chapter and may
prescribe, adopt, and enforce rules and regulations relating to its
administration and enforcement. The City Clerk may employ qualified auditors
for examination of taxpayers' books and records, and shall also employ such
accountant, investigators, assistants, clerks, and other personnel as are
necessary for the efficient administration of this chapter, and may delegate
authority to its representatives to conduct hearings, or perform other duties
imposed by this chapter. The total cost of any examination, investigation, and/
or audit shall be and become a part of any tax obligation due and owing to the
City.
   B.   Every taxpayer shall keep such records, receipts, invoices, and other
pertinent papers as the City Clerk may require. Every such taxpayer who files
tax payments required under this chapter shall keep all such records for not
less than four (4) years after making such payment unless the City Clerk in
writing authorizes their destruction.
   C.   The City Clerk, or any person authorized in writing by the Clerk, may
examine the books, papers, records, and equipment of any taxpayer and may
investigate the character of the business of the person in order to verify the
accuracy of any return made, or if no return is made by the person, to
ascertain and determine the amount required to be paid. Any taxpayer whose
records are kept outside of the City must bring the records to the City for
examination by the City Clerk upon request of the latter, or by agreement with
the City Clerk permit an auditor designated by the City Clerk to visit the
place where the records are kept, and there audit such records. (Ord. 484, 7-7-
2016, eff. 10-1-2017)
3-1-19: PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor, punishable by up to one (1) year in the County Jail, and/or a
three hundred dollar ($300.00) fine, or both. Furthermore, each month in which
a person fails to report, or intentionally fails to accurately compute, or
intentionally fails to accurately disclose, or intentionally fails to pay over
the total amount of sales or rentals or the amount of tax to be paid, as
imposed under this chapter, shall be considered a separate offense.
   B.   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall have his
permit and tax number revoked. The City Clerk shall send written notice of
revocation of said permit and tax number to the permit holder by mailing the
same certified mail to the address stated in the permit application. The permit
holder shall have ten (10) days from the date said notice is mailed to file a
written request of appeal with the City Council challenging said revocation. If
no appeal is timely made, said revocation shall be deemed final. Whenever a
person subject to this chapter has had a permit and tax number revoked, the
City Clerk shall not reissue said permit, nor issue a new permit to said
person, until said person places with the City Clerk a bond or other sufficient
security in the amount equal to three (3) times the actual, determined, or
estimated average monthly amount of tax payable by such person pursuant to this
chapter.
   C.   The City Clerk, whenever it is deemed necessary to insure compliance
with this chapter, may require any person subject to this chapter to place with
it such security as it may determine. The amount of said security shall not be
greater than three (3) times the estimated average monthly amount payable by
such persons pursuant to this chapter. The amount of the security may be
increased or decreased by the City Clerk at any time, subject to the
limitations as set forth above.
   D.   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall have all
Municipal beer license(s), and wine license(s), and retail liquor-by-the-drink
license(s) revoked.
   E.   Any amount of tax due under this chapter for which a person fails to
report or accurately compute or remit, as well as all penalties and interest
due, shall become a lien upon the property of said taxpayer on the date that
the same becomes due, and the City may seek to enforce said lien and collect
all taxes and interest due together with the reasonable costs of collection,
including attorney's fees, in a court of competent jurisdiction.
   F.   For the purposes of proper administration of this chapter, and to
prevent evasion of said Municipal sales taxes, the burden of proving that a
sale is not a sale under this chapter is upon the person who makes the sale in
question. (Ord. 484, 7-7-2016, eff. 10-1-2017)
3-1-20: PENALTY CHARGE:
Any person who is required to collect, truthfully account for, and pay over any
tax imposed by this chapter and who willfully fails to collect such a tax,
truthfully account for or pay over such a tax, or willfully attempts in any
manner to evade or defeat such a tax or payment thereof, shall, in addition to
other penalties provided by law, be liable to a penalty equal to the amount of
the tax evaded, or not collected, or not accounted for and paid over. The City
Clerk shall determine and assess such penalties, together with any and all
costs required to be paid by the City to determine such tax, payment, and
penalties, and the same shall become due and payable upon notice and demand
from the City Clerk. The City Clerk shall send written notice of such penalty
charge to the permit holder by mailing same certified mail to the address given
on the permit application. The permit holder shall have ten (10) days from the
date said notice is mailed to file a written request of appeal with the City
Council challenging said penalty charge determination. If no appeal is timely
made, said penalty charge determination shall be deemed final. (Ord. 484, 7-7-
2016, eff. 10-1-2017)
3-1-21: EXEMPTIONS:
Only those transactions which are exempted from the taxes imposed by the State
of Idaho pursuant to the Idaho Sales Tax Act, as that Act may be amended, are
also exempt from the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 484, 7-7-2016, eff. 10-
1-2017)
3-1-22: IDAHO SALES TAX ACT:
This chapter hereby adopts and incorporates by reference all sections of the
Idaho Sales Tax Act which are not otherwise inconsistent with this chapter.
(Ord. 484, 7-7-2016, eff. 10-1-2017)
ARTICLE A. SALES TAX TO BENEFIT AIR SERVICES
SECTION:
3-1A-1: Findings
3-1A-2: Imposition And Rate Of Certain Local-Option Nonproperty Sales Taxes
3-1A-3: Calculation Of Tax
3-1A-4: Duration Of Taxes
3-1A-5: Purposes For Which The Revenues Derived From The Nonproperty Sales
Taxes Shall Be Used
3-1A-1: FINDINGS:
All of the rules, regulations and definitions found in this chapter apply to
this article. (Ord. 507, 3-2-2017, eff. 1-1-2019)
3-1A-2: IMPOSITION AND RATE OF CERTAIN LOCAL-OPTION NONPROPERTY SALES TAXES:
The City of Sun Valley hereby imposes and shall collect certain local-option
nonproperty taxes to wit:
   A.   A Municipal Sales Tax on the sales price of all sales subject to
taxation under this chapter and Idaho Code 63-3601, et seq., Idaho Sales Tax
Act, including subsequent amendments thereto as follows:
      1.   An additional one percent (1%) tax on the sales price of all sales
transactions described as furnishing, preparing, or serving food, meals, or
drinks and nondepreciable goods and services directly consumed by customers
included in the charge thereof.
      2.   An additional one percent (1%) tax on the sales price of all sales
transactions described as:
         a.   Admission to a place or for an event in the City of Sun Valley.
         b.   The use of or the privilege of using tangible personal property
or facilities for recreation, including golf membership and fees, but not ski
lift facilities.
         c.   Providing hotel, motel, campground, or trailer court
accommodations, nondepreciable goods directly consumed by customers and
included services, except where residence is maintained continuously under the
terms of a lease or similar agreement for a period in excess of thirty (30)
days.
         d.   The lease or rental of tangible personal property.
         e.   The intrastate transportation for hire by air of freight or
passengers, except: 1) as part of a regularly scheduled flight by a certified
air carrier, under authority of the United States, or 2) when providing air
ambulance services.
         f.   Any sale, regardless where generated, for admission to a place or
for an event taking place within the City of Sun Valley.
         g.   Any sale, regardless where generated, for the use of or the
privilege of using tangible personal property or facilities for recreation
within the City of Sun Valley.
      3.   An additional one percent (1%) tax on the sales price of all
tangible personal property including:
         a.   Producing, fabricating, processing, printing, or imprinting of
tangible personal property for consumers who furnish, either directly or
indirectly the tangible personal property used in producing, fabricating,
processing, printing, or imprinting.
         b.   A transfer of possession of property where the seller retains the
title as security of the payment of the sales prices.
         c.   A transfer of the title or possession of tangible personal
property which has been produced, fabricated, or printed to the special order
of the customer, or of any publication.
      4.   An additional one percent (1%) tax on the sales price of sales of
ski lift tickets and season ski lift passes.
      5.   An additional one percent (1%) room occupancy charge on receipts
from all short-term rental (30 days or less) charges for hotel-motel rooms,
condominium units, tourist homes, or other sleeping accommodations.
      6.   An additional one percent (1%) liquor by-the-drink Sales Tax on all
sales at retail of liquor by-the-drink including liquor, beer, wine, and all
other alcoholic beverages, for consumption on the premises, or at any event or
activity in the City of Sun Valley.
      7.   An additional one percent (1%) tax on the sales of all "building and
construction materials", as defined in subsection 3-1-2C of this chapter. (Ord.
507, 3-2-2017, eff. 1-1-2019)
3-1A-3: CALCULATION OF TAX:
The bracket system for the collection of the Municipal Sales Tax shall be as
follows:
EXHIBIT A
CITY OF SUN VALLEY SALES TAX TO BENEFIT AIR SERVICES SCHEDULE BRACKET SYSTEM
(Dollars)
Sale Amount Tax Percentage Rate
            1 Percent
Sale Amount  Tax Percentage Rate
             1 Percent
0.01 - 0.16  0.00
0.17 - 0.49  0.00
0.50 - 0.83  0.01
0.84 - 1.16  0.01
1.17 - 1.49  0.01
1.50 - 1.83  0.02
1.84 - 2.16  0.02
2.17 - 2.49  0.02
2.50 - 2.83  0.03
2.84 - 3.16  0.03
3.17 - 3.49  0.03
3.50 - 3.83  0.04
3.84 - 4.16  0.04
4.17 - 4.49  0.04
4.50 - 4.83  0.05
4.84 - 5.16  0.05
5.17 - 5.49  0.05
5.50 - 5.83  0.06
5.84 - 6.16  0.06
6.17 - 6.49  0.06
6.50 - 6.83  0.07
6.84 - 7.16  0.07
7.17 - 7.49  0.07
7.50 - 7.83  0.08
7.84 - 8.16  0.08
8.17 - 8.49  0.08
8.50 - 8.83  0.09
8.84 - 9.16  0.09
9.17 - 9.49  0.09
9.50 - 9.83  0.10
9.84 - 10.16 0.10
 
(Ord. 507, 3-2-2017, eff. 1-1-2019)
3-1A-4: DURATION OF TAXES:
The Municipal nonproperty taxes authorized and collected under this article are
hereby imposed for a duration of five (5) years from the effective date of this
article. (Ord. 507, 3-2-2017, eff. 1-1-2019)
3-1A-5: PURPOSES FOR WHICH THE REVENUES DERIVED FROM THE NONPROPERTY SALES
TAXES SHALL BE USED:
The purposes for which the revenues derived from the additional one percent
(1%) of each of said taxes shall be used, pursuant to a joint powers agreement,
are as follows:
   A.   Maintaining and increasing commercial air service to Friedman Memorial
Airport through the use of minimum revenue guarantees or other inducements to
providers;
   B.   Promoting and marketing the existing service and any future service to
increase passengers;
   C.   For all ancillary costs which are associated with the ongoing effort to
maintain and increase commercial air service, including reasonable program
management costs and busing due to flight diversion(s); and
   D.   Direct costs to collect and enforce the tax, including administrative
and legal fees. (Ord. 507, 3-2-2017, eff. 1-1-2019)
CHAPTER 2
LIQUOR CONTROL
SECTION:
3-2-1: State Laws Adopted
3-2-1: STATE LAWS ADOPTED:
There is hereby adopted for the purpose of governing the licensing, sale and
use of alcoholic beverages within the city, the laws of the state of Idaho,
being particularly Idaho Code title 23, as presently in effect or as may
hereafter be amended by the legislature and as contained in that certain volume
"Idaho Liquor And Beer Laws", revised through the acts of the 1969 legislature,
published by authority of the department of law enforcement, liquor law
division, as the same may be revised by the legislature or by the governing
body of the city, and the same are hereby adopted and incorporated as an
ordinance of the city as fully as though set forth at length herein.
Three (3) copies of the Idaho liquor and beer laws, together with all
amendments thereto, all duly certified by the city clerk, shall be kept on file
in the office of the city clerk for use and examination of and by the public.
(Ord. 42, 1-18-1971, eff. 1-22-1971)
ARTICLE A. LIQUOR BY THE DRINK 1
SECTION:
3-2A-1: Definitions
3-2A-2: License To Retail Liquor
3-2A-3: Application For License
3-2A-4: Restrictions On Issuance Of License
3-2A-5: License Fee; Term
3-2A-6: Investigation Of Applicant; Issuance Of License
3-2A-7: Contents Of License; Nontransferability
3-2A-8: Location Restrictions
3-2A-9: Hours Of Sale
3-2A-10: Restrictions On Sales And Purchases
3-2A-11: Inspections
3-2A-12: Revocation Or Cancellation Of License
3-2A-13: Violation; Penalties
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  3-2E-8 of this chapter for necessity of wine by the drink license.
3-2A-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this article, the definitions contained in Idaho Code title
23, chapter 9 are by this reference incorporated herein and made a part hereof.
(Ord. 8, 1-7-1958, eff. 1-7-1958)
3-2A-2: LICENSE TO RETAIL LIQUOR:
The city council, at regular or special meeting, shall issue licenses to
qualified applicants, as herein provided, whereby the licensee shall be
authorized and permitted to sell liquor by the drink at retail and, upon the
issuance of such license, the licensee therein named shall be authorized to
sell liquor at retail by the drink but only in accordance with the provisions
of this article. (Ord. 8, 1-7-1958, eff. 1-7-1958)
3-2A-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Each applicant shall file with the city clerk an application verified by
affidavit setting forth the following facts:
   A.   Description of premises for which license is sought and its location,
and name of owner of said premises.
   B.   The names and addresses of all persons who will have any financial
interest in any business to be carried on, in and upon the licensed premises,
whether such interest results from open loans, mortgages, conditional sales
contracts, silent partnerships, trusts or any other basis than open trade
accounts incurred in the ordinary course of business, and the amounts of such
interests.
   C.   If premises to be licensed are not owned by applicant, then a certified
copy of the lease by which he will occupy the premises showing that the owner
consents to the sale of liquor by the drink on such premises.
   D.   The name and address of the applicant, which shall include all members
of a partnership or association and the officers, members of the governing
board and ten (10) principal stockholders of a corporation.
   E.   A copy of the articles of incorporation and bylaws of any corporation,
the articles of association and bylaws of any association, or the articles of
partnership of any partnership.
   F.   If, during the period of any license issued hereunder, any change shall
take place in any of the requirements of subsections A, B, C, D, E, of this
section, the licensee shall forthwith make a verified report of such change to
city clerk. (Ord. 8, 1-7-1958, eff. 1-7-1958)
3-2A-4: RESTRICTIONS ON ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
The provisions of Idaho Code section 23-910 are by this reference incorporated
herein and made a part of this article, and this further provision is added: A
license shall not be issued to a person not of good moral character. (Ord. 8,
1-7-1958, eff. 1-7-1958)
3-2A-5: LICENSE FEE; TERM:
Each licensee licensed under the provisions of this article shall pay an annual
license fee to the city of an amount equal to seventy five percent (75%) of the
annual license fee collected by the state of Idaho pursuant to the provisions
of Idaho Code title 23, section 904, as said provisions now read or may
hereafter be amended to read; provided, that licenses issued hereunder shall
expire at twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight on July 31 of the following year.
(Ord. 340, 10-17-2002, eff. 11-1-2002)
3-2A-6: INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT; ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
Upon receipt of an application for a license under this article, together with
that license issued by the state of Idaho, pursuant to provisions of Idaho Code
section 23-907, accompanied by the necessary fee, the city council may make
such investigation of all matters pertaining thereto as it shall deem proper.
If the council shall determine the contents of the application are true, that
such applicant is qualified to receive a license, that his premises are
suitable for the carrying on of the business, and requirements of this article
are met and complied with, license shall be issued and state license returned;
otherwise the application shall be denied and state license returned. (Ord. 8,
1-7-1958, eff. 1-7-1958; amd. 1990 Code)
3-2A-7: CONTENTS OF LICENSE; NONTRANSFERABILITY:
Every license issued under this article shall set forth the name of the person
to whom issued, the location by street and number, or other definite
designation, of the premises; if issued to a partnership, the names of the
persons constituting the partnership shall be set forth; if issued to a
corporation or association, the names of the principal officers and the
governing board shall be set forth. Such license shall be signed by the
licensee and shall be nontransferable. Every license issued under the
provisions of this article is separate and distinct and no person except the
licensee therein named shall exercise any of privileges granted thereunder and
all licenses are applicable only to premises in respect to which issued. No
person shall be granted more than one license in any one year. (Ord. 8, 1-7-
1958, eff. 1-7-1958; amd. 1990 Code)
3-2A-8: LOCATION RESTRICTIONS:
No license shall be issued for any premises in any neighborhood which is
predominately residential or within three hundred feet (300') of any public
school, church or any other place of worship, measured in a straight line to
the nearest entrance to the licensed premises; provided, that this limitation
shall not apply to any duly licensed premises that at the time of licensing did
not come within the restricted area but subsequent to licensing came therein.
(Ord. 8, 1-7-1958, eff. 1-7-1958)
3-2A-9: HOURS OF SALE:
It shall be unlawful to sell, offer for sale, give away, consume or permit or
allow to be consumed any liquor upon any licensed premises, or for any liquor
store or distributee's station within the city to transact the sale or delivery
of any alcoholic liquor during the following days and hours:
   A.   On Christmas, from two o'clock (2:00) A.M. until ten o'clock (10:00)
A.M. the following day;
   B.   On any other day, except as provided for in subsection C of this
section, between the hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and ten o'clock (10:00)
A.M.;
   C.   On the day of any municipal general election or a primary election,
prior to the closing of the polls. "General election" is hereby defined to mean
the biennial election of officers.
   D.   Any patron present on the licensed premises after the sale of liquor
has stopped as provided above shall have a reasonable time, not to exceed
thirty (30) minutes, to consume any beverages already sold. (1990 Code)
3-2A-10: RESTRICTIONS ON SALES AND PURCHASES:
No licensee or his or its employed agents, servants or bartenders shall sell,
deliver or give away, or cause or permit to be sold, delivered or given away,
any liquor to:
   A.   Any person under the age of twenty one (21) years.
   B.   Any person actually, apparently or obviously intoxicated.
   C.   A habitual drunkard.
   D.   An interdicted person. (Ord. 8, 1-7-1958, eff. 1-7-1958; amd. 1990
Code)
3-2A-11: INSPECTIONS:
Upon proper identification, any duly authorized police officer of the city
shall have the right, at any reasonable time, to make an examination of the
premises of any licensee as to whether the laws of the state and the ordinances
of this city are being complied with. (Ord. 8, 1-7-1958, eff. 1-7-1958; amd.
1990 Code)
3-2A-12: REVOCATION OR CANCELLATION OF LICENSE:
The right shall be and at all times remain vested in the city council to revoke
or cancel the license of any person licensed hereunder for any violation of
this article, and upon verified complaint filed with the city council, said
council shall cause such alleged offender to appear before the council and be
heard upon said complaint; copy of said complaint shall be served with said
notice, and the day and hour of the hearing, which shall be at least five (5)
days thence, shall be specified in such notice, and such hearing shall be had
in the city clerk's office unless a different place be specified in such
notice; and if at said hearing, upon the taking of evidence on behalf of the
city and such offender, it shall appear to the city council that cause exists
for the cancellation or revocation of the license, the same may be canceled or
revoked without further process of law, and upon such cancellation or
revocation, no refund of any unexpired portion of the license fee shall be made
to the licensee. (Ord. 8, 1-7-1958, eff. 1-7-1958)
3-2A-13: VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
Any violation of the provisions of this article shall be unlawful, and any
person so violating such provision shall be guilty of an offense hereunder, and
upon conviction thereof shall be punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 8, 1-7-1958, eff. 1-7-1958; amd. 1990 Code)
ARTICLE B. CATERING LIQUOR
SECTION:
3-2B-1: Purpose And Intent
3-2B-2: Authority
3-2B-3: Application For Permit
3-2B-4: Filing Fee
3-2B-5: Approval Or Disapproval Of Application
3-2B-6: Appeals
3-2B-7: Liability Of Permittee
3-2B-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
Pursuant to the provisions of Idaho Code sections 23-934A and 23-934B,
procedures are provided by which any person holding an Idaho retail liquor
license may serve and sell liquor retail by the drink at a private party or
convention upon obtaining a liquor catering permit from the city within which
the liquor is to be served. A need exists to facilitate the process by which
applications made to the city for such liquor catering permits are reviewed and
acted upon by the city. (1990 Code)
3-2B-2: AUTHORITY:
In order to more effectively carry out the directions of the law provided in
Idaho Code sections 23-934A and 23-934B, the city council shall, by this
article, delegate its authority to receive and act upon such applications for
liquor catering permits to the city clerk and provide certain conditions and
criteria which shall serve to limit the discretion of the city clerk in
carrying out the authority hereby created. (1990 Code)
3-2B-3: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
Any person holding a valid retail liquor license issued by the state of Idaho
who seeks the issuance of a liquor catering permit by the city pursuant to
Idaho Code sections 23-934A and 23-934B shall file a verified application with
the city clerk on such form as may be prescribed by the director of the
department of law enforcement of the state of Idaho and the city clerk which
shall contain the following information:
   A.   The name and address of the applicant and the number of his state
liquor license.
   B.   The dates and hours during which the permit is to be effective, not to
exceed three (3) consecutive days.
   C.   The names of the organizations, groups or persons sponsoring the event.
   D.   The address at which the liquor is to be served, and if a public
building, the rooms in which the liquor is to be served.
   E.   A statement that the event at which the liquor is to be served will be
open to the sponsoring organizations and their guests. (Ord. 190, 12-19-1986)
3-2B-4: FILING FEE:
A filing fee in the amount as determined by resolution of the city council
shall be paid to the treasury of the city and that filing fee shall not be
refunded even if the application for the liquor catering permit is denied.
(Ord. 190, 12-19-1986; amd. 1990 Code)
3-2B-5: APPROVAL OR DISAPPROVAL OF APPLICATION:
Pursuant to Idaho Code section 50-207, the city council hereby delegates to the
city clerk authority to receive applications made for the issuance of liquor
catering permits and to approve or disapprove of those applications, with the
advice and recommendation of the chief of police of the city. In the process of
determining whether to approve or disapprove an application for a liquor
catering permit, the city clerk shall exercise his discretion based upon the
following provisions:
   A.   The city clerk shall not issue a catering permit unless all of the
information required by this article and by state law has been included in the
liquor catering permit application.
   B.   In determining whether a "private party" as provided by Idaho Code
section 23-934A is the basis for the requested permit, the city clerk shall
follow the language of that certain emergency rule and regulation implementing
Idaho Code title 23, chapter 9, as promulgated by the state of Idaho department
of law enforcement. That emergency rule and regulation provides as follows:
      B, 1. Alcoholic Liquor Catering Permits for Private Functions.
         A banquet, reception, or other private function, for purposes of Idaho
Code section 23-934A, is one for invited guests only and is not generally open
to the public. A function is not made private merely by requiring a fee or
initiation cost. An invited guest is one who is invited to the private function
because of his or her unique, special, and personal relationship to the sponsor
or host and to whom the hospitality of the host or sponsor is extended.
   C.   The city clerk shall first obtain the advice and recommendation of the
chief of police of the city who shall review the contents of the application.
The city clerk shall approve or disapprove the application and indicate the
determination on the face of the application by endorsement signed by the
clerk. Copies of the application with the signed endorsement thereon shall be
mailed or delivered immediately to the chief of police, the director of the
department of law enforcement of the state of Idaho and the applicant, and a
signed copy shall be retained by the clerk. An application approved in this
manner shall constitute a permit unless disapproved by the director of law
enforcement as provided by Idaho Code section 23-934B. The city clerk shall
promptly notify the applicant in writing if the application is disapproved and
shall state therein with reasonable particularity all of the facts which serve
as the basis for the disapproval of the application. The city clerk shall have
ten (10) days, excluding holidays and weekend days, within which to act on the
application by approval or disapproval. An application not specifically
approved or disapproved within the ten (10) day period provided herein shall be
deemed disapproved. (1990 Code)
3-2B-6: APPEALS:
Any applicant denied a liquor catering permit may immediately file an appeal
with the city council. The city council shall set a time for hearing that
appeal, which shall be within a reasonable time of the date of the filing of
the request for appeal. The applicant shall be notified of the time and place
of the hearing before the city council in advance thereof, and shall be
entitled to appear at the hearing and be heard. After such hearing, the city
council may concur in the action of the city clerk, or may overrule the city
clerk and order that the permit be immediately approved, with or without
conditions. (1990 Code)
3-2B-7: LIABILITY OF PERMITTEE:
An applicant who is granted a liquor catering permit under this article shall
indemnify the city, its officers, boards, commissions, agents and employees
against all claims, demands, actions, suits and other proceedings by others and
against all liability to others, and against any loss, cost and expense
(including attorney fees at all levels of the court system if litigation is
commenced and reasonable attorney fees if litigation is not commenced)
resulting therefrom, arising out of the activities of the applicant in its use
of the issued liquor catering permit. (Ord. 190, 12-19-1986)
ARTICLE C. BEER
SECTION:
3-2C-1: Definitions
3-2C-2: Interpretation Of Provisions
3-2C-3: License Required
3-2C-4: License Fees; Term
3-2C-5: Investigation Of Applicant
3-2C-6: Approval Of License; Issuance
3-2C-7: Records Of Applications
3-2C-8: Revocation, Suspension Or Denial Of License
3-2C-9: Penalties
3-2C-1: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this article, the following words and terms shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section:
BEER: Any beverage obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of any infusion of
barley, malt and/or other ingredients in drinking water.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, copartnership, corporation, association or any
group or combination acting as a unit, and the plural as well as the singular
number unless the intent to give a more limited meaning is disclosed by the
content.
RETAILER: Any person engaged in the sale or distribution of beer to the
consumer. (1990 Code)
3-2C-2: INTERPRETATION OF PROVISIONS:
This article shall not be construed as authorizing or attempting to authorize
the sale of any alcoholic wines or distilled liquors 1 , or any intoxicating
liquors 2  as defined by the laws of the state of Idaho. (1990 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See articles D and E of this chapter.
2 2. See articles A and B of this chapter.
3-2C-3: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage as a retailer in the sale or
distribution of beer to the consumer without first applying to the city clerk
and securing a license so to do, and paying the license fee herein prescribed.
(Ord. 2, 6-5-1947)
3-2C-4: LICENSE FEES; TERM:
   A.   Fees: The fees for such license shall be in an amount as determined
from time to time by resolution of the city council.
   B.   Term Of License: All licenses shall be granted by the mayor and council
for a period of one year beginning January 1 and ending December 31. A full
year's license fee shall be collected after January 1. (1990 Code)
3-2C-5: INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT:
No license shall be granted hereunder until there has been an investigation by
the police department of applicants hereunder. After investigation, the
application will be forwarded to the city council with a recommendation from
the chief of police. If the chief of police recommended that an application be
denied he shall state, in writing:
   A.   The statutes or ordinances and standards used in evaluating the
application;
   B.   The reason for the denial; and
   C.   The action, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain the
license, transfer or renewal thereof. (Ord. 168, 12-13-1983)
3-2C-6: APPROVAL OF LICENSE; ISSUANCE:
The city council shall grant or deny the application within thirty (30) days of
the time it is filed with the city clerk. Upon such application and payment as
hereinbefore set forth, the city clerk shall issue such license to such person,
which license shall be at all times prominently displayed in the place of
business of such retailer. (Ord. 2, 6-15-1947; amd. Ord. 168, 12-13-1983)
3-2C-7: RECORDS OF APPLICATIONS:
In all cases where the city council is considering applications for licenses,
transfers or renewals thereof, a transcribable verbatim record of the
proceeding shall be made. If the applicant for a license, transfer or renewal
is denied, a transcribable verbatim record of the proceedings shall be kept for
a period of not less than six (6) months after the final decision on the
matter. Upon written request and within the time period provided for retention
of the record, any person may have the record transcribed at his expense. The
city council shall also provide for the keeping of the minutes of the
proceedings. Minutes shall be retained indefinitely or as otherwise provided by
law. (1990 Code)
3-2C-8: REVOCATION, SUSPENSION OR DENIAL OF LICENSE:
Prior to any revocation or suspension, the licensee shall be afforded a hearing
according to Idaho Code section 23-1016. Whenever the mayor and city council
deny an application, they shall specify, in writing:
   A.   The statutes, ordinances and standards used in evaluating the
application;
   B.   The reason for the denial; and
   C.   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain the
license, transfer or renewal thereof. (Ord. 168, 12-13-1983)
3-2C-9: PENALTIES:
Any person violating the provisions of this article shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to penalties as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 2, 6-15-1947; amd. 1990 Code)
ARTICLE D. RETAIL SALE OF WINE
SECTION:
3-2D-1: Definitions
3-2D-2: License Required
3-2D-3: Application For License
3-2D-4: Qualifications Of Applicant
3-2D-5: License Fee; Term
3-2D-6: Issuance Of License
3-2D-7: Conditions Of License
3-2D-8: Minors
3-2D-9: Open Containers
3-2D-10: Revocation Or Suspension Of License
3-2D-11: Violation
3-2D-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following terms as used in this article are hereby defined as follows:
(Ord. 46, 6-21-1971, eff. 7-1-1971)
DIRECTOR: The director of the department of law enforcement of the state of
Idaho.
PERSON: An individual, firm, copartnership, association, corporation or any
group or combination acting as a unit, and includes the plural as well as the
singular unless the intent to give a more limited meaning is disclosed by the
context in which it is used.
RETAIL WINE LICENSE: A license issued by the director, authorizing a person to
sell wine at retail.
RETAILER: A person to whom a retail wine license has been issued.
WINE: Any alcoholic beverage containing not more than fourteen percent (14%)
alcohol by volume obtained by the fermentation of the natural sugar content of
fruits or other agricultural products containing sugar. (Ord. 46, 6-21-1971;
amd. 1990 Code)
3-2D-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be lawful for any person to sell wine at retail within the corporate
limits of the city after having first procured a license therefor. (1990 Code)
3-2D-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Application for license shall be in writing, signed and sworn to by the
applicant upon application forms furnished by the clerk. Such application shall
be filed by the clerk and presented to the mayor and council at the next
meeting of the council for their approval, rejection or further consideration.
(Ord. 46, 6-21-1971, eff. 7-1-1971)
3-2D-4: QUALIFICATIONS OF APPLICANT:
The applicant for a license shall possess all of the qualifications necessary
to obtain a license from the director of the department of law enforcement of
the state, as prescribed by the laws of the state, and maintain such
qualifications throughout the period for which such license is issued. The
possession of licenses regularly issued by the department of law enforcement
and the county, in addition to a city beer license 1 , shall be prima facie
evidence of the applicant's qualifications to receive a license hereunder.
(1990 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See article C of this chapter.
3-2D-5: LICENSE FEE; TERM:
The fees for such license shall be in an amount as determined from time to time
by resolution of the city council. Such license year shall be from one o'clock
(1:00) A.M. January 1 through December 31; provided, however, should a license
be issued for less than a full calendar year, the license fee shall be prorated
in accordance with the actual months of issuance. (Ord. 46, 6-21-1971, eff. 7-
1-1971; amd. 1990 Code)
3-2D-6: ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
Upon filing the application for a license and production of evidence as
required any section
3-2D-4 of this chapter as to the qualifications of the applicant and by the
payment of the required license fee, the clerk shall, upon approval of the
council, issue to the applicant a license to sell wine at retail within the
municipality for such calendar year or the remainder thereof. (Ord. 46, 6-21-
1971, eff. 7-1-1971)
3-2D-7: CONDITIONS OF LICENSE:
   A.   Transfer Of License: The assignment or transfer of a wine license shall
be the same as provided in Idaho Code section 23-1317. (Ord. 46, 6-21-1971,
eff. 7-1-1971; amd. 1990 Code)
   B.   Consumption On Premises: Retailers who do not possess a valid license
for the retail sale of liquor by the drink 1  shall not permit consumption of
wine on the licensed premises and may sell the wine only in its original
unbroken, sealed container.
   C.   Hours Of Sale: Wine sold for consumption on the retailer's premises may
be sold only during hours that liquor by the drink may be sold pursuant to the
laws of this state. Wine sold by the retailer for consumption off the premises
of the retailer may be sold only during the hours that beer may be sold
pursuant to the laws of this state 2 . (1990 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. See article A of this chapter.
2 1. IC §23-1012.
3-2D-8: MINORS:
   A.   No person under the age of twenty one (21) years may purchase, consume
or possess wine.
   B.   No person shall give, sell or deliver wine to any person under the age
of twenty one (21) years.
   C.   No person under the age of twenty one (21) years shall, by any means,
represent to any retailer or distributor, or to any agent or employee of such
retailer or distributor, that he or she is twenty one (21) years or more of age
for the purpose of inducing such retailer or distributor, or his agent or
employee, to sell, serve or dispense wine to such person.
   D.   No person shall, by any means, represent to any retailer or
distributor, or the agent or employee of such retailer or distributor, that any
other person is twenty one (21) years or more of age, when in fact such other
person is under the age of twenty one (21) years, for the purposes of inducing
such retailer or distributor, or the agent or employee of such retailer or
distributor, to sell, serve or dispense wine to such other person. (1990 Code)
3-2D-9: OPEN CONTAINERS:
No person may, while operating or riding in or upon a motor vehicle upon a
public highway of this state, have in his possession any wine in an open or
unsealed container of any kind. (Ord. 46, 6-21-1971, eff. 7-1-1971)
3-2D-10: REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE:
The right shall be and remain at all times vested in the mayor and council, and
the mayor and council may, as hereinafter provided, revoke or cancel any
license for fraud or misrepresentation in its procurement, or for a violation
of any of the provisions of this article, or for any conduct or act of the
licensee or his employees, or any conduct or act permitted by him or them on
the premises where such business is conducted, or in connection therewith or
adjacent thereto, tending to render such business or such premises where the
same is conducted as a public nuisance or a menace to the health, peace, safety
or general welfare of the city; provided, that revocation or suspension of the
state license by the director of the department of law enforcement shall be
deemed prima facie evidence for revocation or suspension of the license issued
herein. (Ord. 46, 6-21-1971, eff. 7-1-1971; amd. 1990 Code)
3-2D-11: VIOLATION:
Any person who violates any of the provisions of this article or fails to
comply with any of the terms and conditions hereof shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor. (Ord. 46, 6-21-1971, eff. 7-1-1971)
ARTICLE E. SALE OF WINE BY THE DRINK
SECTION:
3-2E-1: License Required
3-2E-2: Application For License
3-2E-3: Qualifications Of Applicant
3-2E-4: License Fee; Term
3-2E-5: Issuance Of License
3-2E-6: Hours Of Sale
3-2E-7: Minors
3-2E-8: Application Of Provisions To Liquor Dealers
3-2E-9: Violation; Penalties
3-2E-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be lawful for any person to sell wine by the individual glass or
opened bottle at retail, for consumption on the licensed premises only, within
the corporate limits of the city, after first having procured a license
therefor. (1990 Code)
3-2E-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Application for license shall be in writing, signed and sworn to by the
applicant upon application forms furnished by the clerk. Such applications
shall be filed by the clerk and presented to the mayor and council at the next
meeting of the council for their approval, rejection or further consideration.
(Ord. 72, 7-6-1973)
3-2E-3: QUALIFICATIONS OF APPLICANT:
The applicant for a license shall possess all of the qualifications necessary
to obtain a license from the director of the department of law enforcement of
the state of Idaho as prescribed by the laws of the state 1 , and maintain such
qualifications throughout the period for which such license is issued. The
possession of licenses regularly issued by the department of law enforcement
shall be prima facie evidence of the applicant's qualifications to receive a
license hereunder. (1990 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. IC §23-1307.
3-2E-4: LICENSE FEE; TERM:
The license fee imposed and collected shall be the sum determined from time to
time by resolution of the city council. Such license year shall be from one
o'clock (1:00) A.M., January 1 through December 31. (Ord. 72, 7-6-1973; amd.
1990 Code)
3-2E-5: ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
Upon the filing of an application for a license and production of evidence as
required herein as to the qualifications of the applicant and by the payment of
the required license fee, the clerk shall, upon approval of the council, issue
to the applicant a license to sell wine by the individual glass or open bottle
at retail, for consumption on the premises only, within the municipality for
such calendar year or the remainder thereof. (1990 Code)
3-2E-6: HOURS OF SALE:
Wines sold for the consumption on the licensed premises may be sold only during
hours that beer can be sold pursuant to the laws of this state 1 . (Ord. 72, 7-
6-1973)
 
Notes
1 1. IC §23-1012.
3-2E-7: MINORS:
   A.   No persons under the age of twenty one (21) years may purchase, consume
or possess wine.
   B.   No person shall give, sell or deliver wine to any person under the age
of twenty one (21) years.
   C.   No person under the age of twenty one (21) years shall by any means
represent to any retailer, or to any agent or employee of such retailer, that
he or she is twenty one (21) years of age or more for the purpose of inducing
such retailer or his agent or employee to sell, serve or dispense wine to such
person.
   D.   No person shall, by any means, represent to any retailer, or the agent
or employee of such retailer, that the other person is twenty one (21) years of
age, when in fact such person is under the age of twenty one (21) years, for
the purpose of inducing such retailer, or the agent or employee of such
retailer, to sell, serve or dispense wine to such other person. (Ord. 72, 7-6-
1973; amd. 1990 Code)
3-2E-8: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS TO LIQUOR DEALERS:
No person holding a valid license for retail sale of liquor by the drink 1
need obtain a license under this article for the sale of wine by the drink on
the licensed premises unless sales of wine by the drink are made during hours
or on days when the retail sale of liquor by the drink is not permitted, in
which case a license under this article is required. (Ord. 101, 1-19-1976)
 
Notes
1 2. See article A of this chapter.
3-2E-9: VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
Any person selling wine by the individual glass or open bottle at retail
without first procuring a license as herein provided, or violating any of the
provisions of this article shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 72, 7-6-1973; amd. 1990 Code)
CHAPTER 3
TIMESHARES
SECTION:
3-3-1: Findings
3-3-2: Definitions
3-3-3: Application Of Provisions; Exemptions
3-3-4: Timesharing In Property
3-3-5: Management Of The Timeshare
3-3-6: Timeshare Owners' Association
3-3-7: Sale Of Timeshare
3-3-8: Resale Of Timeshares
3-3-9: Public Offering Statement
3-3-10: Right To Rescind
3-3-11: Escrow Of Deposits
3-3-12: Remedies And Enforcement
3-3-1: FINDINGS:
The city council hereby finds, determines and declares that this chapter is
necessary and proper for the health, safety and welfare of the city and the
inhabitants thereof. (1990 Code)
3-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section:
ACQUISITION AGENT: Any person, other than a developer or sales agent, who, for
compensation, solicits or encourages others to attend a timeshare sales
presentation or to contact a timeshare sales agent or developer.
ASSESSMENT: The pro rata share assessed from time to time against each owner of
a timeshare by the association or managing entity to pay for timeshare
expenses.
ASSOCIATION: The timeshare owners' association.
BLANKET ENCUMBRANCE: A trust deed or mortgage or any other lien or encumbrance,
mechanic's lien or otherwise securing or evidencing the payment of money and
effecting more than one timeshare or an agreement effecting more than one
timeshare by which the developer holds the timeshare property under an option,
leasehold, contract to sell or trust agreement.
DEVELOPER: Any person, partnership, corporation or other entity which creates a
timesharing plan or is in the business of selling timeshare units.
EXCHANGE PROGRAM: A plan or program in which the owners or holders of any
timeshare property may exchange occupancy rights among themselves or with the
owners or holders of timeshare in other timeshare property or with the owners
or holders of units in other properties.
MANAGING ENTITY: The person designated in the timeshare instrument or selected
by the association board or by the timeshare owners to manage all or a portion
of the timeshare plan.
OFFERING: Any advertisement, inducement, solicitation or attempt to encourage
any person to acquire a timeshare other than as security for an obligation. An
advertisement in a newspaper or other periodical of general circulation or in
any broadcast medium to the general public of a timeshare in a unit not located
in this city is not an offering if the advertisement states that an offering
may be made only in compliance with the law of the jurisdiction in which the
unit or units are located.
OWNER: A person other than the developer to whom a timeshare has been conveyed
other than as security for an obligation. Until all timeshares are sold for the
first time, the developer is considered an owner.
PERSON: One or more natural persons, corporations, partnerships, associations,
trusts or other entities, or any combination thereof.
PROJECT: Real property subject to a project instrument containing more than one
unit. A project may include units that are not timeshare units. Specifically
excluding the Elkhorn Property Owners' Association, Incorporated.
PURCHASER: Any person other than a developer who by voluntary transfer acquires
an interest in a timeshare other than as security for an obligation.
REGULAR EMPLOYEE: A person who has been employed by the same employer or his
successor on a full time basis for a period of two (2) years or a person who
has been employed by the same employer or his successor on a full time basis
for a period of less than two (2) years and whose responsibilities involve more
than being a sales agent for one timeshare property, but not including a person
who is employed solely as an acquisition agent.
SALES AGENT: A person who sells or offers to sell for compensation a timeshare
interest in a timeshare plan except a person who acquired a timeshare interest
for the person's own occupancy and later offers it for resale.
TIMESHARE: A timeshare estate or a timeshare license but not including the
following:
   A.   Normal hotel/motel operations (i.e., acceptance of advance deposits)
which are customary and are not entered for the purpose of avoiding the
provisions of this chapter.
   B.   The creation of undivided, joint ownership interests (including
leasehold interests) in a particular dwelling unit (including a condominium
unit); provided, however, that no agreement exists either recorded or
unrecorded between co-owners providing for or allowing the exclusive use or
occupancy of the property by one or more co-owners during any annually
recurring period of time if said agreement is in any way binding or effective
on any assignee or future owner of such joint interest.
TIMESHARE ESTATE: A right to occupy a unit or any of several units during five
(5) or more separate time periods over a period of at least five (5) years
including renewal options coupled with a freehold estate or an estate for years
in a timeshare property (project) or a specified portion thereof.
TIMESHARE EXPENSE: Expenditures, fees, charges or liabilities:
   A.   Incurred with respect to timeshares by or on behalf of all timeshare
owners in one timeshare property; and
   B.   Imposed on the timeshare units by the entity governing a project of
which timeshare property is part, together with any allocations to reserves,
but excluding purchase money payable for timeshares.
TIMESHARE INSTRUMENT: One or more documents by whatever name denominated
creating or regulating timeshares.
TIMESHARE LICENSE: A right to occupy a unit or any of several units during five
(5) or more separate time periods over a period of at least five (5) years
including renewal options not coupled with a freehold estate or an estate for
years, including, but not limited to, a vacation license, prepaid hotel
reservations, club membership, partnership, limited partnership or vacation
bond.
TIMESHARE PROPERTY: One or more timeshare units subject to the same timeshare
instrument, together with any other real estate or rights therein appurtenant
to those units.
TIMESHARE UNITS: A unit in which timeshares exist.
UNIT: Real property or a portion thereof designated for separate use. (1990
Code)
3-3-3: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS; EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   This chapter applies to all timeshare units which shall include
"timeshare estate" and "timeshare license", as defined in section
3-3-2 of this chapter.
   B.   A public offering statement need not be prepared or delivered in the
case of:
      1.   A disposition pursuant to court order;
      2.   A disposition by government or governmental agencies;
      3.   A disposition by judicial foreclosure. (1990 Code)
3-3-4: TIMESHARING IN PROPERTY:
   A.   The timeshare instrument of any project constructed or proposed for
construction, or which timeshare instrument is recorded after the effective
date hereof shall state within the body of such timeshare instrument that
timeshare shall be permitted within the property.
   B.   In the event a developer or owner desires to timeshare a unit or units
within an existing project where no timeshare units presently exist, then the
documents constituting the project instruments and which would become the
timeshare instruments must be amended to permit timeshare. In order to amend
said project instruments, a majority vote as required by the project
instruments shall be required.
   C.   In the event a developer or owner desires to timeshare a unit or units
within an existing project where timeshare units presently exist, then the
documents constituting the project instruments and which would become the
timeshare instruments must be amended to permit timeshare. In order to amend
said project instruments, a majority vote as required by the project
instruments shall be required; however, the failure to so amend the project
instruments shall not result in the termination or discontinuance of the
existing timeshare. (1990 Code)
3-3-5: MANAGEMENT OF THE TIMESHARE:
   A.   Before the closing of the first timeshare sale, the developer shall
designate a managing entity which may be the developer, the association or a
management firm.
   B.   The management entity shall be responsible for:
      1.   Managing and maintaining all accommodations and facilities of the
timeshare plan;
      2.   Collecting any assessment for common expenses;
      3.   Providing each owner with an itemized annual budget including all
receipts and expenditures;
      4.   Maintaining all books and records concerning the timeshare plan on
the timeshare property and making the books and records available for
inspection by an owner;
      5.   Scheduling occupancy of units if each owner does not acquire a
specific timeshare period so that each owner receives the use of the timeshare
plan's accommodations and facilities to which the owner is entitled;
      6.   Performing all other duties necessary to maintain the accommodations
or facilities as provided in the management contract or other agreement;
      7.   Hiring and supervising an employee or agent to perform a function
described in subsections B1 through B6 of this section.
   C.   A timeshare instrument that provides for the developer or an agent
selected by the developer to manage the timeshare property until an association
or the owners assume the role of managing entity shall include provisions for:
      1.   Termination by the association or owners;
      2.   Termination of contracts for goods and services for the timeshare
property or units entered into during the period the developer served as the
managing entity;
      3.   A regular accounting at least annually by the developer to the
association or owners as to all matters affecting the timeshare property;
      4.   Immediate termination of the developer as managing entity by the
association or owners and assumption of management functions by the association
in the case of abandonment or substantial breakdown of management services for
the timeshare plan.
   D.   Prior to the closing of the first timeshare sale, the developer shall
deposit with the management entity sufficient funds or cash equivalent for a
one year reserve for the maintenance of the common area of the timeshare
property. Such reserve fund shall be maintained by the owners throughout the
life of the timeshare property and be adjusted to reflect the costs of
maintenance as defined in this section for each ensuing year.
   E.   Projects which exist prior to the effective date hereof which convert
to timeshare shall be required to comply with this section. The one year
reserve for management and maintenance costs shall be deposited at the
beginning of the fiscal year subsequent to the formal approval of the
conversion and maintained for the life of the project as provided hereinabove.
   F.   Timeshare property or timeshare units which exist prior to the
effective date hereof and which do not formally convert to timeshare pursuant
to subsection 3-3-4C of this chapter shall not be required to comply with this
section.
   G.   In carrying out its functions, the managing entity shall have the right
to file an assessment lien against any timeshare owner consistent with the
terms and conditions of Idaho Code section 55-1518, as amended or subsequently
codified. (1990 Code)
3-3-6: TIMESHARE OWNERS' ASSOCIATION:
   A.   Authority: An association of timeshare owners shall be organized to
serve as a means through which the timeshare owners may take action with regard
to the administration, management and operation of the timeshare property. The
association shall be organized as a corporation for profit, a nonprofit
corporation or an unincorporated association or trust. The name of the
association shall include the complete name of the timeshare property.
   B.   Members: Membership in the association shall be limited to timeshare
owners.
   C.   Board Of Directors: The affairs of the association shall be governed by
a board of directors or other governing body as provided for in the bylaws
adopted under the applicable incorporation requirements.
   D.   Powers: Subject to the provisions of the timeshare instrument and
bylaws, the association may:
      1.   Assume the role of managing entity;
      2.   Adopt and amend bylaws, rules and regulations;
      3.   Adopt and amend budgets for revenues, expenditures and reserves and
levy and collect assessments for common expenses from timeshare owners;
      4.   Enforce the payment of assessments consistent with Idaho Code
section 55-1518, as amended or subsequently codified;
      5.   Hire and terminate a managing agent or other employees, agents and
independent contractors;
      6.   Institute, defend or intervene in litigation or an administrative
proceeding in the association's own name on behalf of the association or on
behalf of two (2) or more timeshare owners on any matter affecting the
timeshare property;
      7.   Make contracts and incur liabilities;
      8.   Regulate the use, maintenance, repair, replacement and modification
of timeshare property;
      9.   Acquire by purchase, lease, devise, gift or voluntary grant real
property or any interest therein and take, hold, possess and dispose of real
property or any interest therein;
      10.   Impose a charge for late payment of an assessment and after giving
notice and an opportunity to be heard, levy a reasonable fine for violation of
the timeshare instrument, bylaws, rules and regulations of the association;
      11.   Provide for the indemnification of the association's officers and
governing board and maintain adequate liability insurance for the association's
officers and governing board;
      12.   Exercise any other power conferred by a timeshare instrument or
bylaws;
      13.   Exercise any other power determined by the association to be
necessary and proper for the governing and operation of the association.
   E.   Existing Timeshare Property: Timeshare property or timeshare units
which exist prior to the effective date hereof and which do not formally
convert to timeshare pursuant to subsection 3-3-4C of this chapter, shall be
required to comply with this section. (1990 Code)
3-3-7: SALE OF TIMESHARE:
   A.   Whether a timeshare is a timeshare estate or timeshare license, a
timeshare shall constitute real estate and the offer or sale thereof shall
constitute the offer or sale of an interest in real property.
   B.   No sales agent or acquisition agent shall solicit or encourage others
to attend a timeshare sales presentation or to contact a timeshare sales agent
or developer unless said sales agent or acquisition agent is a licensed real
estate salesman or real estate broker pursuant to the laws of the state of
Idaho and the rules and regulations of the Idaho real estate commission 1 .
   C.   No sales agent or acquisition agent shall in any way involve himself in
the sale of a timeshare unless said sales agent or acquisition agent is a
licensed real estate salesman or real estate broker pursuant to the laws of the
state of Idaho and the rules and regulations of the Idaho real estate
commission.
   D.   A developer may be involved in the entire sales process of a timeshare
without being a real estate salesman or real estate broker; provided, that no
employee of the developer shall solicit or encourage others to attend a
timeshare sales presentation or to contact a timeshare sales agent or developer
or to be involved in any way in the sale of a timeshare if not a licensed real
estate salesman or real estate broker pursuant to the laws of the state of
Idaho and the rules and regulations of the Idaho real estate commission unless
said employee is a regular employee of the developer.
   E.   The following persons may be involved in the entire sales process of a
timeshare without being a real estate salesman or real estate broker:
      1.   A duly authorized attorney in fact whose power of attorney is
granted for the purpose of consummating a single transaction involving the
conveyance of a single or undivided interest in a timeshare.
      2.   An attorney at law in the performance of his duties, a receiver, a
trustee in bankruptcy, guardian, administrator, executor, or personal
representative of an estate, any persons selling pursuant to the default
provisions of a deed of trust or any duly authorized agent thereof.
   F.   This section shall become effective three (3) months after the
effective date hereof. (1990 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. IC §54-2021 et seq.
3-3-8: RESALE OF TIMESHARES:
   A.   In the event of a resale of a timeshare by a timeshare owner other than
a developer, the seller shall furnish to the purchaser before execution of any
contract for the sale or otherwise, or otherwise before the transfer of title,
a copy of the timeshare instrument (other than any plats and plans) and a
certificate containing:
      1.   A statement disclosing the effect on the proposed transfer of any
right of first refusal or other restraint on transfer of the timeshare or any
portion thereof;
      2.   A statement setting forth the amount of the periodic timeshare
expense liability and any unpaid timeshare expense or special assessment or
other sums currently due and payable from the seller;
      3.   A statement of any other fees payable by timeshare owners;
      4.   A statement of any judgment or any other matters that are or may
become liens against the timeshare or the timeshare unit and the status of any
pending suits that may result in such liens.
   B.   The managing entity, within ten (10) days after a request by a
timeshare owner, shall furnish a certificate containing the information
necessary to enable the timeshare owner to comply with this section. A
timeshare owner providing a certificate pursuant to subsection A above is not
liable to the purchaser for any erroneous information provided by the managing
entity and included in the certificate other than for judgment liens against
the timeshare or the timeshare unit. (1990 Code)
3-3-9: PUBLIC OFFERING STATEMENT:
   A.   Any developer or other person in the business of selling real estate
who offers a timeshare for his own account to a purchaser shall deliver a
public offering statement to said purchaser in the manner described below.
   B.   The developer or any other person who prepares all or a part of the
public offering statement is liable under section
3-3-12 of this chapter for any false or misleading statements set forth
therein, or for any omission of material fact therefrom with respect to that
portion of the public offering statement which he prepared. If a developer did
not prepare any part of a public offering statement that he delivers, he is not
liable for any false or misleading statement set forth therein, or for any
omission of material fact therefrom unless he had actual knowledge of the
statement or omission or in the exercise of reasonable care should have known
of the statement or omission.
   C.   A public offering statement must contain or fully and accurately
disclose:
      1.   The name and address of the developer and the location of the
timeshare property;
      2.   If the timeshare property or timeshare units are not completed, a
description of the timeshare units including the developer's schedule for
completion of all buildings, units and amenities and dates of availability;
      3.   The identity of the managing entity;
      4.   A projected budget for the timeshare property for maintenance and
management for a period of three (3) years, together with the projected cost of
assessments and taxes to the purchaser;
      5.   Any services which the developer provides or expenses he pays in
which he expects may become at any subsequent time a timeshare expense of the
timeshares and the projected timeshare expense liability attributable to each
of those services or expenses for each timeshare;
      6.   Any initial or special fee due from the purchaser at closing
together with a description of the purpose of the fee and the method of its
calculation;
      7.   A statement of any unsatisfied judgments against the developer or
the managing entity, the status of any pending suits involving the sale or
management of real estate to which developer or an affiliate of the developer
or the managing entity is a defending party, and the status of any pending
suits of which the developer has actual knowledge, of significance to the
timeshare units;
      8.   Disclosure of all blanket encumbrances against the timeshare
property and the steps to be taken by the developer to ensure that the
purchaser's interest will not be affected by foreclosure, by deed, assignment
or transfer in lieu of foreclosure;
      9.   If timeshare owners are to be permitted or required to become
members of an exchange program, the public offering statement must contain or
fully and accurately disclose:
         a.   The identity of the person operating the program, whether that
person is an affiliate of the developer, and a general description of the
procedures to qualify for the effectuate exchanges, including any priorities
and restrictions and the extent to which changes thereof may be made;
         b.   Whether membership or participation in the program or both are
voluntary or mandatory;
         c.   The expense or ranges of expenses to the timeshare owners of
membership and participation in the program, including the additional expenses,
if any, of applying for or effectuating exchanges as of a specified date not
more than six (6) months before the public offering statement is delivered to
the purchaser and the person to whom those expenses are payable;
         d.   Whether and how any of the expenses specified in subsection C9c
of this section may be altered, and if any of them are to be fixed on a case by
case basis, the manner in which they are to be fixed in each case;
         e.   With respect to the timeshares and timeshare units in the
program, the geographical locations of the timeshare units, the minimum number
of timeshare units and timeshares in each project and the duration of each of
those timeshares in each project during a specified calendar year ending not
more than one year before the public offering statement is delivered to the
purchaser;
         f.   The percentage of exchanges properly applied for by members or
participants in the program and the percentage of exchanges properly applied
for by timeshare owners of units covered by the public offering statement which
were fulfilled during a specific calendar year ending not more than one year
before the date the public offering statement is delivered to the purchaser,
together with a statement of the criteria used to determine whether an exchange
was properly applied for and fulfilled;
      10.   A copy of the timeshare instrument shall be attached to the public
offering statement;
      11.   A copy of city ordinance 159 herein codified as this chapter shall
be attached to the public offering statement.
   D.   A developer shall promptly amend the public offering statement or any
supplement thereto to report any material change in the information required by
subsection C of this section. (1990 Code)
3-3-10: RIGHT TO RESCIND:
Within fourteen (14) calendar days after the execution of the contract to
purchase a timeshare or within fourteen (14) calendar days after the
purchaser's receipt of the public offering statement required by this chapter,
whichever occurs later, the purchaser may cancel the contract without penalty.
If a purchaser elects to cancel a contract pursuant to the above paragraph, he
may do so by hand delivering notice thereof to the seller or by mailing notice
thereof to the seller or to the developer or the developer's agent for service
of process by certified mail, return receipt requested.
All payments made by the purchaser before cancellation must be refunded within
fifteen (15) days after receipt of the notice of cancellation. (1990 Code)
3-3-11: ESCROW OF DEPOSITS:
Any deposit made in connection with the purchase or reservation of a timeshare
from a developer or other seller must be placed in escrow and held in an
account designated solely for that purpose by a company licensed therefor in
this state or an institution whose accounts are insured by a governmental
agency until: a) delivered to the developer at the expiration of the time for
contract of sale; b) delivered to the developer because of purchaser's default
under a contract to purchase the timeshare; or c) refunded to the purchaser.
(1990 Code)
3-3-12: REMEDIES AND ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Civil Remedies:
      1.   The city may institute an injunction, mandamus, abatement or other
appropriate action or proceeding to prevent, enjoin, abate or remove any
unlawful construction, use, occupancy or conveyance, or to enjoin any developer
from selling, agreeing to sell or offering to sell or otherwise convey any
timeshare interest, before full compliance with the provisions of this chapter
or upon violation of any provision of this chapter.
      2.   In the event a timeshare common area is not properly managed or
falls into disrepair and said management and maintenance problems are not cured
within a reasonable period of time by the association after notice from the
city, then the city may take appropriate legal action to manage and maintain
such timeshare common area until a new managing entity is retained for
management and maintenance of the timeshare. All costs and expenses of such
intervention by the city shall be borne by the owners of the timeshare.
      3.   If a developer or any other person subject to this chapter fails to
comply with any provision hereof or of the timeshare instrument, any person or
class of persons adversely affected by the failure to comply has a claim for
appropriate relief. Punitive damages may be awarded for a wilful failure to
comply with this chapter. The court may also award reasonable attorney fees.
(Ord. 159, 5-17-1983)
   B.   Criminal Penalties: Any person who fails to comply with or violates any
provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor subject to penalties
as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 159, 5-17-1983; amd. 1990 Code)
   C.   Remedies Are Additional: The remedies provided herein are in addition
to all other remedies provided by law. (Ord. 159, 5-17-1983)
CHAPTER 4
AMUSEMENTS
SECTION:
3-4-1: Parking Attendants At Amusement Events
3-4-1: PARKING ATTENDANTS AT AMUSEMENT EVENTS:
   A.   Parking Attendants Required; Exemptions: All persons promoting or
responsible for the presentation of exhibitions, displays and athletic
contests, including, but not limited to, ice hockey games, ice skating shows,
tennis tournaments, golf tournaments, football games, soccer games, tennis
games, art exhibitions, crafts shows, home shows, music festivals and shows,
shall provide attendants to assist spectators and other attendees to park in
designated areas, so as to fully utilize available parking areas and avoid
traffic congestion and improper parking.
The chief of police may waive the requirement of providing parking attendants
if the event is not anticipated to attract more than seventy five (75) people
during the peak hour, or if similar events in similar locations in the city
have shown that no parking attendants are required.
   B.   Notification Of Amusement Event: Any person desiring to promote or
present any event coming within this section shall, at least two (2) weeks
prior to the commencement of the event, notify the chief of police of the city
of the type of event, the date or dates on which it will be presented and the
maximum number of people anticipated during any one hour period. The promoter
shall thereafter, and not less than ten (10) days prior to the commencement of
the event, consult with the chief of police to determine if an acceptable plan
for control of parking can be agreed upon. If no agreement can be reached, the
chief of police may, in writing, order the promoter to provide at least one
parking attendant for each one hundred (100) people anticipated to be in
attendance during the peak hour. (Ord. 131, 11-19-1979)
   C.   Violation; Penalties: Any person violating any of the provisions of
this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 131, 11-19-1979; amd. 1990 Code)
CHAPTER 5
SOLICITORS 1
SECTION:
3-5-1: Definitions
3-5-2: Registry Of Residences Prohibiting Solicitors
3-5-3: Notice Of "No Soliciting"
3-5-4: Written Orders Required
3-5-5: Violation; Penalties
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection 4-4D-3L of this code for noise control.
3-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
NONCOMMERCIAL PREMISES: Include private dwelling houses, condominiums,
apartments, residences, construction sites, parking lots, streets, and all
other premises and places not devoted to the conduct of wholesale or retail
trade with members of the public.
SOLICITORS: Includes peddlers, hawkers, itinerant merchants, transient vendors,
and all other persons who go place to place within the city selling,
exchanging, trading, repairing, manufacturing, or taking orders for, or
offering to sell, exchange, trade, repair, manufacture, or take orders for
goods, wares, merchandise or services. (1990 Code)
3-5-2: REGISTRY OF RESIDENCES PROHIBITING SOLICITORS:
A central registry is hereby established whereby a resident of the city may
docket their physical address as notice that no solicitor may lawfully enter
into said noncommercial premises. Said register will be kept by the city clerk
and open to the general public during normal business hours. (1990 Code)
3-5-3: NOTICE OF "NO SOLICITING":
Notice may also be given that a solicitor may not lawfully enter a
noncommercial premises by posting of a sign containing the words "No
Solicitors" at each entry of said premises. It is the duty of the solicitor to
make every reasonable effort to ensure him or herself that such a notice is not
present prior to entry. (1990 Code)
3-5-4: WRITTEN ORDERS REQUIRED:
All orders taken by solicitors shall be in writing, in duplicate, stating the
terms thereof, and the amount paid in advance, and one copy shall be given to
the purchaser at the time of the taking of the order. (1990 Code)
3-5-5: VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
It shall be unlawful for a solicitor to enter a noncommercial premises which is
listed in the central registry, or where a sign containing the words "No
Solicitors" is placed at the entry thereto. Any person who violates any
provision of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a "misdemeanor" as defined
in section
1-3-2 of this code. (Ord. 466, 1-9-2014)
CHAPTER 6
SECURITY GUARDS AGENCY
SECTION:
3-6-1: Definitions
3-6-2: Procedure
3-6-3: Impersonation Of Police
3-6-4: Other Information As Requested By The Chief Of Police
3-6-5: Discretion To Revoke Permission
3-6-6: Violation A Misdemeanor
3-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings set
out in this section:
CHIEF OF POLICE: The Chief of Police of the Sun Valley Police Department of the
City of Sun Valley, Blaine County, State of Idaho.
CLIENT: Individual, family, attendee or presenter that will be utilizing the
security services.
SECURITY GUARD: Any person employed by a security guard agency for the purpose
of observing, guarding patrolling or protecting any premises, property or
persons.
SECURITY GUARD AGENCY: Any non-governmental person, partnership or corporation
which, for remuneration, observes, guards, patrols or protects any premises,
property or persons, or provides security guards for such use. This term does
not include any person, partnership or corporation employed exclusively by one
employer for the purpose of protecting, patrolling or guarding the property
owned by or in the possession of that employer. (Ord. 583, 6-5-2025)
3-6-2: PROCEDURE:
A security guard must inform the Sun Valley Police Department prior to an
event, function, or anytime that security services will be conducted, and
provide the following:
   A.   Name and contact information;
   B.   Provide the main business location of their agency;
   C.   Provide the location of the security services and affirm that they will
be parked or stationed on the client's property only and not on city streets;
   D.   Notify whether the client has any active threats against them, their
family, attendees or presenters;
   E.   Provide details on whether they will be wearing a uniform or if they
will be plain clothed. If wearing a uniform, provide the type and style.
   F.   Upon request, provide documentation of training, make, model, caliber
and serial numbers of weapons, if any, for each employee providing security
services. (Ord. 583, 6-5-2025)
3-6-3: IMPERSONATION OF POLICE:
It is unlawful for any person under the provisions of this ordinance to
impersonate or hold themselves out to be a police officer or an employee of any
governmental law enforcement agency.
   A.   No security agent shall wear any uniform, badge, shoulder patch,
chevron or any other emblem or insignia similar to or in imitation of those
worn by members of any governmental law enforcement agency, including, among
other agencies, the Police Department of the City of Sun Valley. (Ord. 583, 6-
5-2025)
3-6-4: OTHER INFORMATION AS REQUESTED BY THE CHIEF OF POLICE:
Such other information as the Chief of Police shall find reasonably necessary
to effectuate the general purposes of this ordinance and to make a thorough
determination of whether the terms of this ordinance have been met. (Ord. 583,
6- 5-2025)
3-6-5: DISCRETION TO REVOKE PERMISSION:
The Chief of Police has the sole discretion to revoke the security agency's
ability to operate in the City of Sun Valley if the security agent fails to
comply with any of the provisions provided in Ordinance No. 583. (Ord. 583, 6-
5-2025)
3-6-6: VIOLATION A MISDEMEANOR:
Violation of any of the provisions of this chapter shall constitute a
misdemeanor and may be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 583, 6-5- 2025)
CHAPTER 7
SOUND TRUCKS
SECTION:
3-7-1: Definitions
3-7-2: Noncommercial Use Of Sound Trucks
3-7-2-1: Registration Regulations
3-7-2-2: Regulations For Use
3-7-3: Commercial Advertising
3-7-3-1: Licensing Regulations
3-7-3-2: Regulations For Use
3-7-4: Violation; Penalties
3-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section:
PERSON: Includes the singular and the plural and also means and includes any
person, firm, corporation, association, club, partnership, society or any other
form of association or organization.
SOUND AMPLIFYING EQUIPMENT: Any machine or device for the amplification of the
human voice, music or any other sound. Sound amplifying equipment shall not be
construed as including standard automobile radios when used and heard only by
occupants of the vehicle in which installed or warning devices on authorized
emergency vehicles or horns or other warning devices on other vehicles used
only for traffic safety purposes.
SOUND TRUCK: Any motor vehicle, or horsedrawn vehicle, having mounted thereon,
or attached thereto, any sound amplifying equipment. (1990 Code)
3-7-2: NONCOMMERCIAL USE OF SOUND TRUCKS:
3-7-2-1: REGISTRATION REGULATIONS:
   A.   Registration Required; Application: No person shall use, or cause to be
used, a sound truck with its sound amplifying equipment in operation for
noncommercial purposes in the city before filing a registration statement with
the city clerk, in writing. This registration statement shall be filed in
duplicate and shall state the following:
      1.   Name and home address of the applicant.
      2.   Address of place of business of applicant.
      3.   License number and motor number of sound truck to be used by
applicant.
      4.   Name and address of person who owns the sound truck.
      5.   Name and address of person having direct charge of sound truck.
      6.   Names and addresses of all persons who will use or operate the sound
truck.
      7.   The purpose for which the sound truck will be used.
      8.   A general statement as to the section or sections of the city in
which the sound truck will be used.
      9.   The proposed hours of operation of the sound truck.
      10.   The number of days of proposed operation of the sound truck.
      11.   A general description of the sound amplifying equipment which is to
be used.
      12.   The maximum sound producing power of the sound amplifying equipment
to be used in or on the sound truck; state the following:
         a.   The wattage to be used.
         b.   The volume in decibels of the sound which will be produced.
         c.   The approximate maximum distance for which sound will be thrown
from the sound truck.
All persons using or causing to be used sound trucks for noncommercial purposes
shall amend any registration statement filed pursuant to this subsection within
forty eight (48) hours after any change in the information therein furnished.
   B.   Certification Of Application; Identification: The city clerk shall
return to each applicant under subsection A of this section one copy of said
registration statement duly certified by the city clerk as a correct copy of
said application. Said certified copy of the application shall be in the
possession of any person operating the sound truck at all times while the sound
truck's sound amplifying equipment is in operation and said copy shall be
promptly displayed and shown to any policeman of the city upon request. (1990
Code)
3-7-2-2: REGULATIONS FOR USE:
Noncommercial use of sound trucks in the city with sound amplifying equipment
in operation shall be subject to the following regulations:
   A.   The only sounds permitted are music or human speech.
   B.   Operations are permitted for four (4) hours each day, except on Sundays
and legal holidays when no operations shall be authorized. The permitted four
(4) hours of operation shall be between the hours of eleven thirty o'clock (11:
30) A.M. and one thirty o'clock (1:30) P.M. and between the hours of four
thirty o'clock (4:30) P.M. and six thirty o'clock (6:30) P.M.
   C.   Sound amplifying equipment shall not be operated unless the sound truck
upon which such equipment is mounted is operated at a speed of at least ten
(10) miles per hour except when said truck is stopped or impeded by traffic.
Where stopped by traffic, the sound amplifying equipment shall not be operated
for longer than one minute at each such stop.
   D.   Sound shall not be issued within one hundred (100) yards of hospitals
or churches.
   E.   The human speech and music amplified shall not be profane, lewd,
indecent or slanderous.
   F.   The volume of sound shall be controlled so that it will not be audible
for a distance in excess of one hundred feet (100') from the sound truck so
that said volume is not unreasonably loud, raucous, jarring, disturbing or a
nuisance to persons within the area of audibility.
   G.   No sound amplifying equipment shall be operated with an excess of
fifteen (15) watts of power in the last stage of amplification. (Ord. 32, 9-21-
1970)
3-7-3: COMMERCIAL ADVERTISING:
3-7-3-1: LICENSING REGULATIONS:
   A.   License Required; Fee: No person shall operate or cause to be operated
any sound truck in the city for commercial advertising purposes with sound
amplifying equipment in operation unless a license has been obtained from the
city clerk. The fee for such license shall be an amount as set from time to
time by resolution of the city council. (Ord. 32, 9-21-1970; amd. 1990 Code)
   B.   Application For License: Persons applying for the license required
under subsection A above shall file with the city clerk an application in
writing giving in said application the information required in the registration
statement under subsection
3-7-2-1A of this chapter.
   C.   Issuance Of License: The city clerk shall issue a license under
subsection
3-7-2-1A of this chapter upon payment of the required license fee unless the
application required in subsection B of this section reveals that applicant
would violate the regulations prescribed in section
3-7-2-2 of this chapter or the provisions of some other ordinance of this city.
   D.   Possession And Display Of License: A licensee shall keep such license
in his possession in the sound truck during the time the sound truck's sound
amplifying equipment is in operation. The license shall be promptly displayed
and shown to any policeman of the city upon request. (1990 Code)
3-7-3-2: REGULATIONS FOR USE:
No person shall operate or cause to be operated any sound truck for commercial
sound advertising purposes in violation of the regulations set forth in section
3-7-2-2 of this chapter. (Ord. 32, 9-21-1970)
3-7-4: VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be punished as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 32, 9-21-1970; amd. 1990 Code)
CHAPTER 8
BUILDING CONTRACTORS
SECTION:
3-8-1: Definitions
3-8-2: License Required; Scope
3-8-3: Renewal
3-8-4: Revocation
3-8-5: Violations
3-8-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions are prescribed for the purposes of this chapter:
CONTRACTOR: Any person, firm, copartnership, corporation, association, or other
organization or any combination thereof:
   A.   Who undertakes with or for another within the city to build, construct,
alter, repair, add to, move or wreck any building or structure or any portion
thereof, or who undertakes the improvement of any building or structure for
which improvement a permit is required and for which a charge is made, either
by a fixed sum, price, fee, wage, percentage, or any combination thereof. Such
definition shall include those normally denominated in the building trades as
"subcontractors".
   B.   Who builds, constructs, alters, adds to, moves, or wrecks any building
or structure either on his own or other property.
The definitions and requirements contained in chapter 1 of this title are
included herein by reference and shall apply to the sale of building materials
as required in this chapter the same as if set out herein. (Ord. 239, 8-23-
1991)
3-8-2: LICENSE REQUIRED; SCOPE:
   A.   No person shall perform the work of any contractor in the city without
first making application for and obtaining a license from the city clerk. It
shall be the responsibility of the contractor to collect and remit sales tax on
building material as required by chapter 1 of this title. (Ord. 251, 3-19-1992)
   B.   A contractor's license shall be and become a sales tax permit as
required in section
3-1-8 of this title and shall be subject to all of the terms and conditions
contained in chapter 1 of this title regarding collection, reporting and
remitting of sales taxes on all tangible personal property used to improve real
property. (Ord. 253, 4-23-1992)
   C.   Owners or builders making repairs or changes in their buildings or
residences where a contractor is not employed shall be required to obtain a
sales tax permit and to pay sales tax on all tangible personal property used by
them to improve real estate.
   D.   No building permit shall be issued for any project on which any person
performs the work of a building contractor or builder without first obtaining a
license and sales tax permit as set forth in this title. The city clerk shall
issue a stop work order prohibiting any person from engaging in any work of a
contractor or builder until the required license is obtained. (Ord. 239, 8-23-
1991)
   E.   Every contractor licensed under this chapter shall be required to
maintain workers' compensation insurance for all of its employees who work in
the city as may be required under the laws of the state of Idaho; and shall
provide to the city clerk such proof of workers compensation insurance coverage
for such employees as may be reasonably required by the city clerk. (Ord. 251,
3-19-1992)
3-8-3: RENEWAL:
Licenses issued under the provisions of this title shall continue in force so
long as the licensee continues to perform as a contractor or builder and so
long as accurate and timely payment of sales taxes are made. (1990 Code)
3-8-4: REVOCATION:
   A.   The city clerk may, in addition to any or all other penalties, revoke
the contractor's license of any person, firm, partnership or corporation which
fails to collect and to promptly pay sales taxes as required by this title.
   B.   The procedures for revocation of a contractor's license are cumulative
and in addition to the powers of the city to issue stop work orders pursuant to
other provisions of this code. (1990 Code)
3-8-5: VIOLATIONS:
In addition to suspension or revocation of licenses by the city clerk, any
person violating any of the provisions of this chapter or any lawful rule or
regulation contained herein shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. Each such
person shall be deemed guilty of a separate offense for each and every day or
portion thereof during which any violation of any of the provisions of this
chapter are committed, continued or permitted. (Ord. 239, 8-23-1991)
TITLE 4
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
NUISANCES
SECTION:
4-1-1: Real Property Nuisances Defined
4-1-2: Nuisances Prohibited
4-1-3: Notice Of Violation
4-1-4: Abatement
4-1-5: Violation; Penalties
4-1-1: REAL PROPERTY NUISANCES DEFINED:
For the purposes of this chapter, the term "nuisance" shall mean any condition
or use of real property which is detrimental to the normal use and enjoyment of
adjacent or surrounding real property or which tends to cause substantial
diminution in value of other real property in the immediate vicinity. Specific
conditions or uses of real property constituting a nuisance shall include, but
not be limited to, the following:
   A.   Abandoned, Junked Items: The unenclosed storage thereon of unused,
inoperable, abandoned or junked automobiles 1 , machinery, equipment,
implements, vehicles, furniture or appliances.
   B.   Building Materials, Garbage, Trash: The maintaining, depositing or
unenclosed storing thereon of lumber, building materials, trash, garbage 2 ,
debris, shrub or tree trimmings, logs or other unused, discarded or abandoned
objects.
   C.   Compost Piles: The maintaining thereon of any compost pile which is of
such a nature as to spread or harbor disease, emit unpleasant odors or harmful
gas, or attract rodents, vermin or other disease carrying insects or animals.
(Ord. 455, 12-6-2012)
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 6, chapter 8 of this code.
2 2. See also chapter 2 of this title.
4-1-2: NUISANCES PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to create, maintain or keep a nuisance on
any real property within the city limits 1 . (Ord. 455, 12-6-2012)
 
Notes
  3. See also subsection 8-1-1G of this code, adoption of the 2009 edition of
1 the international property maintenance code, and section
  8-1-2-7, "Amendments To The International Property Maintenance Code", of this
  code.
4-1-3: NOTICE OF VIOLATION:
Upon detection of a nuisance existing in violation of the provisions of this
chapter, the city shall cause notice of said violation to be served upon the
violating person, which notice shall identify the nuisance, recommend means for
abating the nuisance and demand abatement within twenty (20) days from the date
notice is served. If the person upon whom the notice is to be served can be
located within the city, said service shall be personal; otherwise, service
shall be accomplished by mailing a copy of the notice to the person to be
served at his last known mailing address, or by publishing the same at least
once in the official newspaper. If notice is served by mail, it shall be deemed
served upon depositing the same, postage prepaid, in the United States mail,
and if served by publication, it shall be deemed served upon its last scheduled
publication. (Ord. 129, 7-16-1979; amd. 1990 Code)
4-1-4: ABATEMENT:
If the person upon whom notice of a nuisance is served fails to abate the same
within twenty (20) days from the date of service, the city may proceed to abate
such nuisance, keeping an account of the expense of the abatement, and all such
expenses so incurred shall be reimbursed to the city by the person creating,
maintaining or keeping the nuisance. (Ord. 129, 7-16-1979)
4-1-5: VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter and failing to
comply with the provisions of the notice hereby provided for within twenty (20)
days from the service of said notice is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, is punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day of violation, commencing from and including the
twenty first day after notice of violation has been served as herein provided
for, may be considered a separate offense and said fine or imprisonment may be
imposed for each such offense. (Ord. 129, 7-16-1979; amd. 1990 Code)
CHAPTER 2
GARBAGE AND RUBBISH
SECTION:
4-2-1: Purpose
4-2-2: Definitions
4-2-3: Restrictions On Garbage And Rubbish Deposits
4-2-4: Storage Regulations
4-2-5: Collection Of Garbage And Rubbish
4-2-5-1: Collection Schedule
4-2-5-2: Service Charges
4-2-5-3: Regulation Of Collectors
4-2-6: City Sanitary Disposal Area
4-2-7: Disposition Of Revenue
4-2-8: Inspections
4-2-9: Violation; Penalties
4-2-10: Unauthorized Use Of Collection Receptacles
4-2-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter is declared to be provisions to promote the general health,
welfare and safety of the people in the city; and is enacted for the promotion
and the protection of the public health and safety; and to prevent nuisances 1
, the spread of disease and fire hazards. It is the purpose of this chapter to
aid the people in keeping the city safe, sanitary and free from annoyances and
nuisances. (1990 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 4-1-1B of this title.
4-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section:
GARBAGE: Includes all animal and vegetable refuse from kitchens and other
places where food is prepared, all offal from fish, meat and vegetable markets,
and all organic substances unfit for food and subject to decay.
ITEMS EXCLUDED FROM CITY COLLECTION: Discarded household furnishings, dirt or
earth debris from construction or lawn renovation, rocks, stones, automobile
bodies and parts, dead animals, building materials such as mortar, plaster,
scrap lumber and wood shavings must be collected and disposed of by the
building contractor, owner or occupant of premises.
PERSON: Includes a normal person, his heirs, executors, administrators and
assigns; and shall also include a firm, partnership, corporation, its or their
successors or assigns. Singular includes plural. Male includes female.
RUBBISH: Includes all waste and refuse such as newspapers, magazines, wrapping
and other paper products, packing cases and materials such as straw, shavings,
excelsior, sawdust, and discarded clothing, metals, tin cans, bottles, broken
glass, ashes, lawn and tree trimmings and cuttings and weeds and leaves from
residential property.
SHALL AND MAY: Shall means mandatory; may means permissive. (1990 Code)
4-2-3: RESTRICTIONS ON GARBAGE AND RUBBISH DEPOSITS:
   A.   All garbage and rubbish shall be placed in containers and at locations
as prescribed in this chapter.
   B.   No person shall deposit garbage or rubbish on or below the surface of
the ground in a manner otherwise than herein prescribed.
   C.   No person shall deposit or bury any garbage or rubbish in or upon a
public street, alley, other public area or upon the premises of another person,
whether or not the garbage or rubbish is in a prescribed container.
   D.   No garbage, dirt or rubbish of any kind shall be thrown, swept or
pushed into the street in front of any place of business or residence. (1990
Code)
4-2-4: STORAGE REGULATIONS:
   A.   Preparation Of Garbage And Rubbish: All garbage and rubbish shall be
placed in containers, except as herein otherwise provided.
      1.   All garbage shall be drained of excess water and either wrapped in
paper or placed in containers lined with paper.
      2.   Tree trunks, large limbs and similar heavy objects shall be cut or
knocked down to sizes not exceeding six feet (6') in length and seventy five
(75) pounds in weight. Brush and tree trimmings shall be cut into lengths for
easy handling and placed in piles and so covered as to prevent the same from
blowing and being scattered about. (Ord. 21, 4-4-1969)
   B.   Container Specifications: Garbage containers shall be watertight and
made of either metal or plastic with suitable handles for carrying and close
fitting covers, or shall be heavy gauge plastic bags of at least one and one-
half millimeters (11/2 mm) in thickness. When placed for collection, they must
be securely tied and the contents shall not cause the bag to tear. (1990 Code)
   C.   Location Of Containers For Pick Up: Containers or rubbish shall be
placed in front of the premises in areas where there are no alleys and placed
in alleys in areas where alleys are available by the owners or occupants of
such premises on the morning of or the evening before the day scheduled for
collection; and the empty containers shall be withdrawn from the front of the
premises or the alleys as soon after collection as possible on the same day.
(Ord. 21, 4-4-1969; amd. 1990 Code)
4-2-5: COLLECTION OF GARBAGE AND RUBBISH:
The city council shall be authorized to provide for the mandatory collection of
garbage and rubbish as a city function or by contract or franchise to one or
more independent collectors. No person shall engage in the collection of
garbage or rubbish for monetary gain unless authorized and licensed by the city
council. (1990 Code; amd. Ord. 222, 4-30-1990)
4-2-5-1: COLLECTION SCHEDULE:
Garbage and rubbish shall be collected on schedule established and subject to
revision by the city council, but in no case will there be less than one
collection provided each week for garbage and rubbish. (1990 Code)
4-2-5-2: SERVICE CHARGES:
   A.   Schedule Of Service Charges: For the service of the mandatory
collecting and disposing of garbage and rubbish, the owner or occupant of each
premises from which garbage and rubbish is collected by the city or independent
contractors shall be charged such rates as may be established or approved from
time to time by resolution of the city council. (Ord. 21, 4-4-1969; amd. Ord.
222, 4-30-1990)
   B.   Scope And Adjustment Of Service Charges: All owners or occupants of
premises within the city who are customers of the franchise holder shall be
subject to service charges prescribed by the city council, and an adjustment
for such charges shall be made at the discretion of the city council. (Ord. 21,
4-4-1969)
4-2-5-3: REGULATION OF COLLECTORS:
   A.   The city council may license or authorize by contract or franchise one
or more independent contractors to collect garbage and rubbish within the city.
Franchises shall be granted for a period of five (5) years and in the
discretion of the city council upon payment of an annual fee as determined from
time to time by resolution of the city council and presentation of facts
indicative of ability to properly execute collection, the council shall approve
the rate or rates to be charged by the independent collectors either licensed,
under contract or under franchise, and may revoke the license, contract or
franchise of any collector violating any of the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 21, 4-4-1969; amd. 1990 Code)
   B.   All collectors shall provide the number of trucks sufficient to handle
any and all garbage and rubbish offered for collection in conformance with the
provisions of this chapter.
The garbage portion of each conveyance of a collector or private hauler shall
be equipped with watertight, leakproof bodies and provided with tightfitting
covers. Covers shall be closed when necessary so that garbage or rubbish will
not escape from the conveyance. All conveyances shall be cleaned and
disinfected at regular intervals.
   C.   Failure to conform to the provisions of this section by any licensee,
contractor or franchise holder shall be immediate cause for revocation of
license, cancellation of contract or forfeiture of franchise by the city
council. (Ord. 21, 4-4-1969)
4-2-6: CITY SANITARY DISPOSAL AREA:
The city has obtained an area for the sanitary disposal of garbage and rubbish
collected from within the limits of the city. The present sanitary disposal
area within the city shall be closed on the effective date hereof, and all
garbage and rubbish disposal shall be made at the Blaine County disposal site.
All collectors and private individuals shall dispose of collections at the
sanitary disposal area designated by the city council. Removal to, or burying
at any place within the city limits shall be unlawful and punishable under the
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 21, 4-4-1969; amd. 1990 Code)
4-2-7: DISPOSITION OF REVENUE:
All monies received by the city from collection and sanitary disposal service,
and from the operation of a sanitary disposal area, shall be deposited in the
general fund and be used to pay for the operation of the collection and
sanitary disposal system, and for the specific purposes of protecting the
public health, safety and welfare. (Ord. 21, 4-4-1969)
4-2-8: INSPECTIONS:
All premises shall be inspected at regular intervals to determine whether the
provisions of this chapter, as they apply to type and location of containers,
apparatus and other collection and disposal practices, are being complied with.
If the owner, agent or occupant refuses to permit or prevents entry upon the
premises by any such inspector, the inspector shall obtain a search warrant to
make the inspection or investigation. (1990 Code)
4-2-9: VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
It shall be unlawful and punishable as hereinafter provided for any person to
violate any of the regulations contained herein or to permit or maintain such
violation or to refuse to obey any provision hereof or to fail or refuse to
comply with any such provision or regulation herein provided and upon
conviction such person shall be fined not more than three hundred dollars
($300.00) or by imprisonment in the county jail for not more than thirty (30)
days. Each day that such violation shall be committed or permitted to continue
shall constitute a separate offense hereunder. (Ord. 21, 4-4-1969; amd. 1990
Code)
4-2-10: UNAUTHORIZED USE OF COLLECTION RECEPTACLES:
   A.   It shall be illegal for any person who does not have the specific prior
written authorization of the proprietor of a garbage and rubbish receptacle
located within the city to deposit garbage and/or rubbish in the receptacle.
   B.   It shall be illegal for any person to deposit those items described in
section
4-2-2 of this chapter in any garbage and rubbish receptacle located within the
city provided for use by the public by the city. (Ord. 223, 3-22-1990)
   C.   A violation of this section shall constitute a "misdemeanor" as defined
in section
1-3-2 of this code. (Ord. 466, 1-9-2014)
CHAPTER 3
LITTER CONTROL
SECTION:
4-3-1: Short Title
4-3-2: Definitions
4-3-3: Use Of Receptacles
4-3-4: Sidewalk To Be Kept Free Of Litter
4-3-5: Spilling Loads; Debris From Tires
4-3-6: Litter In Parks
4-3-7: Prohibited Acts And Conditions
4-3-8: Litter On Private Property
4-3-9: Handbills
4-3-10: Posting Notices
4-3-11: Violation; Penalties
4-3-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the CITY OF SUN VALLEY, IDAHO,
ANTILITTER ORDINANCE. (1990 Code)
4-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words and other
derivations shall have the meanings given herein. When not inconsistent with
the context, words used in the present tense include the future, words used in
the plural number include the singular number, and words used in the singular
number include the plural number. The word "shall" is always mandatory and not
merely directory.
AIRCRAFT: Any contrivance now known or hereafter invented, used or designated
for navigation or for flight in the air. The word aircraft shall include
helicopters and lighter than air dirigibles and balloons.
AUTHORIZED PRIVATE RECEPTACLE: A litter storage and collection receptacle as
required and authorized in the city refuse collection system ordinance 1 .
CITY: The city of Sun Valley, Idaho.
COMMERCIAL HANDBILL: Any printed or written matter, any sample or device,
dodger, circular, leaflet, pamphlet, paper, booklet, or any other printed or
otherwise reproduced original or copies of any matter of literature:
   A.   Which advertises for sale any merchandise, product, commodity or thing;
or
   B.   Which directs attention to any business or mercantile or commercial
establishment, or other activity, for the purpose of either directly or
indirectly promoting the interest thereof by sale; or
   C.   Which directs attention to or advertises any meeting, theatrical
performance, exhibition or event of any kind for which an admission fee is
charged for the purpose of private gain or profit; but the terms of this clause
shall not apply where an admission fee is charged or collection is taken up for
the purpose of defraying the expenses incident to such meeting, theatrical
performance, exhibition or event of any kind when either of the same is held,
given or takes place in connection with the dissemination of information which
is not restricted under the ordinary rules of decency, good morals, public
peace, safety and good order; provided, that nothing contained in this clause
shall be deemed to authorize the holding, giving or taking place of any
meeting, theatrical performance, exhibition or event of any kind without a
license, or if such license may be required by any law of the state of Idaho,
or under any ordinance of this city; or
   D.   Which, while containing reading matter other than advertising matter,
is predominantly and essentially an advertisement, and is distributed or
circulated for advertising purposes, or for the private benefit and gain of any
person still engaged as advertiser or distributor.
GARBAGE: Putrescible, animal and vegetable wastes resulting from handling,
preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
LITTER: "Garbage", "refuse", and "rubbish" as defined herein and all other
waste materials which, if thrown or deposited as herein prohibited, tends to
create a danger to public health, safety and welfare.
NEWSPAPER: Any newspaper of general circulation as defined by general law, any
newspaper duly entered with the post office department of the United States, in
accordance with federal statute or regulation, and any newspaper filed or
recorded with any recording officer as provided by general law; and, in
addition thereto, shall mean and include any periodical or current magazines
regularly published with not less than four (4) issues per year, and sold to
the public.
NONCOMMERCIAL HANDBILL: Any printed or written matter, any sample or device,
dodger, circular, leaflet, pamphlet, newspaper, magazine, paper, booklet, or
any other printed or otherwise reproduced original or copies of any matter of
literature not included in the aforesaid definition of a commercial handbill or
newspaper.
PARK: A park, reservation, playground, beach, recreation center or any other
public area in the city owned or used by the city and devoted to active or
passive recreation.
PERSON: Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
PRIVATE PREMISES: Any dwelling house, building or other structure designed or
used either wholly or in part for private residential purposes, whether
inhabited or temporarily or continuously uninhabited or vacant, and shall
include any yard, grounds, walk, driveway, parking lots, porch, steps,
vestibule or mailbox belonging or appurtenant to such dwelling, house, building
or other structure.
PUBLIC PLACE: Any and all streets, sidewalks, boulevards, alleys or other
public ways and any and all public parks, squares, spaces, grounds and
buildings.
REFUSE: All putrescible and nonputrescible solid waste (except body waste),
including garbage, rubbish, ashes, street cleanings, dead animals, abandoned
automobiles and solid market and industrial waste.
RUBBISH: Nonputrescible solid waste consisting of both combustible and
noncombustible wastes such as paper, wrappings, cigarettes, cardboard, tin
cans, yard clippings, leaves, wood, glass, bedding and other similar materials.
VEHICLE: Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a highway, including devices used exclusively upon
stationary rails or tracks. (1990 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 2 of this title.
4-3-3: USE OF RECEPTACLES:
   A.   No person shall throw or deposit litter in or upon any street, sidewalk
or other public place within the city except in public receptacles, in
authorized private receptacles for collection, or in official city dumps.
   B.   Persons placing litter in public receptacles or in authorized private
receptacles shall do so in such a manner as to prevent it from being carried or
deposited by the elements upon any street, sidewalk or other public place or
upon private property. (1990 Code)
4-3-4: SIDEWALK TO BE KEPT FREE OF LITTER:
   A.   Persons owning or occupying property shall keep the sidewalk in front
of their premises free of litter.
   B.   Persons owning or occupying places of business within the city shall
keep the sidewalk in front of their business premises free of litter. (1990
Code)
4-3-5: SPILLING LOADS; DEBRIS FROM TIRES:
No person shall drive or move any truck or other vehicle within the city unless
such vehicle is so constructed or loaded as to prevent any load, content or
litter from being blown or deposited upon any street, alley or other public or
private place; nor shall any person drive or move any vehicle or truck within
the city, the wheels or tires of which carry onto or deposit on any street,
alley or other public place or private place, mud, dirt, sticky substances,
litter or foreign matter of any kind. (1990 Code)
4-3-6: LITTER IN PARKS:
No person shall throw or deposit litter in any park within the city except in
public receptacles and in such a manner that the litter will be prevented from
being carried or deposited by the elements upon any part of the park or upon
any street or other public place. Where public receptacles are not provided,
all such litter shall be carried away from the park by the persons responsible
for its presence and properly disposed of elsewhere as provided herein. (1990
Code)
4-3-7: PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Sweeping Litter Into Streets:
      1.   No person shall sweep into or deposit in any gutter, street or other
public place within the city the accumulation of litter from any building or
lot or from any public or private sidewalk or driveway.
      2.   No person owning or occupying a place of business shall sweep into
or deposit in any gutter, street or other public place within the city the
accumulation of litter from any building or lot or from any public or private
sidewalk or driveway.
   B.   Litter From Vehicles: No person, while driver or passenger in or on a
vehicle, shall throw or deposit litter upon any street or other public place
within the city, or upon private property within the city.
   C.   Litter In Lakes, Streams 1 : No person shall throw or deposit litter in
any fountain, pond, lake, stream, bay or any other body of water in a park or
elsewhere within the city.
   D.   Dropping Litter From Aircraft: No person in an aircraft shall throw
out, drop or deposit within the city any litter, handbill or any other object.
(1990 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also chapter 4, article C of this title.
4-3-8: LITTER ON PRIVATE PROPERTY:
   A.   Occupied Private Property: No person shall throw or deposit litter on
any occupied private property within the city, whether owned by such person or
not; except, that the owner or person in control of private property may
maintain authorized private receptacles for collection in such a manner that
litter will be prevented from being carried or deposited by the elements upon
any street, sidewalk or other public place or upon any private property.
   B.   Property Maintenance: The owner or person in control of any private
property shall at all times maintain the premises free of litter; provided,
however, that this subsection shall not prohibit the storage of litter in
authorized private receptacles for collection.
   C.   Vacant Lots:
      1.   Litter Deposits Prohibited: No person shall throw or deposit litter
on any open or vacant private property within the city whether owned by such
person or not. (Ord. 33, 9-21-1970)
      2.   Removal Of Litter By City:
         a.   Notice To Remove: The chief of police, or his authorized
representative, is hereby authorized and empowered to notify the owner of any
open or vacant private property within the city or the agent of such owner to
properly dispose of litter located on such owner's property which is dangerous
to public health, safety or welfare. Such notice shall be by certified mail,
addressed to said owner at his last known address.
         b.   Action Upon Noncompliance: Upon the failure, neglect or refusal
of any owner or agent so notified to properly dispose of litter dangerous to
public health, safety or welfare within five (5) days after receipt of written
notice provided for in this subsection C2, or within ten (10) days after the
date of such notice in the event the same is returned to the United States Post
Office Department because of its inability to make delivery thereof, provided
the same was properly addressed to the last known address of such owner or
agent, the health inspector or the Chief of Police, or their authorized
representatives, are hereby authorized and empowered to pay for the disposing
of such litter or to order its disposal by the City.
         c.   Charge Included In Tax Bill: When the City has effected the
removal of such dangerous litter or has paid for its removal, the actual cost
thereof, plus accrued interest at the maximum rate allowed by law from the date
of the completion of the work, if not paid by such owner prior thereto, shall
be charged to the owner of such property on the next regular tax bill forwarded
to such owner by the City, and said charges shall be due and payable by said
owner at the time of payment of such bill.
         d.   Recorded Statement Constitutes Lien: Where the full amount due
the City is not paid by such owner within thirty (30) days after the disposal
of such litter, as provided for in subsections C2a and C2b of this section,
then, and in that case, the health inspector or Chief of Police shall cause to
be recorded in the Office of the City Clerk a sworn statement showing the cost
and expense incurred for the work, the day the work was done and the location
of the property on which said work was done. The recordation of such sworn
statement shall constitute the lien and privilege on the property, and shall
remain in full force and effect for the amount due in principal and interest,
plus costs of court if any, for collection, until final payment has been made.
Costs and expenses shall be collected in the manner fixed by law for the
collection of taxes and further, shall be subject to the maximum delinquent
penalty allowed by law in the event same is not paid in full on or before the
date the tax bill upon which said charge appeared becomes delinquent. Sworn
statements recorded in accordance with the provisions hereof shall be prima
facie evidence that all legal formalities have been complied with and that the
work has been done properly and satisfactorily and shall be full notice to
every person concerned that the amount of the statement, plus interest,
constitutes a charge against the property designated or described in the
statement and that the same is due and collectible as provided by law. (Ord.
33, 9-21-1970; amd. 1990 Code)
4-3-9: HANDBILLS:
   A.   Throwing Or Distributing Handbills: No person shall throw or deposit
any commercial or noncommercial handbills in or upon any sidewalk, street or
other public place or private place within the City; nor shall any person hand
out or distribute or sell any commercial handbill in any public place;
provided, however, that it shall be lawful on any sidewalk, street or other
public place within the City for any person to hand out or distribute, without
charge to the receiver thereof, any noncommercial handbill to any person
willing to accept it. (Ord. 33, 9-21-1970; amd. 1990 Code)
   B.   Placing Handbills On Vehicles: No person shall throw or deposit any
commercial or noncommercial handbill in or upon any vehicle; provided, however,
that it shall not be unlawful in any public place for a person to hand out or
distribute without charge to receiver thereof, a noncommercial handbill to any
occupant of a vehicle who is willing to accept it.
   C.   Depositing Handbills On Uninhabited Or Vacant Premises: No person shall
throw or deposit any commercial or noncommercial handbill in or upon any
private premises which are temporarily or continuously uninhabited or vacant.
   D.   Distribution Prohibited Where Properly Posted: No person shall throw,
deposit or distribute any commercial or noncommercial handbill upon any private
premises if requested by anyone thereon not to do so, or if there is placed on
said premises in a conspicuous position near the entrance thereof, a sign
bearing the words: "No Trespassing", "No Peddlers Or Agents", "No
Advertisement" or any similar notice indicating in any manner that the
occupants of the said premises do not desire to be molested or have their right
of privacy disturbed or to have any such handbills left upon such premises.
(Ord. 33, 9-21-1970)
   E.   Distributing Handbills At Inhabited Private Premises: No person shall
throw, deposit or distribute any commercial or noncommercial handbill in or
upon private premises which are inhabited, except by handing or transmitting
any such handbill directly to the owner, occupant or other person then present
in or upon such private premises; provided, however, that in case of inhabited
private premises which are not posted, as provided in this chapter, such
person, unless requested by anyone upon such premises not to do so, may place
or deposit any such handbill in or upon such inhabited private premises if such
handbill is so placed or deposited as to secure or prevent such handbill from
being blown or drifted about such premises or sidewalks, streets or other
public places, and except that mailboxes may not be so used when so prohibited
by Federal Postal Law or regulations.
The provisions of this subsection shall not apply to the distribution of public
safety or construction information by the City, mail by the United States, nor
to newspapers (as defined herein); except, that newspapers shall be placed on
private property in such a manner as to prevent their being carried or
deposited by the elements upon any street, sidewalk or other public place or
upon private property. (Ord. 540, 6-6-2019)
4-3-10: POSTING NOTICES:
No person shall post or fix notice, poster or other paper or device calculated
to attract the attention of the public to any lamppost, public utility pole or
shade tree, or upon any public structure or building, except as may be
authorized or required by law. (Ord. 33, 9-21-1970)
4-3-11: VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided by
section
1-4-1 of this Code. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day
during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
   A.   In addition to the other remedies provided by this section and law,
violation of any provision of this chapter, by any person (or such person's
agent, contractor or subcontractor) engaging in construction activity and to
whom a building permit has been issued may result in the issuance of a stop
work order pending a hearing by the City Council to determine the conditions
under which further construction activity shall be permitted.
   B.   After being notified by the City of a violation under any provision of
this chapter, and in the event said person fails to cure said violation within
twenty four (24) hours of notification, then the City may issue a stop work
order on said person's construction project which shall remain in effect until
the City Council conducts a hearing to determine the conditions under which
further construction activity shall be permitted.
   C.   "Stop work order" is defined as a written document issued by the City
building inspector in consultation with the City Police Chief, instructing said
person and said person's agents, contractors or subcontractors to immediately
cease any and all construction activity or work on the person's construction
project until the City and the person have conducted a hearing to determine the
conditions under which further work shall be permitted. It shall be unlawful to
do or perform any construction activity in violation of such stop work order. A
stop work order shall not be considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any
other penalty or remedy being enforced.
   D.   Such hearing shall be conducted within ten (10) days from the delivery
of a "stop work order" as defined herein.
   E.   Within three (3) days following conclusion of the hearing, the City
Council shall set forth, in writing, its findings of fact and conclusions of
law and conditions to further construction activity and deliver the same to
said person.
   F.   In the case of construction activity for which a building permit was
not required, a stop work order may be issued and no construction activity may
recommence except upon the conditions imposed by the City Council in its
findings of fact and conclusions of law following a hearing as provided herein.
(Ord. 310, 10-16-1998)
CHAPTER 4
POLLUTION CONTROL
ARTICLE A. AIR POLLUTION CONTROL
SECTION:
4-4A-1: Administrative Organization
4-4A-2: Sources Of Air Pollution Regulated
4-4A-3: Specific Pollutants
4-4A-4: Installation Of Pollution Causing Equipment
4-4A-5: Interference With Officials Prohibited
4-4A-6: Warning For Violation
4-4A-7: Appeals
4-4A-8: Violation; Penalties
4-4A-1: ADMINISTRATIVE ORGANIZATION:
   A.   Air Pollution Control Officer: The fire chief of the city shall act as
the air pollution control officer and shall make the investigations,
inspections and tests necessary for the enforcement of this article. (Ord. 27,
5-12-1970; amd. 1990 Code)
   B.   City Council: The city council shall hear appeals from the decisions of
the air pollution control officer and hereby is empowered to adopt, amend and
rescind rules and regulations recommended by the air pollution control officer,
after a public hearing. (Ord. 27, 5-12-1970)
4-4A-2: SOURCES OF AIR POLLUTION REGULATED:
   A.   Fuel Burning Sources: Fuel burning equipment, process furnaces,
internal combustion engines, motor vehicles, locomotives, floating equipment,
portable equipment, stacks, premises or open fires.
   B.   Burning Garbage And Refuse: Garbage, refuse, rubbish or other material
may not be burned in an open fire except at such places and under such
conditions and subject to such safeguards as may be prescribed by the air
pollution control officer or his designee 1 .
   C.   Dust Producing Substances:
      1.   Dust producing substances shall not be so handled, transported,
worked, loaded, unloaded, treated or dealt with as, by the spreading or
dissemination of dust, to annoy or to serve unreasonably or to endanger the
comfort, repose, health or safety of any person, or to cause detriment to the
business or property of others.
      2.   All piles of coal, dirt, sand and other dust producing substances in
the open air shall be covered or treated so as to effectively control the
spreading or dissemination of dust.
      3.   No dust producing substance shall be transported through any street
without protective covering at all times sufficient to prevent effectually the
dissemination of dust therefrom and to the open air or upon any public or
private property. These provisions shall be enforced by the police department,
and each violation shall constitute a separate offense. (1990 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See article B of this chapter.
4-4A-3: SPECIFIC POLLUTANTS:
Discharge from any source whatsoever in such quantities of air contaminants or
other material which causes injury, detriment, nuisance or annoyance to any
considerable number of persons or to the public, or which endanger the comfort,
health or safety of any such person or the public, or which cause injury or
damage to property is prohibited.
   A.   Smoke: Smoke, the density of which is equal to or greater than no. 2
Ringelmann, is prohibited, except:
      1.   Smoke equal to but not darker than no. 2 may be emitted for periods
aggregating three (3) minutes in any period of fifteen (15) minutes.
      2.   Smoke equal to but not darker than no. 3 may be emitted for a period
of five (5) continuous minutes when a fire box is being cleaned or a new fire
is being built in a cold boiler or furnace.
   B.   Dust: Dust in the gases of any fuel burning equipment, process furnace,
stack, premises or open fire may not exceed eighty five-hundredths (0.85) pound
per one thousand (1,000) pounds of gases, adjusted to fifty percent (50%)
excess air for products of combustion, except:
      1.   For any equipment constructed or installed prior to the effective
date hereof, this concentration may be exceeded, but a dust collecting
efficiency of at least ninety percent (90%) for any dust separating apparatus
will be required.
      2.   This concentration may be exceeded during the cleaning periods,
provided the methods used and the periods of time are approved by the air
pollution control officer.
   C.   Fumes, Vapors, Odors And Noxious Gases: Fumes, vapors, odors and
noxious gases shall not be emitted in such quantity as to be detrimental to any
person or to the public or to endanger the health, comfort or safety of such
person or of the public, or in such manner as to cause injury or damage to
property or business. (1990 Code)
4-4A-4: INSTALLATION OF POLLUTION CAUSING EQUIPMENT:
   A.   Installation Permits:
      1.   Required; Exceptions: An installation permit shall be required for
the construction, reconstruction, installation or alteration of any fuel
burning equipment or any other equipment capable of emitting pollutants,
except:
         a.   Oil fired equipment burning no. 1 and no. 2 fuel oil when
standard commercial equipment is used.
         b.   Gas fired equipment when standard commercial equipment is used.
         c.   Solid fuel fired equipment when standard equipment is used and
the maximum fuel input will not exceed three hundred fifty thousand (350,000)
BTU per hour.
         d.   Repairs and minor alterations to previously approved equipment or
to equipment installed prior to the effective date hereof. (Ord. 27, 5-12-1970)
      2.   Application For Permit; Fee: Application shall list and identify the
equipment and indicate the means by which compliance with this article will be
assured. Plans and specifications may be submitted in fulfillment of this
requirement. A fee in an amount determined from time to time by resolution of
the city council shall accompany the application. The application shall be
acted upon by the air pollution control officer within a reasonable time, and
the applicant notified, in writing, of the action taken. (Ord. 27, 5-12-1970;
amd. 1990 Code)
   B.   Inspections And Tests: The air pollution control officer shall be
notified immediately of the completion of the work for which the permit was
granted and shall thereupon inspect it for compliance with the provisions of
this article. If the air pollution control officer, in his discretion, shall
require a test of the equipment, such tests may be conducted by himself, his
designee, a specialist engaged by him, or he may accept a test conducted by the
owner of the equipment or his representative. (1990 Code)
4-4A-5: INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICIALS PROHIBITED:
To interfere with the air pollution control officer or his agents in the
performance of duty, or to refuse them entrance to premises wherefrom smoke,
dust, odor or other air contaminants are being or are suspected of being
discharged into open air shall be unlawful. (1990 Code)
4-4A-6: WARNING FOR VIOLATION:
The air pollution control officer may issue a warning and give a violator
opportunity to comply with this article before filing a formal complaint. (1990
Code)
4-4A-7: APPEALS:
   A.   Notice Of Appeal: Appeals from any decision, ruling or order of the air
pollution control officer may be taken to the city council by filing a notice
of appeal, the grounds therefor, and the relief sought with the air pollution
control officer within fifteen (15) days after the action appealed from.
   B.   Deposit Required: A deposit of twenty five dollars ($25.00) shall be
required at the time of filing the appeal to cover the cost of the hearing.
   C.   Information Furnished: The air pollution control officer shall furnish
the city council with all matters relevant to the appeal.
   D.   Hearing; Decisions: A hearing shall be held not less than five (5) nor
more than ten (10) days from the filing of the appeal; all interested parties
having been notified thereof by mail. The decision appealed from shall be held
in suspension until the city council has rendered a decision; such decision to
be reached within ten (10) days after the hearing. The appellant may appear in
person at the hearing or be represented by an attorney or agent.
   E.   Costs: If the order appealed from is affirmed, the cost shall be
forfeited to the city; if reversed, the city shall bear the costs and the
deposit shall be returned to the appellant. (Ord. 27, 5-12-1970)
4-4A-8: VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
Any violation of this article constitutes a misdemeanor punishable as provided
in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 27, 5-12-1970; amd. 1990 Code)
ARTICLE B. OPEN BURNING
SECTION:
4-4B-1: Purpose
4-4B-2: Interpretation Of Provisions
4-4B-3: Open Burning Defined
4-4B-4: General Restrictions
4-4B-5: Allowable Burning
4-4B-6: Requirements For Burning
4-4B-7: Visible Emissions
4-4B-8: Violations
4-4B-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose and intent of this article is to eliminate all forms of open
burning except those for which there is no means of producing a similar public
benefit, or such as may be permitted herein. (Ord. 41, 1-18-1971)
4-4B-2: INTERPRETATION OF PROVISIONS:
Nothing in this article shall be construed as repealing or amending in any way
any safety provisions of the uniform fire code heretofore adopted by the city 1
. All of the safety requirements therein prescribed for outdoor burnings,
bonfires or rubbish fires shall be required of all persons holding permits
under the provisions of this article. (Ord. 41, 1-18-1971; amd. 1990 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection 8-1-1A of this code.
4-4B-3: OPEN BURNING DEFINED:
Open burning means the outdoor burning of materials where the products of
combustion are not directed through a duct, passage, smokestack or chimney.
(1990 Code)
4-4B-4: GENERAL RESTRICTIONS:
Except as herein otherwise provided, no person shall allow, suffer, cause or
permit the open burning of materials which emit toxic contaminants, large
volumes of smoke, particulates or odors. (Ord. 41, 1-18-1971)
4-4B-5: ALLOWABLE BURNING:
   A.   Fires used for the preparation of food, campfires and fires for
recreational purposes, under control of a responsible person and in compliance
with the uniform fire code. (Ord. 41, 1-18-1971; amd. 1990 Code)
   B.   Fires used for control or alleviation of fire hazard or for weed
control when no alternate control method exists.
   C.   Fires used in the training of organized firefighting personnel.
   D.   Properly operated industrial flares for combustion of flammable gases.
(Ord. 41, 1-18-1971)
   E.   Readily combustible rubbish produced by operations of a domestic
household may be burned on the property from which the rubbish was generated if
no collection and disposal service is available and such is approved by the
mayor and council 1 .
   F.   During the months of April and October, the city council, after
consultation with the Idaho air pollution control section of the state
department of health, may establish "cleanup weeks" during which property
owners will be allowed without special permit to burn leaves, shrubbery,
trimmings, grass and such other materials 2  at such times and in such manner
as may be designated in the public proclamation. (Ord. 41, 1-18-1971; amd. 1990
Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  4-2-7 of this title.
2 2. See also section
  4-2-7 of this title.
4-4B-6: REQUIREMENTS FOR BURNING:
   A.   Permit Required: No person shall conduct burning within the provision
of section
4-4B-5 of this article on or in any public street, alley, road or other public
ground without a permit or other proper authorization. (Ord. 41, 1-18-1971)
   B.   Attendance Of Open Fires: All open burning shall be constantly attended
by a responsible person until such fire is extinguished. This person shall have
a garden hose connected to the water supply or other fire extinguishing
equipment readily available for use.
   C.   Authority To Prohibit: The chief of the fire department may prohibit
any or all open burning when atmospheric conditions, as published by the
weather bureau or the environmental services to burning or when local
circumstances, make such fires hazardous. (1990 Code)
4-4B-7: VISIBLE EMISSIONS:
No person shall allow the emission of any air contaminant for a period or
periods aggregating more than three (3) minutes in any one hour which is:
   A.   Darker in shade than that designated no. 2 (40 percent density) on the
Ringelmann chart as published by the United States bureau of mines; or
   B.   Of such opacity as to obscure an observer's view to the same degree as
an emission described in subsection A of this section.
Testing shall be done in accordance with the procedures manual for sampling and
analysis of air pollutants, published by the state air pollution control
commission.
The visible emissions regulation applicable to equipment installed after the
effective date hereof shall be as above; except, that the criteria for
determining compliance shall be Ringelmann no. 1 or equivalent opacity.
The density or opacity of air contaminant shall be measured at the point of its
emission, if observable, and if not, shall be measured at an observable point
on the plume nearest the point of emission. (1990 Code)
4-4B-8: VIOLATIONS:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this article or wilfully refusing
to comply with any proper requirements of the designated officer shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. Each day a violation of the provisions of this
article continues shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 41, 1-18-1971)
ARTICLE C. WATER POLLUTION CONTROL
SECTION:
4-4C-1: Administrative Organization
4-4C-2: Polluting City Waters Prohibited
4-4C-3: Interference With Officers Prohibited
4-4C-4: Warning For Violation
4-4C-5: Appeals
4-4C-6: Violation; Penalties
4-4C-1: ADMINISTRATIVE ORGANIZATION:
   A.   Water Pollution Control Officer: The community development director of
the city is hereby designated as the water pollution control officer and shall
make the investigations, inspections and tests necessary for the enforcement of
this article.
   B.   City Council: Any person aggrieved by any decision of the water
pollution control officer may appeal to the city council, which body shall hear
appeals from decisions of the water pollution control officer and which body
shall hereby be empowered to adopt, amend and rescind rules and regulations
recommended by the water pollution control officer, after a public hearing.
(Ord. 455, 12-6-2012)
4-4C-2: POLLUTING CITY WATERS PROHIBITED 1 :
It shall be unlawful for any person, either directly or indirectly, to throw,
drain, run or otherwise discharge into any of the waters of this city, to
include, but not be limited to, rivers, streams, creeks, ponds, lakes or any
other body or bodies of water, or cause, permit or suffer to be thrown, run,
drained, allowed to seep or otherwise discharge into such waters organic or
inorganic matter, or produce any physical changes, that shall cause or
contribute to a condition in contravention of the water quality standards
adopted by the city council, and/or violate any of the rules and regulations
promulgated pursuant to the provisions of this article. (1990 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 4-3-7C of this title.
4-4C-3: INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICERS PROHIBITED:
To interfere with the water pollution control officer, or his agents, in the
performance of their duty shall be unlawful. (1990 Code)
4-4C-4: WARNING FOR VIOLATION:
The water pollution control officer may issue a warning to give a violator
opportunity to comply with this article before filing a formal complaint. (1990
Code)
4-4C-5: APPEALS:
   A.   Notice Of Appeal: Appeals from any decision, ruling or order of the
water pollution control officer may be taken to the city council by filing a
notice of appeal, the grounds therefor, and the relief sought with the water
pollution control officer within fifteen (15) days after the action appealed
from.
   B.   Deposit Required: A deposit of twenty five dollars ($25.00) shall be
required at the time of filing the appeal to cover the cost of the hearing.
   C.   Information Furnished: The water pollution control officer shall
furnish to the city council all matters relevant to the appeal.
   D.   Hearing; Decisions: A hearing shall be held not less than five (5) and
no more than ten (10) days from the filing of this appeal, all interested
parties having been notified thereof by mail.
The decision appealed from shall be held in suspension until the city council
has rendered a decision, such decision to be reached within ten (10) days after
the hearing.
The appellant may appear in person at the hearing or be represented by an
attorney or agent.
   E.   Costs: If the order appealed from is affirmed, the cost shall be
forfeited to the city; if reversed, the city shall bear the cost and the
deposit shall be returned to the appellant. (Ord. 28, 8-19-1970)
4-4C-6: VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
Any violation of this article constitutes a misdemeanor punishable as provided
in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 28, 8-19-1970; amd. 1990 Code)
ARTICLE D. NOISE POLLUTION CONTROL
SECTION:
4-4D-1: Findings And Purpose
4-4D-2: Loud, Unnecessary Noise Prohibited
4-4D-3: Loud, Unnecessary Noise Enumerated
4-4D-4: Special Exemption
4-4D-5: Violation; Penalties
4-4D-1: FINDINGS AND PURPOSE:
It is found and declared that:
   A.   The making and creation of loud, unnecessary or unusual noises within
the limits of the city is a condition which has existed for some time and the
extent and volume of such noises is increasing;
   B.   That making, creating or maintaining such loud, unnecessary, unnatural
or unusual noises which are prolonged are a detriment to public health,
comfort, convenience, safety, welfare, and prosperity of the residents of the
city; and
   C.   The necessity in the public interest for the provisions and
prohibitions hereinafter contained and enacted is declared as a matter of
legislative determination and public policy, and it is further declared that
the provisions and prohibitions hereinafter contained and enacted are in
pursuance of and for the purpose of securing and promoting the public health,
comfort, convenience, safety, welfare and prosperity and the peace and quiet of
the city and its inhabitants. (Ord. 31, 9-21-1970)
4-4D-2: LOUD, UNNECESSARY NOISE PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to make, continue, or cause to be made or
continued any loud, unnecessary or unusual noise or any noise which either
annoys, disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace or
safety of others within the limits of the city. (Ord. 31, 9-21-1970)
4-4D-3: LOUD, UNNECESSARY NOISE ENUMERATED:
The following acts, among others, are declared to be loud, disturbing and
unnecessary noises in violation of this article, but said enumeration shall not
be deemed to be exclusive, namely:
   A.   Horns And Signaling Devices: The sounding of any horn or signaling
device on any automobile, motorcycle, streetcar or other vehicle on any street
or public place of the city, except as a danger warning; the creation by means
of any such signaling device of any unreasonable loud or harsh sound; and the
sounding of any such device for an unnecessary and unreasonable period of time.
The use of any signaling device except one operated by hand or electricity; the
use of any horn, whistle or other device operated by engine exhaust; and the
use of any such signaling device when traffic is for any reason held up.
   B.   Radios And Phonographs: The using, operating, or permitting to be
played, used or operated any radio receiving set, musical instrument,
phonograph or other machine or device for the producing or reproducing of sound
in such a manner as to disturb the peace, quiet and comfort of the neighboring
inhabitants or at any time with louder volume than is necessary for convenient
hearing for the person or persons who are in the room, vehicle or chamber in
which such machine or device is operated and who are voluntary listeners
thereto. The operation of any such set, instrument, phonograph, machine or
device between the hours of eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:
00) A.M. in such a manner as to be plainly audible at a distance of fifty feet
(50') from the building, structure or vehicle in which it is located shall be
prima facie evidence of a violation of this section.
   C.   Loudspeakers, Amplifiers For Advertising 1 : The using, operating or
permitting to be played, used or operated of any radio receiving set, musical
instrument, phonograph, loudspeaker, sound amplifier or other machine or device
for the producing or reproducing of sound which is cast upon the public streets
for the purpose of commercial advertising or attracting the attention of the
public to any building or structure. (Ord. 217, 8-8-1989)
   D.   Yelling, Shouting, Singing: Yelling, shouting, hooting, whistling or
singing on the public or private streets, particularly between the hours of
eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. in such a manner as
to annoy, disturb, injure, or endanger the quiet, comfort or repose of persons
in any office, or in any dwelling, hotel or other type of residence or of any
persons in the vicinity. (Ord. 310, 10-16-1998)
   E.   Animals 2 : The keeping of any animal or bird which by causing frequent
or long, continued noise shall disturb the comfort or repose of any persons in
the vicinity.
   F.   Steam Whistles: The blowing of any locomotive steam whistle or steam
whistle attached to any stationary boiler except to give notice of the time to
begin or stop work, or as a warning of fire or danger, or upon request of
proper city authorities.
   G.   Exhaust Discharges: The discharge into open air of the exhaust of any
steam engine, stationary internal combustion engine, motorboat or motor vehicle
except through a muffler or other device which will effectively prevent loud or
explosive noises therefrom.
   H.   Defect In Vehicle Or Load: The use of any automobile, motorcycle or
vehicle so out of repair, so loaded or in such manner as to create loud and
unnecessary grating, grinding, rattling or other noise.
   I.   Loading, Unloading, Opening Boxes: The creation of loud and excessive
noise in connection with loading or unloading any vehicle or the opening and
destruction of bales, boxes, crates and containers. (Ord. 31, 9-21-1970)
   J.   Construction Or Repairing Of Buildings: The erection (including
excavating), demolition, alteration or repair of any building other than
between the hours of seven thirty o'clock (7:30) A.M. and seven thirty o'clock
(7:30) P.M. on weekdays, and between the hours of nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. and
six o'clock (6:00) P.M. on Saturdays, except in case of urgent necessity in the
interest of public health or safety. (Ord. 328, 9-21-2000)
   K.   Near Schools, Courts, Churches, Hospitals: The creation of any
excessive noise on any street adjacent to any school, institution of learning,
church or court while the same are in use, or adjacent to any hospital, which
unreasonably interferes with the workings of such institution, or which
disturbs or unduly annoys patients in the hospital; provided, conspicuous signs
are displayed in such streets indicating that the same is a school, hospital or
court street.
   L.   Hawkers, Peddlers 3 : The shouting and crying of peddlers, hawkers and
vendors which disturbs the peace and quiet of the neighborhood.
   M.   Drums: The use of any drum or other instrument or device for the
purpose of attracting attention by creation of noise to any performance, show
or sale.
   N.   Transporting Metal Rails, Pillars And Columns: The transportation of
rails, pillars or columns of iron, steel or other material, over and along
streets and other public places upon carts, drays, cars, trucks or in any other
manner so loaded as to cause loud noises or as to disturb the peace and quiet
of such streets or other public places. (Ord. 31, 9-21-1970)
   O.   Noisy Equipment: The operation, other than between the hours of seven
thirty o'clock (7:30) A.M. and seven thirty o'clock (7:30) P.M. on weekdays,
and between the hours of nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) P.M.
on Saturdays (except in case of urgent necessity in the interest of public
health or safety), of any pile driver, pneumatic hammer, derrick, pneumatic or
electric hoist, or other appliance, or truck, loader, excavator or similar
construction equipment used for the construction of buildings or improvements
the use of which is attended by loud or unusual or continuous noise. Operation
shall include the initial start up of any engine of any such equipment. This
subsection shall not apply to snow removal equipment or city vehicles,
equipment or city projects. (Ord. 328, 9-21-2000)
   P.   Blowers: Effective May 21, 2009, the operation of any noise creating
blower or power fan or any internal combustion engine, the operation of which
causes noise in excess of sixty five (65) decibels (dB) measured at fifty feet
(50') per the American National Standards Institute (ANSI) standard. (Ord. 409,
5-15-2008)
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 3, chapter 7 of this code.
2 2. See also section
  5-1-3 of this code.
3 1. See title 3, chapter 5 of this code.
4-4D-4: SPECIAL EXEMPTION:
   A.   The preceding sections of this article notwithstanding, it shall not be
unlawful for any person to make noises, which might otherwise be prohibited by
this article, in the process of making artificial snow for the purpose of
establishing a snow cover on ski runs and adjacent areas on Dollar Mountain, or
for the purpose of maintaining those ski runs during the regular ski season.
   B.   The special exemption provided herein shall be subject to the
continuing review of the city, which may, in its discretion, terminate or
further modify the exemption. (Ord. 209, 11-22-1988)
4-4D-5: VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
Any person who violates any provision of this article shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day
during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
   A.   In addition to the other remedies provided by this article and law,
violation of this article by any person (or such person's agent, contractor or
subcontractor) engaging in construction activity and to whom a building permit
has been issued may result in the issuance of a stop work order pending a
hearing by the city council to determine the conditions under which further
construction activity shall be permitted.
   B.   After being notified by the city of a violation under this article, and
in the event said person fails to cure said violation within twenty four (24)
hours of notification, then the city may issue a stop work order on said
person's construction project which shall remain in effect until the city
council conducts a hearing to determine the conditions under which further
construction activity shall be permitted.
   C.   "Stop work order" is defined as a written document issued by the city
building inspector in consultation with the city police chief, instructing said
person and said person's agents, contractors or subcontractors to immediately
cease any and all construction activity or work on the person's construction
project until the city and the person have conducted a hearing to determine the
conditions under which further work shall be permitted. It shall be unlawful to
do or perform any construction activity in violation of such stop work order. A
stop work order shall not be considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any
other penalty or remedy being enforced.
   D.   Such hearing shall be conducted within ten (10) days from the delivery
of a "stop work order" as defined in subsection C of this section.
   E.   Within three (3) days following conclusion of the hearing, the city
council shall set forth, in writing, its findings of fact and conclusions of
law and conditions to further construction activity and deliver the same to
said person.
   F.   In the case of construction activity for which a building permit was
not required, a stop work order may be issued and no construction activity may
recommence except upon the conditions imposed by the city council in its
findings of fact and conclusions of law following a hearing as provided herein.
(Ord. 310, 10-16-1998)
CHAPTER 5
AIRCRAFT 1
SECTION:
4-5-1: Definition
4-5-2: Unlawful Operation Of Aircraft
4-5-3: Aircraft Landing And Takeoff Area Permits
4-5-4: Violation; Penalties
 
Notes
1 1. For littering prohibitions, see subsection 4-3-7D of this title.
4-5-1: DEFINITION:
The term "aircraft", as used in this chapter, shall be construed to mean and
include airplanes, helicopters, sailplanes, gliders and hot air balloons. (Ord.
455, 12-6-2012)
4-5-2: UNLAWFUL OPERATION OF AIRCRAFT:
It shall be unlawful for any person to cause any aircraft to land or take off
within the corporate limits of the city except as provided in subsection
4-5-3A of this chapter. (Ord. 455, 12-6-2012)
4-5-3: AIRCRAFT LANDING AND TAKEOFF AREA PERMITS:
   A.   Areas Designated And Permits Required: Upon receiving applications for
an aircraft landing and takeoff permit, filed with the city clerk, from persons
desiring to land or take off aircraft within the corporate limits of the city,
the city council may, pursuant to rules and regulations established and adopted
by it, designate certain areas, dates, and times where such aircraft activities
shall be permitted on a temporary basis; provided, however, that no such
designation shall be given to any area wherein the operation of aircraft would
pose a threat to public health, safety or welfare. When an area has received
such designation by the city council, and for so long thereafter as said
designation remains in full force and effect, it shall be lawful for the
permitted persons to thereon land or take off aircraft, subject to any terms or
limitations contained in the designation permit, including hold harmless,
indemnification, and insurance requirements. Long term or permanent landing and
takeoff areas are subject to the conditional use permit process in title 9 of
this code and shall conform to all applicable zoning provisions. Emergency
aircraft, i.e., Lifeflight or similar, are exempt from the provisions of this
permit requirement section if operating in the performance of their emergency
duties.
   B.   Rescission Of Designated Aircraft Areas: The designation by the city
council of any area within the corporate limits of the city as an area where
aircraft landings and takeoffs are permitted may be rescinded at any time upon
a finding by the city council that continued aircraft landings or takeoffs in
that area pose a threat to public health, safety or welfare. (Ord. 455, 12-6-
2012)
4-5-4: VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 455, 12-6-2012)
CHAPTER 6
TRAIL SYSTEM
SECTION:
4-6-1: Findings
4-6-2: Regulation Of Bicycles, Human Propelled Vehicles, E-Bikes, Alternative
Electric Motored Vehicles, And Wheelchairs
4-6-3: Prohibition Of Motor Vehicles
4-6-4: Prohibition Of Animal Drawn Vehicles
4-6-5: Prohibition Of Encumbrances Upon The Trail System
4-6-7: Penalty
4-6-1: FINDINGS:
The City has established an extensive paved trail system (the "trail system")
which is designed to provide alternative thoroughfares in the City to the roads
of the City for pedestrians, bicyclists and other human propelled vehicles. It
is necessary and in the best interests of the health, safety and welfare of the
citizens of and visitors to the City that traffic on the trail system be
regulated. (Ord. 229, 6-19-1990)
4-6-2: REGULATION OF BICYCLES, HUMAN PROPELLED VEHICLES, E-BIKES, ALTERNATIVE
ELECTRIC MOTORED VEHICLES, AND WHEELCHAIRS:
   A.   All regulation of bicycles, human propelled vehicles, E-bikes,
alternative electric motored vehicles, and wheelchairs (hereby referred to as
"allowed vehicles") on the City trail system shall be subject to applicable
easements.
   B.   Where the trail system is provided and its use is practicable, it shall
be unlawful for any person to operate an allowed vehicle along and upon an
adjacent roadway within the City at a speed which is so slow as to impede the
flow of traffic on the roadway.
   C.   No person shall operate an allowed vehicle on the path system at a
speed greater than is reasonable and prudent under the conditions and having
regard to the actual and potential hazards then existing. Consistent with the
foregoing, every person shall operate an allowed vehicle on the trail system at
a safe and appropriate speed on approaching and crossing an intersection, when
approaching and going around a curve, when approaching a hillcrest, when
proceeding down a hill, when traveling upon a winding section of the trail
system, and when special hazards exist with respect to pedestrians or other
traffic or by reason of weather or other conditions of the trail system. No
person shall operate an allowed vehicle on the path system at a speed greater
than twenty (20) miles per hour. Appropriate speed limit signage as determined
by the City Police and Streets Departments shall be installed.
   D.   Electric power-assisted bicycles ("E-bikes") shall be allowed to
operate on the City trail system, provided operation of an E-bike is in
accordance with regulations provided in this chapter. An E-bike shall be
defined as a vehicle having two (2) tandem wheels or two (2) parallel wheels
and one forward wheel, any two (2) of which, are not less than twelve inches
(12") in diameter and is designed to be operated by human power with the
assistance of an electric motor that has a power output of not more than seven
hundred fifty watts (750 W) and disengages or ceases to function when the
vehicle's brakes are applied.
   E.   Use of alternative electric motored vehicles (vehicles with the
assistance of an electric motor that has a power output of not more than 750
watts) shall be allowed to operate on the City trail system, provided operation
of an electric motored vehicle is in accordance with regulations provided in
this chapter.
   F.   Use of wheelchairs and manually-powered mobility aides by individuals
with mobility disabilities such as would qualify the user to obtain an Idaho
State handicap parking permit or otherwise allowed under the Americans With
Disabilities Act shall be permitted on the City trail system. The term
"wheelchair" is defined as a manually-operated or power-driven device designed
primarily for use by an individual with a mobility disability for the main
purpose of indoor or of both indoor and outdoor locomotion. (Ord. 528, 12-6-
2018)
4-6-3: PROHIBITION OF MOTOR VEHICLES:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle upon the
trail system unless the motor vehicle is: 1) a motorized wheelchair; 2) a human
propelled vehicle designed for use by only one person, with electrical assist
(s) totaling less than seven hundred fifty watts (750 W); or 3) a maintenance
vehicle which is operated on the trail system either for the purpose of
maintaining the trail system or properties directly abutting the trail system.
   B.   Nothing herein shall constitute authorization for the operation of a
motor vehicle upon the trail system if the size, weight, or other
characteristics of the vehicle are likely to cause damage to the trail system.
   C.   It shall be unlawful to park or leave unattended a vehicle or trailer
upon the trail system. (Ord. 229, 6-19-1990; amd. Ord. 528, 12-6-2018; Ord.
584, 6-5-2025)
4-6-4: PROHIBITION OF ANIMAL DRAWN VEHICLES:
   A.   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle propelled by an animal on
the paved surface of the trail system, except at designated crossings, unless
the vehicle propelled by an animal is a sleigh or sleigh type vehicle operated
on the trail system while the trail system is covered by snow in a sufficient
amount to protect the paved portion thereof from damage.
   B.   Nothing herein shall constitute authorization for the operation of a
vehicle propelled by an animal upon the trail system if the size, weight or
other characteristics of the vehicle and/or animal are likely to cause damage
to the trail system. (Ord. 229, 6-19-1990)
4-6-5: PROHIBITION OF CERTAIN ANIMALS:
No person shall lead, drive or ride any hoofed animal on the paved surface of
the trail system except at designated crossings. (Ord. 229, 6-19-1990)
4-6-6: PROHIBITION OF ENCUMBRANCES UPON THE TRAIL SYSTEM:
It shall be unlawful to place any material, object, or other encumbrance upon
the trail system. (Ord. 584, 6-5-2025)
4-6-7: PENALTY:
   A.   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of
an infraction as defined in section
1-3-2 of this Code and shall be fined one hundred dollars ($100.00).
   B.   Any police officer may order the owner or operator of any motor vehicle
or trailer, or the owner or responsible party for any material, object or other
encumbrance, to promptly move such items from the trail system where in the
officer's discretion such vehicle, trailer, material, object or other
encumbrance is creating a traffic hazard or danger.
   C.   The Police Department, and all members thereof, are hereby authorized
to remove and tow away, or have removed and towed away by commercial towing
service, any vehicle or trailer illegally parked as provided in this section.
      1.   When a vehicle or trailer is removed from the trail system by order
of the Police Department as authorized by this section, the owner of the
vehicle shall be responsible for all towing costs and impound fees.
      2.   When a vehicle or trailer is authorized to be towed away, the Police
Department shall keep and maintain a record of the vehicle or trailer towed,
listing the color, year of manufacture, manufacturer's trade name,
manufacturer's series name, body style, vehicle identification number, and
license plate year and number displayed on the vehicle or trailer. The record
shall also include the name of the towing company, date and hour of tow,
location towed from, location towed to, reason for towing and the name of the
officer authorizing the tow. (Ord. 466, 1-9-2014; amd. Ord. 584, 6-5-2025)
CHAPTER 7
COVERING LOADED VEHICLES
SECTION:
4-7-1: Purpose
4-7-2: Definitions
4-7-3: Prohibited Acts
4-7-4: Violations And Penalties
4-7-5: Severability
4-7-6: Effective Date
4-7-1: PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of the city to require that all persons using roads, streets,
and rights of way within the city secure and cover their vehicle loads to
prevent material from spilling onto the city streets in order to safeguard the
health, comfort, convenience, safety and general welfare of the citizens and
users of city streets. (Ord. 348, 5-15-2003)
4-7-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this section, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them:
MATERIAL: Any matter or thing capable of being transported by vehicle on a
street including, but not limited to, gravel, sand, soil, fill, stone, loose
grass cuttings, plant and shrub debris.
STREET: The entire width between the boundary right of way of every city street
publicly maintained when any part is open to the use of the public for
vehicular travel, with jurisdiction extending to the adjacent property line.
The terms street and road and right of way are interchangeable.
VEHICLE: Every motor vehicle, device, trailer, or truck by which any person or
property or material is or may be transported or drawn upon a street; provided,
the term vehicle shall not include any city sanding vehicles. (Ord. 348, 5-15-
2003)
4-7-3: PROHIBITED ACTS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or cause to operate any vehicle
on a street without sufficiently securing and covering the load within the
vehicle to prevent material from leaving the vehicle by flying, bounding off,
shifting, drifting, falling out of, or otherwise becoming unattached. (Ord.
348, 5-15-2003)
4-7-4: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
Any person who wilfully or recklessly violates this chapter shall be guilty of
a "misdemeanor" as defined in section
1-3-2 of this code. Any person who negligently violates this section shall be
guilty of an infraction and shall be fined one hundred dollars ($100.00). (Ord.
466, 1-9-2014)
4-7-5: SEVERABILITY:
It is hereby declared to be the legislative intent that the provisions of this
chapter shall be severable. If any part, section, subsection, sentence, clause,
or phrase of this chapter is held to be invalid for any reason by a court of
competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions of this chapter or this code. (Ord. 348, 5-15-2003)
4-7-6: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This chapter shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage,
approval and publication. (Ord. 348, 5-15-2003)
TITLE 5
POLICE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
5-1-1: Purpose
5-1-2: Animals Running At Large
5-1-3: Nuisance
5-1-4: Dangerous Animals
5-1-5: Authority To Impound
5-1-6: Lawful To Go On Premises
5-1-7: Rabid Animals Quarantined For Observation
5-1-8: Exotic Wildlife
5-1-9: Dog Licensing
5-1-10: Cruelty Prohibited
5-1-11: Unlawful To Poison
5-1-12: Duties Of Animal Control Officers And Police Department
5-1-13: Interfering Or Obstructing Animal Control Officer Or Police Department
5-1-14: Redemption Of Impounded Dogs
5-1-15: Penalty
5-1-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter is enacted to promote the health, safety and welfare of the
residents and visitors of the city and to protect the properties of such
persons by establishing uniform and humane animal control regulations. (1990
Code)
5-1-2: ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE:
   A.   Generally: It shall be unlawful for any owner, possessor or person who
keeps any animal to permit the same to run at large upon the private premises
of others or upon the streets, alleys, sidewalks, highways, vacant lots, school
grounds or other public places within the city.
   B.   Running At Large Defined: An animal shall be deemed to be running at
large when off or away from the premises of the owner, possessor, or keeper
thereof, and not under the immediate control of such owner, possessor, or
keeper, or his agent or servant or a member of his immediate family, either by
leash, cord, chain, or by verbal control of a person within ten feet (10') of
said animal; provided, however, that any animal on the premises of a city park,
or school ground must be controlled by a leash not exceeding ten feet (10') in
length held in the hand of the person controlling the animal. Procuring a
license and tag shall not authorize the running at large of a dog. This
provision shall not apply to dogs working with livestock or to dogs, engaged
with their owner or handler, in hunting or performing in field trials.
   C.   Nuisance Declared: Violation of the provisions of this section is
hereby declared to be a nuisance and a menace to the public health and safety,
and any animal which violates the provisions of this section shall be taken up
and impounded as provided herein.
   D.   Female In Heat Prohibited From Running At Large:
      1.   The owner of a female dog shall cause such dog, when in season, to
be penned or closed in such manner as to preclude other dogs from attacking
such female dog.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for the owner or person having possession,
charge, custody or control of any female dog to cause, permit, or allow the
same to stray or run, or in any other manner be at large in or upon any street
or sidewalk, while such dog is in copulating season. If a female dog cannot be
controlled by the owner during the copulating season, the female dog may be
impounded by the animal control officer or any police officer. (1990 Code)
5-1-3: NUISANCE:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any owner or other keeper of a dog or other
animal to fail to exercise proper care and control of such animal to prevent it
from becoming a public nuisance. A nuisance includes, but is not limited, to
the following: 1) frequent, continuous or untimely barking; 2) molesting
passersby; 3) chasing vehicles; 4) attacking other domestic animals; 5)
trespassing upon public or private property in such a manner as to damage the
property; 6) defecating on public or private property of another when the
defecation is not immediately removed by the keeper of the animal; or 7) any
animal which, on three (3) separate occasions within a twelve (12) month period
has been observed remaining at large as defined in subsection
5-1-2B of this chapter or the owner or keeper has been cited on three (3)
separate occasions within a twelve (12) month period by a peace officer or an
animal control officer under this chapter.
   B.   For the purposes of this section, "molesting" is defined as placing a
person in fear of imminent physical injury without provocation, said fear being
reasonable under the circumstances or when the animal shows a propensity to
bite people.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any owner or other keeper of an animal to fail
to provide such animal with sufficient and wholesome food and water, proper
shelter and protection to prevent discomfort, veterinary care when needed to
prevent suffering, or humane care and treatment.
   D.   It shall be unlawful for any animal to ride or be parked in any vehicle
unless restrained in such a fashion to prevent the animal from extending beyond
the confines of the vehicle or from posing a danger to pedestrians.
   E.   It shall be unlawful for any person to carry an animal on any external
part of a vehicle unless the animal is protected from falling from the vehicle.
(1990 Code)
5-1-4: DANGEROUS ANIMALS:
   A.   Definitions:
    DANGEROUS ANIMAL: 1. Any animal which has inflicted fatal or severe injury
on a human being without provocation on public or private property; or
      2.   Any animal which has killed or maimed a domestic animal while off
the owner's or keeper's property.
   SEVERE INJURY: Physical trauma, which shall be defined to include
lacerations requiring sutures or cosmetic surgery, puncture wounds, muscular
skeletal injuries, blunt trauma and shock.
   B.   Impoundment: Any dangerous animal shall be immediately seized and
securely impounded in a humane manner at the discretion of the animal control
officer or peace officer either on the premises of the owner or keeper of the
animal, or with a licensed veterinarian, or at the animal pound by a peace
officer or an animal control officer.
   C.   Exemptions: No animal may be declared dangerous if the threat, injury
or damage was sustained by a person who, at the time, was committing a wilful
trespass or other act of provocation upon the premises occupied by the owner or
keeper of the animal under circumstances which made the animal's reaction
reasonably foreseeable, or was teasing, tormenting, abusing, or assaulting the
animal or has, in the past, been observed or reported to have teased,
tormented, abused or assaulted the animal or was committing or attempting to
commit a crime.
   D.   Prohibiting Dangerous Animals: Except as provided herein, it is
unlawful for any person to own, possess or harbor any animal which committed
acts that describe a dangerous animal.
   E.   Hearings: The magistrate division shall conduct a determination hearing
whenever there is cause to believe that an animal may be a "dangerous animal"
as defined in subsection A of this section. Said hearing shall be conducted
within ten (10) days after the court serves notice of the date, time and place
of the determination hearing to the owner or the owner's agent by personal
service or by certified letter. The ten (10) day notice may be extended, if
necessary, by order of the court.
The magistrate division shall determine whether to declare the animal to be a
dangerous animal based upon proof beyond a reasonable doubt and testimony
presented at the time of the hearing.
The magistrate division shall issue written findings of fact and conclusions of
law within five (5) days after the determination hearing. The magistrate may
find that the animal is dangerous or not dangerous. If the magistrate finds the
animal is not dangerous, the animal shall be returned to the owner or keeper of
the animal. If the magistrate finds the animal is dangerous, the magistrate may
order the return of the animal to the owner or keeper of the animal with or
without certain restrictions or may order that the animal be put to death in a
humane manner, after an appeal has been filed or after the time for an appeal
has lapsed. The owner or possessor of the animal found to be dangerous by this
hearing has the right to appeal the decision within three (3) days of receiving
such decision to the district court for appeal.
Pending the outcome of the determination hearing, the animal must be securely
confined in a humane manner either on the premises of the owner, or with a
licensed veterinarian, or at the animal pound.
Regardless of the finding of the court, before an animal is returned to the
owner or keeper of the animal, any returned dog must be licensed and any
applicable impoundment fee must be paid in advance. If the court orders the
return of any animal declared to be dangerous, the court may order the
following:
      1.   While on the owner's property, a dangerous animal must be securely
confined indoors or in a securely enclosed and locked pen or structure,
suitable to prevent the entry of young children and designed to prevent the
animal from escaping. Such pen or structure for a dog must have minimum
dimensions of five feet by ten feet (5' x 10') and must have secure sides and a
secure top. If it has no bottom secured to the sides, the sides must be
embedded into the ground no less than two feet (2'). The enclosure must also
provide protection from the elements for the animal.
      2.   The owner or keeper shall display a sign on his or her premises
warning that there is a dangerous animal on the property. This sign shall be
visible and capable of being read from the public highway or thoroughfare. In
addition, the owner shall conspicuously display a sign with a symbol warning
children of the presence of a dangerous animal.
      3.   A dangerous dog may be off the owner's premises if it is muzzled and
restrained by a substantial chain or leash not exceeding six feet (6') in
length and under the control of a responsible person. The muzzle must be made
in a manner that will not cause injury to the dog or interfere with its vision
or respiration but must prevent it from biting any person or animal.
      4.   The owner or keeper of a dangerous animal shall present to the
animal control officer proof that the owner or keeper has procured liability
insurance in the amount of at least one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00),
covering the twelve (12) month period during which licensing is sought. This
policy shall contain a provision requiring the city to be named as an
additional insured for the sole purpose of the city being notified by the
insurance company of any cancellation, termination or expiration of the policy.
      5.   The owner or keeper of the dangerous animal shall allow a peace
officer or animal control officer to inspect the premises where the dangerous
animal is located to ensure compliance with this chapter and any order of the
court.
      6.   The dangerous animal cannot be offered for adoption at any time.
      7.   The dangerous animal shall be spayed or neutered, the cost of which
will be borne by the owner or keeper of the dangerous animal.
      8.   The owner or keeper shall notify the animal control officer
immediately if a dangerous animal is loose, unconfined, has attacked another
animal or has attacked a human being or has died.
      9.   In the event the animal will be sold or given away, the owner or
keeper, before transferring ownership, shall provide the animal control officer
with the name, address and telephone number of the new owner, who must comply
with the requirements of this chapter.
   F.   Imminent Danger: When, in the judgment of a peace officer or an animal
control officer, it is determined that an animal should be destroyed for humane
reasons or to protect the public from imminent danger to persons or property,
such animal may be destroyed without regard to any time limitations otherwise
established herein, and without court order. (1990 Code)
5-1-5: AUTHORITY TO IMPOUND:
Any peace officer, animal control office or any other person authorized by the
city may seize and impound all dogs without collars bearing current licenses as
required by this chapter, or any and all dogs or other animals found running at
large upon the public streets, alleys or other public places or private
premises without the permission of the owner of said premises, or any and all
dangerous animals. (1990 Code)
5-1-6: LAWFUL TO GO ON PREMISES:
Any peace officer or animal control officer is authorized to enter private
property to take possession of and impound any animal whenever the peace
officer or animal control officer is in fresh pursuit of an animal which is in
violation of the provisions of this chapter at the time the animal enters onto
private property. (1990 Code)
5-1-7: RABID ANIMALS QUARANTINED FOR OBSERVATION:
Any animal which is known to have bitten, or injured any person so as to cause
an abrasion of the skin, or any suspected rabid animal, shall be placed in
confinement under observation and shall not be killed or released until at
least ten (10) days after the onset of symptoms suggestive of rabies. The
veterinary hospital or municipal pound shall be the place for quarantine,
unless the animal control officer approves of an alternative confinement and
the animal had a current rabies vaccination as evidenced by a rabies
vaccination certificate issued by a licensed veterinarian. In the event there
is an alternative confinement, the owner, or other keeper of the animal, shall
prohibit contact between humans or other animals and the quarantined animal. If
the animal dies or has been killed, its head shall be removed and immediately
taken to the state health laboratory to be examined for rabies.
In the event an animal bites or injures any person so as to cause an abrasion
of the skin, the owner or keeper of the animal shall complete a bite report
provided by the animal control officer. A copy of the bite report shall be
distributed to the animal pound, the local health department, and the animal
control officers.
No person shall fail, refuse or neglect to allow any official of the city to
make an inspection or examination thereof at any time during said period. No
such dog or animal shall be removed from the place of quarantine without first
being examined and released by a licensed veterinarian. Before any such animal
is released, a licensed veterinarian must approve the animal's release, in
writing, on a bite report or similar document. If the animal shall be
determined free of rabies, the same shall be returned to the owner upon payment
of a fee for keeping dogs impounded as herein stated. No other fee shall be
charged; if such fee is not paid, the dog or animal shall be subject to
disposal as provided in section
5-1-14 of this chapter. (1990 Code)
5-1-8: EXOTIC WILDLIFE:
   A.   Certain Animals And Pets Not Allowed: It is unlawful for any person to
keep, harbor or maintain within the city, for any purpose except as provided
herein, cattle, sheep, goats, swine, poultry, furbearing animals, predators,
game animals, or wildlife, either exotic or native, of any type. The foregoing
language notwithstanding, nothing herein shall prohibit the keeping of those
animals which are generally known and recognized in the community as household
pets.
   B.   Wildlife And Exotic Wildlife Defined: "Wildlife" shall mean any form of
animal life, either native or exotic, which normally lives in a state of
nature. An "exotic wildlife" animal is defined as any wildlife species which
does not live naturally in the farmlands or mountains of Idaho.
   C.   Special Permits For Certain Exotic Wildlife Pets: Upon application of
the owner, the police department may grant a special permit, allowing an
individual to keep a wildlife pet upon his premises; provided, that: 1) the pet
is not of the species with a propensity to attack or be dangerous to humans; 2)
the owner, by affidavit, asserts that, to the best of his knowledge, the pet
has never attacked or harmed a human; 3) the pet is adequately confined to the
satisfaction of the police department, either within or upon the owner's
premises and within an enclosed vehicle when transported.
   D.   Special Permits For Temporary Presence Of Either Exotic Or Native
Wildlife Within City: Upon application, the police department may grant a
special permit allowing the temporary presence of native or exotic wildlife
within the city when the presence of such animals within the city would occur
as part of a circus, exhibit or other special event, and then, only upon
satisfactory assurance to the police department that public safety would not be
jeopardized.
   E.   Authority Of Police Department Or Animal Control Officer To Remove
Prohibited Animals From The City: In the event that the owner of any prohibited
animal fails or refuses to remove the animal from the city, the police
department or the animal control officer shall be authorized to remove the
animal from the city, or, if necessary, to destroy the animal where it poses a
threat to human life or safety. (1990 Code)
5-1-9: DOG LICENSING:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, possess or harbor any dog
within the corporate limits of the city without first obtaining and exhibiting
a dog license as provided herein.
   B.   Any person owning, possessing or harboring any dog shall obtain a
license for such animal from an animal control officer or a person authorized
to sell dog licenses after the dog reaches the age of six (6) months as
determined by canine teeth, or within ten (10) days of the acquisition of a dog
over six (6) months of age.
   C.   Each application for a dog license shall be accompanied by the
prescribed license fee in an amount determined from time to time by resolution
of the city council and by a current rabies vaccination certificate obtained
from a licensed veterinarian.
   D.   Dog licenses will be issued annually with each license being effective
between January 1 and December 31 for each calendar year. A dog license shall
be renewed each year and every year thereafter on or before January 1.
Replacements for lost or destroyed tags shall be issued upon payment in an
amount determined from time to time by resolution of the city council to the
animal control officer or a person authorized to sell dog licenses.
   E.   Any person who owns, possesses or harbors any dog within the corporate
limits of the city is required to secure about the neck of such dog a durable
collar with an attached license tag.
   F.   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any person visiting
the city for a period not exceeding thirty (30) days, so long as the person
owning, possessing or harboring a dog displays a current valid license issued
by another municipality or other licensing authority and the person can display
proof of current rabies vaccination from either a licensed veterinarian or an
authorized animal control officer.
   G.   Any person or establishment who owns, possesses or harbors five (5) or
more dogs during an entire calendar year shall be charged twenty dollars
($20.00) as an annual license fee plus one dollar ($1.00) per dog for each
annual license tag issued; said charges are in lieu of license fees as herein
provided.
   H.   Dog license tags are not transferable from one dog to another dog.
   I.   Nothing in this section shall be construed so as to exempt any dog from
having a current rabies vaccination. (1990 Code)
5-1-10: CRUELTY PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to maltreat or torture any animal, or,
having the right or authority to kill any animal, to kill such animal in an
inhumane manner. (1990 Code)
5-1-11: UNLAWFUL TO POISON:
It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to administer or cause to be
administered poison of any sort whatsoever to any animal which is the property
of another, or poison food where same is accessible to any dog or other animal.
Any person or persons so offending shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
(1990 Code)
5-1-12: DUTIES OF ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICERS AND POLICE DEPARTMENT:
It shall be the duty of the animal control officer and the police department to
carry out and enforce all the provisions of this chapter; to enforce the
licensing and the control of dogs in the city as hereinbefore provided; to file
complaints in the magistrate court against any person failing to license any
dog as hereinbefore provided; or who otherwise fails to comply with any of the
provisions of this chapter; and to capture and secure all dogs found running at
large contrary to the provisions of this chapter; to remove such dogs in a
humane manner to the pound; to hold dogs as impounded for a period of not less
than five (5) days in a humane manner. (1990 Code)
5-1-13: INTERFERING OR OBSTRUCTING ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER OR POLICE DEPARTMENT:
Any person who shall hinder, delay, interfere with or obstruct the animal
control officer or any peace officer engaged in the capturing, securing or
taking to the animal pound any animal liable to be impounded, or who shall open
or in any manner directly or indirectly aid, counsel or advise the opening of
any animal pound cage, ambulance, wagon or other vehicle used for the
collecting or conveying of animals to the animal pound shall be deemed guilty
of a misdemeanor. (1990 Code)
5-1-14: REDEMPTION OF IMPOUNDED DOGS:
Any dog impounded may be reclaimed and taken from the pound by the owner or any
authorized person so long as the impounded dog is currently licensed and the
person reclaiming the impounded dog pays the person in charge of the pound
impound fees in an amount determined from time to time by resolution of the
city council. All impounded dogs not redeemed within five (5) days shall be
offered for sale by the animal pound in an amount to be determined by the
animal pound plus any required license fee. All dogs that are not sold or
redeemed within five (5) days excluding weekends and holidays may be destroyed
in a humane manner. (Ord. 198, 10-18-1988)
5-1-15: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter is guilty of an infraction
or a misdemeanor, as determined by a responding police officer. Any person
determined to be guilty of a misdemeanor shall, upon conviction, be subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 537, 1-3-2019)
CHAPTER 2
GENERAL CRIMINAL OFFENSES
SECTION:
5-2-1: Misdemeanor Defined
5-2-2: Code Adopted
5-2-3: Issuance Of Citations
5-2-1: MISDEMEANOR DEFINED 1 :
When an act or omission is declared by ordinance to be a public offense or to
be unlawful, and is not designated an infraction, said act or omission is
hereby declared to be a misdemeanor, and the act or omission is punishable as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, unless Idaho state code provides otherwise. (1990 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. IC §18-111 et seq.; see also section 1-3-2 of this code.
5-2-2: CODE ADOPTED:
Pursuant to the provisions of Idaho Code section 50-901, there is hereby
adopted Idaho Code title 18, being the criminal laws of the state, establishing
principles of liability for conduct; establishing general principles of
justification for conduct; defining offenses involving danger to persons;
defining offenses against property; defining offenses against the family;
defining offenses against public administration; defining offenses against
public order and decency; establishing a uniform system of penalties, including
fines, forfeitures and imprisonment; and establishing criteria for imposing
sentences upon those convicted of an offense; and said laws shall be and the
same are hereby adopted as the criminal code of the city.
Three (3) copies of said laws shall be on file in the office of the clerk for
reference to and inspection by the general public. (1990 Code)
5-2-3: ISSUANCE OF CITATIONS:
Upon a violation of any provision of this chapter or the laws hereinabove
adopted, the arresting officer shall execute the citation in the following
manner:
   Violation of the Sun Valley code, section
5-2-2 (being in particular Idaho Code section 18-      ).
(1990 Code)
CHAPTER 3
WEAPONS; HUNTING
SECTION:
5-3-1: Purpose
5-3-2: Discharge Of Weapons
5-3-3: Traps, Snares And Poisons Restricted
5-3-4: Hunting Prohibited
5-3-1: PURPOSE:
In order to protect the health, safety and general welfare of the residents of,
visitors to and other persons within the city, as well as the domestic pets and
properties of such persons, the city council has determined it necessary to
regulate the use of firearms, bows and arrows, and other weapons that may be
used in any way for hunting, traps, snares and for certain purposes, poisons
within the city. (1990 Code)
5-3-2: DISCHARGE OF WEAPONS:
It shall be a misdemeanor for any person to discharge a firearm, bow and arrow,
crossbow and arrow, slingshot, blowgun, or any other weapon capable of
launching a projectile within the city limits of the city except:
   A.   In connection with the operation of a duly established and organized
trap, skeet or bow shooting range;
   B.   In regard to firearms, when rendered necessary in the course of an
arrest;
   C.   When necessary during an emergency for the defense of life, person or
property; and
   D.   When no emergency exists, when necessary for the protection of
property, but then only after the issuance of a permit by the city police
department after the applicant has satisfied the conditions specified herein.
(1990 Code)
5-3-3: TRAPS, SNARES AND POISONS RESTRICTED:
It shall be a misdemeanor for any person to set a trap or snare within the
city, or use poisons within the city as a means of controlling domestic animals
or wildlife except when necessary for the protection of property, and done only
pursuant to all of the following conditions:
   A.   Compliance With Provisions: All methods of killing or controlling
wildlife species or domestic animals shall be done in accordance with all
applicable federal, state and local laws and regulations.
   B.   Permit Requirements:
      1.   Permit Required: The police department is hereby authorized to issue
permits to persons over the age of eighteen (18) to use traps, snares and
poisons as a means of preventing property damage caused by domestic animals or
wildlife. Persons with claims of property damage must, pursuant to a permit
application directed to the police department, state particular damage which
has occurred, was likely to occur, identify with reasonable certainty the
wildlife species or particular domestic animal responsible, and set forth a
written plan for dealing with the problem, specifying the target animal, the
means of control and the safeguards to be taken.
      2.   Review Of Application; Permit Issuance: If the police department
determines that the responsible animals or species have been adequately
identified, that the proposed manner of control is appropriate and that the
intended safeguards are sufficient for the protection of persons within the
city, as well as their properties, the police department shall promptly review
the application and if the applicant has complied with the provisions of this
chapter, issue a permit for a period of time that may be reasonable in light of
the anticipated activities of the applicant.
   C.   Additional Regulations For Use Of Poisons: If the party claiming
property damage proposes to use a poison as a means of controlling the
responsible animal or species, such person must submit the label of the
proposed poison to the police department and must demonstrate that the proposed
method of application conforms to that approved by the manufacturer and/or any
applicable state or federal law or regulation. In addition, the individual who
will handle and dispense the proposed poison must be trained and/or licensed if
required by state or federal law or regulation. The police department is hereby
given the authority to require of any person who proposes to use a poison as a
means of controlling animals that the applicant provide notice, in writing, at
least ten (10) days prior to the time of the application, to healthcare
providers in the vicinity of the city (including hospitals, clinics and
veterinarian clinics), and persons who are likely to be exposed to the risks of
the poisons and following information:
      1.   The type of poison that the applicant intends to apply;
      2.   Information regarding the proper antidote to the poison;
      3.   The location, with reasonable specificity, of the application of the
poison;
      4.   The date when the poison will be applied initially and the dates of
the continuing application of the poison; and
      5.   The duration of the effectiveness of the poison in the environment.
   D.   Pest Control: The language in the preceding subsection of this section
notwithstanding, nothing herein shall prohibit the use of traps or poison in
connection with common pest control measures administered in or about
residences or within the confines of public buildings. (1990 Code)
5-3-4: HUNTING PROHIBITED:
It shall be a misdemeanor for any person to chase, drive, flush, attract,
pursue, worry, follow after or the trail of, trap, shoot at, stalk or lie in
wait for any wildlife, whether or not such wildlife is then or substantially
captured, killed, taken or wounded. Nothing herein shall prohibit the stalking,
attracting, searching for or lying in wait for any wildlife by an unarmed
person solely for the purpose of observing or photographing that wildlife; nor
shall anything herein be construed to prohibit fishing which may otherwise be
allowed under state law. (Ord. 191, 3-17-1987)
CHAPTER 4
FALSE ALARMS
SECTION:
5-4-1: Definitions
5-4-2: Wilfully Giving False Alarms Prohibited
5-4-3: Administrative Fee
5-4-4: Suspension Of Response To Defective Alarm Devices
5-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section:
ALARM: Any signal or message from any person or alarm device which is received
either directly or indirectly by the police department or fire department of
the city, indicating the existence of an emergency condition necessitating an
immediate response from either of said departments.
ALARM DEVICE: Any device transmitting or producing an audible or visual signal
or message indicating the existence of an emergency condition necessitating
immediate response from the fire department or police department of the city,
regardless of whether said signal or message is conveyed directly to the police
or fire departments or indirectly through an intermediary or courier.
ALARM OWNER: Any person or entity owning real property or improvements thereon
which are protected by an alarm device.
FALSE ALARM: An alarm sounded in the absence of conditions warranting or
reasonably perceived to warrant an immediate response from the fire department
or police department of the city. (Ord. 140, 1-19-1981)
5-4-2: WILFULLY GIVING FALSE ALARMS PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any person to wilfully and knowingly sound or give a false
alarm in the city. Any person who violates provisions of this section shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor, and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 140, 1-19-1981; amd. 1990 Code)
5-4-3: ADMINISTRATIVE FEE:
   A.   Fee Established: Each owner of an alarm device shall pay to the city an
administrative fee for any false alarm sounded by said device; provided,
however, that said fee shall not be assessed for any false alarm sounded by
said alarm device within thirty (30) days of its initial installation, nor for
the first false alarm sounded by said alarm device in each calendar year. Said
administrative fee is intended to defray the costs incurred by the city in
responding to a false alarm with police department or fire department personnel
and equipment. The amount of the fee shall be set, and may from time to time
thereafter be amended, by resolution of the city council.
   B.   Notice To Remit Fee; Failure To Do So: If a fee is assessed as herein
provided, notice of same shall be given to the owner of the offending alarm
device, giving said owner thirty (30) days from the date of the notice to remit
the fee to the city clerk. If payment of the fee is not received within said
thirty (30) day period, the police department or the fire department of the
city, or both, may suspend responding to any subsequent alarms sounded by the
owner's alarm devices until said outstanding administrative fee has been paid
in full. (1990 Code)
5-4-4: SUSPENSION OF RESPONSE TO DEFECTIVE ALARM DEVICES:
In the event an alarm device sounds more than two (2) false alarms in any six
(6) month period, the fire department or the police department of the city, or
both, may, upon giving notice of its intent to do so by mailing the same,
postage prepaid, addressed to the occupant of the structure or premises
protected by said alarm device, suspend responding to any subsequent alarm
sounded by said device until and unless the owner or person in control of said
device provides the city with written documentation, signed by a qualified
electrician or other qualified alarm repair serviceperson, that necessary
repairs and adjustments have been completed on said alarm device to minimize
the likelihood of further false alarms. Upon receipt of such documentation, the
police department and the fire department shall resume responding to alarms
sounded by said false alarm device. (Ord. 140, 1-19-1981)
CHAPTER 5
SPECIAL EVENTS
SECTION:
5-5-1: Definitions
5-5-2: Approval Required
5-5-3: Time To File Permit Application, Fees
5-5-4: Contents Of Application
5-5-5: Approval Standards
5-5-6: Conditions For Granting Permit
5-5-7: Grounds For Denial Of Permit
5-5-8: Resource Allocation
5-5-9: Suspension Or Revocation Of Permit
5-5-10: Appeal Of Denial, Conditions, Suspension, Or Revocation Of Permit
5-5-11: Council Action On Appeal
5-5-12: Violations, Penalties
5-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
APPLICANT: The person, corporation, limited liability company, partnership, or
association applying for a special event permit.
ATTENDEE: People participating in or attending a special event.
LOCAL OPTION TAX: Sun Valley city municipal code, title 3, chapter 1, business
regulations, sections
3-1-1 through
3-1-3.
PERMIT: Written authorization to conduct a special event, as required by this
chapter.
SECURITY PLAN: A comprehensive written plan to be proposed by the organizer of
a special event which shall include the following:
   A.   Anticipated times of attendee movement;
   B.   Numbers, types and duties of law enforcement, professional security,
and volunteer personnel which may be required;
   C.   Vehicular and pedestrian ingress and egress routes for all event
locations;
   D.   Available parking space estimates and locations;
   E.   Shuttle types, routes, and schedules;
   F.   Traffic control points and warning devices;
   G.   Emergency vehicle access routes, anticipated routes of movements on
public rights of way;
   H.   Placement of traffic direction and parking personnel;
   I.   A plan for the control of the service of alcoholic beverages; and
   J.   Other applicable preparations for the maintenance of public health and
safety due to individual or unique considerations about the event.
SOUND AMPLIFYING SYSTEM: Any system or electrical hookup or connection,
loudspeaker or electronic system, equipment, apparatus, device, instrument, or
machine designed for or intended to be used for the purpose of amplifying or
producing sound or increasing the volume of the human voice, musical tone,
vibration, or sound wave.
SPECIAL EVENT: Any organized nonroutine activity on public or private property
that may significantly impact or affect neighboring property owners, residents
and businesses and that may reasonably be expected to attract more than two
thousand (2,000) attendees and which may require more parking spaces than the
sponsor's property can accommodate.
SPONSOR: The applicant, or the person, corporation, limited liability company,
partnership or association owning real property upon which a special event is
to be located.
UNIFORM FIRE CODE REQUIREMENTS: The requirements in the 1997 uniform fire code
for special events as they relate to places of public assembly, including, but
not limited to, the design and construction of any stage or platform, and
including the seating and/or standing requirements for the purpose of
determining occupant load. (Ord. 319, 3-16-2000)
5-5-2: APPROVAL REQUIRED:
   A.   No person shall produce, direct, conduct, manage, institute, or carry
on any special event without first obtaining the appropriate permit(s) from the
city. No person shall promote, advertise, encourage, or solicit attendance or
otherwise participate in any way in a special event for which no permit has
been issued, or for which such permit has been suspended or revoked.
   B.   Approval of a special event may be issued only by the city council,
city administrator or his designee.
   C.   For any special event involving the exercise of rights protected by the
first and fourteenth amendments of the United States constitution, or article
1, section 4, 9, or 10 of the constitution of the state of Idaho, the
application shall be processed promptly, without charging a fee for political
or religious activities, without imposing terms or conditions that infringe
constitutional freedoms, and in a manner that respects the liberties of the
applicants and the public. Events involving commercial activity are presumed to
be of a commercial nature and subject to the provisions of this chapter except
when such commercial activity conveys a constitutionally protected
communication. (Ord. 319, 3-16-2000)
5-5-3: TIME TO FILE PERMIT APPLICATION, FEES:
An application for a permit for a special event shall be filed with the city
administrator not less than forty five (45) days before the date proposed for
holding a special event. A fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00) shall accompany
the application. For good cause, the city administrator may accept applications
within the forty five (45) day period; provided, the applicant shall be
required to pay, in addition to the application fee, the estimated costs, if
any, of city staff time incurred for special meetings. (Ord. 319, 3-16-2000)
5-5-4: CONTENTS OF APPLICATION:
Application for a special event permit shall be made on forms provided by the
city administrator. The application shall be signed by the applicant and shall
contain the following:
   A.   The name, address, and telephone number of the applicant, and if the
same be a corporation, the names of its principal officers, or if the same be a
partnership, limited liability company, association, organization, the name or
names of the person or persons who shall be responsible for the event. This
information may be used by the city administrator to conduct a criminal
background check.
   B.   A description of the special event proposed to be held, estimates of:
1) the number of persons participating in the event, 2) the number of
spectators and vehicles anticipated, 3) the number and type of participating
vendors anticipated, the purpose of the event, the date, hours, and location
where the event is proposed to be held, and the admission fee, if any, to be
charged.
   C.   Verification of conformance to department of health and/or UBC codes in
regard to sanitary facilities.
   D.   A description of the equipment to be used, if any, including the number
and types of vehicles, the number and types of sound amplifying systems,
whether mounted, portable, or stationary, the time and area of operation of the
sound amplifying systems, the number and type of special units such as musical
groups, animal petting zoos, or shows and the like.
   E.   An agreement that the city shall be compensated for any damage to
public property, and that the public property shall be cleaned and restored to
the condition in which it was found prior to the holding of the special event.
   F.   "Security plan" as defined in this chapter.
   G.   Verification of conformance to fire codes.
   H.   A detailed drawing or schematic of the staging area and the entire
event grounds showing emergency lanes for responding vehicles, the exits for
the public, emergency lighting locations (if required), fire extinguisher
locations, and emergency medical service locations (if required).
The uniform fire code specifies the requirements for public assembly, article
25 of the uniform fire code, 1997 edition, and such requirements will be made
available to the applicant at the time a permit is sought. When application is
made for the permit, the type of activity and code requirements will be made a
part of the permit. The event must meet all requirements of the fire code and
any other life safety concerns as deemed necessary by the fire chief or his
representative. (Ord. 319, 3-16-2000)
5-5-5: APPROVAL STANDARDS:
Generally, special events permits will be approved if the applicant meets the
following criteria:
   A.   The proposed special event will not pose an unreasonable safety or
traffic impact or impede in any substantial way public safety services or the
distribution of those services in emergency response situations.
   B.   The proposed special event will not have a significant adverse
environmental impact or in any substantial way constitute a disturbance of the
peace of the community or unduly endanger the health, safety and welfare of the
public.
   C.   The proposed special event will not cause damage to any property,
either public or private.
   D.   The proposed special event will not leave city services overextended
beyond normal working conditions; provided, if the city feels that the special
event will create a hardship on city services, the special event may be
rescheduled or canceled.
   E.   The applicant has not violated conditions of approval for previous
special events. (This item may be enforced or waived at the city's discretion
depending upon the severity and number of infractions.) (Ord. 319, 3-16-2000)
5-5-6: CONDITIONS FOR GRANTING PERMIT:
As a condition to granting a special event permit:
   A.   Reasonable conditions may be imposed concerning the time, duration and
place of such event; the area and manner of conducting such an event; the
maximum number of participants or spectators; the regulation of traffic, if
required, including the number and type of vehicles and the number and
placement of signs and barricades to be provided by the applicant, together
with a plan of removal of such signs and barricades to be attached to the
application; reasonable sound levels; the number of privately hired licensed
security personnel or additional police escorts or employees, agents, or
volunteers needed for safe and efficient operation; whether alcoholic beverages
may be consumed, sold, or permitted at the event site as otherwise authorized
by law; and such other requirements as the city may find reasonable and
necessary for the protection of persons and property.
   B.   The applicant shall be required to compensate the city for its actual
costs incurred for increased fire or police protection, street or bike path
cleaning or other extraordinary city services. Such costs shall be estimated in
advance of the special event by the city administrator based upon the
information in the application and upon consultation with the chiefs of police
and fire. The applicant shall provide financial assurance to the city that the
costs will be paid within twenty (20) days after invoice. Financial assurance
shall be given by depositing with the city cash in an amount of one hundred
twenty five percent (125%) of the city anticipated expenses.
Such cash deposit shall be delivered to the city no later than forty eight (48)
hours before commencement of the special event.
   C.   As additional consideration for issuance of a permit, applicant, when
charging an admission fee for the special event, shall pay the city three
percent (3%) of the admission price charged attendees. Applicant, at the
reasonable discretion of the city, shall prepay the estimated amount at the
time the permit is issued. Such payment shall be in lieu of any local option
tax for such special event.
   D.   Prior to the issuance of a permit, the applicant shall file with the
city clerk the following:
      1.   An executed written agreement, as provided for in the application,
to compensate the city for: a) loss or damage to public property, b) cleanup
and removal of debris, and c) additional costs associated with city provided
services such as personnel, equipment, supplies, utilities and facilities.
      2.   A hold harmless agreement, executed by the applicant, indemnifying
the city for any and all claims for personal injury, damages or losses
resulting or arising from the special event not caused by the gross negligence
of the city.
      3.   A liability insurance policy in an amount not less than one million
dollars ($1,000,000.00) in the aggregate naming the city as an additional named
insured and providing for adequate notice of cancellation if the policy is
canceled prior to the special event.
   E.   The applicant shall cooperate with city authorities and personnel, and
do all things required by the city to ensure that the attendees and sponsor
abide by all rules and regulations of the city and all applicable local, state,
and federal laws.
   F.   The applicant agrees that the city, through the city administrator,
police department, and fire department have the authority to monitor the
special event at any time during and in preparation of the event to ensure the
conditions for the permit are met by the applicant, sponsor, and attendees.
Applicant agrees the city may revoke the permit or close down the event at any
time that it is determined that the public health, safety or welfare is in
jeopardy. If the event is ordered to be closed down by the city, the attendees,
sponsor, and others at the special event shall be ordered to disperse. Refusal
of any person to disperse upon order of a law enforcement officer acting under
the authority of this section is a misdemeanor. (Ord. 319, 3-16-2000)
5-5-7: GROUNDS FOR DENIAL OF PERMIT:
The city shall not issue a permit if, upon review of the application, any of
the following is found to exist. The city administrator shall notify the
applicant within five (5) days, in writing, specifically stating all reasons
for denial of the permit:
   A.   The application is not on the form provided or does not contain the
required information;
   B.   The applicant has made a false or misleading statement of material fact
in the application for a permit;
   C.   The building, structure, equipment, or location of such special event
does not comply with or fails to meet all of the health, fire, building, safety
and welfare requirements of the city;
   D.   The special event or its location is such as to interfere with or
unreasonably obstruct the free flow of vehicular traffic or other means of
travel on any public street or with pedestrian traffic on the sidewalks, except
where use of such is sought and granted as part of the application for the
special event permit;
   E.   Proof of insurance, executed written agreement for compensation, hold
harmless agreement, financial assurance, or prepayment of the sum described in
subsection 5-5-6D of this chapter, has not been delivered to the city;
   F.   The conduct of the special event or any portion thereof will be
contrary to law;
   G.   The conduct of the special event or any portion thereof will
unreasonably interfere with the preservation of the public peace, health,
safety, or welfare of the city;
   H.   An applicant has had a special event permit denied for good cause
within one year prior to the application, and can show no material change in
the circumstances since such denial;
   I.   The applicant refuses to agree to, abide by, or comply with any of the
conditions and regulations attached to such permit; or such special event will
interfere or conflict with another event for which a permit has already been
issued; or will interfere or conflict with another scheduled event which takes
precedence by virtue of section
5-5-8 of this chapter.
   J.   In the city's discretion, the city has insufficient police and fire
personnel available for monitoring the special event. (Ord. 319, 3-16-2000)
5-5-8: RESOURCE ALLOCATION:
The city has limited resources in terms of fire and police personnel to
adequately monitor and regulate special events. Accordingly, an applicant's
special event which has annually been conducted in the city over the preceding
five (5) year period shall have priority over another applicant's event with
less or no history in the city, for purposes of date, time, and location
preference. Otherwise, first in time to file an application shall have priority
as to choice of date, time, and location of the proposed event. (Ord. 319, 3-
16-2000)
5-5-9: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
Any special event permit may be summarily suspended or revoked at any time by
the city administrator or chief of police or fire in consultation with the city
administrator when because of disaster, emergency or other change of
circumstances it is determined that the special event will unreasonably
interfere with the public peace, health, safety and welfare or if it is
determined that the applicant has not fully complied with the terms and
conditions of the city as described in the permit or conditions of approval.
(Ord. 319, 3-16-2000)
5-5-10: APPEAL OF DENIAL, CONDITIONS, SUSPENSION, OR REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
Notice of an appeal from the denial, imposition of condition(s), suspension, or
revocation of a permit shall be filed within five (5) days after service of
notification of denial, imposition of condition(s), suspension, or revocation
of permit. Notice of such appeal shall be in writing, setting forth fully the
grounds upon which the appeal is based, and shall be filed with the city
administrator who shall forward copies to the city council. The city
administrator shall submit to the city council a report indicating the findings
and reasons for denying, restricting, suspending, or revoking the special event
permit. (Ord. 319, 3-16-2000)
5-5-11: COUNCIL ACTION ON APPEAL:
   A.   Within fifteen (15) days after the filing of the notice of appeal with
the city clerk or at the next regular meeting of the city council, the city
council shall consider the appeal. Written notice of the time and place the
council will consider the appeal shall be mailed by the city administrator to
the appellant at least five (5) days before the date set for hearing unless the
appellant shall waive this notice in writing. Appearance at the hearing by the
appellant shall be waiver of notice in any event.
   B.   In any appeal, the city council shall consider the application, the
report submitted by the city administrator, and other pertinent information
presented, and may grant or deny the permit subject to the conditions, terms,
and regulations set forth in this chapter. The decision of the city council
shall be final.
   C.   The city clerk shall notify the appellant, in writing, of the decision
of council by placing the written notification in the United States mail, at
the address provided in the application. (Ord. 319, 3-16-2000)
5-5-12: VIOLATIONS, PENALTIES:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter or condition of any permit
issued hereunder shall be guilty of a "misdemeanor" as defined in section
1-3-2 of this code. Each such person shall be deemed guilty of a separate
offense for each and every day or portion thereof during which any violation of
any of the provisions of this chapter is committed, continued, or permitted.
(Ord. 466, 1-9-2014)
TITLE 6
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL TRAFFIC PROVISIONS
SECTION:
6-1-1: Laws Adopted
6-1-2: Issuance Of Citations
6-1-3: Authority To Direct Traffic
6-1-4: Traffic Hazards; Clear Vision At Intersections
6-1-5: Accidents
6-1-6: Emergency And Experimental Regulations
6-1-7: Administration And Enforcement
6-1-8: Unlawful Parking Of Vehicles
6-1-9: Vehicle Size, Weight And Speed
6-1-1: LAWS ADOPTED:
It is hereby declared to be the intent of the governing body of the city to aid
and assist by whatever means possible, for the utmost consistency in traffic
regulation among and between agencies of Idaho having such jurisdiction. Toward
that end, adoption of the Idaho motor vehicle laws by the cities of Idaho is a
necessary means of assuring maximum uniformity within the state.
Therefore, there is hereby adopted for the purpose of establishing rules and
regulations for the use of all streets and public thoroughfares of the city
that certain code identified as the Idaho motor vehicle laws, more particularly
Idaho Code title 49, as the same may hereafter be revised by the Idaho
legislature, or amended by the governing body, and the same is hereby adopted
and incorporated as an ordinance of the city as fully as though set forth at
length herein.
Three (3) copies of the said Idaho motor vehicle laws, together with any
revisions or amendments, duly certified by the city clerk, shall be kept on
file in his office for use and examination of and by the public. (1990 Code)
6-1-2: ISSUANCE OF CITATIONS:
Upon a violation of any provision of this chapter or the laws hereinabove
adopted, the arresting officer shall execute the citation in the following
manner:
Violation of Sun Valley City Code, section
6-1-1 (being in particular Idaho Code section 49-        ).
(1990 Code)
6-1-3: AUTHORITY TO DIRECT TRAFFIC:
Officers of the police department or such officers as are assigned by the chief
of police are hereby authorized to direct all traffic by voice, hand or signal
in conformance with traffic laws; provided, that in the event of fire or other
emergency or to expedite traffic or to safeguard pedestrians, officers of the
police department may direct traffic as conditions may require, notwithstanding
the provisions of the traffic laws.
Officers of the fire department, when at the scene of a fire, may direct or
assist the police in directing traffic thereat or in the immediate vicinity.
(1990 Code)
6-1-4: TRAFFIC HAZARDS; CLEAR VISION AT INTERSECTIONS:
Any hedge, shrubbery, fence, wall or other sight obstruction of any nature,
except buildings, and except trees as defined by and conforming to applicable
regulations, over three feet (3') in height from the existing centerline road
elevation, existing, growing, placed or installed within a vision triangle, the
boundaries of the vision triangle being formed by measuring from the
intersection of the edges of the roadway or the intersection of the edge of the
roadway line to points thirty feet (30') along the edges of the roadways or the
edge of the roadway and then connecting the two (2) points with a straight
line, is hereby deemed to be a traffic hazard and is prohibited. It shall be
unlawful for either the owner or the person in possession of any premises to
permit such traffic hazard to exist. (1990 Code)
6-1-5: ACCIDENTS:
   A.   Immediate Notice Of Accident: The driver of a vehicle involved in an
accident resulting in injury or death of any person or damage to property shall
immediately by quickest means of communication give notice of such accident to
the police department.
   B.   Duty Of Driver To Give Information:
      1.   The driver involved in an accident shall immediately stop such
vehicle at the scene of the accident, or as close thereto as possible, and
shall give his name, address, registration number of the vehicle he is driving,
and exhibit his operator's or driver's license to the person struck, or to the
driver or occupants of any vehicle collided with, and any police officer.
      2.   The driver of any vehicle which collides with any vehicle which is
unattended shall immediately stop and shall then and there either locate and
notify the operator or owner of such vehicle of the name and address of the
driver and owner of the vehicle striking the unattended vehicle or shall leave
in a conspicuous place in the vehicle struck a written notice giving the name
and address of the driver and of the owner of the vehicle doing the striking.
      3.   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident resulting only in
damage to fixtures or other property legally upon or adjacent to a highway
shall take reasonable steps to locate and notify the owner of or the person in
charge of such property of such fact and of his name and address and of the
registration number of the vehicle he is driving and shall upon request exhibit
his driver's license and shall make a report of such accident when and as
required.
   C.   Report Of Accident By Driver: The driver of any vehicle involved in
injury or damage to property to an apparent extent of two hundred fifty dollars
($250.00) or more shall, within twenty four (24) hours, make a detailed report
of such accident to the police department. The provisions of this subsection
shall not be applicable when the accident has been investigated at the scene by
a police officer while such driver was present thereat.
   D.   Investigation Of Accidents; Records: It shall be the duty of the police
department to investigate traffic accidents and to arrest and to assist in the
prosecution of those persons charged with violations of law causing or
contributing to such accidents. The police department shall maintain a suitable
system of filing traffic accident reports by location. Such reports shall be
available for the use and information of city officials.
   E.   Public Inspection Of Reports:
      1.   All written reports made by persons involved in accidents shall be
without prejudice to the individual so reporting and shall be for the
confidential use of the police department or other governmental agencies having
use for the records for accident prevention purposes; except, that the police
department or other governmental agency may disclose the identity of a person
involved in an accident when such identity is not otherwise known or when such
person denies his presence at such accident.
      2.   No written reports forwarded under the provisions of this subsection
shall be used as evidence in any trial, civil or criminal, arising out of an
accident; except, that the police department shall furnish upon demand of any
party to such trial, or upon demand of any court or certificate showing that a
specified accident report has or has not been made to the department in
compliance with law, and, if such report has been made, the date, time and
location of the accident, the names and addresses of the drivers, the owners of
the vehicles involved, and the investigating officers. (Ord. 29, 8-19-1970;
amd. 1990 Code)
6-1-6: EMERGENCY AND EXPERIMENTAL REGULATIONS:
The chief of police, by and with the approval of the city council, is hereby
empowered to make regulations necessary to make effective the provisions of the
traffic laws of this city and to make and enforce temporary or experimental
regulations to cover emergencies or special conditions. No such temporary or
experimental regulations shall remain in effect for more than ninety (90) days.
(Ord. 29, 8-19-1970; amd. 1990 Code)
6-1-7: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Administration And Enforcement Generally: It shall be the duty of the
police department to enforce the street traffic regulations of this city and
all of the state vehicle laws applicable to street traffic in this city, to
make arrests for traffic violations, to investigate accidents and to cooperate
with officers of the city in the administration of the traffic laws and in
developing ways and means to improve traffic conditions, and to carry out those
duties specially imposed upon said department by the traffic provisions of this
code.
   B.   Records Of Traffic Violations: The police department shall keep a
record of all violations of the traffic provisions of this code or of the state
vehicle laws of which any person has been charged, together with a record of
the final disposition of all such alleged offenses. For each month and year a
written record shall be kept available to the public showing the disposition of
all offenses. (Ord. 29, 8-19-1970)
   C.   Violation: It is a misdemeanor for any person to do any act forbidden
or fail to perform any act required in this title, unless otherwise governed by
the Idaho Code, and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to the penalty
provisions in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 29, 8-19-1970; amd. 1990 Code)
6-1-8: UNLAWFUL PARKING OF VEHICLES:
   A.   General Provisions: Vehicle parking on any public street, road, public
way, or right-of-way within the City shall be unlawful except in areas
designated for parking by signs erected by the City or as otherwise allowed by
this chapter.
      1.   Definitions: For the purposes of this chapter, "vehicle" refers to
machines capable of self-conveyance and does not include trailers of any kind
that have been disconnected from a vehicle. "Trailer" refers to any type of
wheeled enclosed or unenclosed apparatus that is towed by a vehicle, including
but not limited to flatbed trailers, cargo trailers, and recreational trailers
that are incapable of self-conveyance.
      2.   In no case shall vehicles remain parked within the right-of-way for
a period exceeding twenty-four (24) hours, and vehicles must be removed from
the right-of-way between two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M.
during the period between October 1st and May 1st, or when there is accumulated
snowfall present requiring snow removal operations by the City.
      3.   Even where a City street, road, or right-of-way is posted to allow
parking, it shall be unlawful for any person to park or leave unattended any
vehicle or trailer upon any road, street or public place where such vehicle or
trailer may constitute an obstruction, nuisance, hazard or danger to traffic,
emergency vehicles or persons, or obstructs or hinders the vision of drivers or
pedestrians, or where a potential fire hazard may occur from vehicles or
trailers parked on dry grass areas.
      4.   The Police Chief, or any other person authorized by the Mayor, may
cause signs, either temporary or permanent, to be posted in all areas where
parking is permitted, limited or otherwise controlled, indicating such
limitations or prohibitions, or permitting temporary parking. Nothing herein
shall be in derogation of the citywide ban on on-street parking contained in
subsection
6-1-8-A of this section.
      5.   The Police Department, and all members thereof, are hereby
authorized to remove and tow away, or have removed and towed away by commercial
towing service, any vehicle or trailer illegally parked as provided for in this
section where such parked vehicles create or constitute a traffic hazard, block
the use of a fire hydrant, obstruct or may obstruct the movement of traffic, or
are otherwise illegally parked in violation of this section.
         a.   When a vehicle or trailer is removed from either public or
private property by order of the Police Department as authorized by this
section, the owner of the vehicle shall be responsible for all towing costs and
impound fees.
         b.   When a vehicle or trailer is authorized to be towed away, the
Police Department shall keep and maintain a record of the vehicle or trailer
towed, listing the color, year of manufacture, manufacturer's trade name,
manufacturer's series name, body style, vehicle identification number, and
license plate year and number displayed on the vehicle or trailer. The record
shall also include the name of the towing company, date and hour of tow,
location towed from, location towed to, reason for towing and the name of the
officer authorizing the tow.
   B.   Parking Permitted: This subsection describes circumstances wherein
parking is allowed on City streets or within the right-of-way.
      1.   Temporary service providers, such as landscapers or contractors,
which in the discretion of the Sun Valley Police Department necessitate parking
in the City's right-of-way for any period of time, must park in accordance with
the regulations contained in this chapter. Delivery-vehicle temporary parking
is allowed for no longer than is necessary to effectuate delivery or pick-up of
items from a building in close proximity to the parked delivery vehicle.
      2.   Parking in accordance with City-approved permits: Parking in
accordance with City-approved permits: Parking, temporary loading, or unloading
on city streets or within the right-of-way is permitted in association with a
valid land use, building, grading, or other City-issued permit. Parking
approved through a City-issued permit shall be in accordance with this chapter;
parking approved through a City-issued permit in no way supersedes any
regulation contained herein.
         a.   When City-approved permits include an approved parking or
construction management plan parking in violation of such plans is prohibited
and violations of such parking or construction management plans are subject to
the fines described in this section and section
4-6-7.
      3.   Parking within sign-designated areas at recreational use trailheads
is permitted.
      4.   The Police Chief, or any other person authorized by the Mayor, may
cause signs, either temporary or permanent, to be posted in all areas where
parking is permitted.
   C.   Parking Prohibited:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to park or leave unattended any
vehicle, trailer, material, object, or any other encumbrance at any place where
the parking or leaving of said vehicle, trailer, material, object, or
encumbrance will reduce the paved width of the roadway for moving traffic to
less than twenty feet (20').
      2.   It shall be unlawful to park or leave unattended any vehicle,
trailer, material, object, or any other encumbrance on any private property
without the consent of the owner of the property.
      3.   It shall be unlawful to park or leave unattended any vehicle,
trailer, material, object, or any other encumbrance in front of public or
private driveway.
      4.   It shall be unlawful to park or leave unattended any vehicle,
trailer, material, object, or any other encumbrance within fifteen feet (15')
of a fire hydrant.
      5.   It shall be unlawful to park or leave unattended any vehicle,
trailer, material, object, or any other encumbrance within twenty feet (20') of
a crosswalk at an intersection.
      6.   It shall be unlawful to park or leave unattended any vehicle,
trailer, material, object, or any other encumbrance within thirty feet (30')
upon the approach to any flashing signal, stop sign, yield sign or traffic-
control signal located at the side of a roadway.
      7.   It shall be unlawful to park or leave unattended any vehicle,
trailer, material, object, or any other encumbrance outside of sign-designated
areas at recreational use trailheads.
      8.   At no time are trailers, that have been disconnected from a vehicle,
allowed to park on City streets or within the right-of-way.
   D.   Fines and Penalties.
      1.   Any registered owner of a vehicle or trailer parked or left
unattended in violation of this section, and any other person violating any of
the provisions of this section shall be fined in an amount not exceeding fifty
dollars ($50.00), except seventy-five dollars ($75.00) in case of blocking a
fire hydrant, or an amount as may be established from time to time by
resolution of the City Council.
      2.   Any police officer may order the owner or operator of any motor
vehicle or trailer, or the owner or responsible party for any material, object
or other encumbrance, to promptly move such items where in the officer's
discretion such vehicle, trailer, material, object or other encumbrance is
creating a traffic hazard or danger, such as prohibited in subsection C of this
section. (Ord. 584, 6-5-2025)
6-1-9: VEHICLE SIZE, WEIGHT AND SPEED:
   A.   Whenever in the judgment of the Mayor of the City, the operation on any
City street or section of City street of vehicles of the sizes and weights and
at the rates of speed permissible by law will cause damage to the road by
reason of climatic or other conditions or will interfere with the safe and
efficient use of such street by the traveling public, the Mayor shall have
authority to enter an order reducing the permissible sizes, weights or speeds
of vehicles operated on such street for such periods as may be necessary for
the protection of the road or for public safety, and shall erect and maintain
signs designating such regulations at each end of such street or section and at
intersections with main traveled roads and highways. (Ord. 109, 7-16-1976)
   B.   Any person operating a motor vehicle in violation of the restrictions
thus ordered shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be punished as provided by section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 109, 7-16-1976; amd. 1990 Code)
CHAPTER 2
TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNS, SIGNALS AND MARKINGS
SECTION:
6-2-1: Authority To Install Traffic Control Devices
6-2-2: Specifications For Traffic Control Devices
6-2-3: Traffic Lanes
6-2-4: Testing Traffic Control Devices
6-2-1: AUTHORITY TO INSTALL TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES:
   A.   The city is hereby authorized and directed to place upon the public
streets appropriate signs, signals, markings and devices for the purposes of
regulating, warning, guiding and directing traffic.
   B.   The city is authorized to place markers, buttons or signs within or
adjacent to intersections indicating the course to be traveled by vehicles
turning at such intersections, and such course to be traveled as so indicated
may conform to or be other than as prescribed by law or provision of this code.
(1990 Code)
6-2-2: SPECIFICATIONS FOR TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES:
All traffic control signs, signals and devices shall, so far as practical,
conform to the "Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices For Streets And
Highways", and shall so far as practical be uniform as to type and location
throughout the city. (1990 Code)
6-2-3: TRAFFIC LANES:
The city is hereby authorized to make traffic lanes upon the roadway of any
street or highway where a regular alignment of traffic is necessary.
Where such traffic lanes have been marked, it shall be unlawful for the
operator of any vehicle to fail or refuse to keep such vehicle within the
boundaries of any such lane except when lawfully passing another vehicle or
preparatory to making a lawful turning movement. (1990 Code)
6-2-4: TESTING TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES:
The police chief may test traffic control devices under actual conditions of
traffic. (Ord. 29, 8-19-1970; amd. 1990 Code)
CHAPTER 3
RULES OF THE ROAD
SECTION:
6-3-1: Speed Limits
6-3-2: Turning Movements
6-3-3: Parades And Processions
6-3-4: Unlawful Operation Of Vehicles
6-3-5: Skateboards, Nonmotorized Scooters, Roller Skates, In-Line Skates,
Roller Skis And Other Wheeled Apparatuses
6-3-6: All-Terrain Vehicles
6-3-1: SPEED LIMITS:
   A.   State Speed Laws Applicable: The State traffic laws regulating the
speed of vehicles shall be applicable upon all streets within this City, except
as this section, as authorized by State law, hereby declares and determines.
Regulations shall be applicable upon specified streets or in certain areas, in
which event it shall be unlawful for any person to drive a vehicle at a speed
in excess of any speed so declared in this section when signs are in place
giving notice thereof.
   B.   Maximum Speed Limits: The following maximum speed limits are
established by the City Council after careful consideration of the residential
character of the urban neighborhoods:
         Thirty five (35) miles per hour on Elkhorn Road collector street from
its intersection with State Highway 75 to the beginning of the curve at its
southern intersection with Morningstar Loop.
         Thirty (30) miles per hour on Elkhorn Road collector street from the
northern radius of the curve at the southern intersection with Morningstar Loop
to the intersection with Dollar Road/Old Dollar Road/Fairway Road.
         "As posted" speed limit on all other streets of the City which are
here classified as residential streets, and where curves or other
characteristics of the street require the lesser speed as determined by the
City Administrator, in consultation with the City Police Chief, Street
Superintendent, and Community Development Director, for safety for the
traveling public.
   C.   Temporary Speed Limits: The City Administrator, in consultation with
the City Police Chief, Street Superintendent, and Community Development
Director, shall have authority to impose temporary speed limits on City
roadways through posted signage for special events, construction activities, or
other temporary activities. (Ord. 534, 12-6-2018)
   D.   Minimum Speed: It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor
vehicle at such a slow speed as to impede or block the normal and reasonable
movement of traffic at the point of operation thereof, except when a reduced
speed is necessary for safe operation or in compliance with any law, rule or
regulation. (1990 Code)
6-3-2: TURNING MOVEMENTS:
   A.   U-Turns: No U-turn, or turn reversing the direction of travel, shall be
made at any location where "no U-turn" signs are erected, nor at any
intersection at which there is a traffic signal, nor at any place other than at
an intersection, nor unless there be sufficient space to make such turn without
backing.
   B.   Obedience To Turning Markers: When authorized markers, buttons or other
indications are placed within an intersection indicating the course to be
traveled by vehicles turning thereat, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the
directions of such indications.
   C.   Signs Posted: The City is hereby authorized to determine those
intersections at which drivers of vehicles shall not make a right, left or U-
turn, and shall place proper signs at such intersections. The making of such
turns may be prohibited between certain hours of any day and permitted at other
hours, in which event the same shall be plainly indicated on the signs or they
may be removed when such turns are permitted. (1990 Code)
6-3-3: PARADES AND PROCESSIONS:
   A.   Driving Through Funeral Or Other Processions: No driver shall drive a
vehicle between vehicles comprising a funeral, parade or other authorized
procession while such vehicles are in motion.
   B.   Funeral Processions: The drivers of all vehicles comprising a funeral
procession shall, while such vehicles are in motion, operate the vehicle with
headlights illuminated. (Ord. 29, 8-19-1970; amd. 1990 Code)
6-3-4: UNLAWFUL OPERATION OF VEHICLES:
   A.   Definitions: The term "motor vehicle" as used in this section shall be
construed to mean and include automobiles, trucks, four (4) wheel drive
vehicles of every type and description and motorcycles.
   B.   Unlawful Operation Of Motor Vehicles: It shall be unlawful for any
person to operate or cause to be operated any motor vehicle within the City
except on established highways, roads, streets, driveways, cul-de-sacs, alleys
and similar rights-of-way intended for use by motor vehicles; provided,
however, that the provisions of this section shall not apply to the use of
motor vehicles for accessing, installing or servicing utility lines or
facilities, communication facilities, construction sites, ski lifts, ski runs
and golf courses. (Ord. 149, 12-21-1981)
   C.   Violation; Penalties: Any person who violates any provision of this
section shall be punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code, unless otherwise governed by the Idaho Code. (Ord. 149, 12-
21-1981; amd. 1990 Code)
6-3-5: SKATEBOARDS, NONMOTORIZED SCOOTERS, ROLLER SKATES, IN-LINE SKATES,
ROLLER SKIS AND OTHER WHEELED APPARATUSES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to ride or operate a skateboard,
nonmotorized scooter, roller skates, in-line skates, or other wheeled
apparatuses on or within the paved portion of any roadway in the City limits of
the City, except to cross a roadway from one point on the trail system to
another point on the trail system. For the purpose of this section, a "wheeled
apparatus" is defined as a nonmotorized vehicle or toy consisting of one or
more wheels, which are gravity operated or human powered, and can transport
persons or property. Motorized scooters shall be deemed motorcycles, and shall
not be operated except as provided by law. Notwithstanding any provision
herein, the following are exempt from this section:
   A.   Bicycles;
   B.   Wheelchairs; and
   C.   All other wheeled devices designed and used to assist the physically
disabled. (Ord. 420, 5-21-2009)
6-3-6: ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate an all-terrain vehicle (ATV),
utility type vehicle, specialty off highway vehicle, and/or motorbike licensed
pursuant to Idaho Code title 49, chapter 4 and registered pursuant to Idaho
Code section 67-7122 within the Sun Valley City limits on any public street or
highway, including controlled access highways, or upon any public property or
private property open to the public, unless the vehicle is actively being used
for snow removal purposes or for an agricultural, horticultural, landscape/
facilities maintenance, or dairy or livestock growing or feeding purpose. All
other uses are strictly prohibited and a driver cited under this section shall
be subject to an infraction with a penalty of eighty five dollars ($85.00) plus
court costs. (Ord. 442, 6-21-2011)
CHAPTER 4
ONE-WAY AND THROUGH STREETS, STOP AND YIELD INTERSECTIONS
SECTION:
6-4-1: One-Way Streets And Alleys; Signs Posted
6-4-2: Through Streets
6-4-3: Stop And Yield Intersections
6-4-1: ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS; SIGNS POSTED:
Whenever any provision of this title designates any one-way street or alley,
the chief of police shall place and maintain signs giving notice thereof, and
no such regulation shall be effective unless such signs are in place. Signs
indicating the direction of lawful traffic movement shall be placed at every
intersection where movement of traffic in the opposite direction is prohibited.
(1990 Code)
6-4-2: THROUGH STREETS:
   A.   Through Streets Designated: Those streets and parts of streets
designated by the city are hereby declared to be through streets for the
purpose of this section.
   B.   Signs Posted: Whenever any provision of this title designates and
describes a through street, the city may place and maintain a stop sign, or on
the basis of an engineering and traffic investigation at any intersection a
yield sign, on each and every street intersecting such through street unless
traffic at any such intersection is controlled at all times by traffic control
signs or signals, or at the intersection of a through street and heavy traffic
street not so designated, stop signs shall be erected at the approaches of said
streets as may be determined by the city upon the basis of an engineering and
traffic study. (1990 Code)
6-4-3: STOP AND YIELD INTERSECTIONS:
The city is hereby authorized to determine and designate intersections where
particular hazard exists upon other than through streets and to determine: a)
whether vehicles shall stop at one or more entrances to any such intersection,
in which event the city may cause to be erected a stop sign at every such place
where a stop is required, or b) whether vehicles shall yield the right of way
to vehicles on a different street at such intersection, in which event the city
may cause to be erected a yield sign at every place where obedience thereto is
required. (Ord. 29, 8-19-1970; amd. 1990 Code)
CHAPTER 5
PEDESTRIANS
SECTION:
6-5-1: Pedestrian Streets
6-5-2: Crosswalks And Safety Zones
6-5-3: Obedience To Traffic Control Devices; Right Of Way
6-5-4: Drivers To Exercise Due Care
6-5-1: PEDESTRIAN STREETS:
   A.   Authority To Designate Pedestrian Streets; Signs Posted: The city shall
have authority to declare any streets and alleys or parts thereof as pedestrian
streets and to place appropriate signs or devices in the roadway indicating and
helping to protect the same.
   B.   Operation Of Vehicles On Pedestrian Streets: Whenever authorized signs
are erected indicating any street and alley or part thereof as a pedestrian
street, no person shall drive a vehicle upon any such streets or portion
thereof except drivers of vehicles having business or whose residences are
within such closed area, and then any said driver shall exercise the greatest
care in driving upon any street or portion thereof. (1990 Code)
6-5-2: CROSSWALKS AND SAFETY ZONES:
The city is hereby authorized:
   A.   To designate and maintain, by appropriate devices, marks or lines upon
the surface of the roadway, crosswalks at intersections where, in its opinion,
there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the roadway, and at such
other places as may be deemed necessary;
   B.   To establish safety zones of such kind and character and at such places
as may be deemed necessary for the protection of pedestrians. (1990 Code)
6-5-3: OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES; RIGHT OF WAY:
Pedestrians shall be subject to traffic control signals as declared in this
title 1 , but all other places pedestrians shall be granted those rights, and
be subject to the restrictions, stated in this title. (1990 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  6-2-1 of this title.
6-5-4: DRIVERS TO EXERCISE DUE CARE:
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this title, every driver of a
vehicle shall exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian upon any
roadway and shall give precaution upon observing any child or any confused or
incapacitated person upon a roadway. (Ord. 29, 8-19-1970)
CHAPTER 6
TRAFFIC ON PRIVATE ROADWAYS AND IN PARKING LOTS
ARTICLE A. GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
6-6A-1: State Law Adopted
6-6A-2: Definitions
6-6A-3: Removal Of Illegally Parked Vehicles
6-6A-4: Summons
6-6A-1: STATE LAW ADOPTED:
The provisions of state law adopted in section
6-1-1 of this title are hereby adopted by reference and shall be applicable to
traffic on private roadways in the city. (1990 Code)
6-6A-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall, for the
purposes of this chapter, have the meanings respectively ascribed to them in
this section unless the context in which they appear indicates differently:
LANDOWNER: A person owning, leasing or otherwise having control of the use of a
private road or drive or parking lot.
PARKING LOT: An area used for the parking of vehicles other than areas
immediately adjacent to a street or road which constitute an integral part of
such street or road.
PERSON: Every natural person, firm, copartnership, association or corporation.
PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVE: A road, alley or street not dedicated to the public,
maintained by private funds, used as a means of access by more than one
residence, building or business.
STOP: When required, means complete cessation from movement.
STOP, STOPPING OR STANDING: When prohibited, means any stopping or standing of
a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid conflict
with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police officer or
traffic control sign or signal.
TRUCK TRACTOR: Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily for drawing
other vehicles and not so constructed as to carry a load other than a part of
the weight of the vehicle and load so drawn.
VEHICLE: Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a public highway, excepting devices moved by human
power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks. (1990 Code)
6-6A-3: REMOVAL OF ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLES:
A landowner may remove, or cause to be removed by a commercial towing service,
any vehicle parked in violation of posted parking regulations. Such vehicle
shall be removed to a safe place and shall be returned to the owner thereof
only upon payment of towing and impoundment fees. The person or persons
rendering towing and impoundment services shall have a lien on said vehicle for
the amount of such services, dependent upon his possession of the vehicle.
(1990 Code)
6-6A-4: SUMMONS:
   A.   Issuance Of Summons: Police officers may, in lieu of arresting or
procuring a warrant for the arrest of a person whom said officers have
reasonable grounds to believe has violated a provision of this chapter, issue a
uniform citation containing a complaint and summons to appear in a form
approved and in the manner prescribed by rule of the supreme court.
   B.   Failure To Appear: Any person failing to appear at the time stated in
the summons shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be punished as provided
in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 58, 8-15-1972; amd. 1990 Code)
ARTICLE B. TRAFFIC ON PRIVATE ROADWAYS
SECTION:
6-6B-1: Turn Markers
6-6B-2: Stop Or Yield Intersections; Signs Posted
6-6B-3: Certain Vehicles May Be Restricted
6-6B-4: Parking Restricted; Signs Posted
6-6B-5: Sign Specifications
6-6B-6: Dangerous Materials On Private Roadways
6-6B-7: Unlawful Operation Of Vehicles
6-6B-8: Violation; Penalties
6-6B-1: TURN MARKERS:
Landowners may cause markers, buttons or signs to be placed within or adjacent
to intersections and thereby require and direct that a different course from
that specified in this subsection be traveled by vehicles turning at an
intersection, and when markers, buttons or signs are so placed, no driver of a
vehicle shall turn a vehicle at an intersection other than as directed and
required by such markers, buttons or signs. (1990 Code)
6-6B-2: STOP OR YIELD INTERSECTIONS; SIGNS POSTED:
   A.   Landowners may designate through roadways and erect stop signs or yield
signs at specified entrances thereto or may designate any intersection as a
stop intersection or as a yield intersection and erect stop signs or yield
signs at one or more entrances to such intersection.
   B.   Every stop sign shall bear the word "Stop" in letters not less than
eight inches (8") in height. Every yield sign shall bear the word "Yield" in
letters not less than seven inches (7") in height. Every stop sign and every
yield sign shall at nighttime be rendered luminous by internal illumination, or
by a floodlight projected on the face of the sign, or by efficient reflecting
element in the face of the sign.
   C.   Every stop sign and every yield sign shall be erected as near as
practicable to the nearest line of the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection or, if there is no crosswalk, then as near as practicable to the
nearest line of the intersecting roadway. (1990 Code)
6-6B-3: CERTAIN VEHICLES MAY BE RESTRICTED:
A landowner may, by proper signs conforming to the requirements of this
article, prohibit travel on a roadway by particular types of vehicles or limit
the hours during which vehicles of certain designated types may travel said
roadway. Any person violating the restrictions thus posted shall, upon
conviction thereof, be punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, unless provided for otherwise by the Idaho Code. (1990
Code)
6-6B-4: PARKING RESTRICTED; SIGNS POSTED:
A landowner may, by proper signs, conforming to the requirements of this
article, prohibit parking on or along any private road or drive or limit or
restrict parking as to length of time, time of day, type of vehicle or class of
persons which may park in any such areas. Any person violating the restrictions
thus posted shall be punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, unless provided for otherwise by the Idaho Code. (1990
Code)
6-6B-5: SIGN SPECIFICATIONS:
Any signs placed by a landowner to regulate or prohibit standing or parking of
vehicles along a private road or drive or establishing a speed limit shall
conform to the manual and specifications adopted by the transportation
department pursuant to Idaho Code section 49-201. (1990 Code)
6-6B-6: DANGEROUS MATERIALS ON PRIVATE ROADWAYS:
No person shall throw or deposit upon any private road or drive any glass
bottle, glass, nails, tacks, wire, cans, or any other substance likely to
injure any person, animal or vehicle upon such private road or drive.
   A.   Removal Of Dangerous Materials: Any person who drops, or permits to be
dropped or thrown upon any private road or drive, any destructive or injurious
material shall immediately remove the same or cause it to be removed.
   B.   Wrecked, Damaged Vehicle: Any person removing a wrecked or damaged
vehicle from a private road or drive shall remove any glass or other injurious
substance dropped upon the private road or drive from such vehicle. (1990 Code)
6-6B-7: UNLAWFUL OPERATION OF VEHICLES:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a vehicle on a private
road or drive in the city in violation of the regulations of this article.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for the owner, or any other person, employing or
otherwise directing the driver of any vehicle, to require or knowingly permit
the operation of such vehicle upon a private road or drive in any manner
contrary to law. (1990 Code)
6-6B-8: VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
Any person violating the provisions of this article, unless otherwise governed
by the Idaho Code, shall be punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 58, 8-15-1972; amd. 1990 Code)
ARTICLE C. TRAFFIC IN PRIVATE PARKING LOTS
SECTION:
6-6C-1: Right Of Way
6-6C-2: Parking Regulations; Speed Restrictions
6-6C-3: Unlawful Operation Of Vehicle
6-6C-4: Violation; Penalties
6-6C-1: RIGHT OF WAY:
   A.   The driver of a vehicle parked within the boundaries of a parking lot
shall yield the right of way to vehicles in motion within the parking lot and
shall not commence movement until such movement can be made with reasonable
safety.
   B.   The driver of a vehicle traveling on a travel lane within the
boundaries of a parking lot when approaching an intersection with another
travel lane within the parking lot shall yield the right of way to any vehicle
entering the intersection from the right or approaching so closely as to
constitute an immediate hazard.
   C.   The driver of a vehicle emerging from a parking lot onto a roadway
shall yield the right of way to vehicles traveling on the roadway. (Ord. 58, 8-
15-1972)
6-6C-2: PARKING REGULATIONS; SPEED RESTRICTIONS:
A landowner may, by proper signs conforming to the requirements of this
section, limit or restrict parking in a parking lot or portion thereof as to
length of time, time of day, type of vehicle or class of persons which may park
in such lot; and may declare a reasonable and safe speed limit on such parking
lot. Any person violating the restrictions thus posted shall be punished as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, unless provided for otherwise by the Idaho Code.
Any signs placed by a landowner limiting or restricting parking in a parking
lot or declaring a speed limit shall conform to the manual and specifications
adopted by the transportation department pursuant to Idaho Code section 49-201.
(Ord. 58, 8-15-1972; amd. 1990 Code)
6-6C-3: UNLAWFUL OPERATION OF VEHICLE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle on or within a
parking lot in the city in violation of the regulations of this article. (Ord.
58, 8-15-1972)
6-6C-4: VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
Any person violating the provisions of this article, unless otherwise governed
by the Idaho Code, shall be punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 58, 8-15-1972; amd. 1990 Code)
CHAPTER 7
SNOWMOBILES
SECTION:
6-7-1: Definitions
6-7-2: Snowmobile Operation Restrictions
6-7-3: Violation; Penalties
6-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this chapter the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
HIGHWAY: All "highways" as defined by law, except public streets, roadways or
thoroughfares as defined herein.
OPERATOR: Each person who operates or is in physical control of the snowmobile.
OWNER: Every person holding record title to a snowmobile and entitled to the
use or possession thereof, other than a lienholder or other person having a
security interest only.
PERSON: Any individual, partnership, association, corporation or any other body
or group of persons, whether incorporated or not, and regardless of the degree
of formal organization.
PUBLIC STREET, ROADWAY OR THOROUGHFARE: All portions of any street, road or
thoroughfare improved, designed or ordinarily used for travel or parking of
motor vehicles, pedestrian traffic and/or horseback riding trails or paths
which are controlled by the city.
SNOWMOBILE: Any self-propelled vehicle under one thousand (1,000) pounds'
unladened gross weight, designed primarily for travel on snow or ice or over
natural terrain, which may be steered by tracks, skis or runners. (1990 Code)
6-7-2: SNOWMOBILE OPERATION RESTRICTIONS:
No person shall operate a snowmobile upon any public street, roadway,
thoroughfare, highway or alley within the corporate limits of the city; no
person shall operate a snowmobile on any privately owned property located
within the city without the owner's consent, with the following exceptions:
   A.   The city council may, by resolution or ordinance, specifically
designate certain specifically described areas within the city upon which
snowmobiles may be operated. (Ord. 38, 1-18-1971)
   B.   Snowmobiles may cross, as directly as possible after a full and
complete stop, streets, alleys and public roadways; provided, that such
crossing can be made in safety and that it does not interfere with the free
movement of vehicular traffic approaching from either direction on such street,
alley or public roadway. It shall be the responsibility of the operator of the
snowmobile to yield the right of way to all vehicular traffic upon any street,
alley or public roadway before crossing.
   C.   The prohibition against operating snowmobiles on streets, alleys or
public roadways shall not apply to any street, alley or public roadway drifted
or covered with snow to such extent that travel thereon by other motor vehicles
is impractical or impossible. (Ord. 29, 8-19-1970)
6-7-3: VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be punished as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 38, 1-18-1971; amd. 1990 Code)
CHAPTER 8
UNATTENDED, ABANDONED, WRECKED VEHICLES 1
SECTION:
6-8-1: Unattended Vehicles
6-8-2: Impoundment Of Abandoned, Wrecked Vehicles
6-8-3: Lien; Sale Of Vehicle
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 4-1-1A of this code.
6-8-1: UNATTENDED VEHICLES:
Whenever any vehicle shall be left unattended for more than twelve (12) hours
on any street, road or public place, any police officer may provide for the
removal of such a vehicle to the nearest available garage or place of safety.
(1990 Code)
6-8-2: IMPOUNDMENT OF ABANDONED, WRECKED VEHICLES:
The police department and any officer thereof shall have the authority to take
into its or his custody, and to impound any stolen, abandoned, unidentified,
wrecked or illegally parked or hazardously parked vehicle at and upon the
public streets, roads and ways of this city. Upon removal of a vehicle from a
road, street or public way of this city to the nearest available garage or
other place of safety, the police department shall send a notice by certified
mail to every owner and lienholder listed on the certificate of title on file
with the department of law enforcement of the state of Idaho. If there is no
certificate of title on file in the said department of law enforcement, then
the notice shall be sent to the apparent owner as determined by the
registration certificate or other identification found in the vehicle; but if
no identification of the owner can be found in the vehicle, no notice need be
given. The notice shall include:
   A.   The make, year, model and license plate number of the vehicle;
   B.   The approximate place where the vehicle was found;
   C.   The place to which the vehicle was removed; and
   D.   A statement that the vehicle can be sold for removal and storage
charges if not claimed within thirty (30) days from the date of mailing of the
notice. (1990 Code)
6-8-3: LIEN; SALE OF VEHICLE:
Any person who shall remove, store or keep any such vehicle at the request of
the police department or any officer thereof shall have a lien on such vehicle
for the reasonable value of such services. Such lien shall be superior and
prior to any mortgage or title retaining contract on such vehicle, and if such
charges are not paid within thirty (30) days after mailing of the notice
required by this chapter, or after thirty (30) days from the date of removal if
no notice is required hereof, the person performing said services may proceed
to sell said vehicle at public auction by giving ten (10) days' public notice
of the sale by advertising in the official newspaper of the city, which notice
shall contain a description of the property to be sold, the time and place of
sale and the terms and conditions of the sale. The proceeds of the sale must be
applied to the discharge of the lien and costs, and the remainder, if any, must
be paid over to the owner of the vehicle. (Ord. 29, 8-19-1970)
TITLE 7
ENGINEERING STANDARDS AND DESIGN PRACTICES
CHAPTER 1
ENGINEERING SPECIFICATIONS, PLANS, PERMITS AND COMPLIANCE
SECTION:
7-1-1: Definitions
7-1-2: Standards Adopted; Compliance
7-1-3: Application Of Standards
7-1-4: Permits And Plans
7-1-5: Inspection, Rejection Of Work
7-1-6: Construction Plans
7-1-7: Violation; Penalties
7-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this title, and unless the context otherwise requires,
certain terms are herein defined as follows:
ABBREVIATIONS: Used herein shall be as follows:
   AASHTO: Denotes the American Association Of State Highway Transportation
Officials.
   BMPs: Best management practices.
   EPA: U.S. environmental protection agency.
   IC: State statutes of the state of Idaho.
   ISPWC: Idaho standards for public works construction.
   SVCC: Sun Valley city code.
   SWPPP: Storm water pollution prevention plan.
APPLICANT: The individual, firm, corporation, partnership, association,
syndicate, trust or other entity that has legal ownership of a specific
property, or an authorized individual who executes the application and
initiates proceedings for review of that specific property in accordance with
the provisions of this title.
BUILDING OFFICIAL: The city building official of the city of Sun Valley.
CITY: The city of Sun Valley.
CITY ENGINEER: The city of Sun Valley city engineer or his/her designee.
DEVELOPMENT: The carrying out of any excavation, construction, improvement or
building activity; the making of any material change in the use or appearance
of any structure of land; or the subdivision of land as defined in the SVCC.
When appropriate to the context, development refers to the act of developing or
the result of development.
DIRECTOR: The city of Sun Valley community development director or his/her
designee.
DRIVEWAY: A private roadway providing access to a parking space, garage,
dwelling or other structure.
EASEMENT: Any and all existing and future easements, recorded, unrecorded, or
prescriptive, in favor of or used by the city of Sun Valley, Idaho, for any
municipal, public utility or other purpose whatsoever. Such easements include,
but are not limited to, easements for vehicular, pedestrian and emergency
access or traffic, utility or drainage easements or other public purposes.
ENCROACHMENT: Any private utility or other improvement, use or enjoyment of any
right of way, easement or public property which is owned, held, used, or
controlled by the city.
PERMIT: A permit for excavation or construction of road, street or appurtenant
improvement within the city.
RIGHT OF WAY: Any property owned by, or dedicated to, the city for any
municipal, public utility or other purpose whatsoever. Such rights of way
include, but are not limited to, streets, avenues, alleys, parkways, sidewalks,
drainageways, utility lines and hiking and riding trails.
STANDARDS: The most current version of Idaho standards for public works
construction, as amended.
STREET: A public thoroughfare or private right of way or easement of public
record which affords a principal means of access to abutting property,
including avenues, boulevards, courts, terraces, ways, lanes and the like, but
not including parking lots.
    Alley: A minor street providing secondary or service access at the back or
side of a property otherwise abutting a street.
   Arterial: Streets providing through traffic movement between major
districts.
   Collector: Streets serving to collect traffic within residential or other
areas for distribution outside the area. Collectors connect residential and
arterial streets.
   Cul-De-Sac: A street connected to another street at one end only and
provided with turnaround space at its terminus.
   Frontage: A minor street, parallel to and adjacent to an arterial street, to
provide access to abutting properties.
   Highway: A street designated as a highway by an appropriate state or federal
agency.
   Loop: A street with both terminal points on the same street of origin.
   Private: A street that is not dedicated for public use or maintenance.
      Type A: Those private streets serving two (2) to five (5) dwelling units.
      Type B: Those private streets serving developments in RM-1, RM-2, CC and
SC zones.
      Type C: Those private streets not otherwise identified in the definitions
of "type A" and "type B" private streets.
   Residential: Streets providing direct access to dwelling units with little
or no through traffic.
   Roundabout: Circular intersections with channelized approaches, all entering
traffic required to yield, and appropriate geometric curvature to ensure that
travel speeds on the circulatory roadway are typically less than thirty (30)
miles per hour.
   Stub Street: A reasonable future subdivision through road from one
subdivision to another connecting neighborhoods by allowing vehicular traffic
to travel from one neighborhood to the next without using arterial streets.
UTILITIES: Includes, by way of example and not by way of limitation,
installations for conduction of water, sewage, gas, telephone, electricity,
television, stormwater and similar facilities providing services to and used by
the public. All utility service facilities except those temporarily erected
during approved construction shall be installed underground. (Ord. 382, 10-25-
2006; amd. Ord. 455, 12-6-2012)
7-1-2: STANDARDS ADOPTED; COMPLIANCE:
The city hereby adopts as standard for design, construction, cutting and repair
of public or private roads and streets the most current version of the Idaho
standards for public works construction (ISPWC), consisting of general
conditions, contract documents, design criteria, standard specifications and
standard drawings as said standards now read or may, from time to time, be
amended to read by resolution of the city council.
   A.   Minimum Standards: The most current edition of the ISPWC shall be
minimum engineering standards for general use within the city.
   B.   Conformance Required: Any person designing, constructing, cutting,
repairing or maintaining public or private roads or streets in the city, or
establishing roads or streets within subdivisions or developments within the
city, shall conform to the most current edition of the Idaho standards for
ISPWC.
   C.   Special Situations: Other designs may be developed for special
situations or may be required by the city. Deviations shall be based on
alternative plans and standards prepared by an Idaho registered civil engineer
and must be approved by the city.
   D.   Copies On File: The city shall maintain copies of said standards on
file in its office at all times for inspection and review by members of the
public. (Ord. 382, 10-25-2006)
7-1-3: APPLICATION OF STANDARDS:
   A.   Applicability: The standards adopted herein shall apply to:
      1.   All new construction, reconstruction operation or maintenance of
public or private streets and driveways; except those streets which are the
responsibility of the state, the county of Blaine or other appropriate
jurisdiction;
      2.   All excavation and construction of underground utility lines; and
      3.   All construction plans submitted pursuant to the provisions of title
9 of this code including design review and subdivision approvals.
   B.   Construction And Excavation: All construction and excavation shall
fully comply with the requirements set forth in title 9 of this code and any
conditions of approval for a discretionary permit granted under the provisions
of title 9 of this code including, but not limited to, design review approval,
subdivision approval or conditional use approval.
   C.   Minimum Standards: The standards set forth in this title are the
minimum design standards and any higher standards or conditions of approval
granted under the provisions of title 9 of this code or adopted and made
applicable by any highway district, state highway department or other federal,
state or local regulatory agencies shall prevail over those set forth herein.
(Ord. 382, 10-25-2006)
7-1-4: PERMITS AND PLANS:
   A.   Encroachment Permit Required: For any construction, excavation or other
improvement within the right of way, an encroachment permit shall be required.
   B.   Application And Approval Required: Prior to beginning any excavation or
construction, the applicant shall first apply and obtain approval for any
discretionary permits required pursuant to title 9 of this code and then apply
for and obtain approval for either a construction plan and/or a grading permit
as set forth in this title.
      1.   Grading Permit: Approval for a grading permit shall be applied for
through the building official. A grading permit may be obtained with approval
of the director prior to final construction plan approval.
      2.   Construction Plans: Approval for construction plans shall be applied
for through the director, and reviewed as needed by the city engineer.
Application to the city shall be made only after the applicant has complied
with all requirements set forth in this title and has received approval from
other public agencies as required by the construction, including, but not
limited to, the Idaho department of environmental quality and the water and
sewer district. Approval of the construction plans shall be demonstrated by the
city engineer's approval stamp and signature on the plans and drawings, or a
similar note and signature indicating approval. Such plans shall be used and
available for inspection on the construction site at all times. (Ord. 382, 10-
25-2006)
7-1-5: INSPECTION, REJECTION OF WORK:
All public or private road or street construction and all excavation is subject
to inspection by the city, and the city reserves the right to reject any
excavation or construction completed prior to issuance of a permit or approval
of plans or construction or excavation not in compliance with city standards
and approved construction plans and specifications. (Ord. 382, 10-25-2006)
7-1-6: CONSTRUCTION PLANS:
Construction plans shall be prepared by a professional engineer registered in
the state and shall include the following information:
   A.   Site grading, drainage and restoration plans; and/or
   B.   Alignment and profile of all streets.
   C.   Location of all underground utilities including alignment and depths.
   D.   Location, size and type of all drainage structures. Calculations
showing how pipe or other structure sizes were selected may be required.
   E.   Connections to existing streets, drainage facilities and all utilities.
   F.   Adequate dimensions and details for accurate construction of all
roadway features.
   G.   Adequate specifications to assure materials and workmanship to attain
construction in accordance with the design criteria, standard specifications
and standard drawings contained herein and in title 9 of this code.
   H.   A stormwater pollution prevention plan as detailed in chapter 2 of this
title. (Ord. 382, 10-25-2006)
7-1-7: VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
   A.   Misdemeanor: Any person violating any of the provisions of this title
or any of the standards, specifications or requirements contained herein shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor, and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
   B.   Other Penalties: In addition to any other penalties provided in this
title, the city may require such person to revise or to replace the improper
excavation, construction, and cutting or repair so as to conform to the
standards. Upon such refusal of such person to do so, the city may cause the
work to be performed under any bond or surety or at the expense of the
contractor or owner and shall have a cause of action against them for the costs
of the city thus incurred, including reasonable attorney fees.
   C.   Revocation Of Permits: In addition to any other penalties, any person
who shall violate any of the provisions of this title shall have any and all
building, development, excavation or other permits issued by the city summarily
revoked by the city administrator and no such permits shall be reissued, nor
shall new permits be issued, until the violation and any damage resulting
therefrom shall have been completely restored. (Ord. 382, 10-25-2006)
CHAPTER 2
EARTHWORK, DRAINAGE, AND EROSION CONTROL
SECTION:
7-2-1: Permit Requirements
7-2-2: Cut, Fill, And Grading
7-2-3: Storm Drainage Report
7-2-4: Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan For Erosion Control
7-2-5: Restoration By City
7-2-6: Violation; Penalties
7-2-1: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to create or cause
to be created any excavation or filling without first procuring a grading
permit as provided by this chapter.
   B.   Application For Permits: Any person desiring a grading permit to make
any excavation within the city shall make application to the building official
on forms provided, stating the name and address of the applicant, the name and
address of the firm or owner, if any, which he represents, and the proposed
location of the said excavation and a general description of the work to be
done. (Ord. 382, 10-25-2006)
7-2-2: CUT, FILL, AND GRADING:
   A.   Grading: Essential grading shall be shaped to blend with natural land
forms and to minimize the necessity of padding and/or terracing of building
sites.
   B.   Cut And Fill: Cut and fill shall be shaped, rounded, minimized and
nonuniform to simulate natural existing contours.
   C.   Areas Not Well Suited For Development: Areas which are not well suited
for development because of existing soil conditions, ridges, ridge lines, ridge
tops, knolls, saddles, summits, wildlife habitat, natural features or hydrology
should be allocated for open space or recreational uses.
   D.   Revegetation: Where existing soils and vegetation are disrupted by
development, provision shall be made for the revegetation of the disturbed
areas with perennial vegetation sufficient to stabilize the soil upon the
completion of construction. Until such time as said revegetation has been
installed and established, a storm water pollution prevention plan (SWPPP)
shall be followed for disturbed areas. The SWPPP shall incorporate best
management practices (BMPs) as described in this section to maintain and
protect all graded surfaces from erosion and protect water sources from
sedimentation and water quality degradation.
   E.   Design Criteria: To minimize the potentially adverse effect of
necessary site preparation work, at a minimum, the following design criteria
shall be adhered to; however, the site geotechnical report will supersede
requirements identified here:
      1.   Prior to excavating, storm water pollution prevention measures must
be implemented to enhance erosion control and reduce sedimentation. Such
measures must be taken regardless of the size of the excavation. The most
current version of the "State Of Idaho Best Management Practices For Storm
Water Pollution Prevention" is the recommended resource. If the excavation or
surface disturbance is one acre or greater, the party responsible for the
disturbance must submit a notice of intent to the EPA;
      2.   Fill areas shall be prepared by removing organic material, such as
vegetation and rubbish which is determined by the geotechnical or on site
engineer to be detrimental to proper compaction or otherwise not conducive to
soil stability;
      3.   Fills shall be compacted to at least ninety five percent (95%) of
maximum density, as determined by the most current edition of the ISPWC;
      4.   Excavations shall be backfilled and compacted in accordance with the
most current edition of the ISPWC for the intended use of the area;
      5.   Cut slopes shall be no steeper than two horizontal to one vertical
(2:1), unless geotechnical information indicates the soils are not stable, and
more restrictive slopes may be required. Subsurface drainage shall be provided
as necessary for stability;
      6.   Fill slopes shall be no steeper than two horizontal to one vertical
(2:1), unless geotechnical information indicates the soils are not stable, and
more restrictive slopes may be required. Fill slopes shall not be located on
natural slopes of two to one (2:1) or steeper, or where fill slope toes extend
out within twelve feet (12') horizontally of the top of an existing or planned
cut slope;
      7.   Tops and toes of cut and fill slopes shall be set back from property
boundaries a distance of three feet (3') plus one-fifth (1/5) the height of the
cut or fill, but need not exceed ten feet (10'). Additional setback distance
shall be provided as necessary to accommodate drainage structures;
      8.   No portion of any private driveway shall exceed a seven percent (7%)
slope, unless an exception is approved by the Fire Chief not to exceed a
maximum of ten percent (10%) slope, nor shall the inside turning radius of any
private driveway be less than fifteen feet (15'). Landing areas of driveways
shall be not less than twenty two feet (22') in length and do not exceed a four
percent (4%) slope; and
      9.   Record grade slopes greater than twenty five percent (25%) shall
remain undisturbed except as provided in Subsections A and B. For the purpose
of interpreting these standards, the definition of record grade contained in
section
9-1C-1 shall be used.
         a.   If evidence acceptable to the city is provided by the applicant
showing that strict enforcement of this provision would prohibit placement of
utilities or other improvements required to serve the development then the
applicant may apply for a variance through section 9-5B-8. The other provisions
of the hillside development regulations shall remain in effect.
         b.   In limited circumstances site disturbances are permitted to make
minor encroachments into record grade slopes exceeding twenty five percent
(25%) without receiving a variance through section
9-5B-8. The allowances provided in this section are not by-right entitlements
and depend on the Director or Commission making findings that the development
has been designed in a manner that will not create a visual concern, or
physical dominance that would unreasonably negatively impact views, as well as
findings that all other applicable standards of Sun Valley Municipal Code are
met. The allowances provided in this section are in no way intended to be a
means to permit development to be located further upslope on a development site
than would otherwise be permitted.
If the development has been designed in a manner that will not create a visual
concern or physical dominance that would unreasonably negatively impact views,
and all other applicable standards are met, site disturbances are permitted to
encroach into record grades over twenty five percent (25%) in the following
circumstances:
            (1)   Areas of slope greater than twenty five percent (25%) located
entirely within an existing, platted building envelope and site areas related
to rotated and expanded building envelopes where building footprints are
permitted to be located in accordance with
9-2A-3-I-1-b.
               (A)   This provision is not intended to allow a substantial
portion of the altered site, or an associated site improvement not classified
as a structure (including but not limited to at-grade patios or decks, gas fire
pits, and site walls), to be located upslope of a platted building envelope.
            (2)   Areas of slope greater than twenty five percent (25%) located
outside of an existing, platted building envelope that are reasonably
unavoidable in order to construct a driveway that meets International Fire Code
standards and or other applicable life safety standard contained in Sun Valley
Municipal Code, provided disturbed areas have been designed to integrate and
complement existing conditions or proposed conditions.
            (3)   Areas of slope greater than twenty five percent (25%) located
outside of an existing, platted building envelope that are necessary in order
to construct a structure that has been permitted, either by variance or
compliance with
9-3H-4-E, provided disturbed areas will be revegetated and regraded to be
compatible with the site.
            (4)   The toe of substantial areas of slope greater than twenty-
five percent (25%) when such disturbance is reasonably unavoidable due to
considerable site constraints including, but not limited to, limited lot depth,
regulations contained within Article I. Flood Hazard Protection and Article J.
Riparian Zones, or the presence of wetlands identified in a site-specific
wetlands inventory completed within the past three hundred and sixty-five days
(365) days.
               (A)   This provision is not intended to allow a substantial
portion of the altered site, or an associated site improvement not classified
as a structure (including but not limited to at-grade patios or decks, gas fire
pits, and site walls), to be located upslope of a platted building envelope.
            (5)   In the Recreation (REC) and Public/Institution (PI) zoning
districts, land alteration related to the construction of earthen recreational
features where structures are not proposed or required for retainage.
               (A)   Such land alterations shall be accompanied by a detailed
landscaping revegetation plan in order to minimize the visual impact of cuts,
fill, and grading and to facilitate integration of the new feature into the
existing landscape.
            (6)   Other circumstances not described above where the Community
Development Director, when reviewing administrative applications, or the
Planning and Zoning Commission, when reviewing applications before the
Commission, make a Finding of Fact that the disturbance into record grade slope
greater than twenty five percent (25%) is de minimis.
               (A)   For the purpose of interpreting this ordinance, de minimis
shall mean lacking significance or importance; so minor as to merit disregard.
A finding of de minimis encroachment shall consider criteria including square
footage of the encroachment relative to the size of the subject property, the
slope of the adjacent existing grade and adjacent proposed finished grade, the
elevation of existing adjacent grade and the proposed elevation of adjacent
finished grade, and the visibility of the encroachment from adjacent properties
and adjacent streets, trails, or public lands.
            (7)   Sites east of Sun Valley Road, within one thousand five
hundred feet (1,500'), and south of Dollar Road, may be built on a record grade
of over twenty five percent (25%) slope subject to the applicable regulations
of the respective zoning district for each property, and subject to the
evaluation standards of article A of this chapter. Encroachments into record
grade slopes over twenty five percent (25%) are permitted because the ravine of
Trail Creek does not present visual concerns or physical dominance on the
city's landscape.
            (8)   Existing platted lots containing significant downhill sloping
terrain as primarily accessed from above. (Ord. 382, 10-25-2006; amd. Ord. 562,
2021)
7-2-3: STORM DRAINAGE REPORT:
The following requirements and performance standards are required for the storm
drainage report submitted to the city:
   A.   Map: A map indicating the on site and off site drainage area applicable
to the site;
   B.   Calculations Showing Predevelopment Flows: Calculations developed
showing the predevelopment flows for the 25-year, 24-hour storm and the
postdevelopment calculations for the same storm. The difference of
predevelopment and postdevelopment must be retained on site; (Ord. 455, 12-6-
2012)
   C.   Engineering Plans: Detailed engineering plans of all subsurface
drainage improvements to be constructed as a part of the proposed development;
and
   D.   Drainage Easements, Rights Of Way: Location of all drainage easements,
or drainage rights of way.
   E.   Storm Drainage Performance Standards:
      1.   Provisions for runoff drainage shall be designed to safely retain
stormwater or adequately carry and discharge accumulated runoff into drainage
channels, storm sewers.
      2.   The city engineer may require the applicant to design and construct
dry wells, energy dissipaters, or other drainage improvements in order to
control and reduce runoff from the site. The design for these drainage
facilities shall be submitted for approval with the runoff drainage plan. (Ord.
382, 10-25-2006)
7-2-4: STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN FOR EROSION CONTROL:
The following requirements and performance standards are required for erosion
control:
   A.   Additional Requirements For Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan: A
stormwater pollution prevention plan (SWPPP) shall be submitted indicating
compliance with the standards of this section. The SWPPP shall show erosion
control best management practices (BMPs) to be used during construction and
long term (postconstruction). The following are additional requirements for the
SWPPP:
      1.   Erosion control BMPs, as appropriate, from the "State Of Idaho Best
Management Practices For Stormwater Pollution Prevention";
      2.   Detailed plans showing the location of all erosion control
structures, and a time schedule for installation of said structures; and
      3.   Location, type and amount of plant material to be used for erosion
control, and the month and year that all vegetation proposed for erosion
control will be planted.
   B.   Erosion Control Performance Standards:
      1.   All areas on the property graded for development, disturbed by
construction, or changed in any other way which may increase soil loss due to
water or wind erosion, shall be stabilized by one or more of the following
methods:
         a.   Revegetated with plant materials including, but not limited to,
flowering plants, low growing shrubs or native grasses; or
         b.   Stabilized with flexible, biodegradable materials or synthetic
soils erosion matting in conjunction with native grasses; or
         c.   Other BMPs as recommended in the "State Of Idaho Best Management
Practices For Storm Water Pollution Prevention".
      2.   Where native grasses are used for erosion control, written
specifications shall be submitted to the city for approval, indicating the
grass seed mix, the preparation of the seed bed, method of application and the
maintenance schedule;
      3.   Where vegetation is proposed as an erosion control method for
disturbed or graded land, the new vegetation shall be maintained until
established to adequately prevent erosion; and
      4.   City staff shall inspect graded areas where vegetation is proposed
as an erosion control measure to verify that such revegetation conforms to the
submitted erosion control plan. (Ord. 382, 10-25-2006)
7-2-5: RESTORATION BY CITY:
If any excavation is located within the lines of a private or publicly
dedicated street right of way or public easement and the work required by
section
7-2-4 of this chapter is not completed according to approved plans and
specifications, the city shall give notice to the person creating the
excavation or owning the property being excavated of the work to be done. If
the required work is not completed within ten (10) days after mailing or
personal service of such notice, the city shall cause the excavation to be
properly backfilled, compacted and the surface repaired and the person creating
the excavation or owning the excavated property shall be liable to the city for
the costs incurred by the city. (Ord. 382, 10-25-2006)
7-2-6: VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
   A.   Misdemeanor: Any person who violates any provision of this chapter
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
   B.   Other Penalties: In addition to any other penalties, persons who
violate any provisions of this chapter shall have any and all building,
development, excavation or other permits issued by the city summarily revoked
by the city administrator and no such permits shall be reissued until the
violation and any damage resulting shall have been completely restored. (Ord.
382, 10-25-2006)
CHAPTER 3
SPECIFICATIONS FOR PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
7-3-1: Utilities
7-3-2: Easements
7-3-3: Monuments
7-3-4: Public Water And Sewer Systems
7-3-5: Planting Strips
7-3-6: Dedication Of Streets
7-3-7: Nonvehicular Transportation System
7-3-8: Fire Hydrants
7-3-9: Street Lighting And Traffic Control Devices
7-3-1: UTILITIES:
   A.   Underground Utilities: Public utilities, including sewer, water,
electric power, telephone, and cable television shall be installed underground
and be located in a manner which makes them available for hookups within the
boundaries of each lot within the subdivision.
   B.   Standard Specifications: The most current version of the Idaho
standards for public works construction (ISPWC) shall be used in all trench
excavation, backfill, compaction and surface restoration. (Ord. 455, 12-6-2012)
   C.   Trench Depths: Minimum trench depths shall be as follows:
      1.   Water and sewer as specified by the city water and sewer district;
      2.   Culverts under driveways shall have a minimum cover of twelve inches
(12");
      3.   Culverts under roadways shall have a minimum cover of twenty four
inches (24"). The city engineer may approve a shallower amount of cover if
clean concrete is used; and
      4.   Cover over all other utilities shall be as determined by that
agency, but shall in no way be less than eighteen inches (18") outside of the
roadway or twenty four inches (24") under the roadway.
   D.   Damage Prohibited: It shall be the responsibility of any person
creating an "excavation" as defined herein to contact the local dig line or
similar service to ascertain the location of all underground pipes, conduits,
wires, structures or improvements of whatever nature and to avoid damaging said
underground pipes, conduits, wires, structures or improvements.
   E.   Inspection Of Water And Sewer Facilities: If any pipe, line or other
facility or appurtenance of the water and sewer district is uncovered in the
course of creating an excavation, the excavation shall not be backfilled until
it has been inspected by the manager of the district or his agent.
   F.   Underground Facilities Damage Prevention: Persons desiring to create
any excavation in the city are hereby notified of the requirement to comply
with Idaho Code sections 55-2201 through 55-2210, pertaining to underground
facility damage prevention.
      1.   Permit Validity: No permit issued by the city shall be valid until
and unless the requirements of the aforesaid statutes have been complied with.
      2.   Violation: Idaho Code sections 55-2201 through 55-2210 are hereby
adopted by reference as if set forth herein in their entirety and any violation
of said statutes shall also constitute a violation of this code. (Ord. 382, 10-
25-2006)
7-3-2: EASEMENTS:
   A.   Utility Easements: Unobstructed utility or other easements shall be
provided along the front, rear and side lot lines or where required by the city
to accommodate utility or public service services and equipment. Easement
widths shall not be less than fifteen feet (15'). Unobstructed drainageway
easements shall be provided as required by the city.
   B.   Pedestrian And Bike Pathway Easements: Pedestrian and bike pathway
easements may be required where deemed necessary by the city to provide for
orderly and safe control of pedestrian or bicycle traffic. Construction shall
be required in accordance with adopted standard specifications. (Ord. 382, 10-
25-2006)
7-3-3: MONUMENTS:
Monuments shall be set in accordance with Idaho Code section 50-1303. (Ord.
382, 10-25-2006)
7-3-4: PUBLIC WATER AND SEWER SYSTEMS:
All public water supply and sanitary sewer systems shall be constructed in
accordance with any adopted local plans and specifications, and shall conform
to the requirements of the Idaho department of health and welfare, the water
and sewer district, and any other public regulatory agency having jurisdiction
over such systems. All water and sanitary sewer systems within a proposed
subdivision shall be an extension of the existing public system whenever
possible. (Ord. 382, 10-25-2006)
7-3-5: PLANTING STRIPS:
Planting strips shall conform to the following: When a predominantly
residential subdivision is proposed for a parcel of land adjoining incompatible
areas or features such as highways, railroads, commercial or industrial
developments, the subdivider shall provide for planting strips to screen the
view of such incompatible features from the proposed residential property. Such
screening shall be a minimum of twenty feet (20') wide and shall not be placed
on any portion of the normal street right of way or utility easement. (Ord.
382, 10-25-2006)
7-3-6: DEDICATION OF STREETS:
Unless otherwise expressly provided by the council, all streets within a
proposed subdivision, shall be offered for dedication to the public; provided,
however, that this provision shall not be applicable to means of vehicular
ingress and egress to individual dwelling units, structures or common parking
areas in condominium dwelling projects, hotels and similar multiple occupant
structures. (Ord. 382, 10-25-2006)
7-3-7: NONVEHICULAR TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM:
Pedestrian walkways, pathways, horse trails and similar recreation easements
should be designed and located in conformance with the overall city
transportation plan in order that a comprehensively coordinated network of
routes be maintained throughout the city. (Ord. 382, 10-25-2006)
7-3-8: FIRE HYDRANTS:
A subdivider of property shall be required to locate and install an adequate
number of fire hydrants within the proposed subdivision according to the
specifications and requirements of the city fire chief and the city water and
sewer district. (Ord. 382, 10-25-2006)
7-3-9: STREET LIGHTING AND TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES:
Street lighting and traffic control devices may be required of a subdivider of
property to be installed in appropriate areas within the proposed subdivision.
If required, the lighting and traffic control devices shall conform to the
requirements of title 9 of this code or other entity having jurisdiction over
them. (Ord. 382, 10-25-2006)
CHAPTER 4
ENCROACHMENTS
SECTION:
7-4-1: Actions Requiring Permit
7-4-2: Permit Application
7-4-3: Revocation Agreement
7-4-4: City Action On Permit Application
7-4-5: City Standards
7-4-6: Time Limits On Cutting Pavement
7-4-7: Prohibited Acts
7-4-8: Fees
7-4-9: Bonding Requirement
7-4-10: Abatement
7-4-11: Appeals
7-4-12: Penalties
7-4-1: ACTIONS REQUIRING PERMIT:
It shall be unlawful for any person to place or replace any improvement
whatsoever, or to excavate, dig, pave, landscape, block or fence, either under,
within, above, or upon any City right-of-way, street, roadway, walkway,
easement or other public property without first applying for and obtaining a
permit from the City for such encroachment. Evaluation and approval of said
permits, as well as abatement of nuisances within the right-of- way, shall be
the responsibility of the Community Development Department, in consultation
with the Streets, Police, and Fire Departments. The City shall not be liable
for any damages resulting to vegetation, utilities, pavers, pavement,
irrigation systems, hydronic heating systems, or any other improvements within
the right-of-way. (Ord. 526, 10-4-2018)
7-4-2: PERMIT APPLICATION:
Any party applying for an encroachment permit shall submit an application form
provided by the City, with the exception that utility providers may submit an
emergency request at any time. (Ord. 526, 10-4-2018)
7-4-3: REVOCATION AGREEMENT:
   A.   The encroachment permit shall contain an agreement and understanding
that the permit is revocable in writing at the sole discretion of the City,
subject to administrative appeal procedures, after reasonable notice, or
without notice in case of an emergency or hazardous situation; that the City is
not responsible for maintenance or damage to the encroachments; and that
removal of any and all improvements or uses shall be done at the sole cost and
expense of the owner and at no cost or expense to the City.
   B.   For substantial improvements proposed in the right-of-way, the
revocation agreement may be required, at the discretion of the Community
Development Director, to be signed and notarized by the property owner
requesting said encroachments prior to the issuance of the permit; the signed,
notarized agreement shall then be recorded with the Blaine County Recorder
prior to the commencement of the encroachment. A copy of the recorded document
shall be transmitted or delivered to the City's Community Development
Department. (Ord. 526, 10-4-2018)
7-4-4: CITY ACTION ON PERMIT APPLICATION:
City staff may issue the encroachment permit only after determining the
following:
   A.   Granting the request will not require public expense.
   B.   The permitted improvements will not interfere with the full use,
safety, and enjoyment of the right-of-way or easement by the public and by the
City, including the plowing of snow or other street maintenance activities.
   C.   Granting the request will not jeopardize the public health, safety or
general welfare. (Ord. 526, 10-4-2018)
7-4-5: CITY STANDARDS:
All improvements shall be constructed in accordance with applicable City
standards, including the most current adopted version of the Idaho Standards
for Public Works Construction (ISPWC).
   A.   Construction will be conducted in such a way that pedestrian and
vehicular circulation needs can be reasonably met.
   B.   Drainage systems, including culverts, and other private utilities must
be regularly maintained by the property owner and will not be adversely
affected.
      1.   Berms and earthwork higher than record grade are not permissible
within the right-of-way unless the applicant can make a compelling case that
the grading is necessary for safety or drainage purposes.
   C.   Immediately following construction, the right-of-way, easement or
property will be restored to its original, usable condition unless specifically
approved otherwise by permit.
   D.   Permitted landscaping improvements shall require regular maintenance by
the property owner.
      1.   Only low ground cover vegetation, such as grasses and shrubs, shall
be permitted within the first eight feet (8') of the right- of-way from the
edge of pavement.
      2.   Trees and shrubs in, or adjacent to, the right-of-way shall be
pruned to keep clear of the roadway and to a distance of fourteen feet (14')
above the road surface.
      3.   Grasses shall be mowed or maintained in such a manner which does not
obstruct visibility, access, or parking.
   E.   New or reconstructed driveways and approaches within the City owned
right-of-way shall require a permit.
   F.   Snow from privately owned properties shall not be placed or disposed of
in the right-of-way. Disposal of snow which originates on private property, and
which obstructs the right-of- way or impairs the ability of the City to store
snow within the right-of-way, will result in a citation to the offending party.
   G.   Utility boxes, junctions, meters, or other utility access points within
the right-of-way shall contain standardized identification and markings for
emergency services access and for avoidance by Municipal snow removal
operators, to the satisfaction of the Streets Superintendent, Fire Chief, and
Police Chief. (Ord. 526, 10-4-2018)
7-4-6: TIME LIMITS ON CUTTING PAVEMENT:
   A.   No cutting of pavement shall be permitted prior to March 31 or after
November 15, unless emergency or mitigating circumstances are found to exist by
the City.
   B.   No cutting of pavement shall be permitted within five (5) years of a
newly paved road unless the applicant is unable to bore under the roadway after
trying up to three (3) times. (Ord. 526, 10-4-2018)
7-4-7: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   No irrigation or watering of property shall be done in such a manner as
to cast, spray or flood water upon pavement or pavement shoulders within City
rights-of-way, easements or property.
   B.   Loading, unloading or operation of vehicles equipped with metal tracks
or lugs on paved areas of City rights-of-way, easements or property is
prohibited. (Ord. 526, 10-4-2018)
7-4-8: FEES:
Applications submitted for encroachments will be accompanied by a fee as
adopted by City Council resolution. (Ord. 526, 10-4-2018)
7-4-9: BONDING REQUIREMENT:
All commercial enterprises or operators providing services related to the
installation and maintenance of encroachments, including, but not limited to,
utility providers, paving contractors, general contractors, subcontractors and
landscapers submitting an application under the provisions of this chapter
shall provide evidence that the applicant possesses a valid State of Idaho
contractor's registration number. The Community Development Director may
require that the proposed work is covered by a bond or surety in the minimum
amount and process in accordance with this Code. The bond or surety amount may
be increased by the City when the nature and value of the project and its
impact on the neighborhood or the City warrants a higher amount. (Ord. 526, 10-
4-2018)
7-4-10: ABATEMENT:
   A.   The City may inspect for and investigate right-of-way encroachments.
The City may pursue abatement and remediation of noncompliant and unpermitted
encroachments.
   B.   Encroaching property owners who enjoy any non-permitted encroachment,
regardless of their action or responsibility in creating said encroachment,
will be found responsible for its abatement.
   C.   Property owners immediately appurtenant to an identified encroachment
will be notified by certified mail of the encroachment and the City's intent to
abate. Notified property owners will have sixty (60) days to remediate the
encroachment, at their own expense, before the City abates the encroachment.
   D.   The City, in abating the nuisance, may opt to seek repayment of
expenses from the offending property owner. (Ord. 526, 10-4-2018)
7-4-11: APPEALS:
Appeals of actions under this chapter may be pursued pursuant to the appeals
procedure set forth in title 9, chapter 5 of this Code. (Ord. 526, 10-4-2018)
7-4-12: PENALTIES:
Offenders shall be cited with an infraction in accordance with this Code. Each
day the violation persists beyond the allotted period of compliance shall
result in an additional fine. The City may determine encroachments to be a
nuisances and may impose a tax lien on the property in question to recover all
applicable fines, fees, and abatement expenses as allowed under Idaho Code.
(Ord. 526, 10-4-2018)
CHAPTER 5
MAINTENANCE OF PRIVATE ROADS AND STREETS
SECTION:
7-5-1: City Authority
7-5-2: Private Streets Permitted
7-5-3: Access Over Private Streets
7-5-4: Duty To Maintain Access
7-5-5: Responsibility For Condition Of Private Streets
7-5-6: Removal Of Snow And Ice
7-5-7: Failure To Maintain
7-5-8: Assessment And Collection Of Costs
7-5-1: CITY AUTHORITY:
Pursuant to Idaho Code section 50-314, the city shall have the authority to
control and limit the traffic on streets, avenues and public places; regulate
and control all encroachments upon and onto all sidewalks, streets, avenues,
and alleys in the city; to remove all obstructions from the sidewalks, curbs,
gutters and crosswalks at the expense of the person placing them there. (Ord.
382, 10-25-2006)
7-5-2: PRIVATE STREETS PERMITTED:
Private streets shall be permitted within the city subject to review and
approval by the planning and zoning commission and the city council. (Ord. 382,
10-25-2006)
7-5-3: ACCESS OVER PRIVATE STREETS:
The city retains a prescriptive easement and right of entry and access over all
private streets for purposes of assuring access for all residents, for public
utility services and equipment and for emergency public services and equipment.
(Ord. 382, 10-25-2006)
7-5-4: DUTY TO MAINTAIN ACCESS:
Any person who shall own or be responsible for the construction and/or
maintenance of private streets which are necessary for access by residents of
two (2) or more dwelling units, or for public utility services, vehicles or
equipment, or by emergency personnel, vehicles or equipment, shall maintain
such streets in an unobstructed condition at all times. (Ord. 382, 10-25-2006)
7-5-5: RESPONSIBILITY FOR CONDITION OF PRIVATE STREETS:
Any person who shall own or be responsible for private streets shall maintain
such streets in a condition which is, at all times, acceptable to the city, in
good repair and free from subsidence, hydrocompaction, potholes, cracks or
other hazardous conditions. (Ord. 382, 10-25-2006)
7-5-6: REMOVAL OF SNOW AND ICE:
It shall be unlawful for any owner or person responsible for maintenance of a
private street or road to allow any snow or ice to accumulate or remain upon
any such street, road or sidewalk longer than eight (8) hours from the time of
the last accretion of such snow or ice. (Ord. 382, 10-25-2006)
7-5-7: FAILURE TO MAINTAIN:
Whenever any person who shall own or be responsible for private streets,
avenues, alleys, sidewalks, curbs, gutters, crosswalks or other appurtenances
or encroachments thereon, shall fail, after having been noticed by the city to
repair, maintain, correct, replace or remove such hazardous or unsafe streets,
avenues, alleys, sidewalks, curbs, gutters, crosswalks or other appurtenances
or encroachments thereon within ten (10) days of having received such notice of
noncompliance, then the city may cause such repair, maintenance, correction or
replacement, or encroachment removal to be done and assess the cost of such
action together with administrative costs to said owner or responsible person.
(Ord. 382, 10-25-2006)
7-5-8: ASSESSMENT AND COLLECTION OF COSTS:
The costs to the city for repair, maintenance, correction, replacement or
encroachment removal as enumerated and permitted above may be assessed against
the property benefited and certified as a tax lien against the said property
together with all costs of collection including reasonable attorney fees. (Ord.
382, 10-25-2006)
CHAPTER 6
STREET, PATHWAY AND PARKING LOT DESIGN CRITERIA
SECTION:
7-6-1: Location Of Streets
7-6-2: Design Standards
7-6-3: Rights-Of-Way And Pavement Widths
7-6-4: Design Speed And Gradient
7-6-5: Allowable Curve Radii
7-6-6: Clear Vision Triangle
7-6-7: Thickness Design
7-6-8: Street And Pathway Alignment
7-6-9: Intersections
7-6-10: Cul-De-Sacs
7-6-11: Roundabouts
7-6-12: Street Names
7-6-13: Driveways
7-6-14: Parking Lots
7-6-15: Public And Street Trees
7-6-1: LOCATION OF STREETS:
Street and road locations shall conform to the following:
   A.   Conformance Required: The location and arrangement of subdivision
streets shall conform to the official street plan, transportation plan, or
comprehensive plan as adopted by the City.
   B.   Adjoining Areas Not Subdivided: Where adjoining areas are not
subdivided, the arrangement of streets in new subdivisions shall be such that
said streets extend to the boundary lines of the tract to facilitate the future
extension of said streets into adjacent areas. A stub street or a reserve strip
held in public ownership may be required.
   C.   Alleys Or Service Roads: Alleys or service roads shall be provided in
multiple dwelling or commercial subdivisions unless other provisions are made
for service access and off street loading.
   D.   Frontage Roads Required: Where a subdivision abuts or contains a State
highway (not Trail Creek Road), it shall be required that there be frontage
roads approximately parallel to and on each side of such highway; provided,
however, that the Council may expressly waive this requirement upon a showing
by the subdivider that other methods have been employed to adequately separate
local traffic from through traffic and to protect residential properties and
subdivision residents from the hazards imposed by heavy highway traffic.
   E.   Street And Road Alignment: Street and road alignment should follow
natural terrain contours so as to result in safe streets, usable lots and
minimum cuts and fills. (Ord. 455, 12-6-2012)
7-6-2: DESIGN STANDARDS:
All public and private streets shall be constructed in accordance with adopted
design criteria, standards, specifications and standard drawings as set forth
in this title and according to the minimum requirements contained in table 1 of
this section:
   TABLE 1
Street                        Minimum  Minimum  Maximum Minimum Minimum Minimum
Identification Street         ROW Or   Pavement Allowed Design  Allowed Shoulder
Number         Classification Easement Width    Grade   Speed   Radius  Width4
                              Width
Street                        Minimum  Minimum  Maximum  Minimum Minimum Minimum
Identification Street         ROW Or   Pavement Allowed  Design  Allowed Shoulder
Number         Classification Easement Width    Grade    Speed   Radius  Width4
                              Width
1                 Arterial 60 feet  24 feet  7        35 mph  See     2 feet
                                                percent          note 1
2                 Collector60 feet  22 feet  7        30 mph  See     2 feet
                                                percent          note 1
3                 Residenti60 feet  22 feet  7        25 mph  See     1 foot
                                                percent          note 1
4-A               Private A30 feet  20 feet  10       n/a     50 feet 1 foot
                                                percent
4-B               Private B30 feet  20 feet  7        n/a     50 feet 1 foot
                                                percent2
4-C               Private C60 feet  22 feet  7        20 mph  See     1 foot
                                                percent          note 1
                                                7
                                                percent
                 Pathway3 20 feet  10 feet  for      xx      xx      1 foot
                                                limited
                                                distance
 
Notes:
   1.   In accordance with current AASHTO standards for applicable design
speed.
   2.   Additional gradient may be allowed with special ice and snow removal
designs and procedures.
   3.   Refer to AASHTO bicycle design guidelines.
   4.   An exception to the shoulder width is allowed when curb and gutter
provided.
(Ord. 382, 10-25-2006)
7-6-3: RIGHTS OF WAY AND PAVEMENT WIDTHS:
Minimum rights of way and pavement widths shall be as shown in table 1, section
7-6-2 of this chapter. Additional pavement widths may be required by the city.
All rights of way intended for public maintenance shall be offered for
dedication to the public as provided for in the Idaho Code. Rights of way for
private roads and streets shall be owned by the applicable maintenance entity
or the appropriate person. (Ord. 382, 10-25-2006)
7-6-4: DESIGN SPEED AND GRADIENT:
Design speed and maximum allowable gradient shall be as shown in table 1,
section
7-6-2 of this chapter. (Ord. 382, 10-25-2006)
7-6-5: ALLOWABLE CURVE RADII:
Allowable curve radii shall be governed by current AASHTO standards for
applicable design speeds unless otherwise noted in table 1 of section
7-6-2 of this chapter. (Ord. 382, 10-25-2006)
7-6-6: CLEAR VISION TRIANGLE:
An area of unobstructed vision at all street intersections shall be maintained
between three feet (3') and eight feet (8') above the pavement and within a
triangular area at the street corner, which area is bounded by:
   A.   Property Lines: The property lines of the corner lot and a line
connecting points twenty five feet (25') distant from the intersection of the
property lines of such lot; or
   B.   Curb Lines: The curb lines of an intersection and a line connecting
points thirty five feet (35') distant from the corner of the intersection, such
corner determined by projecting the curb lines out to a specific point,
whichever is the lesser. (Ord. 382, 10-25-2006)
7-6-7: THICKNESS DESIGN:
Roadways, streets, pathways and parking lots shall be paved in accordance with
the most current version of the Idaho standards for public works construction
(ISPWC). Table 2 of this section provides minimum pavement thicknesses; the
city engineer can require greater thicknesses if he/she deems it is required
based on geotechnical information provided.
TABLE 2
Road Type Asphalt Pavement Base Course Aggregate1 Subbase Course Aggregate2
Road Type       Asphalt Pavement Base Course Aggregate1 Subbase Course
                                                        Aggregate2
   Arterial  4.0              6.0                    12.0
   Collector 4.0              6.0                    12.0
   Residentia2.5              4.0                    6.0
   Private A 2.5              4.0                    6.0
   Private B 2.5              4.0                    6.0
   Private C 2.5              4.0                    6.0
   Parking lo2.5              4.0                    8.0
   Pathway   2.0              4.0                    6.0
 
Notes:
   1.   Base course aggregate is intended to be a 3/4-inch minus crushed
aggregate mix.
   2.   Subbase course aggregate should be a 4-inch maximum mix that is not
required to be crushed. Both are defined in the ISPWC.
(Ord. 382, 10-25-2006)
7-6-8: STREET AND PATHWAY ALIGNMENT:
   A.   Natural Terrain Contours: Consistent with the applicable sections of
the development regulations, street and road alignment shall follow natural
terrain contours so as to result in safe streets, usable lots and minimum cuts
and fills.
   B.   Horizontal And Vertical Alignment: Horizontal and vertical alignment
for both paths and streets shall be designed in accordance with AASHTO
guidelines for each travelway. For streets and roads, the design speed of the
proposed street or road will be taken into account when using the guidelines.
All curves shall be simple curves and super elevation shall not exceed six
percent (6%).
   C.   Runoff Conveyance: Streets and paths shall be designed specifically
with a space for conveyance of runoff; this may be a drainage swale, curb and
gutter or other acceptable method. Horizontal and vertical elements shall be
designed to assure positive and effective drainage to the conveyance space.
Subsurface and surface waters shall be accommodated by approved drains and
other facilities as determined necessary by good engineering practice or by the
city. Drains for surface water shall not be smaller than twelve inches (12") in
diameter.
   D.   Stopping Sight Distance: Minimum stopping sight distance shall be
provided on all private and public roadways and streets in accordance with
AASHTO guidelines. Minimum stopping sight distance shall be provided on all
pathways in accordance with AASHTO guidelines. (Ord. 382, 10-25-2006)
7-6-9: INTERSECTIONS:
   A.   Angle: Streets shall intersect at ninety degree (90°) angles or as
close thereto as possible, and, in no case, shall streets intersect at less
than seventy degrees (70°).
   B.   Number Of Streets Crossing At Intersection: No more than two (2)
streets shall cross at any single intersection 1 .
   C.   Arterial Or Collector Streets: Intersections of arterial or collector
streets shall be located on a relatively flat (2 percent or less) grade with
appropriate drainage slope. The flat section shall extend a minimum of seventy
five feet (75') measured from the edge of the street right of way, or beginning
thirty feet (30') from the center of the intersection, whichever distance is
greater.
   D.   Residential Streets Or Private Roads: Intersections of residential
streets or private A, B or C roads or streets shall be located on a relatively
flat (2 percent or less) grade with appropriate drainage slope. The flat
section shall extend a minimum of fifty feet (50') measured from the edge of
the street right of way, or beginning thirty feet (30') from the center of the
intersection, whichever distance is greater.
   E.   Vertical Transition Curves: Vertical transition curves from roadway or
street centerline grades to the flat approach sections of intersections shall
be located outside the required, flat, approach sections.
   F.   Approach Gradients: Roads and streets shall approach all intersections
at gradients of two percent (2%) or less. For each additional one percent (1%)
of centerline road or street gradient, the flat approach section to the
intersection shall be increased by an additional ten feet (10'); provided, that
no such road or street centerline gradient shall exceed the maximum allowable
gradient of the road or street according to table 2, section
7-6-7 of this chapter.
   G.   Clear Sight Distance: Minimum clear sight distance at all intersections
shall permit vehicles to be mutually visible when each is a minimum of one
hundred feet (100') from the center of the intersection.
   H.   Visibility Of Intersection: Intersections shall be clearly visible for
a minimum of two hundred feet (200') from the center of the intersection from
all roadways or streets. (Ord. 382, 10-25-2006)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  7-6-11, "Roundabouts", of this chapter, for the exception.
7-6-10: CUL-DE-SACS:
All cul-de-sacs shall have a minimum paved radius of thirty seven and one-half
feet (371/2'), surrounded by adequate right of way to provide for necessary
shoulders, parking, drainage, utilities and any other requirements contained in
these standards. Larger cul-de-sacs shall have an unpaved, landscaped island
centered in the circle. Each cul-de-sac shall have an adequate adjacent area
provided for snow storage outside of the required right of way. (Ord. 382, 10-
25-2006)
7-6-11: ROUNDABOUTS:
All roundabouts shall be generally circular in shape and shall have a minimum
diameter of fifty feet (50') (or a minimum dimension if the layout is not a
geometric circle). The minimum paved width shall be twenty feet (20') or twelve
feet (12') with a drivable hard surface for the remaining eight feet (8') of
width. Roundabouts may have up to five (5) streets entering. Proper drainage
and signage shall be required. (Ord. 382, 10-25-2006)
7-6-12: STREET NAMES:
Street names will not duplicate any existing street names within the city,
except where a new street is a continuation of an existing street. Street names
which are spelled differently but sound the same as existing street names shall
not be used. All street name signs shall be approved by the city, shall be
furnished and placed at the expense of the developer and shall be properly
maintained and repaired by the owner or association responsible for property
maintenance. (Ord. 382, 10-25-2006)
7-6-13: DRIVEWAYS:
   A.   Design: Driveways should be designed to run with the existing natural
contours of the land.
   B.   Length: The minimum length of a driveway shall be twenty two feet (22')
as measured from the property line, edge of right of way, edge of access
easement or other similar purpose easement.
   C.   Slope: Driveways shall not exceed a ten percent (10%) slope over the
length of the driveway, and a four percent (4%) slope within twenty two feet
(22') of the intersection of the driveway with the street.
   D.   Inside Turning Radius: The inside turning radius of any driveway shall
not be less than fifteen feet (15').
   E.   Width: Unless otherwise determined by the city fire chief, driveways
shall be a minimum of twenty feet (20') of unobstructed width.
   F.   Turnaround: As determined by the city fire chief, driveways shall
provide adequate turnaround. (Ord. 455, 12-6-2012)
7-6-14: PARKING LOTS:
   A.   Entrance/Exit: Parking lot entrance and exits shall be constructed with
the same requirements as intersections for residential and private streets. The
distance between parking lot entrances and/or exits from an intersection or
other entrance or exit shall be no less than those listed in table 3 of this
section, except as recommended in a traffic study.
TABLE 3
 
Road Type           Minimum Distance
                    (Measured Between Centerline)
   Local        125 feet
   Residenti    150 feet
   Collector    150 feet
   Arterial     300 feet
 
   B.   Drainage: All parking and loading areas shall provide proper drainage
of surface water to prevent the drainage of such water onto adjacent properties
or walkways. Minimum pretreatment for drainage collected from a paved parking
surface shall be conveyed through a catch basin or drop inlet with a
sedimentation basin before release into a drainage system.
   C.   Driveway Aisles, Stall Width And Length: Driveway aisles, stall width
and length by parking angle shall be as follows:
TABLE 4
 
Parking Angle    Stall Width Stall Depth1 One-Way
                                          Drive Aisle2
   0° (parall   10'0"    23'0"     12'0"
   45°          10'0"    15'0"     13'0"
   60°          10'0"    18'0"     17'0"
   90°          10'0"    19'0"     25'0"
 
   Notes:
      1.   Stalls designed for compact vehicles may be reduced in depth by 2
feet.
      2.   All two-way drive aisles shall be 25 feet.
   D.   Width: In addition to the standards in table 4 of this section, parking
lots shall provide for adequate width for maneuvering traffic flow in and out
of stalls and the parking lot.
   E.   Slope: All public parking shall have a maximum slope of seven percent
(7%) and residential parking lots shall have a maximum of ten percent (10%).
   F.   Wheel Restraint: Where necessary, all off street parking areas shall be
provided with a substantial wheel restraint to prevent cars from encroaching
upon abutting private and public property or overhanging beyond the designated
parking stall dimensions.
   G.   Markings: Parking spaces and access lanes shall be marked, including
handicapped symbols and signs. (Ord. 382, 10-25-2006)
   H.   Lighting: All lighting provided to illuminate a parking area shall
comply with the lighting standards provided in section
7-3-9 of this title as well as all applicable lighting provisions, guidelines
and standards in title 9 of this code.
   I.   Snow Storage Areas: Snow storage areas shall be located on site in an
amount that is equal to at least fifty percent (50%) of the hard surfaces.
(Ord. 455, 12-6-2012)
   J.   Alternative Lot Dimensions: During design review, the approving body or
authority may allow for flexibility in dimensional standards related to stall
sizing and aisle widths in consideration for providing thoughtful lot design,
including elements such as: pedestrian access, landscaping, drainage, lighting,
and alternative fuel or electric vehicle parking. (Ord. 504, 1-5-2017)
7-6-15: PUBLIC AND STREET TREES:
   A.   Public tree shall be defined as any tree, shrub, or other woody
vegetation whose trunk is located wholly or partially on public property. The
term "public tree" includes street trees.
   B.   Street tree shall be defined as any tree, shrub, or other woody
vegetation on lands within City of Sun Valley rights-of- way.
   C.   The City of Sun Valley, upon agreement of the Community Development
Director and Street Superintendent, has the right to plant, maintain, and
remove any public or street tree in order to promote public safety, promote
tree canopy health, or to enhance public viewsheds. (Ord. 530, 8-2-2018)
TITLE 8
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
ADOPTED CODES
SECTION:
8-1-1: Codes Adopted
8-1-2: Amendments
8-1-2-1: Amendments To The 2018 International Building Code
8-1-2-2: Amendments To The 2018 International Residential Code
8-1-2-3: Amendments To The 2018 International Fire Code
8-1-2-4: Amendments To The 2018 International Energy Conservation Code
8-1-2-5: Amendments To The 2018 International Existing Building Code
8-1-2-6: Amendments To The 2018 International Swimming Pool And Spa Code
8-1-2-7: Amendments To The 2018 International Property Maintenance Code
8-1-3: Penalties And Enforcement
8-1-4: Building Permit Fee Schedule
8-1-1: CODES ADOPTED:
The following International Codes are adopted by reference by the city of Sun
Valley, Idaho:
   A.   The International Building Code, 2018 Edition, including appendices B,
E, G, H, I, J, and O.
   B.   The International Residential Code, 2018 Edition, Parts I, II, III, and
IX including appendices E, F, H, J, M, and O.
   C.   The International Fire Code, 2018 Edition, including appendices A, B,
C, D, I, and J.
   D.   The International Energy Conservation Code, 2018 Edition.
   E.   The International Existing Building Code, 2018 Edition.
   F.   The International Swimming Pool and Spa Code, 2018 Edition.
   G.   The International Property Maintenance Code, 2018 Edition. (Ord. 550,
12-3-2020)
8-1-2: AMENDMENTS:
8-1-2-1: AMENDMENTS TO THE 2018 INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE:
Section 101.1 Insert: [City of Sun Valley, Idaho].
Section 105.5 is amended as follows:
   105.5 Expiration. Every permit issued shall become invalid unless the work
on the site authorized by such permit is commenced within 180 days after its
issuance, or if the work authorized on the site by such permit is suspended or
abandoned for a period of 180 days after the time the work is commenced. Every
permit shall be valid for a total of twenty-four (24) months from the date of
commencement of work after which it shall automatically terminate and become
null and void. The building official and/or the city council may extend the
time of completion for the building or work for successive periods not
exceeding one hundred eighty (180) days. The extension shall be requested in
writing and justifiable cause demonstrated which prevented completion within
the original (24) month period or any subsequent extensions. If the building or
work authorized by the permit has not been completed during the said twenty-
four (24) months, plus the 6-month extensions, then before work can proceed, a
new permit shall be first obtained to do so. The applicant shall resubmit and
apply for a new permit and shall pay all fees as required, and if applicable,
shall obtain design review approval.
Section 107.1 is amended as follows:
   107.1 General. Submittal documents consisting of construction documents,
statement of special inspections, geotechnical report and other data shall be
submitted in two physical sets and one electronic submittal with each permit
application. The construction documents shall be prepared and stamped by a
registered design professional. Where special conditions exist, the building
official is authorized to require additional construction documents to be
prepared by a registered design professional.
Section 109.2 is amended as follows:
   109.2 Schedule of Permit Fees. On buildings, structures or alterations
requiring a permit, a fee for each permit shall paid as required, in accordance
with the schedule as set forth in Table 1-A as established by resolution 2020-
13 of the city of Sun Valley.
Sections 117, 118, and 119 are added as follows:
   117 Indemnity. Every person, firm, or corporation to whom permission has
been granted under the terms of this code and the general ordinances to utilize
public property for any construction activity shall at all times assume full
responsibility for all work associated with the permit. Such permission shall
be further conditioned for the use of public property to all at all times
release, hold harmless and indemnify the city of Sun Valley and all of its
agents and employees from any and all responsibility, liability, loss or damage
resulting to any persons or property or caused by or incidental to the
construction activity.
   118 Insurance. Any person, firm or corporation, demolishing or moving any
building, structure or utility, shall deposit with the building official a
certificate of insurance showing the city of Sun Valley as a named insured on
the insurance policy. The certificate of insurance shall evidence that the
liability insurance policy covers the policy holder and the city of Sun Valley
as named insured. Such insurance shall be valid at all times during demolition
or moving operations. Said liability insurance coverage shall be in the amount
of at least $1,000,000 for bodily or personal injury, death, or property damage
or loss as the result of any one (1) occurrence or accident, regardless of the
number of persons injured or the number of claimants. The purpose of the
insurance required hearing is specified in section 3301 of this chapter.
   119 Damage to Public Property. As a condition to obtaining a building
permit, the permittee assumes liability for any damage to public property
occasioned by such work associated with the permit.
Section 202 is amended by adding the following definition:
   Commencement of Work. Any excavation including the removal of topsoil or any
removal of trees or brush preparatory to excavation shall be defined as the
commencement of work authorized by a permit.
Section 903.2.1.1 Group A-1 condition 1 is amended as follows:
   1.   The fire area exceeds 6,000 square feet.
Section 903.2.1.3 Group A-3 condition 1 is amended as follows:
   1.   The fire area exceeds 6,000 square feet.
Section 903.2.1.4 Group A-4 condition 1 is amended as follows:
   1.   The fire area exceeds 6,000 square feet.
Section 903.2.3 Group E condition 1 is amended as follows:
   1.   Throughout all Group E fire areas greater than 6,000 square feet in
area.
Section 903.2.4 Group F-1 condition 1 is amended as follows:
   1.   A Group F-1 fire area exceeds 6,000 square feet.
   Section 903.2.7 Group M condition 1 is amended as follows:
   1.    A Group M fire area exceeds 6,000 square feet.
Section 903.2.9 Group S-1 condition 1 is amended as follows:
   1.   A Group S-1 fire area exceeds 6,000 square feet.
Section 903.2.9.1 Repair Garages conditions 1 and 2 are amended as follows:
   1.   Buildings having two or more stories above grade plane, including
basements, with a fire area containing a repair garage exceeding 6,000 square
feet.
   2.   Buildings not more than one story above grade plane, with a fire area
containing a repair garage exceeding 6,000 square feet.
Section 903.2.10 Group S-2 enclosed parking garages condition 1 is amended as
follows:
   1.   Where the fire area of the enclosed parking garage exceeds 6,000 square
feet.
Section 1505.1 is amended as follows:
   1505.2 Class A Roofing Required. Class A roof coverings or assemblies
containing no wood products are required on all new construction for all types
of construction. Where an addition to an existing structure exceeds 1,000
square feet of roof area, the entire structure must be upgraded to a class A
roof covering or assembly containing no wood products.
Section 1511.1.1 is added as follows:
   1511.1.1 Reroof Requirements. When a structure is being reroofed it is
required to have a class A roof covering or assembly containing no wood
products. Class A or the highest rated covering that matches existing covering
is required when less than twenty-five (25) percent of the roof areas is being
repaired and additional areas are not subsequently repaired within five (5)
years.
Section 1513 is added to read:
   1513 Snow Retention Devices. These devises are permanently attached to the
roofing assembly and shall be placed on the roof above, including but not
limited to, skylights, sun rooms, greenhouses, and pedestrian areas, to limit
the potential for sliding snow or ice onto pedestrian areas below said roof
areas for all occupancies. Minimum design shall be equal to the design roof
snow load of 100 pounds per square foot.
Section 1605.2 is amended as follows:
   ƒ2 = 0.7 for roof configurations (such as saw tooth) that do not shed snow
off the structure, and 0.35 for other roof configurations.
Section 1605.3.1 Basic load combinations Exception 2 is amended as follows:
   2.   Flat roof snow loads of 30 psf or less and roof live loads of 30 psf or
less need not be combined with seismic loads. Where flat roof snow loads exceed
30 psf, 35 percent of the flat roof snow load shall be combined with seismic
loads.
Section 1605.3.2 Alternative basic load combinations Exception 2 is amended as
follows:
   2.   Flat roof snow loads of 30 psf or less and roof live loads of 30 psf or
less need not be combined with seismic loads. Where flat roof snow loads exceed
30 psf, 35 percent of the flat roof snow load shall be combined with seismic
loads.
Section 1608.2 is amended as follows:
   The ground snow loads to be used in determining the design snow loads for
Sun Valley is determined to be site specific (CS) and shall be taken as 120
psf.
Section 1612.3 Insert: [City of Sun Valley, Idaho] [June 5, 1978].
Section 1613.4 is added to read:
   1613.4 Effective Seismic Weight. The effective seismic weight in section
12.7.2 and section 12.14.8.1 of ASCE7-16 shall be amended as follows:
      4.   For all roofs regardless of roof slope 35% of the uniform design
snow load shall be included in the effective seismic weight (W).
Section 2111.15 is added to read:
   2111.15 Chimney Chases. Factory-built solid fuel burning appliances within a
shaft or chase shall be protected on the interior (flue) side with a layer of
5/8" Type X drywall or equivalent.
Section 2113.9.2 is amended to read:
   2113.9.2 Spark arrestors. A spark arrestor is required on a masonry chimney
and shall meet all of the following requirements:
Section 2115 is added to read:
   2115 Outdoor Fire Pits and Fireplaces. Temporary fire pits, non-temporary
fire pits, and outdoor fireplaces shall burn non-solid fuel only.
Appendix B is deleted in its entirety and is amended to read as follows:
   Board of Appeals
      B101.1 Application Process. Applications for appeal shall be made in
writing to the building official within 10 calendar days after notice has been
served. A fee of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) shall be included with the
written appeal. If the appeal is granted, the fee shall be returned to the
applicant. Upon receiving the appeal, the building official shall notify the
Sun Valley City Council.
      B101.2 Membership of board. The board of appeals will consist of three
qualified members appointed by the Sun Valley City Council. A list of qualified
members shall be kept and made available upon request at the Sun Valley
Building Department.
      B101.2.1 Qualifications. The board of appeals shall consist of members
with the following professions or disciplines:
         •   State of Idaho Licensed Architect
         •   State of Idaho Licensed Engineer
         •   State of Idaho Registered Contractor associated with the Building
Contractors Association of the Wood River Valley
         •   An International Code Council Certified Building Official
         •   An International Code Council Certified Fire Code Official
      B101.3 Open hearing. All hearings before the board shall be open to the
public.
      B101.3.1 Rules and procedures. The board of appeals shall conduct the
hearing in accordance with the following procedure:
         •   The building official shall present background information with
relevant building code references pertinent to the hearing. The Board of
Appeals may ask questions during or after each presentation.
         •   The appellant shall present any information or applicable building
codes to support a reversal of the building official's decision. The applicant
shall have up to twenty (20) minutes to present such evidence.
         •   The building official shall then have up to ten (10) minutes for
response.
         •   The appellant shall have up to ten (10) minutes for rebuttal and
any final comments.
         •   The Board of Appeals may allocate additional time to the hearing,
request additional information, and require additional testimony if deemed
necessary.
         •   Following the hearing, the Board of Appeals shall deliberate and
render a decision within fifteen (15) calendars days.
      B101.4 Board decision. The board shall modify or reverse the decision of
the building official by a concurring vote of two-thirds of its members.
      B101.4.1 Resolution. The decision of the board shall be by resolution.
Certified copies shall be furnished to the appellant and to the building
official.
Appendix J Section J103.2 is amended as follows:
   J103.2 Exemptions. Exception 8 is added to read: Grading, excavation,
earthwork, fills or embankments less than 50 yards, and that do not create an
increased elevation for buildings or building sites above natural existing
grade and do no adversely affect adjoining properties.
Appendix O is added as follows:
   Radon Control Methods
   Section O101 Scope
      O101.1 General. The requirements of the 2018 International Residential
Code Appendix F: Radon Control Methods shall apply to all new construction that
includes residential and institutional occupancies (R1, R2, R3, R4, I1, I2, I3,
and I4). A change of use or occupancy of an existing building that includes
residential and institutional occupancies shall meet the requirements of this
appendix for radon control.
      Exception: Radon mitigation measures are not required if the owner can
demonstrate that the proposed design is not likely to produce unacceptable
levels of radon gas in sleeping areas. A report showing an approved test was
conducted in a representative sleeping area on the lowest residential floor
shall be submitted to the building department prior to a certificate of
occupancy being issued for the project.
(Ord. 550, 12-3-2020)
8-1-2-2:  AMENDMENTS TO THE 2018 INTERNATIONAL RESIDENTIAL CODE:
Section R101.1 Insert: [City of Sun Valley, Idaho].
Section R105.2 Work exempt from permit is amended as follows:
      2.   Fences not over six (6) feet high unless regulated by Sun Valley
Development Code.
Section R108.2 is amended to read:
   Section R108.2 Schedule of Permit Fees. On buildings, structures, or
alterations requiring a permit, a fee for each permit based on the total value
of construction shall be in accordance with the schedule set forth in Table 1-
A as established by resolution of the City of Sun Valley.
Section R105.10 is amended as follows:
   R105.10 Expiration. Every permit issued shall become invalid unless the work
on the site authorized by such permit is commenced within 180 days after its
issuance, or if the work authorized on the site by such permit is suspended or
abandoned for a period of 180 days after the time the work is commenced. Every
permit shall be valid for a total of twenty-four (24) months from the date of
commencement of work after which it shall automatically terminate and become
null and void. The building official and/or the city council may extend the
time of completion for the building or work for successive periods not
exceeding one hundred eighty (180) days. The extension shall be requested in
writing and justifiable cause demonstrated which prevented completion within
the original (24) month period or any subsequent extensions. If the building or
work authorized by the permit has not been completed during the said twenty-
four (24) months, plus the 6-month extensions, then before work can proceed, a
new permit shall be first obtained to do so. The applicant shall resubmit and
apply for a new permit and shall pay all fees as required, and if applicable,
shall obtain design review approval.
Section R108.2 is amended to read:
   R108.2 Schedule of Permit Fees. On buildings, structures or alterations
requiring a permit, a fee for each permit shall paid as required, in accordance
with the schedule as set forth in Table 1-A as established by resolution 2020-
13 of the city of Sun Valley.
Sections R115, R116, and R117 are added as follows:
   R115 Indemnity. Every person, firm, or corporation to whom permission has
been granted under the terms of this code and the general ordinances to utilize
public property for any construction activity shall at all times assume full
responsibility for all work associated with the permit. Such permission shall
be further conditioned for the use of public property to all at all times
release, hold harmless and indemnify the city of Sun Valley and all of its
agents and employees from any and all responsibility, liability, loss or damage
resulting to any persons or property or caused by or incidental to the
construction activity.
   R116 Insurance. Any person, firm or corporation, demolishing or moving any
building, structure or utility, shall deposit with the building official a
certificate of insurance showing the city of Sun Valley as a named insured on
the insurance policy. The certificate of insurance shall evidence that the
liability insurance policy covers the policy holder and the city of Sun Valley
as named insured. Such insurance shall be valid at all times during demolition
or moving operations. Said liability insurance coverage shall be in the amount
of at least $1,000,000 for bodily or personal injury, death, or property damage
or loss as the result of any one (1) occurrence or accident, regardless of the
number of persons injured or the number of claimants. The purpose of the
insurance required hearing is specified in section 3301 of the 2018
International Building Code.
   R117 Damage To Public Property. As a condition to obtaining a building
permit, the permittee assumes liability for any damage to public property
occasioned by such work associated with the permit.
Section R202 is amended by adding the following definition:
   Commencement of Work. Any excavation including the removal of topsoil or any
removal of trees or brush preparatory to excavation shall be defined as the
commencement of work authorized by a permit.
Table R301.2.(1) Insert:
 
TABLE R301.2(1)
CLIMATIC AND GEOGRAPHIC DESIGN CRITERIA
            WIND DESIGN                                   SEISMIC   SUBJECT TO
GROUND SNOW                                               DESIGN    DAMAGE FROM
LOADo       Speedd  Topographic Special wind Windborne    CATEGORYf Weatheringa
120 PSF     (mph)   Effectsk    regionl      debris zonem D1        Severe
            90 mph  No          No           No
 
 
TABLE R301.2(1)
CLIMATIC AND GEOGRAPHIC DESIGN CRITERIA
SUBJECT TO DAMAGE
FROM                              ICE BARRIER
                     WINTER       UNDER-      FLOOD    AIR FREEZING MEAN ANNUAL
                     DESIGN TEMPe LAYMENT     HAZARDSg INDEXi       TEMPi
Frost line Termitec              REQUIREDh                        
depthb     Slight to -20 F        YES 24"     6/5/1978 2000         40° F
32"        Moderate               inside of
                                  wall line
 
 
MANUAL J DESIGN CRITERIAn
Elevation           Latitude      Winter Heating        Summer Cooling
5945                44 N          70                    75
Cooling temperature Wind velocity Wind velocity Cooling Coincident wet bulb
difference          heating       7.5                   61
25                  15
 
 
MANUAL J DESIGN CRITERIAn
Altitude correction Indoor design   Design temperature Heating temperature
factor              Temperature     cooling            difference
0.92                72              75                 90
Daily Range         Winter Humidity Summer Humidity
H                   30%             30%
 
Section R310.7 is added as follows:
   R310.7 Key Boxes. A Supra brand key box shall be installed in an approved
location containing keys necessary to gain access as required by the fire code
official.
Section R313.3 is added to read:
   R313.3 One and two family dwellings automatic fire systems. All new
construction of one and two-family dwellings and townhome buildings of six
thousand (6,000) square feet or greater shall have an approved automatic
sprinkler system installed. Where an addition or alteration to an existing
building brings the total area of the building over six thousand (6,000) square
feet, only the additional or altered area must have an approved automatic
sprinkler system. Square footage is calculated using the total floor area of
all floor levels within the exterior surface of the walls in addition to the
area of horizontal roof projections that are greater than 4 feet.
   Exception: An automatic residential fire sprinkler system shall not be
required where an addition or alteration to an existing building brings the
total area of the building over six thousand (6,000) square feet and the
addition or alteration in under one thousand (1,000) square feet. The addition
or alteration will not require an automatic fire suppression system to be
installed.
Section R319.1 sentence six is amended to read:
   R319.1 Address identification. Each character shall be not less than 6
inches in height with a stroke width of not less than 0.5 inches and shall be
placed a minimum of 4 feet above finished grade.
Section R902.1 is amended to read:
   R902.1 Roofing covering materials. Roofs shall be covered with a Class A
roof covering or assembly containing no wood products as set forth in Sections
R904 and R905. Where an addition to an existing structure exceeds 1,000 square
feet of roof area, the entire structure must be upgraded to a class A roof
covering or assembly containing no wood products. Class A roofing required by
this section to be listed shall be tested in accordance with UL 790 or ASTM
E108.
Section R905.1.4 is added as follows:
   R905.1.4 Reroof Requirements. When a structure is being reroofed it is
required to have a class A roof covering or assembly containing no wood
products. Class A or the highest rated covering that matches existing covering
is required when less than twenty-five (25) percent of the roof areas is being
repaired and additional areas are not subsequently repaired within five (5)
years.
Section R910 is added to read:
   R910 Snow Retention Devices. These devises are permanently attached to the
roofing assembly and shall be placed on the roof above, including but not
limited to, skylights, sun rooms, greenhouses, and pedestrian areas, to limit
the potential for sliding snow or ice onto pedestrian areas below said roof
areas for all occupancies. Minimum design shall be equal to the design roof
snow load of 100 pounds per square foot.
Section R1003.9.2 is amended to read:
   R1003.9.2 Spark arrestors. A spark arrestor is required on masonry chimneys
and shall meet all of the following requirements:
Section R1005.9 is added to read:
   R1005.9 Chimney Chases. Factory-built solid fuel burning appliances within a
shaft or chase shall be protected on the interior (flue) side with a layer of
5/8" Type X drywall or equivalent.
Section R1007 is added to read:
   R1007 Outdoor Fire Pits and Fireplaces. Temporary fire pits, non-temporary
fire pits, and outdoor fireplaces shall burn non-solid fuel only.
Section A0103.3 is added to Appendix O to read:
   Section A0103.2 Vehicular Gate Approval. Vehicular gates shall be approved
by the fire code official.
(Ord. 550, 12-3-2020)
8-1-2-3:  AMENDMENTS TO THE 2018 INTERNATIONAL FIRE CODE:
Section 101.1 Insert: [City of Sun Valley, Idaho].
Section 106.2 is amended to read:
   106.2 Schedule of permit fees. A fee for each permit shall be paid in
accordance with the schedule as set forth in Table 1-A as established by
resolution 2020-13 of the city of Sun Valley.
Section 110.4 is amended to include:
   110.4 Violation penalties. Insert: [misdemeanor] [$300.00] [90 days]
Section 112.4 is amended to read:
   112.4 Failure to comply. Any person who shall continue and work after having
been served with a stop work order, except such work as that person is directed
to perform to revoke a violation or unsafe condition, shall be liable to a fine
of up to $300 per day.
Section 503.2.7 is amended to read:
   503.2.7 Grade. The grade of the fire apparatus roads including driveways
shall be no more than 7% unless otherwise approved by the fire chief up to a
maximum of 10%.
Section 307.4.3 is amended to read:
   Section 307.4.3 Portable outdoor fireplaces. Portable outdoor fireplaces
shall burn non-solid fuel only, be used in accordance with the manufacturer's
instructions, and shall not be operated within 15 feet of a structure or
combustible material.
Section 307.4.3 is amended by deleting the exception.
Section 307.4.3.1 is added to read:
   Section 307.4.3.1 Outdoor Fire Pits and Fireplaces. Temporary fire pits,
non-temporary fire pits, and outdoor fireplaces shall burn non-solid fuel only.
Section 505.1 sentence six is amended to read:
   505.1 Address identification. Each character shall be not less than 6 inches
in height with a stroke width of not less than 0.5 inches and shall be placed a
minimum of 4 feet above finished grade.
Section 507.5.5 is amended as follows:
   Section 507.5.5 Clear Space Around Hydrants. A 5-foot (1524 mm) clear space
shall be maintained around the circumference of fire hydrants, except as
otherwise required or approved.
Section 903.2.1.1 Group A-1 condition 1 is amended as follows:
   2.   The fire area exceeds 6,000 square feet.
Section 903.2.1.3 Group A-3 condition 1 is amended as follows:
   1.   The fire area exceeds 6,000 square feet.
Section 903.2.1.4 Group A-4 condition 1 is amended as follows:
   1.   The fire area exceeds 6,000 square feet.
Section 903.2.3 Group E condition 1 is amended as follows:
   2.   Throughout all Group E fire areas greater than 6,000 square feet in
area.
Section 903.2.4 Group F-1 condition 1 is amended as follows:
   2.   A Group F-1 fire area exceeds 6,000 square feet.
Section 903.2.7 Group M condition 1 is amended as follows:
   3.   A Group M fire area exceeds 6,000 square feet.
Section 903.2.9 Group S-1 condition 1 is amended as follows:
   2.   A Group S-1 fire area exceeds 6,000 square feet.
Section 903.2.9.1 Repair Garages conditions 1 and 2 are amended as follows:
   1.   Buildings having two or more stories above grade plane, including
basements, with a fire area containing a repair garage exceeding 6,000 square
feet.
   4.   Buildings not more than one story above grade plane, with a fire area
containing a repair garage exceeding 6,000 square feet.
Section 903.2.10 Group S-2 enclosed parking garages condition 1 is amended as
follows:
   3.   Where the fire area of the enclosed parking garage exceeds 6,000 square
feet.
Section 5704.2.9.6.1 is amended to read:
   Section 5704.2.9.6.1 Locations where above-ground tanks are prohibited.
Storage of Class I and II liquids in above-ground tanks is prohibited within
the limits established by law as the limits of districts in which such storage
is prohibited within the geographic limits as determined by the fire chief.
Section 5706.2.4.4 is amended to read:
   Section 5706.2.4.4 Locations where above-ground tanks are prohibited. The
storage of Class I and II liquids in above-ground tanks is prohibited within
the limits established by law as the limits of districts in which such storage
is prohibited within the geographic limits as determined by the fire chief.
Section 5806.2 is amended to read:
   Section 5806.2 Limitations. Storage of flammable cryogenic fluids in
stationary containers outside of buildings is prohibited within the limits
established by law as the limits of districts in which such storage is
prohibited within the geographic limits as determined by the fire chief.
Section 6104.2 is amended to read:
   Section 6104.2 Maximum capacity within established limits. Within the limits
established by law restricting the storage of liquefied petroleum gas for the
protection of heavily populated or congested areas, the aggregate capacity of
any one installation shall not exceed a water capacity of 2,000 gallons (7570
l) within the geographic limits as determined by the fire chief.
Appendix A: Board of Appeals is deleted in its entirety and is amended to read
as follows:
   Section A101 General. Appeals made pursuant to the International Fire Code
shall follow the rules and regulation of Appendix B of the International
Building Code as amended by the City of Sun Valley.
Appendix D Section D103.2 is amended to read:
   D103.2 Grade. The grade of the fire apparatus roads including driveways
shall be no more than 7% unless otherwise approved by the fire chief up to a
maximum of 10%.
(Ord. 550, 12-3-2020)
8-1-2-4:  AMENDMENTS TO THE 2018 INTERNATIONAL ENERGY CONSERVATION CODE:
Section C101.1 Insert: [City of Sun Valley, Idaho].
Section R101.1 Insert: [City of Sun Valley, Idaho].
(Ord. 550, 12-3-2020)
8-1-2-5:  AMENDMENTS TO THE 2018 INTERNATIONAL EXISTING BUILDING CODE:
Section 101.1 Insert: [City of Sun Valley, Idaho].
(Ord. 550, 12-3-2020)
8-1-2-6:  AMENDMENTS TO THE 2018 INTERNATIONAL SWIMMING POOL AND SPA CODE:
Section 101.1 Insert: [City of Sun Valley, Idaho].
(Ord. 550, 12-3-2020)
8-1-2-7:  AMENDMENTS TO THE 2018 INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE:
Section 101.1 Insert: [City of Sun Valley, Idaho].
Sections 103.1, 103.2, 103.3, and 103.4 are deleted.
Section 103.5 is amended to read:
   103.5 Fees. The fees for activities and services performed by the city of
Sun Valley in carrying out its responsibilities under this code shall be as set
forth in Table 1-A as established by resolution of the city of Sun Valley.
Section 106.3 is amended to read:
   106.3 Prosecution of Violation. Any person failing to comply with a notice
of violation or order served in accordance with section 107 shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor, with the exception of any violation of section 302,
which shall be an infraction, and any violation shall be deemed a strict
liability offense. If the notice of violation is not complied with, the code
official or community development director shall institute the appropriate
proceeding at law or in equity to restrain, correct or abate such violation, or
to require the removal or termination of the unlawful occupancy of the
structure in violation of the provisions of this code or of the order or
direction made pursuant thereto. Any action taken by the authority having
jurisdiction on such premises shall be charged against the real estate upon
which the structure is located and shall be a lien upon such real estate.
Section 106.4 is amended to read:
   106.4 Violation Penalties. Any person, who shall violate a provision of this
code, or fail to comply therewith, or with any of the requirements thereof, may
be prosecuted within the limits provided by state or local laws. Each day that
a violation continues after due notice has been served shall be deemed a
separate offense.
Section 107.1 is amended to read:
   107.1 Notice to Person Responsible. Whenever the community development
director or code official determines that there has been a violation of this
code or has grounds to believe that a violation has occurred, notice shall be
given in the manner prescribed in sections 107.2 and 107.3 to the person
responsible for the violation as specified in this code. Notices for
condemnation procedures shall also comply with section 108.3. Any notice or
action shall be given at the discretion of the community development director
or the code official and a determination by the community development director
or the code official that such a notice should be given because of the
condition of such property shall be conclusive on the question of whether the
condition warrants such action. It shall be the duty of the owner of any lot,
place, or area in the city which has been declared a public nuisance as
provided herein, within twenty (20) days of posting, mailing, personal service
or last day of publication (whichever is later) of the nuisance abatement
notice to remove or abate the nuisance or to make written arrangements
satisfactory to the city for abatement in the future. Upon the failure,
neglect, or refusal of any owner or occupant so notified to remove the nuisance
or make such arrangements, the city may cause legal action to be taken.
Section 107.3 is amended to read:
   107.3 Method of Service. Such notice shall be deemed to be properly served
if a copy thereof is:
      1.   Delivered personally;
      2.   Sent by certified mail addressed to the last known address;
      3.   If the notice is returned showing that the letter was not delivered,
a notice shall be placed in a newspaper of general circulation in Blaine
County. Said newspaper advertisement shall be a general notice and shall
contain a general statement of the effect of such posting.
Section 108.1.5 paragraph 11 is amended to read:
      11.   Any portion of a building remains on a site after the demolition,
destruction or reasonable cessation of construction activity of the building or
structure or whenever any building or structure is abandoned so as to
constitute such building or portion thereof as an attractive nuisance or hazard
to the public.
Section 110.1 is amended to read:
   110.1 General. The code official may order the owner of any premises upon
which is located any structure, which in the code official's judgment after
review is so deteriorated or dilapidated or has become so out of repair as to
be dangerous, unsafe, insanitary or otherwise unfit for human habitation or
occupancy, and such that it is unreasonable to repair the structure, to
demolish and remove such structure; or if such structure is capable of being
made safe by repairs, to repair and make safe and sanitary, or to board up and
hold for future repair or to demolish and remove at the owner's option; or
where there has been a cessation of normal construction of any structure for a
period of more than one years, the code official may order the owner to
demolish and remove such structure, or board up until future repair. Boarding
the building up for future repair shall not extend beyond one year, unless
approved by the building official.
Section 111.1 is amended to read:
   111.1 Application for Appeal. Any person directly affected by a decision of
the code official or a notice or order issued under this code shall have the
right to appeal to the city council, provided that a written application for
appeal is filed within 20 days after the day the decision, notice or order was
served. An application for appeal shall be based on a claim that the true
intent of this code or the rules legally adopted there under have been
incorrectly interpreted, the provisions of this code do not fully apply, or the
requirements of this code are adequately satisfied by other means.
Sections 111.2 through 111.8 are deleted.
Section 112.4 is amended to read:
   112.4 Failure to Comply. Any person who shall continue any work after having
been served with a stop work order, except such work as that person is directed
to perform to remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall be liable in
accordance with either a misdemeanor or civil infraction subject to prosecution
as set forth herein.
Section 302.4 is amended to read:
   302.4 Weeds. All rubbish and weeds which constitute a fire or health hazard
shall be removed from all land within the city. All noxious weeds shall be
prohibited. Weeds shall be defined as all grasses, annual plants and
vegetation, other than trees or shrubs provided; however, this term shall not
include cultivated flowers, lawns, and gardens. Upon failure of the owner or
agent having charge of a property to cut and destroy weeds after service of a
notice of violation, they shall be subject to prosecution in accordance with
section 106.3 and as prescribed by the authority having jurisdiction. Upon
failure to comply with the notice of violation, any duly authorized employee of
the jurisdiction or contractor hired by the jurisdiction shall be authorized to
enter upon the property in violation and cut and destroy the weeds growing
thereon, and the costs of such removal shall be paid by the owner or agent
responsible for the property.
Section 304.3 is amended to read:
   304.3 Premises identification. For all new construction, buildings shall
have approved address numbers placed in a position to be plainly eligible and
visible from the street or road fronting the property. Numbers shall be not
less than 6 inches in height with a stroke width of not less than 0.5 inches
and shall be placed a minimum of 4 feet above finished grade.
Section 302.10 is added to read:
   302.10 Motorized/Non-Motorized Campers. No motorized or non-motorized
camper, camper shell, camper apron, or camper trailer shall be parked, kept, or
stored unenclosed on any premises for a period exceeding 90 days.
Section 304.14 Insert: [May 1] [September 30].
Section 308 is deleted in its entirety.
Section 602.3 Insert: [October 1] [April 30].
Section 602.4 Insert: [October 1] [April 30].
(Ord. 550, 12-3-2020)
8-1-3: PENALTIES AND ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Any person, firm, association, or corporation that fails to comply with
or violates any of these regulations or adopted codes shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor as defined in section
1-3-2 of this code; provided that for a violation of section 302 hereof shall
be guilty of an infraction and upon conviction shall be subject to a fine of
not more than three hundred dollars ($300.00). Each day that said misdemeanor
or infraction violation continues shall be considered a separate offense.
   B.   Appropriate actions and proceedings at law or in equity may be
instituted by the city of Sun Valley to restrain or abate violations of this
chapter or adopted codes, or compel compliance herewith, or to prevent illegal
construction or occupancy of any buildings, structures, or premises in
violation of this chapter or adopted codes together with appropriate damages
therefor. These remedies shall be cumulative and in addition to all other legal
remedies and penalties provided by law. (Ord. 550, 12-3-2020)
8-1-4: BUILDING PERMIT FEE SCHEDULE:
   A.   Building Permit Fee Table: Building permit fees are based on the total
construction value using the chart below unless a flat rate fee is specified.
TABLE 1-A
TOTAL VALUATION PERMIT FEES
TABLE 1-A
TOTAL VALUATION            PERMIT FEES
$1.00 to $500.00           $24.75
                           $24.75 for the first $500.00 plus $3.20 for each
$501.00 to $2,000.00       additional $100.00 or fraction thereof, to and
                           including $2,000.
                           $410.75 for the first $25,000 plus $10.60 for each
$2001.00 to $50,000.00     additional $1,000 or fraction thereof, to and
                           including $50,000.
                           $676.00 for the first $50,000 plus $7.35 for each
$50,001.00 to $100,000.00  additional $1,000 or fraction thereof, to and
                           including $100,000.
                           $1,043.50 for the first $100,000 plus $5.90 for each
$100,001.00 to $500,000.00 additional $1,000 or fraction thereof, to and
                           including $500,000.
$500,001.00 to             $3,395.50 for the first $500,000 plus $5.00 for each
$1,000,000.00              additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof, to and
                           including $1,000,000.
$1,000,001.00 and up       $5,889.25 for the first $1,000,000 plus $3.85 for
                           each additional $1,000 or fraction thereof.
LOCAL JURISDICTIONAL PLAN CHECK FEES:
Building permit fee shall be calculated according to the table above. An
additional 65% of the building permit fee shall be paid as plan check fee
(excluding: additions, alterations and repairs to residential structures with a
valuation amount less than $50,000) and an additional amount, 40% of the plan
check fee, shall be paid for the Fire Department plan check fee.
Other Inspections And Fees:
1.   Inspections outside of normal business hours (minimum charge - two hours):
$65.00 per hour.*
2.   Inspection for which no fee is specifically indicated (minimum fee - one
half hour): $65.00 per hour.*
3.   For use of outside consultants for plan checking and inspections or both:
Actual Costs.**
4.   Existing Deck Repair (minimum): $150.00.
5.   Re-Roof Permit (minimum): $150.00.
6.   Demolition Permit: $150.00 (flat fee).
7.   Minimum Permit Charge: $150.00.
8.   Solar Permit Fee: $350.00 (flat fee).
9.   Grading Permit Fee: Determined by the building permit fee table above
based on the total value of grading work.
10.   City Engineer Fee: City engineer fees may be billed to an applicant and
shall be based on time and materials.***
*Or the total hourly cost to the jurisdiction, whichever is the greatest. This
cost shall include supervision, overhead, equipment, hourly wages and fringe
benefits of the employees involved.
**Actual costs include administrative and overhead cost.
***City engineer review may be required during the building permit review
process. Examples of projects which may require City engineer review include,
but are not limited to, proposed construction in avalanche risk or flood zone
areas. City engineer review may be determined to be required by the Community
Development Director or Building Official. City engineer review costs shall be
in addition to building permit fees of other inspections and fees, as
identified above.
 
   B.   Fire Permit Fees:
      1.   Fire Permits: Fire permits are issued for work defined exclusively
under the provisions of the International Fire Code. Examples of work requiring
a fire permit include but are not limited to tents, canopies, membrane
structures, and temporary structures.
      2.   Fire Permit Fees: Fire permit fees shall be determined by the Fire
Code Official or Fire Chief. (Res. 2020-13, 12-3-2020; amd. Res. 2023-12, 9-7-
2023)
CHAPTER 2
UNIFORM FIRE CODE
(Rep. by Ord. 342, 12-19-2002, eff. 1-1-2003)
CHAPTER 3
GENERAL BUILDING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-3-1: Fire Zones
8-3-1: FIRE ZONES:
The commercial center districts (CC district), the multiple- family residential
districts (RM-1) and the multiple-family dwelling districts (RM-2), as
established in title 9 of this code, are hereby designated as fire zone 2; and
the rural estate and ranch districts (RA district), the single-family
residential districts (RS-1), the general recreational districts (OS-1) and the
cluster single-family residential districts (RS-2), as established in title 9
of this code, are hereby designated as fire zone 3; with the exception, that
any building or structure with an enclosed area in excess of ten thousand
(10,000) square feet, other than single-family dwellings, shall be deemed to be
within fire zone 2 and shall be subject to all the restrictions pertinent to
that zone. (Ord. 102, 1-28-1976; amd. 1990 Code)
CHAPTER 4
DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEES
SECTION:
8-4-1: Short Title, Applicability, Exemptions, And Purpose
8-4-2: Definitions
8-4-3: Establishment Of Service Areas; Imposition Of Impact Fee; Fee Schedule;
Exemptions
8-4-4: Collection Of Impact Fees; Enforcement
8-4-5: Certification
8-4-6: Individual Assessment
8-4-7: Developer Credits And Reimbursement
8-4-8: Methodology For The Calculation Of Impact Fees
8-4-9: Extraordinary Impact
8-4-10: Fee Payer Refunds
8-4-11: Establishment Of Capital Projects Fund; Fund Accounts
8-4-12: Expenditure Of Impact Fees
8-4-13: Appeals, Protest And Mediation
8-4-14: Periodic Reviews; Annual Budget
8-4-15: Audit
8-4-16: Advisory Committee
8-4-17: Miscellaneous Provisions
8-4-18: Rules Of Construction
8-4-1: SHORT TITLE, APPLICABILITY, EXEMPTIONS, AND PURPOSE:
   A.   Short title: This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the City
of Sun Valley Development Impact Fee Ordinance.
   B.   Findings: Sun Valley City Council finds that:
      1.   The City of Sun Valley is experiencing considerable growth and
development.
      2.   The new growth and development occurring within the City of Sun
Valley will place ever-increasing demands on the City to provide, improve, and
expand existing public facilities to serve that new growth and development and
the tax revenues generated from that new growth and development often does not
generate sufficient funds to provide the necessary improvements and expansion
of the public facilities to protect the public health, safety and welfare.
Those users that create the increased demand should bear their proportionate
share of the cost of public facilities needed to serve the new growth and
development.
   C.   Authority: This chapter is enacted pursuant to the city's general
police power granted to the city by Idaho Code title 67, chapter 82, and other
applicable laws of the state of Idaho.
   D.   Applicability: Except as otherwise exempted, the provisions of this
chapter shall apply to any development within all areas of the city.
   E.   Purpose: The intent of this chapter is to ensure that new residential
and non-residential development bears a proportionate share of the cost of
System Improvements; to ensure that such proportionate share does not exceed
the cost of such System Improvements required to accommodate new Development;
and to ensure that funds collected from new Development are actually used for
System Improvements in accordance with the Act. (Ord. 564, 12-6-2021)
8-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the following
meanings, unless another meaning is plainly intended and words and terms
appearing in the singular number includes the plural and the plural the
singular:
ACCOUNT:      The interest-bearing account within the Impact Fee Capital Projects Fund as
              established in this chapter.
              The City's Development Impact Fee Advisory Committee ("Advisory Committee")
ADVISORY      formed and staffed by the City pursuant to Idaho Code § 67-8205 to prepare and
COMMITTEE:    recommend the Capital Improvements Plan and any amendments, revisions or updates
              of the same.
APPROPRIATE:  To legally obligate by contract or otherwise commit to the expenditure of funds
              by appropriation or other official act of the Board of Commissioners.
BUILDING      The permit required for foundations, new construction and additions pursuant to
PERMIT:       Chapter 1, Title 8, City of Sun Valley Code.
              Land, buildings, apparatus, vehicles and equipment as identified in Exhibits III-
CAPITAL       2 and IV-3 of the City's Capital Improvements Plan as adopted by the City, and
FACILITIES:   specifically including those related costs including System Improvement Costs,
              but not including maintenance, operations, or improvements that do not expand
              their capacity.
CAPITAL       Improvements with a useful life of ten (10) years or more, by new construction or
IMPROVEMENTS  other action, which increases the service capacity of the City's public
:             facilities
CAPITAL       A component of the Capital Improvements Plan adopted by the City pursuant to
IMPROVEMENTS  Chapters 65 and 82 of Title 67, Idaho Code, as they may be amended, which
ELEMENT:      component meets the requirements of the capital improvements plan required by the
              Act.
CAPITAL       The Impact Fee Study and Capital Improvements Plan recommended by the Development
IMPROVEMENTS  Impact Fee Advisory Committee and adopted by the City that identifies the Capital
PLAN:         Facilities for which the City's Impact Fees may be used as a funding source.
CAPITAL
PROJECTS FUND Shall mean and refer to the City's Development Impact Fee Capital Projects Fund
(the "Capital established by action of the City Council pursuant to §
Projects      8-4-11 of this chapter and Idaho Code § 67-8210(1).
Fund"):
CITY:         City of Sun Valley, Idaho.
CITY COUNCIL: The Sun Valley City Council.
DEVELOPER:    Any person or legal entity undertaking Development and/or the subdivision of
              property pursuant to Idaho Code §§ 50-1301 through 50-1334, as may be amended.
              Any construction or installation of a building or structure, or any change in use
              of a building or structure, or any change in the use, character or appearance of
DEVELOPMENT:  land, which creates additional demand and need for public facilities and/or
              subdivision of property that would permit any change in the use, character or
              appearance of land.
DEVELOPMENT   Any written duly authorized document from the City which authorizes the
APPROVAL:     commencement of a Development.
              A requirement attached to a Developmental approval or other City governmental
DEVELOPMENT   action approving or authorizing a particular Development project including, but
REQUIREMENT:  not limited to, a rezoning, which requirement compels the payment, dedication or
              contribution of goods, services, land or money as condition of approval.
DWELLING      Any structure, or portion thereof, providing living facilities for one family as
UNIT:         herein defined, including provisions for living, sleeping, eating, cooking and
              sanitation.
EXTRAORDINARY Those costs incurred as result of an extraordinary impact.
COSTS:
              An impact which is reasonably determined by the City to: A. Result in the need
              for system improvements, the cost of which will significantly exceed the sum of
EXTRAORDINARY the development impact fees to be generated from the project or the sum agreed to
IMPACT:       be paid pursuant to a development agreement as allowed by Idaho Code § 67-8214
              (2), as it may be amended; or B. Result in the need for system improvements which
              are not identified in the Capital Improvements Plan.
FEE PAYER:    The person who pays or is required to pay the City's Impact Fee. A fee payer may
              include a Developer.
              A payment of money imposed as condition of Development Approval to pay for a
              proportionate share of the costs of System Improvements needed to serve the
              Development. The term does not include the following:
              A.   A charge or fee to pay the administrative plan review, or inspection cost
              associated with permits required for Development;
              B.   Connection or hookup charges;
IMPACT FEE:   C.   Availability charges for drainage, sewer, water or transportation charges
              for services provided directly to the development; or
              D.   Amounts collected from a Developer in a transaction in which the City has
              incurred expenses in constructing Capital Improvements for the Development if the
              owner or developer has agreed to be financially responsible for the construction
              or installation of those Capital Improvements, unless a written agreement is
              made, pursuant to Idaho Code § 67-8209(3) as it may be amended, for credit or
              reimbursement.
LAND USE      A description of the service area and projections of land uses, densities,
ASSUMPTIONS:  intensities and population in the service area over at least a ten (10) year
              period.
LEVEL OF      A measure of the relationship between service capacity and service demand for
SERVICE:      Public Facilities.
              A structure, constructed according to HUD/FHA mobile home construction and safety
              standards, transportable in one (1) or more sections, which, in the traveling
              mode, is eight (8) feet or more in width or is forty (40) body feet or more in
              length, or when erected on site, is three hundred twenty (320) or more square
              feet, and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a
MANUFACTURED/ dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected to required
MOBILE HOME:  utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning and electrical
              systems contained in such structure, except that such term shall include any
              structure which meets all the requirements of this subsection except the size
              requirements and with respect to which the manufacturer voluntarily files a
              certification required by the secretary of housing and urban development and
              complies with the standards established under 42 U.S.C. §§ 5401 et seq.
              Any building or building component other than a manufactured/mobile home, which
MODULAR       is constructed according to the International Building Code, as adopted or any
BUILDING:     amendments thereto, which is of closed construction and is either entirely or
              substantially prefabricated or assembled at a place other than the building site.
PRESENT       The total current monetary value of past, present or future payments,
VALUE:        contributions or dedications of goods, services, materials, construction or
              money.
PROJECT:      A particular Development on an identified parcel of land.
PROJECT       In contrast to System Improvements, shall mean site improvements and facilities
IMPROVEMENTS  that are planned and designed to provide service for a particular Development
:             Project and that are necessary for the use and convenience of the occupants or
              users of the Project.
PROPORTIONATE That portion of System Improvement Costs determined pursuant to Idaho Code § 67-
SHARE:        8207 which reasonably relates to the service demands and needs of the Project.
PUBLIC        Land, public safety facilities, including fire and law enforcement, apparatus,
FACILITIES:   vehicles and equipment which have a useful life of ten (10) years or more.
RECREATIONAL  A vehicular type unit primarily designed as temporary quarters for recreational,
VEHICLE:      camping, or travel use, which either has its own motive power or is mounted on or
              drawn by another vehicle.
              Land within the boundaries of the City as established pursuant Chapter _____,
SERVICE AREA: Title ____, Idaho Code, in which specific Public Facilities provide service to
              Development on the basis of sound planning or engineering principles or both as
              identified in the City's Capital Improvements Plan.
              A standardized measure of consumption, use, generation or discharge attributable
              to an individual unit of Development calculated in accordance with generally
SERVICE UNIT: accepted engineering or planning standards for a particular category of Capital
              Improvements. As specifically used in this Ordinance, service units include all
              dwelling units as defined herein and includes, on the square foot basis,
              nonresidential Development.
SYSTEM        In contrast to Project Improvements, shall mean Capital Improvements to Public
IMPROVEMENTS  Facilities which are designed to provide service to a Service Area.
:
              Costs incurred for construction or reconstruction of System Improvements,
              including design, acquisition, engineering and other costs, and also including,
              without limitation, the type of costs described in Idaho Code § 50-1702(h), as it
              may be amended, to provide additional Public Facilities needed to service new
              growth and Development. For clarification, System Improvement Costs do not
              include:
              A.   Construction, acquisition or expansion of Public Facilities other than
              Capital Improvements identified in the Capital Improvements Plan;
              B.   Improvements, repair, operation or maintenance of existing or new capital;
SYSTEM        C.   Upgrading, updating, expanding or replacing existing Capital Improvements to
IMPROVEMENT   serve existing Development in order to meet stricter safety, efficiency,
COSTS:        environmental or regulatory standards;
              D.   Upgrading, updating, expanding or replacing existing Capital Improvements to
              provide better service to existing Development;
              E.   Administrative and operating costs of the City unless such costs are
              attributable to Development of the Capital Improvements Plan, as provided in
              Idaho Code § 67-8208, as it may be amended; and
              F.   Principal payments and interest or other finance charges on bonds or other
              indebtedness except financial obligations issued by or on behalf of the City to
              finance Capital Improvements identified in the Capital Improvements Plan. (Ord.
              564, 12-6-2021)
 
8-4-3: ESTABLISHMENT OF SERVICE AREAS; IMPOSITION OF IMPACT FEE; FEE SCHEDULE;
EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Establishment of Service Areas. There is hereby established a Service
Area which Service Area includes all land in the City of Sun Valley.
   B.   Imposition of Impact Fees. Impact Fees for the City are hereby imposed
on all new Development located within the City of Sun Valley.
   C.   Fee Schedule. Impact Fees shall be calculated in accordance with the
fee schedule set forth below providing for standard fees based on the total
number of Dwelling Units or square feet of nonresidential space in the
Development, unless:
      1.   The Fee Payer requests an individual assessment pursuant to section
8-4-6 of this chapter; or
      2.   The City finds the Development will have an Extraordinary Impact
pursuant to section
8-4-9 of this chapter.
The methodology for determining the costs per service unit provided for in the
fee schedule is set forth in the City's Capital Improvements Plan as adopted by
the City pursuant to Idaho Code§ 67-8208, as it may be amended.
Impact Fee Schedule:
 
Police                                
   Residential (per Dwelling Unit)$300.00
   Non-Residential (per square foo$0.05
Fire
   Residential (per Dwelling Unit)$9,676.00
   Non-Residential (per square foo$3.87
 
   D.   Procedures:
      1.   Building Permit. Upon submittal of complete building permit plans or
manufactured home installation permit for the Development to the City, the City
shall calculate the Impact Fee for the Development within thirty (30) days of
submittal unless:
         a.   The Fee Payer had previously requested and been granted an
individual assessment pursuant to this chapter; or
         b.   The City has previously determined the Development may have an
Extraordinary Impact pursuant to this chapter.
   E.   Exemptions. The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the
following:
      1.   New development, subject to a building permit, for which a building
permit was issued within 30 days of City Council's adoption of Ordinance 564,
the Development Impact Fee ordinance, which occurred December 6th, 2021.
      2.   Rebuilding the same amount of floor space of a structure which is
destroyed by fire or other catastrophe, provided the structure is rebuilt and
ready for occupancy within two (2) years of its destruction;
      3.   Remodeling or repairing a structure which does not increase the
number of Service Units;
      4.   Replacing a residential unit, including a manufactured/mobile home,
with another residential unit on the same lot; provided that, the number of
Service Units does not increase;
      5.   Placing a temporary construction trailer or office on a lot;
      6.   Constructing an addition on a residential structure which does not
increase the number of Service Units;
      7.   Adding uses that are typically accessory to residential uses, such
as tennis court or a clubhouse, unless it can be clearly demonstrated that the
use creates a significant impact on the capacity of System Improvements; or
      8.   The installation of a modular building, manufactured/mobile home or
recreational vehicle if the Fee Payer can demonstrate by documentation such as
utility bills and tax records that either:
         a.   A modular building, manufactured/mobile home or recreational
vehicle was legally in place on the lot or space prior to the effective date of
this chapter; or
         b.   An Impact Fee has been paid previously for the modular building,
manufactured/mobile home or recreational vehicle on that same lot or space.
   F.   Exemption Claim Process. A Fee Payer shall claim an exempt development
activity upon application of a building permit or manufactured/mobile home
installation permit, or if no building permit or manufactured/mobile home
installation permit required, prior to the time construction commences. Any
exemption not so claimed shall be deemed waived by the Fee Payer. Claims for
exemption shall be determined by the City within fifteen (15) days of receipt
of the claim for exemption. (Ord. 564, 12-6-2021)
8-4-4: COLLECTION OF IMPACT FEES; ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Payment of Fees. The Impact Fee shall be paid to the City at the
following times:
      1.   If a Building Permit or manufactured/mobile home installation permit
is required, then before or at the time the permit is issued;
      2.   If no Building Permit or manufactured/mobile home installation
permit is required, then at the time that construction commences; or
      3.   At such other time as the Fee Payer or Developer and the City have
agreed upon in writing.
   B.   Enforcement. When any Impact Fee is due pursuant to this chapter, or
pursuant to the terms of any written agreement between a Fee Payer and the
City, and such Impact Fee has not been paid in a timely manner, the City may
exercise any or all of the following powers as applicable to its authority, in
any combination, to enforce the collection of the Impact Fee:
      1.   Withhold Building Permits, manufactured home installation permits,
or other City Development Approval related to the Development for which the
Impact Fee is due until all Impact Fees due have been paid, and issue stop work
orders, and revoke or suspend a Building Permit;
      2.   Withhold utility services from the Development for which the Impact
Fee is due until all Impact Fees due have been paid;
      3.   Add interest to the Impact Fee not paid in full at the legal rate
provided for in Idaho Code § 28-22-104, as it may be amended, plus five percent
(5%) beginning on the date at which the payment of the Impact Fee was due until
paid in full;
      4.   Impose a penalty of five percent (5%) of the total Impact Fee (not
merely the portion dishonored, late or not paid in full) per month beginning on
the date at which the payment of the Impact Fee was due until paid in full; and
      5.   Impose a lien pursuant to the authority of Idaho Code § 67-8213(4)
for failure to timely pay an Impact Fee following the procedures contained in
Idaho Code Title 45, Chapter 5. (Ord. 564, 12-6-2021)
8-4-5: CERTIFICATION:
   A.   A Fee Payer may request a written certification of the impact fee
schedule or individual assessment which shall establish the impact fee for that
Development. Such certification shall establish the Impact Fee so long as there
is no material change to the particular Development as identified in the
individual assessment application, or the impact fee schedule. A certification
may be applied for in the following manner:
      1.   Requests for certification shall be in writing and made to the City.
Within thirty (30) days after receiving such request, the City shall issue a
written certification of the amount of the Impact Fee due for the proposed
Development. The certification shall include an explanation of the calculation
of the Impact Fee including an explanation of factors considered under Idaho
Code § 67-8207 and shall also specify the System Improvement(s) for which the
Impact Fee is intended to be used. The City shall provide the certification to
the Fee Payer. (Ord. 564, 12-6-2021)
8-4-6: INDIVIDUAL ASSESSMENT:
   A.   In lieu of calculating the amount of the Impact Fee using the impact
fee schedules in section
8-4-3 of this chapter, an individual assessment of Impact Fees is permitted
when the Fee Payer demonstrates by clear and convincing evidence that the
established Impact Fee is inappropriate.
      1.   Individual Assessment Process. A Fee Payer may file a written
request for an individual assessment of the Development by the City with the
City prior to the receipt of a building permit or other necessary approvals or
entitlements from the City. A request for an individual assessment process
shall involve consideration of studies, data, and any other relevant
information submitted by the Fee Payer to adjust the amount of the Impact Fee.
If a Fee Payer files a request for the use of an individual assessment, the Fee
Payer shall be responsible for retaining a qualified professional to prepare
the individual assessment that complies with the requirements of this chapter,
at the Fee Payer's expense. The Fee Payer shall bear the burden of proving by
clear and convincing evidence that the resulting individual assessment is a
more accurate measure of its proportionate share of the cost of System
Improvements, based on the City's adopted Level of Service, than the
development impact fees that would otherwise be due pursuant to the fee
schedule.
         a.   Each individual assessment request and supporting documentation
submitted by the Fee Payer shall be based on the same level of service
standards and unit costs for System Improvements used in the City's Capital
Improvements Plan, shall use an average cost (not a marginal cost) methodology,
and shall document the relevant methodologies and assumptions used.
         b.   Each individual assessment request delivered to the City may then
be accepted, rejected, or accepted with modifications by the City as the basis
for calculating the Impact Fee. The criteria for acceptance, rejection or
acceptance with modifications shall be whether the individual assessment is a
more accurate measure of demand for System Improvements element(s) created by
the proposed Development, or the costs of those facilities, than the applicable
fee shown in the fee schedule.
         c.   The City shall issue a written decision within thirty (30) days
following receipt of a completed request for individual assessment together
with all supporting information from the Fee Payer, so as not to unreasonably
delay the Developer's (Fee Payer's) subsequent applications to the City for
Building Permits.
         d.   The decision by the City on an application for an individual
assessment shall include an explanation of the calculation of the Impact Fee,
shall specify the System Improvement(s) for which the Impact Fee is intended to
be used, and shall include an explanation of those factors identified in Idaho
Code § 67-8207.
         e.   If an individual assessment is accepted or accepted with
modifications by the City then the Impact Fee due under this chapter for such
Development shall be calculated according to such individual assessment. (Ord.
564, 12-6-2021)
8-4-7: DEVELOPER CREDITS AND REIMBURSEMENT:
   A.   When a Developer or their predecessor in title or interest has
constructed System Improvements of the same category as a Capital Improvements
Element, or contributed or dedicated land or money towards the completion of
System Improvements of the same category as the Capital Improvements Element,
and the City has accepted such construction, contribution or dedication, the
City shall issue a credit against the Impact Fees otherwise due for the same
Capital Improvements Element in connection with the proposed Development, as
set forth in this section, credit shall be issued regardless of whether the
contribution or dedication to System Improvements was required by the City as a
condition of Development Approval or was offered by the Developer and accepted
by the City in writing, and regardless of whether the contribution or
dedication was contributed by the Developer or by a local improvement District
controlled by the Developer.
   B.   Credits against an Impact Fee shall not be given for:
      1.   Project Improvements; or
      2.   Any construction, contribution or dedication not agreed to in
writing by the City prior to commencement of the construction, contribution, or
dedication.
Credits issued for one Capital Improvements Element may not be used to reduce
Impact Fees due for a different capital improvement. No credits shall be issued
for System Improvements contributed or dedicated prior to the effective date of
this chapter.
   C.   Valuation of Credit at Present Value:
      1.   Land. Credit for qualifying land dedications shall, at the Fee
Payer's option, be valued at the present value of:
         a.   One hundred percent (100%) of the most recent assessed value for
such land as shown in the records of the City assessor; or
         b.   That fair market value established by a private appraiser
acceptable to the City in an appraisal paid for by the Fee Payer.
      2.   Improvements. Credit for qualifying acquisition or construction of
System Improvements shall be valued by the City at the present value of such
improvements based on complete engineering drawings, specifications, and
construction cost estimates submitted by the Fee Payer to the City. The City
shall determine the amount of credit due based on the information submitted,
or, if it determines that such information is inaccurate or unreliable, then on
alternative engineering or construction costs acceptable to the City as a more
accurate measure of the value of the offered System Improvements to the City
   D.   When Credits Become Effective:
      1.   Land. Approved credits for land dedications shall become effective
when the land has been conveyed to the City in a form acceptable to the City,
at no cost to the City, and has been accepted by the City. Upon request of the
Fee Payer, the City shall issue a letter stating the amount of credit
available.
      2.   Improvements. Approved credits for acquisition or construction of
System Improvements shall generally become effective when:
         a.   All required construction has been completed and has been
accepted by the City;
         b.   A suitable maintenance and warranty bond has been received and
approved by the City; and
         c.   All design, construction, inspection, testing, bonding, and
acceptance procedures have been completed in compliance with all applicable
requirements of the City and the state of Idaho. Upon request of the Fee Payer,
the City shall issue a letter stating the amount of credit available.
   E.   Credit Request Process:
      1.   Request. In order to obtain a credit against an Impact Fee otherwise
due, a Fee Payer shall submit to the City a written offer of request to
dedicate to the City specific parcels of qualifying land or a written offer to
contribute or construct specific System Improvements to the Capital Facilities
in accordance with all applicable State or City design and construction
standards, and shall specifically request a credit against the type of Impact
Fee for which the land dedication or System Improvements is offered.
      2.   Review. After receipt of the written offer of request for credit,
the City shall review the request and determine whether the land or System
Improvements offered for credit will reduce the costs of providing Capital
Facilities by an amount at least equal to the value of the credit. If the City
determines that the offered credit satisfies that criteria and will be
acceptable to the City Board of Commissioners, then the credit shall be issued.
The City shall complete its review and determination of an application within
thirty (30) days after receipt of an application for credit.
      3.   Credits Exceeding Fee Amounts Due. If the credit due to a Fee Payer
pursuant to subsection
8-4-7 exceeds the Impact Fee that would otherwise be due from the Fee Payer
pursuant to the chapter (whether calculated through the Impact Fee schedule in
section
8-4-3 of this chapter or through an individual assessment), the Fee Payer may
choose to receive such credit in the form of either:
         a.   A credit against future Impact Fee due for the same System
Improvements; or
         b.   A reimbursement from Impact Fees paid by future Development that
impacts the System Improvements contributed or dedicated by the Fee Payer.
Unless otherwise stated in an agreement with the Fee Payer, the City shall be
under no obligation to use any of the City funds - other than Impact Fees paid
by other Development for the same System Improvements - to reimburse the Fee
Payer for any credit in excess Impact Fees that are due.
      4.   Written Agreement Required. If credit or reimbursement is due to the
Fee Payer pursuant to this section, the City shall enter into a written
agreement with the Fee Payer, negotiated in good faith, prior to the
contribution, dedication, or funding of the System Improvements giving rise to
the credit. The agreement shall provide for the amount of credit or the amount,
time and form of reimbursement, and shall have a term not exceeding ten (10)
years.
      5.   The City's determination on the written offer of request for credit
shall be provided to the Fee Payer. (Ord. 564, 12-6-2021)
8-4-8: METHODOLOGY FOR THE CALCULATION OF IMPACT FEES:
   A.   General Provisions.
      1.   Accounting Principles. The calculation of the Impact Fee shall be in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A development impact
fee shall not be deemed invalid because payment of the fee may result in an
incidental benefit to owners or Developers within the service area other than
the Fee Payer.
      2.   Levels Of Service. The Impact Fee shall be calculated on the basis
of levels of service for Public Facilities in the adopted Capital Improvement
Plan that are applicable to existing Development as well as new growth and
Development. The construction, improvement, expansion or enlargement of new or
existing Public Facilities for which the Impact Fee is imposed must be
attributable to the capacity demands generated by the new Development.
   B.   Methodology; Proportionate Methodology. The Impact Fee shall not exceed
a proportionate share of the cost of the System Improvements determined in
accordance with Idaho Code § 67-8207, as it may be amended. Impact Fees shall
be based on actual System Improvements Costs or reasonable estimates of such
costs. The amount of the Impact Fee shall be calculated using the methodology
contained in the adopted Capital Improvements Plan.
   C.   Proportionate Share Determination.
      1.   The Impact Fee shall be based on a reasonable and fair formula or
method under which the Impact Fee imposed does not exceed a proportionate share
of the costs incurred or to be incurred by the City in the provision of System
Improvements to serve the new Development. The proportionate share is the costs
attributable to the new Development after the City considers the following:
         a.   Any appropriate credit, offset or contribution of money,
dedication of land or construction of System Improvements;
         b.   Payments reasonably anticipated to be made by or as a result of a
new Development in the form of user fees and debt service payments;
         c.   That portion of general tax or other revenues allocated by the
City to System Improvements; and
         d.   All other available sources of funding such System Improvements.
      2.   In determining the proportionate share of the cost of System
Improvements to be paid by the Developer, the following factors shall be
considered by the City and accounted for in the calculation of the Impact Fee:
         a.   The costs of existing System Improvements within the Service
area;
         b.   The means by which existing System Improvements have been
financed;
         c.   The extent to which the new Development will contribute to System
Improvements Costs through taxation, assessments, or developer or landowner
contributions, or has previously contributed to System Improvements Costs
through Developer or landowner contributions;
         d.   The extent to which the new development is required to contribute
to the cost of existing System Improvements in the future;
         e.   The extent to which the new Development should be credited for
providing System Improvements, without charge to other properties within the
Service Area;
         f.   Extraordinary costs, if any, incurred in serving the new
Development;
         g.   The time and price differential inherent in a fair comparison of
fees paid at different times; and
         h.   The availability of other sources of funding System Improvements
including, but not limited to, user charges, general tax levies,
intergovernmental transfers and special taxation. (Ord. 564, 12-6-2021)
8-4-9: EXTRAORDINARY IMPACT:
   A.   The City may make an initial determination that Development may impose
an Extraordinary Impact due to a review of a development application
transmitted to the City pursuant to the City's zoning authority under the Local
Land Use Planning Act, chapter 65, title 67, Idaho Code.
   B.   Process:
      1.   Within thirty (30) days after City's receipt of the development
application, the City will notify the Fee Payer of the City's initial
determination that the Development may impose an Extraordinary Impact. Such
notice shall include that a supplemental study, at the Fee Payer's expense will
be required.
      2.   Within thirty (30) days following the designation of a Development
with Extraordinary Impact, the City shall meet with the Fee Payer to discuss
whether the Fee Payer wants to:
         a.   Pay for the supplemental study necessary to determine the System
Improvements Costs related to the proposed Development;
         b.   Modify the proposal to avoid generating Extraordinary Impact; or
         c.   Withdraw the application for certification, or Development
approval.
      3.   If the Fee Payer agrees to pay for the supplemental study required
to document the proposed Development's proportionate share of System
Improvements Costs, then the City and the Fee Payer shall jointly select an
individual or organization acceptable to both to perform such study. The Fee
Payer shall enter into a written agreement with such individual or organization
to pay the costs of such study. Such agreement shall require the supplemental
study to be completed within thirty (30) days of such written agreement, unless
the Fee Payer agrees to a longer time.
      4.   Once the study has been completed, the Fee Payer may choose to:
         a.   Pay the proportionate share of System Improvements Costs
documented by the supplemental study; or
         b.   Modify the proposed Development to reduce such costs; or (c)
withdraw the application.
      5.   If the Fee Payer agrees to pay the System Improvements Costs
documented in the supplemental study, that agreement shall be reduced to
writing between the City and the Fee Payer prior to review and consideration of
any application for any Development approval or Building Permit related to the
proposed Development.
      6.   Notwithstanding any agreement by the Fee Payer to pay the
proportionate share of System Improvements Costs documented by the supplemental
study, nothing in this ordinance shall obligate the City to approve Development
that results in an Extraordinary Impact to the City. (Ord. 564, 12-6-2021)
8-4-10: FEE PAYER REFUNDS:
   A.   Duty to Refund:
      1.   An Impact Fee shall be refunded to a Fee Payer, or successor in
interest, or a property owner in the following circumstances:
         a.   Service is available but never provided;
         b.   A Building Permit, or permit for installation of a manufactured
home, is denied or abandoned;
         c.   The Fee Payer pays an Impact Fee under protest and a subsequent
review of the fee paid or the completion of an individual assessment determines
that the fee paid exceeded the proportionate share to which the City was
entitled to receive;
         d.   The City has collected an Impact Fee and the City has failed to
Appropriate or expend the collected fees pursuant to section
8-4-12 below; or
         e.   Failure of the City to commence construction or encumber the
funds in the Capital Projects Fund.
      2.   Any Impact Fee paid shall be refunded if the City has failed to
commence construction of System Improvements in accordance with this chapter,
or to appropriate funds for such construction, within eight (8) years after the
date on which such fee was collected by the City. Any refund due shall be paid
to the owner of record of the parcel for which the City's Impact Fee was paid.
The City may hold Impact Fees for longer than eight (8) years but in no event
longer than eleven (11) years from the date collected if the City identifies in
writing:
         a.   A reasonable cause why the fees should be held longer than eight
(8) years; and
         b.   An anticipated date by which the fees will be expended. If the
City complies with the previous sentence, then any Impact Fees so identified
shall be refunded to the Fee Payer if the City has failed to commence
construction of System Improvements in accordance with the written notice, or
to Appropriate Funds for such construction on or before the date identified in
such writing.
      3.   After an Impact Fee has been paid pursuant to this chapter and after
a certificate of occupancy has been issued by the City, no refund of any part
of such fee shall be made if the project for which the fee was paid is later
demolished, destroyed, or is altered, reconstructed, or reconfigured so as to
reduce the size of the project or the number of units in the project.
      4.   Each refund shall include a refund of interest at one-half the legal
rate provided for in Idaho Code § 28-22-104 from the date on which the fee was
originally paid.
   B.   Process: The City shall make a determination of whether a refund is due
within thirty (30) days after receipt of a written request for a refund from
the Fee Payer, successor in interest, or an owner of record of the property for
which the fee was paid. When the right to a refund exists, the City shall send
the refund within ninety (90) days after the City determines that a refund is
due. (Ord. 564, 12-6-2021)
8-4-11: ESTABLISHMENT OF CAPITAL PROJECTS FUND; FUND ACCOUNTS:
   A.   Capital Projects Funds Established. The Capital Projects Fund will be
maintained by the City for the purpose of ensuring that all Impact Fees
collected, pursuant to this chapter, are used to address impacts reasonably
attributable to new Development for which the Impact Fees are paid. The Capital
Projects Fund shall have its own interest-bearing Account. The interest earned
on the account pursuant to Idaho Code § 67-8210(1) shall not be governed by
Idaho Code § 57-127, as it may be amended, but shall be considered funds of the
Capital Projects Fund and shall be subject to the same restrictions on uses of
funds as the Impact Fees on which the interest is generated.
   B.   Deposit of Impact Fees. All monies paid by a Fee Payer, pursuant to
this chapter, shall be identified as Impact Fees and upon receipt by the City
shall be promptly deposited in the Capital Projects Fund Account.
      1.   Monies in the Capital Projects Fund Account shall be spent in the
order collected, on a first- in/first-out basis.
      2.   The City shall maintain and keep accurate financial records for the
Account which records shall:
         a.   Show the source and disbursement of all revenues;
         b.   Account for all monies received;
         c.   Ensure that the disbursement of funds from the Account shall be
used solely and exclusively for the provisions of projects specified in the
Capital Improvements Plan; and
         d.   Provide an annual accounting for the Impact Fee Capital Projects
Fund Account showing the source and amount of all funds collected and the
projects that were funded, which annual accounting shall be provided to the
City as part of the annual audit process of this chapter. (Ord. 564, 12-6-2021)
8-4-12: EXPENDITURE OF IMPACT FEES:
   A.   Expenditures. Expenditures of Impact Fees collected and deposited in
the Capital Projects Fund shall be made only for System Improvements within the
Service Area for which the Impact Fee was collected in accordance with the
Capital Improvements Plan.
   B.   Capital Improvements Plan Reimbursement; Surcharge. A portion of each
Impact Fee collected may be designated as a surcharge for reimbursement for the
cost of preparing the Capital Improvements Plan in accordance with Idaho Code §
67-8208. The surcharge shall not exceed the Development's proportionate share
of the cost of preparing the Capital Improvements Plan. (Ord. 564, 12-6-2021)
8-4-13: APPEALS, PROTEST AND MEDIATION:
   A.   Appeals. Any Fee Payer that is or may be obligated to pay an Impact
Fee, individual assessment or an Extraordinary Impact, or that claims a right
to receive a refund, reimbursement, exemption or credit under this chapter, and
who is dissatisfied with a decision made either by the City in applying this
chapter, may appeal such decision. The Fee Payer shall have the burden on
appeal of proving by clear and convincing evidence that the decision was in
error.
   B.   Appeal Process.
      1.   Appeals of denials of an exemption from Impact Fees under section
8-4-3-E of this chapter.
         a.   A Fee Payer shall file a written notice of the appeal with the
City of Sun Valley Community Development Department within thirty (30) days
after the date of a denial of an exemption. Such notice of appeal shall include
a statement describing why the Fee Payer believes that the appealed decision
was in error, together with copies of any documents that the Fee Payer believes
support the claim.
         b.   The City Community Development Department shall schedule a
hearing in front of the City Council within thirty (30) days of receiving the
appeal. The Fee Payer or its representative shall have a right to be present
and to present evidence in support of the appeal. The City personnel who made
the decision under appeal or their representatives shall likewise have the
right to be present and to present evidence in support of the decision.
         c.   The City Council shall consider the decision denying the
exemption and also consider any additional evidence that may be offered by the
Fee Payer and City staff. The City Council may affirm, reverse, or modify in
whole or in part the decision appealed from and issue a written decision within
thirty (30) days.
         d.   A final decision of the City Council may be judicially reviewed
pursuant to Idaho Code § 31-1506.
      2.   Appeals of impact fee schedule assessments, refunds, reimbursements,
credits, individual assessments, or extraordinary impacts under this chapter.
         a.   The Fee Payer shall file a written notice of the appeal with the
City within thirty (30) days after the date of the City's decision, or the date
on which the Fee Payer submitted a payment of the Impact Fee under protest,
whichever is later. Such written application shall include a statement
describing why the Fee Payer believes that the appealed decision was in error,
together with copies of any documents that the Fee Payer believes support the
claim.
         b.   The City Council shall hear the appeal within sixty (60) days
after receipt of a written notice of appeal. The Fee Payer or its
representative shall have a right to be present and to present evidence in
support of the appeal. The City personnel who made the decision under appeal or
their representatives shall likewise have the right to be present and to
present evidence in support of the decision. The criteria to be used by the
City Council in considering the appeal shall be whether:
            (1)   The decision or interpretation made by the City; or
            (2)   The alternative decision or interpretation offered by the Fee
Payer, more accurately reflects the intent of this chapter that new development
in the Service Area pay its proportionate share of the costs of system
improvements to public facilities necessary to serve new development and
whether the chapter has been correctly applied.
The City Council shall issue a decision upholding, reversing, or modifying the
decision being appealed within thirty (30) days after hearing the appeal.
   C.   Payment Under Protest. A Fee Payer may pay an Impact Fee under protest
in order not to delay in the issuance of a Building Permit by the City. A Fee
Payer making a payment under protest shall not be estopped from exercising the
right to appeal provided herein, nor shall such Fee Payer be estopped from
receiving a refund of any amount deemed to have been illegally collected.
   D.   Mediation.
      1.   Any Fee Payer that has a disagreement with a decision made by the
City regarding an Impact Fee determination that is or may be due for a proposed
Development pursuant to this chapter, may enter into a voluntary agreement with
the City as the case may be, to subject the disagreement to mediation by a
qualified independent party acceptable to both parties to the mediation.
      2.   Mediation may take place at any time following the filing of a
timely appeal, or as an alternative to such appeal, provided that the request
for mediation is filed no later than the last date on which a timely appeal
could be filed pursuant to this section.
      3.   Participation in mediation does not preclude the Fee Payer from
pursuing other remedies provided for in this section.
      4.   If mediation is requested, any related mediation costs shall be
shared equally by the parties to the mediation, and a written agreement
regarding the payment of such costs shall be executed prior to the commencement
of mediation.
      5.   In the event that mediation does not resolve the issues, the Fee
Payer retains all rights of appeal as set forth in this section. (Ord. 564, 12-
6-2021)
8-4-14: PERIODIC REVIEWS; ANNUAL BUDGET:
   A.   Review and Modification of Capital Improvements Plan. Unless the City
Council deems some other period is appropriate, the City shall, at least once
every five (5) years, commencing from the date of the original adoption of the
Capital Improvements Plan, review the Development potential and update the
Capital Improvements Plan in accordance with the procedures set forth in Idaho
Code § 67-8206, as it may be amended. Each update shall be prepared by the City
in consultation with the Advisory Committee.
   B.   Annual budget. The City shall annually adopt a capital budget. (Ord.
564, 12-6-2021)
8-4-15: AUDIT:
As part of its annual audit process, the City shall prepare an annual report:
   A.   Describing the amount of all Impact Fees collected, appropriated or
spent during the preceding year; and
   B.   Describing the percentage of taxes and revenues from sources other than
the Impact Fees collected, appropriated or spent for System Improvements during
the preceding year. (Ord. 564, 12-6-2021)
8-4-16: ADVISORY COMMITTEE:
   A.   Establishment and Purpose. Pursuant to Idaho Code § 67-8205, there is
hereby established Development Impact Fee Advisory Committee (Advisory
Committee), whose purpose is to carry out the duties as set forth in Idaho Code
§ 67-8205(3), as it may be amended.
   B.   Membership. The Advisory Committee shall be composed of the members of
the City's Planning & Zoning Commission, provided that there are not fewer than
five (5) members, all of whom must reside within the City. Two (2) or more
members shall be active in the business of development, building or real
estate. Two (2) or more members shall not be in the business of development,
building or real estate. Employees may not be appointed as members of the
committee.
   C.   Meetings. Meetings may be called by the Advisory Committee by giving
reasonable notice of the time and place of the meeting in accordance with the
Open Meetings Law, Idaho Code §§ 74-201 et seq., as may be amended. The
Advisory Committee shall adopt reasonable rules as are necessary to carry out
the duties and responsibilities of the committee subject to the approval of the
City, and elect such officers as deemed necessary. (Ord. 564, 12-6-2021)
8-4-17: MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS:
   A.   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the City from requiring a
Developer to construct reasonable Project Improvements, as are required by the
fire codes and other rules that are adopted by the state fire marshal, in
conjunction with a Development.
   B.   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent or prohibit
private agreements between property owners or developers, the Idaho
Transportation Department and governmental entities in regard to the
construction or installation of System Improvements or providing for credits or
reimbursements for System Improvements Costs incurred by a Developer including
inter-project transfers of credits or providing for reimbursement for Project
Improvements which are used or shared by more than one (1) Development project.
   C.   Nothing in this chapter shall obligate the City to approve Development
which results in an Extraordinary Impact.
   D.   Nothing in this chapter shall obligate the City to approve any
Development request which may reasonably be expected to reduce levels of
service below minimum acceptable levels established in this chapter.
   E.   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to create any additional
right to develop real property or diminish the City in regulating the orderly
development of real property within its boundaries
   F.   Nothing in this chapter shall work to limit the use by the City of the
power of eminent domain or supersede or conflict with requirements or
procedures authorized in the Idaho Code for local improvement District or
general obligation bond issues.
   G.   The City shall develop a plan for alternative sources of revenue, which
shall include but not necessarily be limited to plans generated during the
annual budget process, lobbying efforts, tax increment financing, and
implementation of user fees, administrative and regulatory fees and other forms
of revenue.
   H.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, that portion of a
Project for which a complete application for a Building Permit has been issued
by the City, prior to the effective date of this chapter, shall not be subject
to the Impact Fee imposed by this chapter. If the resulting Building Permit is
later revised or replaced after the effective date of the ordinance codified in
this chapter, and the new Building Permit(s) reflects a development density,
intensity, development size or number of Service Units more than ten percent
(10%) higher than that reflected in the original Building Permit, then the
Impact Fee may be charged on the difference in density, intensity, development
size or number of Service Units between the original and the revised or
replacement Building Permit.
   I.   Any monies, including any accrued interest not assigned to specific
System Improvements within such Capital Improvements Plan and not expended or
refunded pursuant to this chapter shall be retained in the same account until
the next fiscal year.
   J.   If the City discovers an error in the Capital Improvements Plan that
results in assessment or payment of more than a proportionate share of System
Improvement Costs on any proposed Development, the City shall:
      1.   Adjust the Impact Fee to collect no more than a proportionate share;
or
      2.   Discontinue the collection of any Impact Fees until the error is
corrected by ordinance.
   K.   If Impact Fees are calculated and paid based on a mistake or
misrepresentation, they shall be recalculated. Any amounts overpaid by a Fee
Payer shall be refunded by the City within thirty (30) days after the
acceptance of the recalculated amount, with interest at the legal rate provided
for in Idaho Code § 28-22-104 from the date on which the fee was paid. Any
amounts underpaid by the Fee Payer shall be paid to the City within thirty (30)
days after the acceptance of the recalculated amount, with interest at the
legal rate provided for in Idaho Code § 28-22-104 from the date on which the
fee was paid. (Ord. 564, 12-6-2021)
8-4-18: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION:
All provisions, terms, phrases and expressions contained in this chapter shall
be liberally construed in order that the true intent and meaning of the Act and
the Sun Valley City Council may be fully carried out. (Ord. 564, 12-6-2021)
TITLE 9
DEVELOPMENT CODE
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL REGULATIONS
ARTICLE A. PURPOSE, APPLICABILITY, AND INTERPRETATION
SECTION:
9-1A-1: Title
9-1A-2: Purpose
9-1A-3: Compliance With Comprehensive Plan
9-1A-4: Applicability
9-1A-5: Minimum Requirements
9-1A-6: Interpretation
9-1A-1: TITLE:
Upon adoption by the council, this title shall constitute the official zoning
and subdivision ordinances of the city. This title shall be known and cited as
the DEVELOPMENT CODE OF THE CITY. The development code of the city is adopted
by authority of the council, and it shall be kept up to date as provided in
section
1-1-3 of this code. Within this document, the development code of the city
shall be referred to as "this title". (Ord. 382, 10-25-2006)
9-1A-2: PURPOSE:
It is the intent of this title to carry out the intent and purposes of the
local land use planning act, Idaho Code section 67-6501 et seq., and to protect
and promote the health, safety and general welfare of the community by
implementing the goals and objectives of the comprehensive plan for the city.
(Ord. 480, 1-7-2016)
9-1A-3: COMPLIANCE WITH COMPREHENSIVE PLAN:
Pursuant to the requirements of Idaho Code section 67-6501 et seq., zoning
within the city shall be in accordance with the current comprehensive plan.
(Ord. 455, 12-6-2012)
9-1A-4: APPLICABILITY:
The regulations of this title shall apply and govern development and use of all
properties: a) within the corporate limits of the city; and b) within the area
of the city impact, based on mutual agreement between the city and Blaine
County and/or the city of Ketchum.
   A.   No person or public agency shall construct, alter, demolish, move a
structure; or change the use of a structure; or undertake any development
unless:
      1.   The proposed use, structure, division of property, or modification
to a division of property complies with this title; and
      2.   Any required approval is first obtained as provided by chapter 5 of
this title, and any applicable conditions of approval are met.
   B.   Nothing in this title shall eliminate the need for obtaining any other
required permits, including, but not limited to, building permits, plumbing,
electrical, or mechanical permits; grading permits; or any permit, approval, or
entitlement required by other titles of this code, other political subdivisions
of the state or agencies of the state.
   C.   All properties shall comply with the regulations of this title unless
otherwise preempted by federal statute or local law statutory ordinance.
   D.   The prosecution of violations that occurred under previous land use
regulations and that remain a violation under this title shall continue until
resolved.
   E.   Any proposed structure for which a building permit has been issued on
or before the date of the initial enactment or subsequent amendment of this
title may be completed, subject to these conditions: 1) the time limitations
otherwise applicable to the permit, and 2) the structure follows the plans and
application on which the building permit was granted, notwithstanding that said
structure or use does not conform to the provisions of this title. If the
structure or use does not comply with the provisions of this title, it may be
used in accordance with the plans and application as a nonconforming structure
provided for in article B of this chapter. (Ord. 382, 10-25-2006)
9-1A-5: MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Whenever the provisions adopted herein pursuant to the land use
planning act, Idaho Code section 67-6501 et seq., impose higher standards than
are required by any other Idaho statute or other local ordinance, the
provisions of this title shall govern.
   B.   The standards set forth in this title are the minimum design standards
and any higher standards or conditions of approval granted under provisions of
title 7 of this code or adopted and made applicable by any highway district,
state highway department or other federal, state or local regulatory agencies
shall prevail over those set forth herein.
   C.   When interpreting and applying the regulations of this title, all
regulations shall be considered to be minimum requirements, unless stated
otherwise. Compliance with the minimum standards does not automatically ensure
acceptance of an application by the city.
      1.   Minimum lot areas; size, bulk and mass of structures; and densities
prescribed in this title are minimum standards only, intended for flat land
areas not for hillsides, and do not create an entitlement to the densities
under this title. In addition, development may be strictly limited above slopes
greater than fifteen percent (15%).
      2.   Compliance with the standards of evaluation and criteria in this
title may limit the amount of land available for development. Additional
requirements may be added by the council before acceptance in order to
implement the purpose of this title, the objectives of the comprehensive plan,
or provide for the public health, safety, and general welfare. (Ord. 382, 10-
25-2006)
9-1A-6: INTERPRETATION:
   A.   Language:
      1.   Terminology: When used in this title, all words used in the present
tense shall include the future; words used in the singular number shall include
the plural number; and the plural the singular, unless the natural construction
of the sentence indicates otherwise. The word "shall" is mandatory, and the
word "may" is permissive. The masculine shall include the feminine.
      2.   Abbreviations: "IC" means the state statutes of the state of Idaho;
"SVMC" means Sun Valley municipal code; "city" means the city of Sun Valley;
"council" means the Sun Valley city council; and "commission" means the Sun
Valley planning and zoning commission.
      3.   Number Of Days: Whenever a number of days is specified in this
title, or in any permit, condition of approval, or notice issued or given as
provided in this title, the number of days shall be construed as calendar days,
except that such time limits shall extend to the following working day when the
last of the specified number of days falls on a weekend or city holiday.
      4.   Defined Terms: Terms defined in article C of this chapter shall have
their defined meaning when used elsewhere in this title, unless a different
meaning is clearly required by the content. Where terms are not defined, they
shall have their ordinary accepted meanings within the context with which they
are used. The most current version of the "Merriam-Webster's Unabridged
Dictionary Of The English Language" shall be considered as providing accepted
meanings.
      5.   Section Headings: Section headings or captions are for reference
purposes only and shall not be used in the interpretation of this title.
      6.   References: All references to local, state or federal laws and/or
regulations shall refer to such laws and/or regulations as they may be amended
over time.
      7.   Measurements: Except as otherwise specified, all measurements of the
square feet of a structure shall be measured from the exterior walls of the
structure.
   B.   District Boundaries: Where the districts designated on the official
zoning map are approximately bounded by street lines, alley lines or the
subdividing or boundary lines of recorded plats, such lines shall be considered
to be the district boundaries. Where, due to the scale or illegibility of the
zoning map, or due to the absence of a street, alley or recorded subdividing or
plat lines, there is uncertainty, contradiction or conflict as to the intended
location of any district boundary, the commission shall have the power and duty
of interpreting the intent of the official zoning map to determine and
designate the proper location for such district boundary consistent with the
intent of this title.
   C.   Conflicting Regulations:
      1.   In case of conflict between the text and the maps of this title, the
maps shall prevail.
      2.   If conflicts occur between different regulations of this title, or
between this title and other regulations of this code, the most restrictive
regulation shall apply.
      3.   It is not intended that this title interfere with, abrogate, or
annul any easements, covenants, or other agreements between parties; however,
where this title imposes a greater restriction upon the use of structures or
premises; or upon the height, location or size of structures, or requires
larger space than is imposed or required by ordinances, rules or regulations,
or by easements, covenants, or agreements, the regulations of this title shall
govern. (Ord. 382, 10-25-2006)
   D.   Documents By Reference: Documents incorporated by reference into this
title are on file at city hall. These documents are as follows:
      1.   The flood insurance study for the city, entitled "The Flood
Insurance Study For Blaine County And Incorporated Areas" dated November 26,
2010, with accompanying flood insurance rate maps (FIRM) and digital flood
insurance rate maps (DFIRM);
      2.   The 2015 comprehensive plan update adopted September 11, 2015, as
may be amended from time to time;
      3.   The 2015 city of Sun Valley transportation plan, as may be amended
from time to time;
      4.   Idaho standards for public works construction (ISPWC); and
      5.   Natural resource maps:
         a.   Areas of environmental concern;
         b.   Vegetation types;
         c.   Slope map;
         d.   1964 Patterson surveys. (Ord. 480, 1-7-2016)
ARTICLE B. EXISTING NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES, LOTS AND USES
SECTION:
9-1B-1: Nonconforming Lots
9-1B-2: Nonconforming Structures
9-1B-3: Nonconforming Uses
9-1B-1: NONCONFORMING LOTS:
Lots approved by the council prior to the effective date or applicable
amendment of this title which do not meet the minimum lot size required by this
title shall not be considered in violation of said lot size requirements. For
the purposes of this title, these lots shall be deemed to conform to the
minimum lot sizes required for the districts in which the lots are located.
(Ord. 382, 10-25-2006)
9-1B-2: NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES:
   A.   Continuance Of Nonconforming Structure: Any lawful structure existing
at the date of initial enactment or applicable amendment of this title which,
by the terms of this title has become a nonconforming structure, is hereby
declared not to be in violation of this title. Said structure may continue to
be occupied except as otherwise specifically provided for in this chapter.
   B.   Restoration Of Damaged Nonconforming Structure: If a structure which is
a nonconforming structure is destroyed or damaged by any cause after the date
of initial enactment or applicable amendment of this title, and the
nonconforming structure is repaired, rebuilt or reoccupied, such restoration
shall be accomplished in conformity with title 8, "Building Regulations", of
this code, so long as such restoration does not increase the degree of
nonconformity. For the purpose of determining the degree of nonconformity, the
commission shall consider applicable factors including, but not limited to,
area of land covered, square footage of building(s), number of units, traffic
generated, parking, height, and setbacks. Such restoration shall generally
begin within six (6) months, but in no case may begin in more than twelve (12)
months of such damage, as evidenced by an approved building permit and
commencement of construction activity.
   C.   Additions Or Enlargements:
      1.   A nonconforming building shall not be enlarged or extended so as to
increase the degree of nonconformity, except that nonconforming setbacks may be
extended vertically or horizontally, subject to an approved design review
application and the following criteria:
         a.   The extended nonconforming setback of the addition will not
noticeably impact adjacent property any more than a conforming addition would.
         b.   The extended nonconforming setback of the addition maintains the
plane of existing walls of the nonconforming structure.
      2.   Structures located in riparian zones may be enlarged or extended in
accordance with the provisions of this section as set forth in chapter 3,
article J, "Riparian Zones", of this title.
   D.   Repairs And Alterations:
      1.   On any nonconforming structure or portion of a structure containing
a nonconforming use, ordinary repair work may be done including repair or
replacement of nonbearing walls, fixtures, wiring or plumbing so long as such
repair work does not increase the degree of nonconformity.
      2.   Any structural alteration that would reduce the degree of
nonconformity or change the use to a conforming use is permitted, subject to
all other applicable requirements of this title.
      3.   Any structure containing a nonconforming use or any nonconforming
building or portion thereof declared unsafe by the building official may be
strengthened or restored to safe conditions. (Ord. 382, 10-25-2006)
9-1B-3: NONCONFORMING USES:
   A.   Continuance Of Nonconforming Use: Any lawful use of land or a building
existing at the date of initial enactment or applicable amendment of this title
which, by the terms of this title has become a nonconforming use, is hereby
declared not to be in violation of this title. Said land or building may
continue to be occupied and said use may continue except as otherwise
specifically provided for in this chapter.
   B.   Restoration Of Damaged Nonconforming Structure/Use: If a structure
which is used for a nonconforming use is destroyed or damaged, and the
nonconforming structure or nonconforming use is repaired, rebuilt or
reoccupied, such restoration shall be accomplished in conformity with title 8,
"Building Regulations", of this code, so long as such restoration does not
increase the degree of nonconformity. Such restoration shall generally begin
within six (6) months, but, in no case, may begin in more than twelve (12)
months of such damage, as evidenced by an approved building permit and
commencement of construction activity.
   C.   Change Of Nonconforming Use: A nonconforming use may be changed only to
a conforming use.
   D.   Discontinuance Of Use: If active and continuous operations are not
carried on in a nonconforming use during a continuous period of six (6) months,
the building, structure or tract of land shall thereafter be used only for a
conforming use. Intent to resume active operation shall not be considered
active and continuous operation unless written intent of continuation,
including a timetable therefor, is filed with the commission within the six (6)
month period. (Ord. 382, 10-25-2006)
ARTICLE C. DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
9-1C-1: Definitions
9-1C-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this title, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
ACCESSORY FACILITIES FOR RECREATION MAINTENANCE: Accessory maintenance
facilities specifically and directly related to outdoor recreation uses,
including, but not limited to, pump houses, service facilities and yards.
ACCESSORY STRUCTURE: A building or structure, which is incidental or
subordinate to the main building, principal dwelling unit, or use on the same
building site, i.e., garage, barn, storage buildings, gazebo, artist studio and
the like, and has no kitchen facilities.
ACCESSORY USE: A use naturally and customarily incidental to, subordinate to,
and devoted exclusively to the main use of the premises.
ACREAGE, GROSS: The total area within a parcel of land.
ADDITION (To An Existing Building): An extension or increase in the floor area
or height of a building or structure.
ADMINISTRATOR: The city administrator of the city or his/her designated
representative.
AGRICULTURE: The cultivation and harvesting of crops for commercial use.
ALTER OR ALTERATION: Any change in size, shape, character, occupancy or use of
a structure.
APPEAL: A request for review of the floodplain administrator's interpretation
of provisions of this title or request for a variance.
APPLICANT: The individual, firm, corporation, partnership, association,
syndicate, trust or other entity that has legal ownership of a specific
property which is the subject of an application, or an individual authorized by
the owner who executes the application and initiates proceedings for review of
that specific property in accordance with the provisions of this title.
APPURTENANCE: An architectural element added to a building design; typically
includes chimneys, vents and solar panels. Does not include air conditioning
and mechanical units.
ARCADE: A courtyard, mall, pedestrian walkway or similar area between
structures which is part of the same development or project.
ARCHITECT: A professional individual registered in the state of Idaho to
practice in the field of architecture.
AREA LIGHT: See definition of Lighting, Area.
AREA MEDIAN INCOME(S) (AMI): The combined gross income for all persons living
in a dwelling unit as calculated annually by the United States department of
housing and urban development.
AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING: A designated AO or AH zone on the flood insurance
rate map (FIRM). The base flood depths range from one foot (1') to three feet
(3'); a clearly defined channel does not exist; the path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate; and velocity flow may be evident. AO is
characterized as sheet flow, and AH indicates ponding.
AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD: The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a one percent (1%) or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
Designation on the FIRM always includes the letters A or V.
ART GALLERY OR STUDIO USES: The use of a site for workspace, display and sale
of individually crafted artwork.
ARTS, ENTERTAINMENT, AND EDUCATION USES: The use of a site for arts,
entertainment, or educational activities conducted indoors, outdoors, or in a
partially enclosed space. The use includes, but is not limited to, motion
picture and performing arts; education centers; museums; and video and other
games and amusements.
ATTACHED ACCESSORY STRUCTURE: Any accessory structure located within six feet
(6') of a common wall of the principal structure on the property or is
connected to the principal structure by a roof element, enclosed walkway,
corridor, mudroom or other similar enclosed structure.
AVERAGE HORIZONTAL FOOT-CANDLE: The average level of illuminance for a given
situation (with snow cover if that is to be expected in the given situation)
measured at ground level with the light meter placed parallel to the ground.
BANNERS, PENNANTS OR BUNTING: See definition of Sign: Sign, Banners, Pennants
Or Bunting.
BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year; also referred to as the 100-year flood.
BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE): A determination by the federal insurance
administrator of the water surface elevations of the base flood, that is, the
flood level that has a one percent (1%) or greater chance of occurrence in any
given year. When the BFE has not been provided in a special flood hazard area,
it may be obtained from engineering studies available from a federal, state, or
other source using FEMA approved engineering methodologies. This elevation,
when combined with the freeboard, establishes the flood protection elevation.
BASEMENT: The portion of a structure including crawl space with its floor
subgrade (below ground level) on all sides.
BLOCK: A group of lots, tracts or parcels within well defined boundaries,
usually streets.
BUILDING: Any structure, either temporary or permanent, having a roof, and used
or built for the shelter or enclosure of persons, animals, chattels or property
of any kind. This definition shall include tents, awnings or vehicles situated
on private property and serving in any way the function of a building.
BUILDING ENVELOPE: That portion of the lot to be occupied by the foundation of
any dwelling, including garages and carports, but excluding open, uncovered
decks and porches situated less than thirty inches (30") from ground level.
BUILDING FOOTPRINT: The area of a lot or parcel which is within the perimeter
created by a vertical extension to the ground of the exterior walls of all
enclosed portions of a building, including attached garages and enclosed decks,
porches, solariums and similar enclosed extensions, attachments and accessory
annexes. Not included in the footprint are unenclosed portions or extensions of
buildings, including, but not limited to, unenclosed decks, porches, porte-
cocheres, eaves and roof overhangs.
BUILDING OFFICIAL: The city of Sun Valley building official, or his/her
designee.
BULK: The relationship of mass or volume, particularly applied to the aggregate
of a building's surfaces.
BULK PLANE: A three-dimensional envelope, defined by setback and building
height regulations, in which a building may be located.
CEMETERY: A lot that has been platted for the selling of sites for the burial
of animal or human remains.
CHURCH OR RELIGIOUS WORSHIP USES: The use of a site primarily intended for
conducting organized religious services, meetings, and associated activities
and that is recognized as a religious corporation or society of the state of
Idaho with a state tax exempt status in accord with Idaho Code subsection 63-
602B.
CITY: The city of Sun Valley, Idaho.
CIVIC, SOCIAL AND FRATERNAL ORGANIZATION USES: The use of a site owned or
operated by an organized association of persons for a social, literary,
political, educational or recreational purpose primarily for the exclusive use
of members and their guests; and not primarily operated for profit nor to
render a service that is customarily carried on as a business.
COMMISSION: The planning and zoning commission of the city of Sun Valley,
Idaho.
COMMON USE AREA: Private area, including open site areas, recreation areas, and
recreation facilities, intended for the common use of residents within an
approved subdivision, and subject to maintenance of said residents.
COMPACT DWELLING UNIT: See definition of Dwelling Unit, Compact.
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: An adopted document which considers previous and existing
conditions, trends, desirable goals and objectives, or desirable future
situations for each planning component. The plan with maps, charts, and reports
shall be based on components as they may apply to land use regulations and
actions.
CONDITIONAL USE: A use or occupancy of land permitted only upon the issuance of
a conditional use permit, and subject to the limitations and restrictions
specified in such permit in addition to all other applicable regulations and
provisions of this title.
CONDOMINIUM: An estate consisting of an undivided interest in common in real
property, in an interest or interests in real property, or in any combination
thereof; together with a separate interest in real property, in an interest or
interests in real property, or in any combination thereof.
CONVENTION USES: The use of a site for conventions, conferences, seminars,
product displays, recreation activities, and entertainment functions, and
including food and beverage preparation and service.
CORRELATED COLOR TEMPERATURE (CCT): The characterization of the color content,
or spectrum ("warmness" or "coolness"), of a light source measured in Kelvin
(K). Lamps with a CCT of less than 3000K are considered "warm." Lamps with a
CCT greater than 4000K are bluish-white and are considered "cool. "
COUNCIL: The city council of the city of Sun Valley, Idaho.
COUNTY RECORDER: The county recorder for Blaine County, Idaho.
COVENANT: A written promise or pledge.
CREST: The top edge or peak of a mountain or hill.
CRITICAL FACILITIES: Facilities that are vital to flood response activities or
critical to the health and safety of the public before, during, and after a
flood, such as a hospital, emergency operations center, electric substation,
police station, fire station, nursing home, school, vehicle and equipment
storage facility, or shelter; and facilities that, if flooded, would make the
flood problem and its impacts much worse, such as a hazardous materials
facility, power generation facility, water utility, or wastewater treatment
plant.
CULVERT: A drain that channels water under a bridge, street, or driveway.
CUT: The result of excavation and/or removal of earthen material.
DEDICATION: The setting apart of land or interests in land for use by the
public by ordinance, resolution or by the recording of a plat. Dedicated land
becomes public land upon its acceptance by the City.
DEED RESTRICTED/RESTRICTIONS: A contract entered into between the City or their
designee with the owner or purchaser of real property which restricts the use
of property including, but not limited to, property developed or to be
developed for affordable work force housing and identifies the conditions of
occupancy, rental rates and/or resale.
DEVELOPMENT: Any person made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations, or storage of
equipment or materials.
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT: A written commitment, as contemplated under Idaho Code
section 67-6511A, which, as a condition of rezoning or annexation, specifies
the use(s) or use restrictions different from the requirements of a particular
zone district.
DEVELOPMENT PARCEL: A parcel existing prior to subdivision, or a lot designated
as a development parcel on a subdivision plat, subject to the applicable
minimum design criteria.
DEVELOPMENT SITE: Where a development parcel is much larger than the area to be
developed, a development site shall be defined. A development site is to be
defined by the developer, but should be a simple geometric form that
encompasses proposed buildings, associated parking, service and circulation
areas as well as a setback area. A development site shall be used to determine
the set standards for a development. A development site may include one (1) or
more zoned lots.
DIRECTIONAL FLOODLIGHT: A fully shielded fixture that is angled no higher than
twenty-five degrees (25°) from vertical and which targets a specific area to be
lit 1 .
DIRECTOR: The City of Sun Valley Community Development Director or his/her
designee.
DISPLAY BOX: See definition of sign, display box.
DISTURBED GRADE: To alter the position or arrangement of the terrain and its
features.
DOG RUN: An enclosed area intended to contain a dog or dogs for exercise or any
other purpose.
DORMITORY: Any structure, under joint occupation and single management, with
associated sleeping quarters, restrooms, cooking facilities, and other common
areas that are provided for persons who are affiliated with a company or
institution, and who reside in said structure on a seasonal or temporary basis.
DRINKING ESTABLISHMENT USES: The use of a site primarily for the sale or
dispensing of alcohol by the drink or glass. The use includes, but is not
limited to, bar, brewery, lounge, nightclub, and tavern.
DWELLING: Any building, or part thereof, occupied, in whole or in part, as the
residence or living quarters of one (1) or more persons, permanently or
temporarily, continuously or transiently.
DWELLING, CLUSTERED SINGLE-FAMILY: An entire development of attached or
detached single-family dwellings, designed and developed as an integrated unit
by a single developer so as to permit a grouping or clustering of structures
which relate to one another rather than to an arbitrarily determined lot size.
DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY: A dwelling designed to contain, or containing two
(2) or more single-family living units, including, but not limited to,
duplexes, condominiums, apartments, townhouses and rooming houses.
DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY: A building, including attached or detached carports
and automobile garages, designed to be occupied by, and occupied not otherwise
than by, one (1) family.
DWELLING UNIT: Any building or other structure proposed or built for occupancy
by people as their living quarters.
DWELLING UNIT, ACCESSORY: A detached or attached building, or portion thereof,
used as a dwelling to house one (1) or more persons and containing at least one
(1) bathroom and cooking facility (kitchen) separate from the primary dwelling.
DWELLING UNIT, COMPACT: A dwelling unit containing less than one thousand two
hundred (1,200) square feet of interior living area measured from the inside of
exterior walls, which is enclosed and for the exclusive use of the dwelling's
occupant(s), not including garages.
DWELLING UNIT, TOWNHOUSE: Dwelling units erected generally in a row, each unit
being separated from the adjoining unit or units by a party wall or walls,
extending from the basement floor to the roof along the dividing townhouse
sublot line, each unit having its own access to the outside, and no unit
located over another unit in part or in whole.
EASEMENT: A grant by a property owner to specific persons or to the public to
use land for specific purposes. Also, such a right acquired by prescription.
EIGHTY FIVE DEGREE CUTOFF TYPE OF LUMINAIRES: See definition of luminaires,
eighty five degree cutoff type.
ELEVATED BUILDING: For insurance purposes, a nonbasement building which has its
lowest elevated floor raised above ground level by foundation walls, shear
walls, posts, piers, pilings, or columns.
ELEVATION CERTIFICATE: An important administrative tool of the NFIP. It is used
to determine the proper flood insurance premium rate; it is used to document
elevation information necessary to ensure compliance with community floodplain
management regulations; and it may be used to support a request for a letter of
map amendment (LOMA) or letter of map revision based on fill (LOMR-F).
ENCLOSED: An area surrounded on more than two (2) sides by walls and on the top
by a roof or similar covering.
ENCLOSURE: An area enclosed by solid walls below the BFE/FPE or an area formed
when any space below the BFE/FPE is enclosed on all sides by walls or
partitions. Insect screening or open wood lattice used to surround space below
the BFE/FPE is not considered an enclosure.
ENGINEER: Any professional person who is licensed in the State of Idaho to
practice professional engineering.
ENTRANCE SIGN: See definition of sign: sign, entrance.
EQUESTRIAN USES: The use of a site for the keeping of horses, including stables
and paddocks.
ERECT: To build, construct, attach, hang, place, suspend or affix and also
includes the painting of wall signs and murals.
ERECTED: Built, constructed, reconstructed, moved upon or any physical
operations on the premises required for a building. Excavation, fill, drainage
and the like shall be considered a part of erection.
EVENT CENTER: Facilities which provide for social gathering or activity,
including banquets, conventions, conferences, seminars, product displays,
private receptions or parties, recreation activities, retreats, reunions, and
entertainment functions; such facilities may include overnight accommodations,
and areas for food and beverage (including alcohol) preparation, sales and
service. Event centers may not be rented or otherwise utilized for more than
thirty (30) days by the same party.
EXCAVATION: The disturbance of land, including clearing or removal of
vegetation, soil grading, cutting, filling or paving.
EXISTING NATURAL TOPOGRAPHY: See definition of grade, record.
EXPOSED VERTICAL SURFACE: The distance from the lowest point on a wall to the
highest point on an eaves, or the top of a wall with a flat roof.
EXTERIOR LIGHTING: See definition of lighting, exterior.
FAMILY: One (1) or more persons living together and occupying a dwelling
including a single set of culinary facilities as their residence or living
quarters. The persons thus constituting a family may also include gratuitous
guests and domestic servants.
FENCE: A structure which is intended to delineate a boundary, provide privacy
or decorative screening, or form a barrier.
FILL: The deposition of any material that alters topography.
FINE ART: Sculpture, fountains or similar objects.
FLAG: Any state or national flag.
FLAG LOTS: Unit of land which, by virtue of its configuration, has the majority
of its area at the rear portion of the unit, and which is connected to a street
or other access by a narrow strip.
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM): The official map on which the Federal
Insurance Administration has delineated both the areas of special flood hazard
and the risk premium zones applicable to the community. A FIRM that has been
available digitally is called a digital flood insurance rate map (DFIRM).
FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY: An examination, evaluation, and determination of flood
hazards and, if appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations; or an
examination, evaluation and determination of mudslide (i.e., mudflow) and/or
flood related erosion hazards.
FLOOD OR FLOODING: A. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
   1.   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and/or
   2.    The unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   3.    Mudslides (i.e., mudflows) which are proximately caused by flooding as
defined in subsection A2 of this definition and are akin to a river of liquid
and flowing mud on the surfaces of normally dry land areas, as when earth is
carried by a current of water and deposited along the path of the current.
   B.   The collapse or subsidence of land along the shore of a lake or other
body of water as a result of erosion or undermining caused by waves or currents
of water exceeding anticipated cyclical levels or suddenly caused by an
unusually high water level in a natural body of water, accompanied by a severe
storm, or by an unanticipated force of nature, such as flash flood or an
abnormal tidal surge, or by some similarly unusual and unforeseeable event
which results in flooding as defined in subsection A1 of this definition.
FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (FPE): The base flood elevation plus the freeboard.
   A.   In "special flood hazard areas" where base flood elevations (BFEs) have
been determined, this elevation shall be the BFE plus two feet (2') of
freeboard; and
   B.   In "special flood hazard areas" where no BFE has been established, this
elevation shall be at least two feet (2') above the highest adjacent grade.
FLOODLIGHT: A light fixture that produces up to one thousand eight hundred
(1,800) lumens and is designed to flood a well defined area with light 2 .
FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT: Any type of permit that is required in
conformance with the provisions of chapter 3, article I of this title, prior to
the commencement of any development activity.
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT: The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage, including but not limited to
emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, and floodplain management
regulations.
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS: Zoning ordinances, subdivision regulations,
building codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances (such as a
floodplain ordinance, grading ordinance, and erosion control ordinance), and
other applications of police power. The term describes such state or local
regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide standards for the
purpose of flood damage prevention and reduction.
FLOODPROOFING: Any combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
FLOODWAY (REGULATORY FLOODWAY): The channel of a river or other watercourse and
the adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base
flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a
designated height.
FOOT-CANDLE (fc): The American unit used to measure the total amount of light
cast on a surface (illuminance). One (1) foot- candle is equivalent to the
illuminance produced by a source of one (1) candle at a distance of one foot
(1'). For example, the full moon produces 0.01 fc (fc are measured with a light
meter). One (1) foot-candle is approximately equal to one lumen per square
foot.
FREEBOARD: A factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level for
the purposes of floodplain management. Freeboard tends to compensate for the
many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than the
height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such as
wave action, obstructed bridge openings, debris and ice jams, and the
hydrologic effects of urbanization in a watershed. The base flood elevation
(BFE) plus the freeboard establishes the flood protection elevation (FPE).
Freeboard shall be two feet (2').
FREESTANDING SIGN: See definition of sign: sign, freestanding.
FRONTAGE, BUSINESS: The linear distance from outside to outside of a structure
or portion of a structure housing a particular business or businesses directly
adjacent at ground level to a major pedestrian or vehicular way.
FULL CUTOFF LUMINAIRES: See definition of luminaires, full cutoff.
FULL TIME EQUIVALENT (FTE): The conversion of part time work hours to the
equivalent number of full time work hours based on a forty (40) hour workweek.
FULLY SHIELDED: See definition of luminaires, fully shielded.
FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE: A facility that cannot be used for its intended
purpose unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water, such
as a docking or port facility necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo
or passengers, shipbuilding, or ship repair facilities. The term does not
include long term storage, manufacture, sales, or service facilities.
GLARE: Stray light striking the eye that may result in:
   A.   Nuisance or annoyance glare such as light shining into a window;
   B.   Discomfort glare such as bright light causing squinting of the eyes;
   C.   Disabling glare such as bright light reducing the ability of the eyes
to see into shadows; or
   D.   Reduction of visual performance.
GRADE, FINISHED: The final elevation of the land surface of the site after
completion of development.
GRADE, RECORD: Natural grade existing prior to any site preparation, grading,
or filling, unless a new record grade is approved and recorded at the time of
subdivision approval and noted on the filed final plat.
GRADING/GRADED: Any excavation, filling, or manual movement of earth for the
purpose of revision to the terrain.
GROSS ACRE: See definition of acreage, gross.
HELISTOP: An area designated to be used for the landing or takeoff of one (1)
helicopter and the temporary parking of one (1) helicopter, but not including
operation facilities, such as maintenance, storage, fueling or terminal
facilities.
HILLSIDE: A part of a hill between and including the summit and the foot and
includes, but is not limited to, such landforms as ridges, saddles, and knolls.
HILLSIDE FOOT: The lowest part of a hillside where the grade of slope increases
from horizontal or near horizontal; the bottom or base of a hillside.
HILLSIDE KNOLL: A small round hill or mound.
HILLSIDE RIDGE OR RIDGELINE: A sharp, elongated crest or a linear series of
crests.
HILLSIDE SADDLE: A ridge connecting two (2) higher elevations.
HILLSIDE SUMMIT: The highest part, top or peak of a hillside.
HOLIDAY LIGHTING: See definition of Lighting, Holiday.
HOME OCCUPATIONS: A use conducted entirely within a dwelling which is
incidental and secondary to the use of the dwelling for dwelling purposes, and
which does not change the residential character of the dwelling.
HOTEL: The use of a site for visitors or overnight accommodations, including
sleeping rooms, guest registration and lobby areas, and all other areas within
the building devoted to the housing of local personnel or hotel equipment and
supplies; and which has common reservation and cleaning services, combined
utilities, and on site management and reception services. The word "hotel"
shall also include motels, inns and lodges.
IESNA: Illuminating Engineering Society Of North America (IES or IESNA). The
professional society of lighting engineers.
IESNA RECOMMENDED PRACTICES: The current publications of the IESNA setting
forth illuminance levels.
ILLUMINANCE: The amount of light falling on any point of a surface measured in
foot-candles or lux; foot-candles are measured as lumens per square foot, and
lux is measured as lumens per square meter.
IMPROVEMENT: Any alteration to the land or other physical construction.
KIOSK: See definition of Sign: Sign, Kiosk.
LAMP: The generic term for a source of optical radiation (light), often called
a "bulb" or "tube." Examples include incandescent, fluorescent, high-intensity
discharge (HID) lamps, and low-pressure sodium (LPS) lamps, as well as light-
emitting diode (LED) modules and arrays.
LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT: A professional individual registered in the state of Idaho
to practice in the field of landscape architecture.
LANDSCAPING: The planting and maintenance of trees, ground cover, indigenous
plants, shrubs, vines, flowers, lawns or a combination thereof. In addition to
plant materials, landscaping may include rock or stone and structural or
decorative features including, but not limited to, fountains, decorative pools
and ponds, artwork and benches, and pedestrian walkways. Parking or storage
areas or vehicular ways are not considered landscaping.
LARGE SCALE SUBDIVISION: See definition of Subdivision, Large Scale.
LIGHT: The form of radiant energy acting on the retina of the eye to make sight
possible.
LIGHT POLLUTION: Any adverse effect of artificial night light including, but
not limited to, discomfort to the eye or diminished vision due to glare, light
trespass, or any manmade light that diminishes the ability to view the night
sky.
LIGHT TRESPASS: Light falling on the property of another or the public right of
way when it is not required to do so.
LIGHTING: Any or all parts of a luminaire that function to produce light.
LIGHTING, AREA: A luminaire equipped with a lamp that produces over one
thousand eight hundred (1,800) lumens. Area lights include, but are not limited
to, streetlights, parking lot lights and yard lights 3 .
LIGHTING, BACK: An indirect source of light which is located behind the sign
surface or shielded from the viewer's eyes by a translucent or opaque material.
LIGHTING, EXTERIOR: Temporary or permanent outdoor lighting that is installed,
located or used in such a manner to cause light rays to shine outdoors.
Luminaires that are indoors that are intended to light something outside are
considered exterior lighting for the purpose of this title.
LIGHTING, HOLIDAY: Exterior lighting consisting of strings of individual lamps,
where the output per lamp is not greater than fifteen (15) lumens.
LIGHTING, INDIRECT: A light source that is concealed from public view and
separate from the surface and illuminating the sign surface by means of
spotlights or similar fixtures.
LIGHTING, NONESSENTIAL: Lighting that is not necessary for an intended purpose
after the purpose has been served. Does not include any lighting used for
safety and/or public circulation purposes.
LIGHTING, PANCHANNELED: Indirect, concealed light source which element is
attached directly to the face of the sign.
LIGHTING, TEMPORARY: Lighting that is intended to be used for a special event
for seven (7) days or less, and temporary construction lighting.
LOT: A division of land which is created by subdivision and which is part of a
recorded plat.
LOT AREA: The area of any lot shall be determined exclusive of street, highway,
alley, and other public rights of way.
LOT COVERAGE: The area of the lot covered by structures, not including
unenclosed areas.
LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage, in an area other than a
basement area, is not considered a building’s lowest floor; provided, that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of 44 CFR section 60.3 and this
title.
LUMEN: The unit used to quantify the amount of light energy produced by a lamp
at the lamp. Lumen output of most lamps is listed on the packaging. For
example, a sixty (60) watt incandescent lamp produces nine hundred fifty (950)
lumens while a fifty five (55) watt low pressure sodium lamp produces eight
thousand (8,000) lumens and a fifteen (15) watt LED bulb produces nine hundred
(900) lumens. LED bulbs are eighty percent (80%) more efficient than
incandescent lighting.
LUMINAIRE: A complete lighting unit, consisting of a lamp or lamps together
with the parts designed to distribute the light, to position and protect the
lamps and to connect the lamps to the power. When used, includes ballasts and
photocells. Commonly referred to as "fixture".
LUMINAIRE, PARTIALLY SHIELDED: The luminaire incorporates a translucent
barrier, the "partial shield" around the lamp that allows some light to pass
through the barrier of the fixture's walls while concealing the lamp from the
viewer 4 .
LUMINAIRES, EIGHTY FIVE DEGREE CUTOFF TYPE: Luminaires that do not allow light
to escape above an eighty five degree (85°) angle measured from a vertical line
from the center of the lamp extended to the ground 5 .
LUMINAIRES, FULL CUTOFF: A luminaire designed and mounted level where no light
is emitted at or above a horizontal plane running through the lowest point on
the luminaire 3 .
LUMINAIRES, FULLY SHIELDED 7 : The luminaire incorporates a solid barrier (the
shield), which permits no light to escape through the barrier on the top and
sides of the fixture.
LUMINAIRES, UNSHIELDED: The luminaire only incorporates clear glass, which
permits all light to escape.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A. A dwelling constructed according to HUD/FHA construction
and safety standards and as defined by Idaho Code section 39-4105. For
floodplain management purposes: "Manufactured home" means a structure,
transportable in one or more sections, built on a permanent chassis and
designed to be used with or without a permanent foundation when connected to
the required utilities. The term "manufactured home" does not include a
"recreational vehicle".
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land
divided into two (2) or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
MARKET RATE UNIT: A dwelling and/or lot in a residential or mixed use
development that is not a work force housing unit.
MONUMENT: Any permanent marker either of concrete, brass cap, galvanized iron
pipe, or iron or steel rods used to identify any tract, parcel, lot or street
lines as specified in Idaho Code section 50-1303.
MURAL: A painted scene, figure or decorative design so as to enhance the
building architecture, not including written trade or place names or
advertising messages.
NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM (NFIP): The NFIP is a federal program created
by congress to mitigate future flood losses nationwide through sound, community
enforced building and zoning ordinances and to provide access to affordable,
federally backed flood insurance protection for property owners.
NET USABLE FLOOR SPACE: The entire square foot floor space of a building, which
is enclosed and subject to heating and/or air conditioning, less any space used
or occupied by central mechanical or electrical equipment, elevators,
escalators, dumbwaiters, stairways, hallways, lifts, chutes, trash disposal
units or storage spaces.
NEW CONSTRUCTION: For floodplain management purposes, a structure for which the
start of construction commenced on or after the effective date of a floodplain
management regulation adopted by a community and includes any subsequent
improvements to such structures. Any construction started after April 17th,
1978 and before the effective start date of the floodplain management ordinance
is subject to the ordinance in effect at the time the permit was issued,
provided the start of construction was within one hundred eighty (180) days of
permit issuance.
NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE: A structure, or portion thereof, which:
   A.   Exists, or for which a valid building permit exists, at the effective
date hereof, and which violates any of the provisions of this title; or
   B.   Exists, or for which a valid building permit exists, at the effective
date of any amendment to this title, and which violates any of the provisions
of this title as so amended.
NONCONFORMING USE: The use of a structure or premises, lawfully existing at the
effective date hereof, for any purpose not permitted by the provisions of this
title, and the use of a structure or premises lawfully existing at the
effective date of any amendment to this title, for any purpose not permitted by
said amendment.
NONESSENTIAL LIGHTING: See definition of Lighting, Nonessential.
OPAQUE: The effect of a part or parts of a luminaire that provide(s) a barrier
above and in some cases around the lamp, that does not allow any light to pass
through.
OPEN SITE AREA: An open area of land free of buildings and motorized vehicles,
and suitable for outdoor recreation or enjoyment.
OUTDOOR SALES AND STORAGE USES: The use of a site for the permanent display,
sale or storage outside a building or structure including, but not limited to,
vehicles, gasoline, motor oil, tires, vending machines, food and beverages,
equipment, garden supply, and building and landscape materials.
OWNERSHIP: The individual, firm, association, syndicate, partnership or
corporation having any interest in land.
PARCEL: A lot. The term parcel is used interchangeably with the term lot.
PARKING: The temporary, transient storage of private passenger vehicles used
for personal transportation.
PARKING SPACE: An automobile parking stall containing a surface area of minimum
space to park one vehicle with ingress and egress.
PARTIALLY SHIELDED: See definition of Luminaire, Partially Shielded.
PERCENT SLOPE: Percent slope is calculated by multiplying the ratio of a
slope's rise to run by one hundred (100). See also definition of Slope.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2299c78b80534ce5d04cf25b9a6ae06e6e31344a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1083.gif]
PERFORMANCE BOND: A document obligating funds for the purpose of ensuring the
faithful performance of the construction of improvements.
PERFORMING ARTS/SYMPHONY CENTER: A public assembly space open to the public
specifically used for the Sun Valley Summer Symphony and other performing arts
groups.
PERSON: Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
PERSONAL AND PROFESSIONAL SERVICE USES: The use of a site for the provision of
individualized services generally related to personal needs. Personal service
uses include, but are not limited to, banking, beauty and healthcare services,
repairs such as locksmith, footwear and leather goods, and watches.
Professional service uses include, but are not limited to, phone and computer
service, architects, landscape architects and other design services; computer
designers; consultants; lawyers; media advisors; photography studios, and title
companies.
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT: A use or combination of uses for a tract of land no
smaller than four (4) acres in size to be developed as a unit under single
ownership or control, pursuant to a conditional use permit.
PLAT: The drawing, mapping or planning of a subdivision, cemetery, town site or
other tract of land, or a replatting of such, including certifications,
descriptions and approvals.
PLAT AMENDMENT: A. A change or modification of the boundary lines between
existing lots or tracts of land or between dwelling units which does not reduce
the area, frontage, width, depth, or building setback lines of each lot below
the minimum zoning requirements and which does not create additional lots or
dwelling units; or
   B.   Other minor changes to subdivision, condominium or townhouse plats such
as, but not limited to, notation changes, boundary shifts, and removal of lot
line(s), each of which does not reduce the area, frontage, width, depth, or
building setback lines of each lot below the minimum zoning requirements nor
create additional lots or dwelling units; or
   C.   Modification or relocation of the building envelope.
PLAT, FINAL: The final and formal presentation by drawings of a proposed
subdivision development.
PLAT, PRELIMINARY: The first formal presentation by drawings of a proposed
subdivision.
PLATE LINE: The point at which any part of the structure first touches or bears
upon an external wall.
PROJECTING OR HANGING SIGN: See definition of Sign: Sign, Projecting Or
Hanging.
PUBLIC SERVICE USES: A structure or use intended or used for a public purpose
by a city, the county, the state, or by any public agency.
RECORD GRADE: See definition of Grade, Record.
RECREATION FENCE: A fence designed to enclose a specific recreational facility,
such as swimming pools and tennis courts, intended to prevent recreational
implements from leaving the area of play or to restrict entry to the facility.
RECREATION USES: The use of a site for leisure activities, conducted indoors,
outdoors, or in a partially enclosed space. Uses include, but are not limited
to, ski areas; nonmotorized trails and paths; picnic areas; sports fields and
facilities; swimming pools; fishing areas; amphitheaters; playgrounds; ice
rinks; bowling alleys; archery, skeet, trap, pistol, and rifle ranges; golf
courses; and fitness clubs.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicle that is:
   A.   Built on a single chassis;
   B.   Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
   C.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towed by a light duty
truck; and
   D.   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
REFLECTIVE SURFACE: Any material or device which redirects light, such as, but
not limited to, "Scotchlite", "Day-Glo", fluorescent paints, glass beads,
luminous paint and polished metal surfaces.
REGULATORY FLOODWAY: The channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood
without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a
designated height.
RESIDENTIAL NAMEPLATE SIGN: See definition of Sign: Sign, Residential
Nameplate.
RESTAURANT USES: The use of a site for the primary purpose of food preparation,
having kitchen and cooking facilities, and where meals are regularly served to
the public for compensation. The use includes, but is not limited to, cafes,
coffee shops, delicatessens, diners, eateries, grills, pizza parlors,
restaurants, retail bakeries; sushi bars, steakhouses, food stands, and
catering facilities.
RETAIL STORE USES: The use of a site that offers merchandise to the public for
monetary compensation. The use includes, but is not limited to, food stores;
apparel and accessories stores; book, computer, and music stores; electronics
and appliances; florists; furniture and home furnishings; general merchandise
stores; health and personal care stores; hobby, office supplies, stationery and
gift stores; specialty stores; sporting goods; and used merchandise stores.
RETAIL STORE USES, LIMITED: The use of a site for the sale of a limited line of
groceries, household items, and other convenience goods. The site may also
offer banking services.
RIGHT OF WAY: A strip of land dedicated or reserved for use as a public way,
which normally includes streets, nonmotorized trail systems and other public
utilities or service areas.
ROOF SIGNS: See definition of Sign: Sign, Roof.
ROUTINE MAINTENANCE: Painting and upkeep of existing, approved signage that
does not change the approved design and/or colors in any way.
SCHOOL USES: The use of a site for teaching, including public or private
institutions, at the preschool, primary, secondary education levels, or adult
and advanced education.
SETBACK: A horizontal distance between an established boundary, such as a
property line, edge of right of way or edge of access easement, and the nearest
point of an imaginary line above or below ground beyond which no structure may
be placed, measured at right angles to the property line.
SIGN: A surface or space, whether continuous or not, which attracts the
attention; identifies a business, building, product or service; or conveys a
message to any person by means of letters, numbers, figures, or other symbols,
devices, or representations.
   Sign, A-Frame: A sign with two (2) faces attached to each other by a hinge
at the top. Commonly called "sandwich boards".
   Sign, Banners, Pennants Or Bunting: Any announcement device affixed to
poles, wires or ropes for the purpose of announcing or promoting community
events or activities or decorating the city for special holidays.
   Sign, Base Legs: A sign typically constructed of a plywood or sheet metal
display face affixed to two (2) four inch by four inch (4" x 4") posts with
some sort of "feet" constructed for support at the base of the "legs".
Typically used for construction information, subdivision sales information, and
other temporary informational signage of a commercial or semicommercial nature.
   Sign, Blade: A fabric sign that is supported by a single curved metal
support pole. Blade signs are a type of temporary signs but are classified as
banners per this title.
   Sign, Display Box: A freestanding or wall sign enclosed in glass for the
express purpose of displaying menus; current entertainment; directions;
historic, cultural, or visitor information or real estate listings.
   Sign, Entrance: A sign that identifies commercial cores, satellite resorts,
major subdivisions, condominium complexes, or a group of apartment buildings
having at least one hundred (100) linear feet of frontage along a vehicular or
pedestrian way.
   Sign, Freestanding: A single- or multi-faced sign affixed to a supporting
structure or imbedded in and extending from the ground and detached from any
building.
   Sign, H-Frame: A sign characterized by sheet metal, corrugated plastic, or
cardboard sign faces with wire or metal prongs or supports. Commonly used for
real estate sales, yard sales, political signs, and other temporary events or
announcements.
   Sign, Inflatable: Signs of fabric construction which are inflated by a fan
and intended to move in such a manner to attract attention. A type of moving
sign.
   Sign, Internally Lit Sealed Case: An internally illuminated sign which
achieves the look of channel lettering without relief by shielding the majority
of the sign face with a metal (or other opaque) material.
   Sign, Kiosk: A freestanding, fixed display board of three (3) sides or more
for the primary purpose of advertising community events, special events,
visitor information and personal information.
   Sign, L-Stake: A sign with an L-shaped post from which the sign face is
suspended. Commonly used for real estate sales and occasionally for property
identification.
   Sign, Monument: A large freestanding sign, erected on a pedestal or
foundation, typically used for identifying subdivisions, commercial areas,
public facilities, and entrances to the city.
   Sign Power Source: Attached or appurtenant solar photovoltaic systems or
electrical panels necessary to illuminate a sign of any type or design.
   Sign, Projecting Or Hanging: Any sign attached to a building and extending,
in whole or part, more than nine inches (9") beyond the building line.
   Sign, Residential Nameplate: A sign permitted for the sole purpose of
identifying the inhabitant residing therein, the house name, or identifying the
address of the house. The sign shall not contain any advertising of any kind.
   Sign, Roof: A sign that is mounted on the roof of a building or which is
wholly dependent upon a building for support and which projects above the point
of a building with a flat roof, the eaves line of a building with a gambrel,
gable, or hip roof or the deck line of a building with a mansard roof.
   Sign, Temporary: Signs which are designed to be nonpermanent in nature. Such
sign styles which include H-frame, A-frame, base legs, and other signs without
a permanent foundation and with a support depth of no more than six inches (6")
into the soil.
   Sign, Wall: A sign attached to, painted on, or erected against the wall of a
building or structure with the exposed face of the sign in a plane parallel to
the face of the wall and not projecting more than nine inches (9") from the
face of the wall.
   Sign, Wayfinding: Signs which help direct pedestrian and/or vehicular
traffic through the use of uniform appearance and logos or markings,
informational contents, and arrows or directional markers.
   Sign, Window: A sign affixed on or located within thirty six inches (36") of
the interior surface of a window fronting a public way.
SITE ALTERATION: The erection, construction, establishment, movement, removal,
alteration, conversion or demolition of any building, other structure,
landscaping, or street, and also includes, but is not limited to, the
excavation or grading of any lot and/or any fill activity.
SKYGLOW: The overhead glow from light emitted sideways and upwards. Skyglow is
caused by the reflection and scattering of light by dust, water vapor and other
particles suspended in the atmosphere.
SKYLINE/SKYLINING: An outline of a structure against the background of the sky.
SLOPE: An inclined terrain, the inclination of which is expressed as a ratio of
horizontal distance (run) to vertical distance (rise, or elevation change). See
also definition of Percent Slope.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2299c78b80534ce5d04cf25b9a6ae06e6e31344a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1085.gif]
 
SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA): The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a one percent (1%) or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
For purposes of these regulations, the term "special flood hazard area" is
synonymous in meaning with the phrase "area of special flood hazard."
SQUARE FEET (BUILDING): The sum of the gross horizontal floor areas of a
dwelling unit measured either from the interior face of interior walls, or the
outside of exterior walls as specified by this title.
STABILIZED SLOPE: Grading which has been supplemented with additional
structural material so as to resist the movement of soil which has been
disturbed.
STAINED GLASS: Multicolored pieces of translucent material held together by
foil or lead and having the various joints soldered together. Signs made out of
approved translucent material may be either backlit or have indirect lighting.
START OF CONSTRUCTION: Includes substantial improvement, and means the date the
building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair,
reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement or other improvement was
within one hundred eighty (180) days of the permit date. The actual start means
either the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site,
such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the
construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the
placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does
not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does
it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include
excavation for a basement, footings, piers or foundations or the erection of
temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of
accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or
not part of the main structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual start
of construction means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or
other structural part of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the
external dimensions of the building.
STATE: The state of Idaho.
STRUCTURE: Includes buildings, signs, fences, and other improvements, or any
portion thereof, constructed, erected, built, installed or placed upon any real
property. A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage tank
that is principally above ground, as well as a manufactured home.
SUBDIVISION: A. Any land, vacant or improved, which is divided or proposed to
be divided into two (2) or more lots, parcels or interests for the purpose of
offer, sale, or improvement or for the purpose of leasing for a period of five
(5) years or longer, including the total of the initial lease term and all
renewal terms permitted or provided for in the lease, whether immediate or
future. Subdivision includes:
      1.   Improvement of land not previously subdivided;
      2.   Division of land whether by deed, metes and bounds description,
lease, map, plat, record of survey, or other recorded instrument;
      3.   Condominium and townhouse creation or conversion; and
      4.   Any alteration, modification, change, addition to or deletion from
any plat of record, and including boundary shifts and/or removal of lot lines
between existing platted or unplatted lots and/or parcels of land.
   B.   The following shall not constitute a subdivision for the purposes of
this title:
      1.   The unwilling sale of land resulting from legal condemnation or the
threat thereof, as defined and allowed by the laws of the state of Idaho;
      2.   The sale, dedication or other conveyance of land to the city, county
or state, or any political subdivision or agency thereof, for use as a street,
public right of way or other public use.
SUBDIVISION, LARGE SCALE: A subdivision with greater than ten (10) or more lots
or units.
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the
cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal or
exceed fifty percent (50%) of its market value before the damage occurred. See
definition of “substantial improvement.”
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any repair, reconstruction or improvement of a
structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the
market value of the structure before the "start of construction" of the
improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred "substantial
damage", regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include either:
   A.   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
   B.   Any alteration of a "historic structure", provided that the alteration
will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a "historic
structure" and the alteration is approved by variance issued pursuant to this
title.
SURVEYOR: Any person who is licensed in the state as a public land surveyor to
do professional surveying.
TEMPORARY EVENT: One which does not last more than thirty (30) days,
consecutive or cumulative, in any given calendar year.
TEMPORARY LIGHTING: See definition of Lighting, Temporary.
TEMPORARY USES: The use of a site on a seasonal basis and for a short period of
time. The use includes, but is not limited to, Christmas tree lots,
construction buildings, firework stands, food service vehicles, model homes,
produce stands, snow cone stands, and pumpkin stands.
TERRAIN: The natural features and topography of a development parcel.
TIMESHARE UNIT: A unit in which timeshare exists.
TOWNHOUSE DEVELOPMENT: A project of two (2) or more townhouse units that may be
constructed as: a) single building(s) and/or b) single buildings containing
single townhouse units.
TOWNHOUSE SUBLOTS: The lot resulting from platting a townhouse development.
TOWNHOUSE UNIT: See definition of Dwelling Unit, Townhouse.
TRACT: Land that has not been subdivided.
TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGN: A sign for the purpose of identifying private parking
areas and directing the flow of both pedestrian and vehicular traffic on
private property.
TRAIL: A way designed for and used by equestrians, pedestrians, cyclists, and
other nonmotorized conveyances.
TRANSLUCENT 8 : The effect of a part or parts of a luminaire that provide(s) a
barrier around the lamp that allows some light to pass through the barrier in a
diffused manner, such that the lamp cannot be clearly distinguished.
UNSHIELDED 9 : The luminaire only incorporates clear glass, which permits all
light to escape.
UPLIGHTING: Fully shielded lighting that is directed in such a manner as to
shine light rays above the horizontal plane.
UTILITIES: Installations for conduction of water, sewage, gas, telephone,
electricity, television, stormwater and similar facilities providing service to
and used by the public, and provided by either a public or private entity.
VARIANCE: A grant of relief by the Governing Body from a requirement of this
title.
VICINITY MAP: A small scale map showing the location of a tract of land in
relation to a larger area.
VIOLATION: The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community's floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the finished construction elevation certificate,
other certifications, or other evidence of compliance required in section 60.3
(b)(5), (c)(4), (c)(10), (d)(3), (e)(2), (e)(4), or (e)(5) is presumed to be in
violation until such time as that documentation is provided.
VISIBILITY: The fact of being seen or exposed to view or capable of being seen
or exposed to view when traveling on a City street, or path. The hillside
visibility of a proposed building envelope or a structure higher on a hillside
may be considered to be more visible than the same structure located closer to
a street, i.e., a building farther up a hillside may be visible from more
vantage points on streets and therefore more visible under this article than a
building directly adjacent to a street. This definition shall not be construed
to support the claim that buildings closer to streets or paths are necessarily
more visible than those located farther up a hillside.
WALL PLANE: The exterior expressed surface of a structure in an unarticulated
straight line defined by the height and length of the wall segment.
WALL SIGN: See definition of sign: sign, wall.
WALL WASH: The diversion of artificial lighting from the exterior surface of a
building or structure.
WINDOW SIGN: See definition of sign: sign, window.
WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITY: A steel monopole, guywire tower, lattice tower
or other similar structure designed to support directional antennas, parabolic
dishes or antennas, microwave dishes, in addition to associated ground
equipment and other similar equipment used in the wireless communications
industry. (Ord. 382, 10-25-2006; amd. Ord. 392, 10-26-2006; Ord. 390, 4-19-
2007; Ord. 410, 6-19-2008, eff. 6-25-2008; Ord. 413, 7-17-2008, eff. 7-23-2008;
Ord. 435, 6-28-2010; Ord. 443, 8-18-2011; Ord. 455, 12-6-2012; Ord. 482, 3-3-
2016; Ord. 494, 5-4-2017; Ord. 512, 6-1-2017; Ord. 513, 6-1-2017; Ord. 543, 9-
3-2020; Ord. 556, 4-1-2021)
 
Notes
1 1. See figures 6 and 7 of chapter 3, article B of this title.
2 1. See subsection 9-3B-3E, table
  9-3B-1 of this title for light output of various lamps.
3 2. See subsection 9-3B-3E, table
  9-3B-1 of this title for light output of various lamps.
4 1. See subsection 9-3B-3E, figure 3 of this title.
5 2. See subsection 9-3B-3E, figure 2 of this title.
3 3. See subsection 9-3B-3E, figure 1 of this title.
7 4. See subsection 9-3B-3E, figure 4 of this title.
8 1. See section
  9-3B-3, figure 3 of this title.
9 1. See section
  9-3B-3, figure 5 of this title.
CHAPTER 2
ZONING DISTRICT REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-2-1: Zoning Districts Established
9-2-2: Official Zoning Map
9-2-3: Zoning Of Annexed Territory
9-2-1: ZONING DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED:
For the purposes of this title, the city is hereby divided into the following
zoning districts:
Districts  Map Symbol
Districts                             Map Symbol
Residential:                          
 Rural estate and ranch                RA
 Single-family residential             RS-1
 Cluster single-family residential     RS-2
 Multiple-family residential           RM-1
 Multiple-family dwelling              RM-2
Commercial:                           
 Service commercial                    SC
 Commercial center                     CC
 Resort commercial                     RC
Recreation-Public:                    
 Recreation                            REC
 Open space                            OS
 Public/institutional use              PI
 
(Ord. 382, 10-25-2006)
9-2-2: OFFICIAL ZONING MAP:
   A.   Map: The areas assigned to these zoning districts, the designation of
same, and boundaries of said districts shall be shown upon a map which is made
a part of this title by reference, said map being designated as the "official
Sun Valley zoning map". Said map and its proper notations, references and other
information shown thereon hereby establishes the boundaries of said districts
and shall be a part of this title, subject to amendment in the same manner as
other parts of this title.
   B.   Copy On File: A copy of the official zoning map, identified by the
signatures of the mayor and the city clerk, together with ordinance 121, and
amendments thereto, and its effective date, shall be kept in the office of the
city clerk, and be available for reference upon request. (Ord. 455, 12-6-2012)
9-2-3: ZONING OF ANNEXED TERRITORY:
In addition to any other procedure which may be applicable under the laws of
the state regarding the establishment of zoning districts upon annexation of
unincorporated area, the zoning districts applicable to said territory at the
time of incorporation into the city shall be established as follows: a) prior
to the annexation of any lands, the commission may undertake upon its own
initiative or shall undertake upon the direction of the council, the study and
consideration of the extension of the comprehensive plan to the territory
specifically involved and such further areas as may be reasonably related
thereto, and b) shall use said plan as a basis for providing recommendations to
the council on appropriate zoning districts for the territory involved. (Ord.
382, 10-25-2006)
ARTICLE A. RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
SECTION:
9-2A-1: Purpose
9-2A-2: Allowed Uses
9-2A-3: Dimensional Standards
9-2A-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   RA Rural Estate And Ranch District: This district provides for low
density, residential estate houses and uses incidental thereto, with provisions
for planned unit developments.
   B.   RS-1 Single-Family Residential District: This district provides for low
density, residential estate houses and uses incidental thereto, with provisions
for planned unit developments.
   C.   RS-2 Cluster Single-Family Residential: This district is established in
the city where appropriate location and natural topography are amenable to
grouping single-family dwelling units in an effort to achieve special open
space character.
   D.   RM-1 Multiple-Family Residential: This district provides for medium
density, residential apartment, condominium and/or townhouse dwellings, and
incidental uses.
   E.   RM-2 Multiple-Family Dwelling: This district provides for high density,
residential apartment, condominium and/or townhouse dwellings, and incidental
uses. (Ord. 382, 10-25-2006)
9-2A-2: ALLOWED USES:
Table 9-2A-1 of this section lists allowed uses as permitted (P), conditional
(C), or prohibited (-) uses.
   A.   All permitted and conditional uses shall be reviewed in accord with
chapter 3 of this title.
   B.   Conditional uses shall be approved in accord with the procedures for
conditional uses set forth in chapter 5 of this title.
   C.   Any use not explicitly listed in
table 9-2A-1 of this section is prohibited in all residential districts. (Ord.
382, 10-25-2006)
TABLE 9-2A-1
ALLOWED USES IN THE RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICT
    Residential Districts
Use RA RS-1 RS-2 RM-1 RM-2
                                   Residential Districts
Use                                RA  RS-1 RS-2 RM-1 RM-2
Accessory uses                     C   C    C    P    P
Dwellings, accessory               P   P    C    -    -
Dwellings, clustered single-family -   -    P    -    -
Dwellings, multiple-family         -   -    C    P    P
Dwellings, single-family           P   P    P    -    P
Dwellings, townhouse               -   -    P    P    P
Equestrian uses                    C   -    -    -    -
Home occupations1                  P/C P/C  P/C  P/C  P/C
Planned unit developments          C   C    C    C    C
Public service uses                C   C    C    C    C
Temporary uses                     P   P    P    P    P
Timeshare units                    -   -    -    C    C
 
Note:
   1.    Home occupations that do not meet the conditions set forth in section
9-3G-9 of this title shall be subject to a conditional use permit.
(Ord. 382, 10-25-2006; amd. Ord. 413, 7-17-2008, eff. 7-23-2008; Ord. 544, 2-6-
2020)
9-2A-3: DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS:
   A.   Table Of Standards:
Table 9-2A-2 of this section is a summary only of the dimensional standards for
development in residential districts. The table should be read in conjunction
with the detailed requirements and explanations set forth in subsections B
through I of this section.
TABLE 9-2A-2
SUMMARY DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS IN THE RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICTS
         Residential Districts
Standard RA RS-1 RS-2 RM-1 RM-2
               Residential Districts
Standard       RA        RS-1          RS-2         RM-1          RM-2
Maximum                                7 units/acre 14 units/acre 21 units/acre
density
Maximum
density with
inclusionary,
deed                                   8 units/acre 16 units/acre 24 units/acre
restricted
work force
housing
Minimum lot    1 acre    20,000 square
size                     feet
Minimum lot
size for
single-family
lots with                17,000 square
inclusionary,  0.85 acre feet
deed
restricted
work force
housing
Minimum
development                            1 acre       20,000 square feet
parcel size
Minimum
average lot    150 feet  100 feet      150 feet
dimensions
Minimum street 50 feet   40 feet       50 feet
frontage
Minimum street
frontage for   40 feet
flag lot
Setback to
exterior       15 feet
property line
Setback to
interior       15 feet
property line
Setback to
public right                           15 feet
of way, RA or
RS-1 districts
Minimum open                           25 percent
site area
 
(Ord. 427, 1-5-2010)
   B.   Density:
      1.   The maximum density requirement shall be based on the gross acres of
the development parcel.
      2.   Creation of lots within a development parcel which are designated
with more than the maximum density will require submittal of a master plan
agreement at the time of subdivision. (Ord. 455, 12-6-2012)
   C.   Lot And Development Parcel Size:
      1.   The minimum lot and development parcel size shall be based on gross
acres. (Ord. 382, 10-25-2006)
      2.   (Rep. by Ord. 413, 7-17-2008, eff. 7-23-2008)
      3.   The minimum area of a townhouse sublot shall be the minimum of the
perimeter of an individual townhouse unit measured at the foundation and along
the common party wall, if applicable.
   D.   Lot Dimensions:
      1.   The required dimensions for both width and depth of the lot or
development parcel shall be computed as an average of the length of the
property lines.
      2.   Access to flag lots shall not be included in computing the average
width or depth of the lot. (Ord. 382, 10-25-2006)
   E.   Setbacks:
      1.   All buildings, structures, decks, or porches exceeding thirty inches
(30") in height above record grade shall meet the minimum setback requirement.
      2.   Eaves, roofs, awnings, or canopies may encroach into a required
setback a maximum of four feet (4').
      3.   Nonconforming lots with a size less than twenty thousand (20,000)
square feet in the RS-1 district shall be given an exception from the setback
requirements as set forth in chapter 1, article B of this title. All buildings,
structures, decks, or porches exceeding thirty inches (30") in height above
record grade shall be set back a minimum of ten feet (10') from all property
lines; and eaves, roofs, awnings, or canopies may encroach into a required
setback a maximum of three feet (3').
      4.   Interior setbacks of a development parcel shall be determined by the
approved site plan and subdivision. (Ord. 455, 12-6-2012)
   F.   Open Site Area:
      1.   The minimum required open site area shall be a percentage of the
total development parcel.
      2.   Required open site areas shall exclude buildings, private decks or
patios, parking areas, driveways, cul-de-sacs and streets.
   G.   Height For Buildings And Structures In RA, RS-1 And RS-2 Districts:
      1.   No more than one-third (1/3) of any building's or structure's total
roof area in the plan shall exceed thirty feet (30') in height above record
grade; no portion of any building or structure shall exceed thirty five feet
(35') in height above record grade (excluding chimneys, lightning rods, weather
vanes, and stacks). Exposed vertical surfaces of buildings shall not exceed
thirty five feet (35').
      2.   Buildings on natural topography greater than twenty percent (20%)
slope shall be designed in a manner to reduce visibility by using stepped
building forms, natural colors and materials, sloped roofs, and landscaping,
and shall use a combination of these techniques such that the building does not
skyline.
   H.   Height For Buildings And Structures In RM-1 And RM-2 Districts:
      1.   No portion of any building or structure shall exceed forty four feet
(44') in height, measured vertically at any point directly to natural or
approved grade (record grade) existing prior to any site preparation, grading
or filling. This provision shall not apply to chimneys, lightning rods, weather
vanes, or stacks.
      2.   Buildings on natural topography greater than fifteen percent (15%)
slope shall be designed in a manner to reduce visibility by using stepped
building forms, natural colors and materials, sloped roofs, and landscaping,
and shall use a combination of these techniques such that the building does not
skyline. (Ord. 382, 10-25-2006)
   I.   Building Footprints In Envelopes:
      1.   Building Envelope:
         a.   On all property in the RA, RS-1 or RS-2 districts for which
building envelopes have been established and approved by the commission and the
council, not less than two-thirds (2/3) of the footprint for single-family
residential dwellings or multiple- family dwellings, including additions and
alterations thereto, shall be located within said envelopes. For lots one acre
or greater in lot area in the RA, RS-1 or RS-2 districts, accessory structures
and accessory dwelling units are not subject to or part of the minimum
calculation for the two-thirds (2/3) footprint within and one-third (1/3) out
of the building envelope requirement for single-family residential dwellings or
multiple- family dwellings.
         b.   For purposes of determining the portion of a building footprint
situated within an established envelope, the envelope may be rotated around its
centroid to a position maximizing the portion of the building footprint
situated within the envelope. The allowable building footprint and envelope
size shall be calculated according to the formula contained in subsection I2 of
this section and an equilateral outward expansion of the recorded building
envelope from its surveyed centroid is permitted up to the maximum allowed. Any
portion of a building envelope extending into a required setback area can not
be built upon except for the exceptions in subsection E, "Setbacks", of this
section.
      2.   Building Envelope And Lot Coverage Area: For each lot in an RA or
RS-1 district, the maximum total area of the lot which the building envelope
and building footprint may occupy shall be calculated using the following
formulas:
         a.   For lots of 0.25 acre/ten thousand eight hundred ninety (10,890)
square feet or less, an envelope and footprint of up to two thousand five
hundred (2,500) square feet is allowed.
         b.   For lots with areas greater than ten thousand eight hundred
ninety (10,890) square feet, an envelope and footprint of up to two thousand
five hundred (2,500) square feet plus one square foot for each additional
twelve (12) square feet of lot area over ten thousand eight hundred ninety
(10,890) square feet is allowed.
 
Example: 28,000 square foot lot        Building Envelope And Footprint
Minus (-) 10,890 square feet           2,500 square feet (minimum)
Equals (=) 17,110 square feet
Divided by 12                          Plus (+)
Equals (=) 1,425.8 square feet         1,425.8 square feet
Total allowable envelope and footprint = 3,925.8 square feet
 
         c.   For lots with areas greater than eighty three thousand two
hundred one (83,201) square feet, the maximum allowable envelope and footprint
shall be twelve percent (12%) of the lot area.
         d.   An additional five hundred (500) square feet of area may be added
to the allowable envelope and footprint subject to the following criteria:
            (1)   Lot must adjoin an REC or OS (or zoning map OR-1) zoning
district, or another public agency's open space zone such as the United States
forest service, bureau of land management and land within Blaine County that is
deed restricted open space; and
            (2)   Lot area must be a minimum of twenty thousand (20,000) square
feet; and
            (3)   The width of the REC or OS (or zoning map OR-1) zoning
district, or another public agency's open space zone measured perpendicular to
the boundary line of the lot must be greater than one hundred fifty feet
(150').
For purposes of this subsection, a lot shall be considered as adjoining an REC
and OS (or zoning map OR-1) zoning district, or another public agency's open
space even though there is a public street or right of way between the lot and
the REC or OS (or zoning map OR-1) zoning district or another public agency's
open space zone.
      3.   RA District Additional Area: For lots within the RA district, an
additional area equal up to fifty percent (50%) of the total footprint
allowable, as calculated under subsection I2 of this section, may be applied
for on any single-family dwelling subject to the following qualifications:
         a.   No portion of any building (excluding chimneys, flagpoles,
lightning rods, weather vanes, stacks or private antennas) may exceed eighteen
feet (18') above record grade.
         b.   No building shall contain basements unless the top of the stem
wall of the basement is constructed no more than eighteen inches (18") above
finished grade.
      4.   Lots On Slopes: For lots existing prior to the date of adoption
hereof on slopes of fifteen percent (15%) to twenty five percent (25%), an
additional area equal up to thirty percent (30%) of the footprint allowable may
be added to the total footprint subject to the following qualifications:
         a.   No portion of any building (excluding chimneys, flagpoles,
lightning rods, weather vanes, stacks or private antennas) may exceed eighteen
feet (18') above record grade.
         b.   No building shall contain basements unless the top of the stem
wall of the basement is constructed no more than eighteen inches (18") above
finished grade. (Ord. 455, 12-6-2012)
ARTICLE B. COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS
SECTION:
9-2B-1: Purpose
9-2B-2: Allowed Uses
9-2B-3: Dimensional Standards
9-2B-4: Alternative Compliance
9-2B-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   SC Service Commercial District: The Service Commercial (SC) District
shall be established to accommodate limited, low intensity commercial activity
in areas outside of and subordinate to the Commercial Center (CC) Districts
(the established Village centers). The intention of the Service Commercial (SC)
District is to recognize the need for supplementary commercial areas to serve
tourist needs and to provide areas for office space and other limited
commercial uses.
   B.   CC Commercial Center District: The Commercial Center (CC) District
shall be established to accommodate a mixture of residential and commercial
uses appropriate to a resort development, and to serve the business needs of
the community. Commercial uses should provide for cultural and recreational
amenities, retail sales, transit needs and storage and maintenance facilities.
Residential uses should provide a mix of housing that includes permanent year
round residences, work force housing, visitor lodging and seasonal multi-family
residential units. The established Village centers designated as Commercial
Center Districts are the Sun Valley Village and the Elkhorn Village. New
development within Sun Valley Village and Elkhorn Village shall be built in a
manner which is context sensitive, conforms to a human scale, respects the
traditional character and scale of existing buildings in the surrounding area
and maximizes open site areas through the clustering of buildings. (Ord. 390,
4-19-2007)
9-2B-2: ALLOWED USES:
Table
9-2B-1, in subsection C of this section, lists applicable land uses as
permitted (P), conditional (C), or prohibited (-).
   A.   All permitted and conditional uses shall be reviewed in accord with
chapter 3, "Design And Development Regulations", of this title.
   B.   Conditional uses shall be reviewed in accord with the procedures for
conditional uses set forth in chapter 5, "Administration", of this title.
   C.   Any use not explicitly listed in table
9-2B-1 of this subsection is prohibited in all commercial districts.
TABLE 9-2B-1
ALLOWED USES IN THE COMMERCIAL ZONING DISTRICTS
    District
Use SC CC
                                                             District
Use                                                          SC CC
Accessory uses                                               C  C
Art, art/cultural education, and entertainment uses          C  C
Art galleries and studios                                    P  P
Childcare facilities                                         C  C
Convention centers                                           C  P
Dormitory                                                    C  P
Drinking establishments                                      P  P
Dwellings, multiple-family                                   C  P
Dwellings, townhouse                                         P  P
Event center                                                 C  P
Helistop facility                                            C  C
Hotels                                                       C  P
Outdoor sales and storage                                    -  C
Parking lots and structures, commercial                      P  P
Performing arts/symphony center                              -  C
Personal and professional services                           P  P
Planned unit developments                                    C  C
Public mass transit (including, but not limited to, gondola) C  C
Public service uses                                          P  P
Recreation uses, indoor                                      -  P
Recreation uses, outdoor1                                    C  C
Restaurants                                                  P  P
Retail stores                                                C  P
Retail stores, limited                                       P  P
Schools                                                      C  P
Timeshare units                                              -  C
Utilities                                                    C  C
 
   Notes:
      1.   Involving no structures and not including skeet, trap, pistol and
rifle ranges.
(Ord. 390, 4-19-2007; amd. Ord. 512, 6-1-2017; Ord. 513, 6-1-2017)
9-2B-3: DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS:
   A.   Table Of Standards: Table
9-2B-2 of this subsection is a summary only of the dimensional standards for
development in commercial districts. The table should be read in conjunction
with the detailed requirements and explanations set forth in subsections B
through K of this section. (Ord. 393, 7-5-2007)
TABLE 9-2B-2
SUMMARY DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS IN THE COMMERCIAL ZONING DISTRICTS
         Commercial Districts
Standard SC CC
                                                       Commercial Districts
Standard                                               SC         CC
Minimum density                                           6   units/acre
Maximum density                                           21   units/acre
Minimum density, compact units                                   9 units/acre
Maximum density, compact units                                   30 units/acre
Minimum lot size                                          20,000   square feet
Minimum average lot dimensions                            100   feet
Minimum street frontage                                   50   feet
Minimum street frontage for flag lot                      40   feet
Maximum building height, including appurtenances and
screened mechanical and exhaust systems for            44 feet    44 feet
residential buildings1
Maximum building height, including appurtenances and
screened mechanical and exhaust systems for commercial 44 feet    50 feet
buildings2
Maximum building height, including appurtenances and
screened mechanical and exhaust systems for hotel,     44 feet    64 feet
performing arts/symphony center3
Minimum open site area                                 25 percent 25 percent
 
Notes:
1.   Refer to section
9-2B-4, "Alternative Compliance", of this article, for specific regulations for
appurtenances that may exceed the maximum height limits.
2.   For buildings which provide retail space on 100 percent of the ground
floor, the maximum allowable building height shall be 50 feet. Retail store
uses may include associated uses such as incidental storage, incidental
offices, kitchenettes, bathrooms and other associated accessory uses (as
determined by the Director). Limited entrance lobbies, museums, covered
parking, as well as vanpool and transit to serve the retail use may be allowed
as determined by the Director for direct access to an upper story residential
or hotel use.
3.   The maximum height for hotels or a performing arts/symphony center may be
increased up to 70 feet through the alternative compliance process detailed in
section
9-2B-4 of this article.
(Ord. 393, 7-5-2007; amd. Ord. 413, 7-17-2008, eff. 7-23-2008)
   B.   Density:
      1.   The maximum and minimum density requirement shall be based on the
gross acres of the development parcel or development site. Maximum density
standards are not by right, but only possible when the development meets all
applicable objectives of the Comprehensive Plan and design standards of this
title.
   C.   Floor Area:
      1.   Multiple-Family Dwellings And Hotels: In the CC District, multiple-
family dwellings and hotels shall provide a minimum of three percent (3%) of
the total floor area (excluding garages) for net usable floor space devoted to
retail or service businesses.
      2.   Required Retail Or Service Floor Space: Required retail or service
floor space shall not include space existing at the time of application, but
may be within the subject development parcel, development site, or on another
parcel within the same CC District as the subject development parcel (either
Sun Valley Village or Elkhorn Village) so long as such alternative parcel or
development site is constructed simultaneously, clearly restricted, recorded,
and designated to provide the amount of retail and service floor space required
in this subsection.
      3.   Work Force Housing Requirement:
         a.   Commercial And Residential Uses: The following commercial and
residential uses shall provide work force housing acceptable to the City of Sun
Valley. A minimum of five percent (5%) of the total floor area for the
following uses shall be provided within the subject development parcel or
development site:
Accessory uses.
Art galleries and studios.
Childcare facilities.
Convention center.
Drinking establishments.
Dwellings, multiple-family.
Dwellings, townhouse.
Helistop facility.
Hotel.
Outdoor sales and storage.
Parking lots and structures, commercial.
Personal and professional services.
Public service uses.
Recreation uses, indoor.
Recreation uses, outdoor.
Restaurants.
Retail stores.
Retail stores, limited.
Schools.
Timeshare.
Utilities (includes floor area used for administrative offices only).
A minimum of three percent (3%) of the total floor area for the following
public amenity uses shall be provided within the subject development parcel or
development site. For the purposes of determining the floor area for the
following public uses, only the floor area used for administrative offices or
similar shall be included in calculating the work force housing requirement:
Art, art/cultural education, and entertainment uses.
Performing arts/symphony center.
Public mass transit (including, but not limited to, gondola).
         b.   Mixed Use Structures: A mixed use structure shall provide work
force housing units based on the total floor area calculations for each use as
described in subsection C3a of this section. All floor area calculations shall
include, but not be limited to, associated interior space such as hallways,
incidental storage, lobbies. Parking that is attributable to an allowed use
shall be excluded for floor area calculations. (Ord. 390, 4-19-2007)
         c.   Relationship To Work Force Housing Linkage And Inclusionary
Requirements: (Rep. by Ord. 413, 7-17-2008, eff. 7-23-2008)
         d.   SC And CC District Work Force Housing Plan:
            (1)   The applicant shall submit a work force housing plan that
meets the requirements of this section and is subject to the approval of the
decision making body.
            (2)   An occupancy agreement detailing the priority and eligibility
for occupancy may be requested by the applicant as part of a work force housing
plan. Where such priority is established, the City or its designee may
periodically inspect the work force housing units to ensure occupancy. The
occupancy agreement shall set forth the procedures for inspection and
management of the units.
            (3)   Work force housing is intended to be provided on site, or on
other lands within the City deemed appropriate by the City Council for work
force housing uses, to ensure that employees are located near employment. Work
force housing units may be located outside of the City provided that the total
work force housing requirement shall be increased by an additional fifty
percent (50%). For example, if the work force housing requirement is four (4)
total units on the site, the provision of work force units off site would
require six (6) total units. The work force housing plan may also specify
alternatives to, and a justification for, providing on site and off site
development of the work force housing requirements set forth in subsection C3a
of this section. Alternatives may include, but are not limited to, in lieu
fees, conveyance of land, or a real estate transfer assessment and are subject
to approval by city council.
            (4)   Parking standards for developments that include on site work
force housing units may be reduced pursuant to the parking reduction standards
set forth in section
9-3E-5 of this title.
   D.   Lot Size:
      1.   The minimum lot and development parcel size shall be based on gross
acre. No minimum size is established for development sites. The development
site boundary shall be defined by the applicant, and approved by the director,
and shall, at a minimum, encompass the entire development area, including
directly associated uses and improvements, parking, landscaping, buffer areas,
infrastructure, service and circulation areas setbacks, easements, streets and
other rights of way.
      2.   The minimum area of a townhouse sublot shall be the minimum of the
perimeter of an individual townhouse unit measured at the foundation and along
the common party wall, if applicable.
   E.   Lot Dimensions:
      1.   The required dimensions for both width and depth of the lot shall be
computed as an average of the length of the property lines.
      2.   The one exception to the required lot dimension requirements is for
flag lots and townhouses which shall have a minimum lot width and depth
measured at the foundation and along the common party wall, if applicable.
      3.   Access to flag lots shall not be included in computing the average
width or depth of the lot.
   F.   Setbacks In The SC District:
      1.   All buildings, decks, or porches up to twenty five feet (25') in
height above record grade shall be set back a minimum of twenty five feet (25')
where a property line abuts a public or private right of way or any RA or RS-
1 zoning district. For each additional foot in height greater than twenty five
feet (25') for any portion of a building adjacent to any RA or RS-1 zoning
district boundary or any public or private right of way, the setback shall
increase one additional foot such that no portion of a building shall extend
above a forty five degree (45°) angle plane drawn from a point twenty five feet
(25') above the minimum setback line.
      2.   Interior setbacks of a multiple-family or townhouse development
shall be determined by the approved site development plan.
      3.   Eaves, roofs, awnings, or canopies may encroach into a required
setback a maximum of four feet (4').
   G.   Setbacks In The CC District: Setbacks within and between the CC
districts and between the CC and SC zoning districts have been created to
encourage creation of light and air between properties and/or developments.
Setbacks for structures within the CC district adjacent to residential zoning
districts have been created to minimize the effect of new construction on
adjacent properties as well as allow solar access and privacy to adjacent
residential parcels.
      1.   There shall be a minimum structural setback of fifteen feet (15')
from any property line, development site boundary, or edge of right of way/edge
of access easement, adjacent to another CC or SC district.
      2.   There shall be a minimum landscaped setback of thirty five feet
(35') from any RA or RS-1 zoning district boundary, in addition to the width of
any public or private right of way or access easement, for any parking lot or
any building wall up to thirty feet (30') in height. For each additional foot
in height greater than thirty feet (30') for any portion of a building adjacent
to any RA or RS-1 zoning district boundary, the setback shall increase one
additional foot such that no portion of a building shall extend above a forty
five degree (45°) angle plane drawn from a point thirty feet (30') above the
minimum setback line.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2299c78b80534ce5d04cf25b9a6ae06e6e31344a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1103.gif]
 
      3.   There shall be a minimum landscaped setback extending twenty five
feet (25') from any RS-2, RM-1 or RM-2 zoning district boundary, in addition to
the width of any public or private right of way or access easement, for any
building wall up to twenty five feet (25') in height. For each additional foot
in height greater than twenty five feet (25') for any portion of a building,
the setback shall increase one additional foot such that no portion of a
building shall extend above a forty five degree (45°) angle plane drawn from a
point twenty five feet (25') above the minimum setback line.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2299c78b80534ce5d04cf25b9a6ae06e6e31344a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1105.gif]
 
   H.   Distance Between Buildings:
      1.   The minimum distance between buildings in the CC districts shall be
fifteen feet (15') within a development parcel or development site. The greater
minimum distance between buildings may be required for public safety purposes.
The minimum distance between buildings may be decreased pursuant to the
applicable criteria contained in section
9-2B-4, "Alternative Compliance", of this article.
   I.   Open Site Area:
      1.   The minimum required open site area shall be a percentage of the
total development parcel or development site. Open site area shall be included
in all development site proposals or demonstrated that the provision of
cumulative open site area is met through an approved master plan or planned
unit development. Developers of large parcels are encouraged to aggregate open
site area or explore opportunities to locate open site area in such a way that
the purpose is maximized.
      2.   Required open site area calculations for the commercial districts
shall exclude structures, private decks or patios, parking areas, driveways,
cul-de-sacs and streets, but may include landscaping and walkways.
   J.   Building Mass And Scale: Buildings in the CC district shall be designed
in a manner such that the apparent mass of the building is minimized and is
compatible with the adjacent properties. Sun Valley has a tradition of building
design in which structures are low in scale and fit within the landscape. Most
buildings also convey a human scale and provide visual interest through varied
massing and architectural details.
      1.   Height:
         a.   Building height shall be measured from record grade.
         b.   Buildings on natural topography greater than fifteen percent
(15%) slope shall be designed in a manner to reduce visibility by using stepped
building forms, natural colors and materials, sloped roofs, and landscaping,
and shall use a combination of these techniques such that the building does not
skyline.
         c.   No portion of any building or structure shall exceed the maximum
height above record grade established in subsection A of this section.
Appurtenances and screening of mechanical and exhaust systems shall be included
within this maximum height. However, appurtenances may exceed the maximum
height by up to four feet (4') through the provisions of section
9-2B-4, "Alternative Compliance", of this article.
         d.   Buildings in the CC district shall be compatible and appear in
scale with the traditional development of the area.
         e.   When multiple buildings are proposed, variation in height and
roofline shall be required. When a single building exceeds forty four feet
(44') in height, variation in height and roofline shall be required.
      2.   Dormers: In the CC zoning districts, in order to minimize the impact
of larger buildings on neighboring properties, the following standards shall
apply:
         a.   Dormers may be integrated as part of principal or accessory
structures.
         b.   A dormer is permitted to penetrate a bulk plane.
         c.   A dormer ridge or roofline shall not extend above the primary
roof ridge.
         d.   A dormer face shall not exceed fifteen feet (15'), or more than
fifty percent (50%) of the wall plane length, whichever is less.
         e.   More than one dormer is acceptable on a wall plane length, but
the total combined dormer face width shall not exceed fifty percent (50%) of
the wall plane length.
         f.   The space between dormers shall not be less than one-half (1/2)
the width of the adjoining dormer or the average of the two (2) if they are
different sizes, whichever is greater.
         g.   A dormer shall be located a minimum of three feet (3') from the
wall plane that runs perpendicular to the dormer face.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2299c78b80534ce5d04cf25b9a6ae06e6e31344a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1107.gif]
 
      3.   Building Length/Wall Articulation: Variety in building length serves
to provide visual variety in massing, enhance view opportunities, and create
visual interest. Variations in materials and architectural ornament and detail
should serve to reduce the perceived mass of a building.
         a.   New structures within the CC district shall be designed to
incorporate wall lengths that minimize overall bulk and mass visual impacts.
         b.   Wall articulation is a traditional building characteristic seen
in the CC district that shall be continued to the greatest extent practicable
in new structures. New structures proposed in the CC district shall demonstrate
vertical and horizontal wall articulation to minimize bulk and mass visual
impacts.
         c.   Structural design shall incorporate variations in wall plane
setbacks, changes in materials, and architectural ornament and detail to break
up the mass of new buildings.
         d.   Large buildings shall be designed to break up the perceived mass
of the structure and the facade by using subordinate elements around a central
mass.
         e.   Buildings should be stepped down in height at the edges to
minimize visual impacts and reduce apparent height on adjacent properties,
buildings and walkways.
         f.   One- and two-story building elements that project out from a
primary rectangular building form shall be employed when applicable to reduce
the appearance of building height, mass and scale.
   K.   Sustainable Energy And Water Use: The demolition, construction and
maintenance of buildings and structures should be completed in a manner which
minimizes the use of nonrenewable energy sources, reduces greenhouse gas
emissions, and promotes environmental sustainability. To provide for safe,
orderly and healthful development of the city and its environs, construction of
energy and water efficient buildings and landscaping and the use of materials
that are renewable and biodegradable are encouraged. Applicants for development
within the CC district should meet with the director during the project design
phase to explore construction methods which meet these objectives prior to
filing an application.
      1.   Sustainable Energy And Water Use Statement: The city encourages the
applicant to consider building and site design practices which reduce
pollutants and provide for the use of alternative, renewable energy sources. To
ensure awareness and consideration of such practices, the applicant shall
prepare a statement which summarizes efforts to meet the objectives of this
section. The applicant is encouraged to consider all or some of the following
building and site design practices. The deciding body shall not approve or deny
an application based upon the sustainable energy and water use statement.
         a.   Site Design:
            (1)   Orient new construction and landscaping to maximize the
site's solar access, daylight, heat and airflow opportunities. Nonresidential
buildings should seek to collect sufficient solar energy such that fifty
percent (50%) of the HVAC energy demands are provided through passive and/or
active solar systems.
            (2)   Cluster development to minimize pavement and utilities to
preserve open site area.
         b.   Building Materials And Recycling:
            (1)   Use recycled and salvaged building materials for at least
five percent (5%) of the total building materials. Establish a construction and
demolition recycling program on site.
            (2)   Purchase at least twenty percent (20%) of the total building
materials within five hundred (500) miles of the development site to reduce
emissions in transport.
            (3)   Use energy efficient and recycled content building materials
such as double low-E glazed windows; high R-value insulation materials; and
nontoxic paints, stains, carpets, tiles and wood.
         c.   Transit And Reduced Vehicular Use:
            (1)   Provide bus pullouts, bus shelters, secure bicycle storage,
and preferred parking spaces for carpools to reduce automobile use.
            (2)   Provide eighteen (18) hour transportation services and long
term visitor parking for all overnight accommodations including timeshares and
hotels.
            (3)   Reduce the minimum amount of required parking in the CC
district as set forth in section
9-3E-4 of this title. Alternatives to providing on site parking, as set forth
in section
9-3E-5 of this title are highly encouraged.
         d.   Energy Efficient Appliances And Renewable Energy Sources:
            (1)   Use energy efficient equipment such as Energy Star HVAC
systems and appliances, reduced demand lighting sources such as compact
fluorescent and LED lighting, and occupant controls for airflow, temperature
and lighting.
            (2)   Heat and power all snowmelt systems, outdoor pools, spas,
fountains, outdoor lighting and other similar features with renewable energy
sources.
         e.   Landscaping And Irrigation:
            (1)   Use high efficiency irrigation technology, such as drip
irrigation and moisture sensors, and recycled site water for a portion of the
irrigation provided.
            (2)   Select native landscaping that is drought resistant, requires
minimal or no irrigation, and does not require pesticides for maintenance.
         f.   Carbon Emission Offset: Carbon emission offset. (Ord. 390, 4-19-
2007)
9-2B-4: ALTERNATIVE COMPLIANCE:
   A.   Alternative Compliance:
      1.   Alternative compliance measures provide for minor flexibility for
the following massing standards and may be allowed by the deciding body when it
is determined that the measures proposed substantially meet the intent of the
standards set forth in chapter 3, article A, "Design Review Regulations", of
this title and section
9-3A-3, "Evaluation Standards", of this title.
Alternatives to the following building massing standards may be considered:
         a.   Maximum height of a hotel or a performing arts/symphony center
may be increased to a maximum height of seventy feet (70') for a portion of the
structure if compatible with the natural terrain and land uses on adjacent
properties, development sites, and zoning districts. This maximum height
flexibility may be granted if the deciding body finds that the structure's
design has substantial variation in heights, adequate horizontal and vertical
articulation, and respects adjacent structures. Structures adjacent to the Sun
Valley Lodge shall respect the height, massing, and historical context of the
lodge. (Ord. 393, 7-5-2007)
         b.   Minimum setback distance for structures within the SC and CC
zoning districts, as required in subsections
9-2B-3F and G of this article, may be decreased in cases where the applicant
can show that such reductions increase the overall perception of open space
character and/or light and air for adjacent properties and when public safety
needs are met.
         c.   "Appurtenances", defined as architectural elements added to a
building design and typically including chimneys, vents, solar panels, or
similar, may exceed the maximum height limitations by up to four feet (4') when
the deciding body finds that the appurtenance adds vertical and/or horizontal
articulation to the structure's design, the main roofline(s) of the structure
vary in height and form, and only portions of the structure's roof ridge are
designed at the maximum height limit. Increases in height shall not be granted
for the screening for air conditioning and mechanical units.
         d.   Minimum distance between buildings, required in subsection
9-2B-3 H1 of this article, may be decreased in cases where the applicant shows,
subject to approval by the deciding body, that such reductions provide for a
more viable and lively commercial center or result in a larger aggregate of
landscape area. In all cases, the minimum distance between buildings can be
reduced through alternative compliance measures only when it can be shown that
all applicable public safety standards are still met. (Ord. 390, 4-19-2007)
ARTICLE C. RECREATION-OPEN SPACE-PUBLIC DISTRICTS
SECTION:
9-2C-1: Purpose
9-2C-2: Allowed Uses
9-2C-3: Dimensional Standards
9-2C-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   REC Recreation District: Recreation district shall be established as
the principal district in which large scale outdoor and certain indoor
recreation occurs. It is the intent of this article to promote the purposes of
the comprehensive plan related to the preservation and enhancement of the
recreational quality and character of the community. The REC zoning district is
consistent with the recreational land use designation identified in the
comprehensive plan and consists of areas appropriate for recreational purposes,
generally those lands that are open in nature where development may be limited.
The REC district includes areas for ski areas, golf courses, riding stables,
developed campgrounds, developed picnic sites, recreational day lodges, and
other similar recreational uses.
   B.   PI Public/Institution District: Public/institution district shall be
established to identify lands on which public service uses are conducted. This
district is also intended to be the location for uses requiring large public
spaces or community gathering places. The PI district is consistent with the
public/quasi-public land use designation identified in the comprehensive plan.
   C.   OS Open Space District: Open space district shall be established to
identify lands which are environmentally sensitive or are identified by the
comprehensive plan as having significant open space value to be preserved and/
or used for limited, passive recreational uses. The intent of the OS district
is to protect and ensure stewardship over important natural open land areas of
citywide or regional importance. The OS district is consistent with the open
space land use designation identified in the comprehensive plan, consisting of
open natural area which is primarily undeveloped, having generally native
vegetation, and may include environmentally sensitive areas that are precluded
from development other than that which is specifically needed or related to
open space use such as trails, trailheads with tables and benches. This
designation includes areas where the encroachment of development would
compromise the intrinsic value of environmentally sensitive lands (such as
steep hillsides, avalanche areas, critical wildlife areas, watersheds, lakes,
ponds, river and stream corridors, wetlands, parks, forested and grazing areas,
view sheds and view corridors) and lands acquired specifically for preservation
and conservation of permanent open space. Transit corridors and utilities may
be permitted where appropriate. (Ord. 382, 10-25-2006)
9-2C-2: ALLOWED USES:
Table
9-2C-1, in subsection C of this section, lists allowed uses as permitted (P),
conditional (C), or prohibited (–) uses.
   A.   All permitted and conditional uses shall be reviewed in accord with
chapter 3 of this title.
   B.   Conditional uses shall be approved in accord with the procedures for
conditional uses set forth in chapter 5 of this title.
   C.   Any use not explicitly listed in table
9-2C-1 of this section is prohibited in all recreation-open space-public
district.
TABLE
9-2C-1
ALLOWED USES IN THE RECREATION-OPEN SPACE-PUBLIC ZONING DISTRICTS
    District
Use REC PI OS
                                                                      District
Use                                                                   REC PI OS
Accessory maintenance uses for recreation uses                        P   ––
Accessory uses for recreation uses, other than maintenance related    C   –C
Art, education, and entertainment uses                                C   P  –
Church                                                                C   P  –
Civic, social and fraternal organizations                             – P  –
Cultivation and harvesting of crops                                   P   –P
Equestrian uses, indoors                                              C   ––
Equestrian uses, outdoors                                             P   –P
Helispot, helistop for public purpose                                 C   ––
Land and stream rehabilitation                                        P   P  P
Motorized vehicles, i.e., snowmobile, ATV, motorcycle, or similar     – ––
(except for ski area maintenance and golf cart uses in the REC zone)
Recreation uses, indoor                                               C   ––
Recreation uses, outdoor; except skeet, trap, pistol and rifle ranges P   C  –
Recreation uses; skeet, trap, pistol and rifle ranges                 C   ––
Schools                                                               C   P  –
Temporary, special events                                             C   C  C
Trails, trailheads, paths (nonmotorized)                              P   P  P
Transit structures and uses, including gondola                        C   C  C
Utilities, abovegrade                                                 C   P  C
Utilities, belowgrade                                                 C   C  C
Wireless communication facilities                                     C   C  C
 
(Ord. 382, 10-25-2006)
9-2C-3: DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS:
   A.   Table Of Standards: Table
9-2C-2 of this subsection is a summary only of the dimensional standards for
development in the recreation-open space-public districts. The table should be
read in conjunction with the detailed requirements and explanations set forth
in subsections B through E of this section. Maximum dimensional standards may
be reduced and minimum dimensional standards may be increased if the
development does not fully comply with the design criteria as set forth in
chapter 3, including articles A through K of this title.
TABLE
9-2C-2
SUMMARY DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS IN THE RECREATION-OPEN SPACE-PUBLIC ZONING
DISTRICTS
         Recreation-Public Districts
         (Not applicable to OS zone)
Standard REC PI
                                     Recreation-Public Districts
                                     (Not applicable to OS zone)
Standard                             REC          PI
Minimum lot size                        20,000   square feet
Minimum average lot dimensions          100   feet
Minimum street frontage for flat lot    40   feet
Setbacks from all property lines     35 feet plus 35 feet
Building height                      44 feet      35 feet
Lot coverage                                      40 percent
 
   B.   Lot Dimensions:
      1.   The required dimensions for both width and depth of the lot shall be
computed as an average of the length of the property lines.
      2.   Access to flag lots shall not be included in computing the average
width or depth of the lot.
   C.   Setbacks In REC District: In addition to the minimum setback
requirement, one foot (1') in setback for each foot in structure height greater
than thirty five feet (35') is required.
   D.   Building Height:
      1.   In the REC district, the height restriction does not apply to
chimneys, lightning rods, weather vanes, stacks, or ski lift towers.
      2.   In the PI district, the height restriction does not apply to
chimneys, flagpoles, lightning rods, weather vanes, stacks, antennas, steeples
or other similar, unoccupied up to twenty five percent (25%) of the roof area
of the structure.
      3.   In the OS district, any building or other structures that height
regulations regulate are not permitted. Any utility structure or building in
the OS district shall be subject to height requirements determined through the
conditional use permit process.
      4.   Buildings on natural topography greater than fifteen percent (15%)
slope shall be designed in a manner to reduce visibility by using stepped
building forms, natural colors and materials, sloped roofs, and landscaping,
and shall use a combination of these techniques such that the building does not
skyline.
   E.   Development Emphasis: Development in the open space (OS) district
pursuant to the permitted and conditional uses listed in table
9-2C-1 of this article should emphasize and be consistent with the natural
dynamic state of the land and avoid or minimize disruption of existing natural
conditions. (Ord. 382, 10-25-2006)
CHAPTER 3
DESIGN AND DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS
ARTICLE A. DESIGN REVIEW REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-3A-1: Purpose
9-3A-2: Applicability
9-3A-3: Evaluation Standards
9-3A-4: Completion Of Improvements
9-3A-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the design review standards is to ensure that development is
designed and built in a manner that is context sensitive, complementary to
adjacent property, protects the natural landscape, is of high design quality,
and is compatible with the character and scale of the neighborhood. These
standards are intended to prohibit buildings and related improvements that
significantly impact the natural, scenic character and aesthetic value of
hillsides, ridges, ridgelines, ridge tops, knolls, saddles, and summits in the
city. (Ord. 382, 10-25-2006)
9-3A-2: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   Application Of Standards: These standards shall apply to:
      1.   Driveways, streets or trails;
      2.   Excavation or land alteration;
      3.   Any new building or structure;
      4.   Other improvements including, but not limited to, decks over thirty
inches (30"), fences, walls, landscaping, and lighting;
      5.   Commercial, multi-tenant, or directional signs;
      6.   Substantial demolition of significant principal structures or
facilities, as determined by the director; and
      7.   Any addition or alteration to the exterior of any existing building,
structure, or other related improvement as described above.
   B.   Application Approval Required: No construction shall commence on any
new building, structure, related improvement, or sign nor on any addition or
alteration to the exterior of any existing building, structure, related
improvement, or sign until the commission or its designee has approved the
design review application for the proposed improvement. No application shall be
considered for review until it is certified complete by the director or his/her
authorized staff in accordance with chapter 5 of this title.
   C.   Projects Exempt from Application Processes:
      1.   The following types of projects are exempt from design review
application processes and approvals, but must still comply with all applicable
design review regulations, zoning district standards, and other code
requirements without requiring a variance or other exception:
         a.   Landscaping alterations up to the lesser of four hundred (400)
square feet or ten percent (10%) of the property provided record grade slopes
exceeding twenty-five percent (25%) are not disturbed.
         b.   Changes to driveway materials only, without hydronic or heating
systems; title 7, chapter 4, "Encroachments," of this code may still apply when
working in the right of way.
         c.   Removal of trees lesser than eight inches (8") diameter at breast
height (dbh).
         d.   Removal of any high-risk, diseased, declining, or dead tree as
certified by an International Society of Arboriculture (ISA) Certified
Arborist, American Society of Consulting Arborist, or arborist holding a
certification by other arboriculture certification bodies, provided stumps and
root systems remain in place for trees located within a Stream Buffer required
by Chapter 3, Article J., Riparian Zones.
         e.   Removal of trees greater than eight inches (8") diameter breast
height (dbh) that pose an immediate threat to safety, as determined by the
Community Development Director or their designee.
         f.   Reroofing from shake to composition shingles.
         g.   Replacing existing components or materials which are similar in
color, nature, and styling.
         h.   Interior remodels, except where such remodels require the
installation of fire suppression systems.
         i.   Repainting the exterior of a residence or unit in a neutral,
natural, earth toned color.
      2.   The community development director, or his/her assignee, may issue a
letter or form declaring the project exempt, if requested or determined to be
necessary.
      3.   If extenuating circumstances are present, the director may require
any project to submit a design review application for the project to the
commission for review and approval.
      4.   Approvals, denials, and imposed conditions may all be appealed in
writing to the commission within ten (10) calendar days from the date of the
action.
   D.   Projects Requiring Approval by Public Hearing At The Commission:
      1.   The following types of projects must receive design review approval
by the planning and zoning commission:
         a.   Demolition.
         b.   New construction.
         c.   Additions greater than twenty five percent (25%) of the original
floor area in residential zoning districts (For additions less than or equal to
twenty-five percent (25%), use subsection F of this section).
         d.   Exterior alterations in the CC, SC, and PI zoning districts,
excluding alterations to windows and doors, including the addition of doors,
windows, and skylights.
         e.   Any development in the REC and OS zoning districts.
         f.   Manufactured home installation and placement.
         g.   Changes of principal use.
         h.   Projects subject to hillside development standards in article H
of this chapter; excluding minor encroachments or disturbances of slopes
exceeding twenty-five percent (25%) record grade that may be approved through
the administrative design review process with notice to adjoining property
owners.
         i.   Projects located within riparian zones in article J of this
chapter.
         j.   Wireless facilities and overhead utilities, in all zones and
within the right of way.
   E.   Projects Requiring Administrative Approvals Without Public Notice:
      1.   The following types of projects may receive design review approval
administratively by the community development department but do not require
public notice or comment; the projects must still comply with all applicable
design review regulations, zoning district standards, and other code
requirements without requiring a variance or other exception:
         a.   Address monuments.
         b.   Alterations to windows and doors, including the addition of
doors, windows, and skylights.
         c.   Decks and deck extensions under one hundred fifty (150) square
feet in the RS-1 and RA zones.
         d.   Ground floor decks and deck extensions under one hundred fifty
(150) square feet in all other zones.
         e.   Additions of habitable floor area less than one hundred (100)
square feet which do not require a plat amendment.
         f.   Additions of non-habitable floor area less than two hundred (200)
square feet which do not require a plat amendment.
         g.   Signs, other than monument style signs, per article F of this
chapter.
         h.   Fences, wherein approval is provided by directly adjacent
neighbors.
         i.   Trellises and arbors less than two hundred (200) square feet.
         j.   Interior remodels requiring fire sprinkler installations.
         k.   Temporary use permits.
         l.   Floodplain development permits, and stream alteration permits,
provided the following noticing requirements specific to stream alteration and
contained in Article I., Flood Hazard Protection, are met: notice to adjacent
jurisdictions, the Idaho Department of Water Resources (IDWR) state coordinator
for the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP), and the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA).
         m.   Changes to exterior lighting which is compliant with article B of
this chapter.
         n.   Removal of trees located within one hundred feet (100') of a
structure in order to enhance survivable space. Survivable space is the area
around a structure that has been cleared of combustible materials in order to
slow the spread of fire. For measurement of the distance from a structure
Geographic Information Systems (GIS) measuring tools, in conjunction with
aerial imagery of the subject property, may be utilized.
            (1)   When a tree is located within fifteen feet (15') from the
mean high-water mark of a natural perennial or intermittent stream, or a stream
buffer required by Chapter 3, Article J., Riparian Zones, trees may be cut down
provided the tree stumps and root systems remain in place.
            (2)   When an application proposes to remove trees within one
hundred feet (100') of a structure located on an adjacent parcel, and the
application includes removal of trees within a required setback for the subject
parcel, courtesy notification to the adjacent property owner is required. The
city shall mail a courtesy notice to inform the owner of the adjacent parcel of
pending tree removal action. The courtesy notice does not require a public
comment time period prior to the city taking action on the application.
            In Figure 1. below Property A represents the applicant proposing to
remove trees and Property B is the property containing a structure within one
hundred feet (100') of the subject trees. In accordance with this subsection, a
courtesy notification would be required to be mailed to the owner of Property
B.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2299c78b80534ce5d04cf25b9a6ae06e6e31344a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1705.gif]
      2.   The community development director, or his/her assignee, shall issue
a letter or form approving the project, if the project complies with all
mandated code standards without requiring a variance or exception; such an
approval may include reasonable conditions to mitigate impacts of the proposed
action.
      3.   If extenuating circumstances are present, the director may make a
finding in that regard and refer the project to the commission for review and
approval.
      4.   Approvals, denials, and imposed conditions may all be appealed in
writing to the commission within ten (10) calendar days from the date of the
action.
   F.   Projects Requiring Administrative Approvals With Notice:
      1.   Any proposal subject to a land use or building permit that
encroaches into with a structure, or otherwise disturbs, record grade slopes
exceeding 25%.
      2.   Any other project types not specifically identified in subsection C,
D, or E of this section, and not requiring any exception or variance, will be
reviewed administratively by the community development director after
appropriate public notice in accordance with section
9-5A-5 of this title.
         a.   This includes tree removal actions not specifically identified in
subsection C, D, or E of this section.
      3.   The community development director, or his/her assignee, shall issue
a letter or form approving the project, if the project complies with all
mandated code standards without requiring a variance or exception; such an
approval may include reasonable conditions to mitigate impacts of the proposed
action.
      4.   If extenuating circumstances are present, the director may make a
finding in that regard and refer the project to the commission for review and
approval.
      5.   Approvals, denials, and imposed conditions may all be appealed in
writing to the commission within ten (10) calendar days from the date of the
action. (Ord. 382, 10-25-2006; amd. Ord. 502, 2-2-2017; Ord. 563, 2021; Ord.
578, 5-1-2025)
9-3A-3: EVALUATION STANDARDS:
The following criteria shall be used in evaluating proposed developments
seeking design review approval and shall be the basis for the findings as set
forth in chapter 5 of this title.
   A.   Design And Siting:
      1.   The design of proposed improvements, including landscaping and other
site improvements, is appropriate and compatible with the lot and the
surrounding neighborhood. Attention has been given to the location and design
of streets, view corridors, privacy of adjacent properties, outdoor spaces,
survivable space, shadows, solar access, view access, lighting, vehicular
access, building massing, locations of noise generating equipment, and openings
and doors as these elements impact adjacent properties. Survivable space is the
area around a structure that has been cleared of combustible materials in order
to slow the spread of fire.
      2.   The location and design of the proposed improvements, including
landscaping and other site improvements, has given consideration to special
sites of historical, natural, ecological, architectural, archaeological, and
scenic value or significance, including, but not limited to, those identified
in the city's comprehensive plan. The essential character of special sites
should be preserved and protected with any proposed site or structure
improvements.
      3.   The siting of the proposed improvements complies with the adopted
uniform fire code and any other applicable regulations regarding emergency
vehicle access and circulation as set forth in title 7 of this code.
      4.   The proposed improvements are sited to meet the ingress, egress, and
driveway standards and requirements set forth in title 7 of this code, and the
siting standard in subsection A1 of this section.
      5.   The proposed improvements are sited to take into consideration and
to mitigate natural hazards such as floodplains and avalanches as set forth in
this chapter. Mitigation measures shall not adversely impact other properties.
      6.   The siting of the proposed improvements minimizes interference with
natural drainage patterns and is designed to minimize adverse impact on other
properties. All drainage shall comply with the standards set forth in title 7
of this code; be contained on site, or be connected to drainage easements or
rights of way. No drainage shall be diverted off site onto private property.
      7.   The site design provides for adequate space or means to maintain
snow storage. Snow storage areas are in accordance with the requirements set
forth in article G of this chapter.
      8.   Appropriate address numbers and monuments are shown in accordance
with the requirements as set forth in article G of this chapter.
      9.   The siting of the proposed improvements, including streets and
driveways, where applicable, minimizes hillside visibility and, where
applicable, skylining by using a combination of stepped building forms, natural
colors and materials, sloped roofs, and landscaping.
      10.   Every lot shall be designed to be connected to public water and
sewer systems, unless the property is over five hundred feet (500') from a
public system as measured from the closest property line and an alternative
utility system is approved by the city engineer.
   B.   Grading:
      1.   Essential grading is shaped to blend with natural landforms and to
minimize the necessity of padding and/or terracing of building sites. Cut and
fill are shaped, rounded, minimized and nonuniform to simulate natural existing
contours.
      2.   Areas which are not well suited for development because of existing
soil conditions, ridges, ridgelines, ridge tops, knolls, saddles, summits,
wildlife habitat, natural features or hydrology are allocated for open site
area or recreational uses.
      3.   The development is in accordance with the design criteria, as
applicable, as set forth in article H of this chapter and title 7 of this code.
   C.   Architectural Quality:
      1.   The proposed project maintains the quality of materials and design
that is appropriate to the location, the lot and the neighborhood.
      2.   The proposed improvements conform to natural landscape features by
minimizing the degree of cuts and fills.
      3.   The plan includes the location of all exterior lighting. All
lighting shall be directed onto the subject lot and shall not be directed
towards other properties.
      4.   Building design includes weather protection that prevents water from
dripping or snow from sliding onto pedestrian or vehicle areas or onto adjacent
properties.
      5.   Any exterior addition or alteration to an existing building is
compatible with the design character of the original building. Any new detached
structure is compatible with the design character of the existing buildings
and/or structure(s).
      6.   All improvements are designed to minimize light and sound emanating
to other properties as set forth in article B of this chapter.
      7.   Rooftop chimneys and utilities are enclosed and design is consistent
with the primary structure.
   D.   Pedestrian And Vehicle Circulation Design:
      1.   Pedestrian and vehicle accesses are provided that meet the
requirements set forth in title 7 of this code and comply with the current and
future circulation plans for streets and nonvehicular paths contained in the
2015 Sun Valley transportation plan and any amendments thereto.
      2.   The site plan provides for safe and uninhibited traffic flow both
within the project and onto adjacent streets. Site distances and proper signage
are in accordance with title 7 of this code.
      3.   Parking areas meet aisle dimensions, backup space and turning radius
requirements in accordance with title 7 of this code.
      4.   Parking areas are designed to minimize adverse impacts upon living
areas and upon adjacent properties with regard to noise, light, and visual
impact.
      5.   Unobstructed access for fire and emergency vehicles complies with
title 8 of this code and other applicable city regulations. Unobstructed access
for snowplows, garbage trucks and similar service vehicles is provided to all
necessary locations within the project.
   E.   Landscaping Quality: "Landscaping" is defined in Chapter 1, Article C,
Definitions. In addition to the criteria contained in
9-3A-3-A-1 and
9-3A-3-A-2, landscape plans shall be evaluated with the criteria in this
section. In addition, application materials shall include a narrative statement
addressing the criteria in this section.
      1.   Landscape plans and renderings shall identify the proposed height
range of each vegetation species at the time of planting and the potential
height range of each vegetation species at maturity.
      2.   Landscape materials and vegetation types and sizes specified are
appropriate and readily adaptable to the microclimate and soil conditions of
the project location. Fire-resistant, native drought resistant, and winter
hardy plant materials are encouraged.
      3.   Landscape materials and vegetation types, planting locations, and
planting density take into consideration survivable space around a structure at
the time of planting and at maturity. The spacing, density, and placement of
landscaping at the time of planting and at maturity shall ensure that
firefighters can easily navigate around a structure's perimeter.
      4.   Tree species with potential mature heights that do not exceed the
height of the building or structure being screened are recommended and
encouraged in order to mitigate impacts to view corridors. In addition,
consideration to view corridors shall be given with respect to the potential
mature heights of trees planted within required setbacks. In order to mitigate
crown fires, the spacing between tree canopies at mature height should be
considered, with greater space provided relative to the trees' potential mature
height.
      5.   The locations of tree and shrub species that sucker (the growth of
new shoots from the base of the tree, shrub, or its roots) should be evaluated
in terms of their immediate planting density at time of planting as well as
long-term density at maturity. Landscape plans shall identify trees and shrub
species that sucker. Trees and shrubs that sucker are discouraged from being
planted within thirty feet (30') from structures in order to promote survivable
space.
      6.   For all vegetation planted in required property setbacks the impact
of canopy shading on ground cover vegetation, suckering (the growth of new
shoots from the base of the tree, shrub, or its roots), and canopy and root
system encroachment into adjacent properties and rights-of-ways should be
evaluated. The planting of vegetation in property setbacks that has the
potential to become denser (due to suckering or canopy growth) or to have
negative off-site impacts (due to suckering or root system growth) is
discouraged, except in instances where such vegetation enhances a riparian
zone.
      7.   Japanese yew (Taxus cuspidata), European or English yew (Taxus
baccata), and Chinese yew (Taxus chinensis) and their hybrids are prohibited
due to their toxicity to animals, including wildlife, and humans.
      8.   Existing trees, shrub masses, and important landscape features are
encouraged to be preserved when a site is developed or redeveloped, where
reasonable, and when not in conflict with other criteria in this section. The
removal of trees, shrubs, and nonhazardous plant materials is generally limited
to those essential for a sensitive development of the site, and to create
survivable space around structures.
      9.   Landscape buffer areas that provide screening between adjacent
properties, different land use zones, and between streets and off-street
parking lots are provided. Landscape buffers should balance the benefits of
screening and buffering with the benefits of selecting fire-resistant
vegetation species, greater spacing, and lower density of plantings in order to
reduce the spread of wildfires. Street trees, public courtyards and appropriate
pedestrian and bicycle path linkages are encouraged.
      10.   The ability to prune, irrigate, service or otherwise maintain all
vegetation and landscaping materials has informed the siting and locations of
all such improvements.
   F.   Irrigation Limits:
      1.   In order to fairly distribute available domestic irrigation water to
all residential lots and parcels served by the Sun Valley Water and Sewer
District, the total area of any lot or parcel irrigated with Sun Valley water
and sewer district water shall not exceed the following:
         a.   For RA and RS-1 single-family lots, the total area of all
irrigated portions of the lot or parcel shall not exceed twenty two thousand
(22,000) square feet (approximately 1/2 acre).
         b.   For RS-2 cluster single-family development parcels, and for RM-
1 and RM-2 multiple-family development parcels, the total area of all irrigated
portions of the development parcel shall not exceed fifty percent (50%) of the
total development parcel size or one-half (1/2) acre of irrigated area per acre
of development parcel.
         c.   Temporary irrigation for revegetation of areas that were
disturbed during construction and that when included exceed the maximum
allowable irrigated area set forth herein, may be allowed up to two (2) growing
seasons after landscape completion to irrigate and revegetate the disturbed
areas. Application materials shall include a narrative statement addressing how
the irrigation system is zoned and the methodology that will be used to
decommission temporary irrigation.
         d.   When trees are approved in "natural grass areas" where there is
little or no irrigation planned or installed, a subsurface drip system that
does not irrigate beyond the "drip line" of the tree or trees may be installed
to water just the trees and as such, will not count as part of the irrigation
limits set forth above.
   G.   Fences, Walls, Retaining Walls, Screens, And Dog Runs:
      1.   Fences, screens, and dog runs are designed to be consistent with the
architectural character of the structures on the property.
      2.   Fencing and screening materials are finished on both sides.
      3.   Fences, walls, retaining walls, screens, and dog runs are in
accordance with the requirements set forth in article G, "Standard
Regulations", of this chapter, including the provision that in all zoning
districts, fences, screens, retaining walls, and freestanding walls may be
approved in excess of the maximum height limit through the design review
process.
   H.   Sign Design:
      1.   Consideration shall be given to sign location, configuration, scale,
design, materials, and colors in evaluating sign applications.
      2.   Sign materials shall be predominately natural such as, but not
limited to, wood, native stone, or integrally colored stucco. Plastic and other
machine made materials are discouraged.
      3.   Signs and supporting structures shall be architecturally compatible
with the surrounding structures.
      4.   Signs comply with the requirements set forth in article F of this
chapter.
   I.   Exterior Lighting:
      1.   All light sources shall comply with an approved exterior lighting
plan as set forth in article B of this chapter.
      2.   All nonresidential luminaries that deviate from the requirements of
article B of this chapter shall demonstrate that:
         a.   The proposed deviation is appropriate to the location of the
lighting and the surrounding neighborhood;
         b.   The proposed deviation will not unreasonably diminish either the
health, safety, or welfare of the surrounding neighborhood uses; and
         c.   The proposed deviation will not unreasonably conflict with the
general intent of article B of this chapter.
   J.   Additional Evaluation Standards For Commercial, Public, And Multiple-
Unit Projects (PUDs, RM-1, RM-2, SC, CC And OS-1 Zones, And Condominium And
Townhouse Projects):
      1.   Proposed improvements are designed to maximize usable public/common
space throughout the project.
      2.   Building walls that are exposed to street(s) are designed
proportionally to human scale through the use of stepped building walls;
undulating building walls; windows; balconies; mixture of materials, textures,
and colors; and other architectural means.
      3.   Exterior circulation to public sidewalks and streets is provided.
Sidewalks and thoroughfares that are covered by awnings, arcades, or other
canopies for weather protection are encouraged.
      4.   Service and delivery vehicle (garbage, supplies, laundry, etc.)
access, circulation, and areas are appropriate for the size of the development.
Access, circulation, snow storage, and screened trash and storage areas are
depicted on the plans using flow diagrams. (Ord. 382, 10-25-2006; amd. Ord.
421, 1-21-2010; Ord. 455, 12-6-2012; Ord. 578, 5-1-2025)
9-3A-4: COMPLETION OF IMPROVEMENTS:
An applicant shall follow the procedures set forth below to ensure substantial
completion of the proposed project and improvements according to the plans and
specifications as approved:
   A.   Agreement: The applicant shall complete the construction of the
improvements according to the approved plans, specifications, and findings of
fact.
   B.   Time Limitations: Approval duration and extensions of approvals shall
follow the regulations contained in section
9-5A-8.
   C.   Request For Surety Guarantee: When a Certificate of Occupancy or
Completion for the Building Permit associated with the Design Review
application is sought, if non-life safety improvements approved through Design
Review are not completed the applicant shall do one of the following:
      1.   Post a performance or completion bond for one hundred fifty percent
(150%) of the estimated cost to complete the improvements specified in the
approved plans, specifications and findings of fact; or
      2.   Post an irrevocable letter of credit with a bank or lending
institution acceptable to the city for one hundred fifty percent (150%) of the
estimated cost to complete the improvements specified in the approved plans,
specifications, and findings of fact.
   D.   Written Estimate: A written estimate for the cost to complete all
improvements and specifications according to the approved Findings of Fact
shall be submitted and approved by the director or their designee. (Ord. 418,
2-19-2009; amd. Ord. 578, 5-1-2025)
ARTICLE B. EXTERIOR LIGHTING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-3B-1: Purpose
9-3B-2: Definitions
9-3B-3: Applicability
9-3B-4: Lighting Standards
9-3B-5: Prohibited Lighting
9-3B-6: Enforcement
9-3B-7: Notification
9-3B-8: City Role
9-3B-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of these regulations is to protect and promote the public health,
safety and welfare, the quality of life, and the ability to view the night sky,
by establishing regulations and a process for review of exterior lighting. This
article establishes standards for exterior lighting in order to accomplish the
following:
   A.   To provide safe streets for motorists, cyclists, and pedestrians, and
ensure that sufficient lighting can be provided where needed to promote safety
and security;
   B.   To minimize the effects of direct glare and excessive lighting;
   C.   To protect the ability to view the night sky, and help preserve the
quality of life and the tourist experience;
   D.   To prevent light trespass in all areas of the city;
   E.   To promote energy efficient and cost effective lighting in all areas of
the city;
   F.   To allow for flexibility in the style of lighting fixtures;
   G.   To define practical and effective measures by which the obtrusive
aspects of outdoor light usage can be minimized, and provide lighting practices
that direct the appropriate amount of light where and when it is needed;
   H.   To provide assistance to property owners and occupants in bringing
nonconforming lighting into conformance with this article; and
   I.   To work with other jurisdictions within Blaine County to meet the
purposes of this article, including supporting cooperation on efforts and goals
of the Central Idaho Dark Sky Reserve. (Ord. 382, 10-25-2006; amd. Ord. 543, 9-
3-2020)
9-3B-2: DEFINITIONS:
             A luminaire equipped with a lamp that produces over one thousand eight hundred
AREA LIGHT:  (1,800) lumens. Area lights include, but are not limited to, streetlights, parking
             lot lights, and yard lights.
AVERAGE      The average level of illuminance for a given situation (with snow cover if that is
HORIZONTAL   to be expected in the given situation) measured at ground level with the light meter
FOOT-CANDLE: placed parallel to the ground.
BACK         An indirect source of light which is located behind the sign surface or is shielded
LIGHTING:    from the viewer’s eyes by a translucent or opaque material.
CORRELATED   The characterization of the color content, or spectrum (“warmness” or “coolness”),
COLOR        of a light source measured in Kelvin (K). Lamps with a CCT of less than 3000K are
TEMPERATURE  considered “warm.” Lamps with a CCT greater than 4000K are bluish-white and are
(CCT):       considered “cool.”
DIRECTIONAL  A fully shielded fixture that is angled no higher than twenty-five degrees (25°)
FLOODLIGHT:  degrees from vertical and which targets a specific area to be lit.
             Temporary or permanent outdoor lighting that is installed, located, or used in such
EXTERIOR     manner to cause light rays to shine outdoors. Luminaires that are indoors that are
LIGHTING:    intended to light something outside are considered exterior lighting for the purpose
             of this title.
FLOODLIGHT:  A light fixture that produces up to one thousand eight hundred (1,800) lumens and is
             designed to flood a well-defined area with light.
             The American unit used to measure the total amount of light cast on a surface
FOOT-CANDLE  (illumination). One (1) foot-candle is equivalent to the illuminance produced by a
(fc):        source of one (1) candle at a distance of one foot (1'). For example, the full moon
             produces 1.01 fc (fc are measured with a light meter). One (1) foot-candle is
             approximately equal to one lumen per square foot.
GLARE:       Stray light striking the eye that may result in:
             A. Nuisance or annoyance glare such as light shining into a window;
             B. Discomfort glare such as bright light causing squinting of the eyes;
             C. Disabling glare such as bright light reducing the ability of the eyes to see into
             shadows; and
             D. Reduction of visual performance.
HOLIDAY      Exterior lighting consisting of strings or individual lamps, where the output per
LIGHTING:    lamp is not greater than fifteen (15) lumens.
IESNA:       Illuminating Engineering Society of North America (IES or IESNA). The professional
             society of lighting engineers.
IESNA
RECOMMENDED  The current publications of the IESNA setting forth illuminance levels.
PRACTICES:
             The amount of lighting falling on any point of a surface measured in foot-candles,
ILLUMINANCE: lumens, or lux; foot-candles are measured as lumens per square foot, and lux is
             measure as lumens per square meter.
INDIRECT     A light source that is concealed from public view and separate from the surface and
LIGHTING:    illuminating the sign surface by means of spotlight or similar fixtures.
             The generic term for a source of optical radiation (light), often called a “bulb” or
LAMP:        “tube.” Examples include incandescent, fluorescent, high-intensity discharge (HID)
             lamps, and low-pressure sodium (LPS) lamps, as well as light-emitting diode (LED)
             modules and arrays.
LIGHT:       The form of radiant energy acting on the retina of the eye to make sight possible.
LIGHT        Any adverse effect of artificial night light including by not limited to, discomfort
POLLUTION:   to the eye or diminished vision due to glare, light trespass, or any manmade light
             that diminishes the ability to view the night sky.
LIGHT        Light falling on the property of another or the public right-of-way when it is not
TRESSPASS:   required to do so.
LIGHTING:    Any or all parts of a luminaire that function to produce light.
             The unit used to quantify the amount of light energy produced by a lamp at the lamp.
             Lumen output of most lamps is listed on the packaging. For example, a sixty (60)
LUMEN:       watt incandescent lamp produces nine hundred fifty (950) lumens while a fifty-five
             (55) watt low pressure sodium lamp produces eight thousand (8,000) lumens and a
             fifteen (15) watt LED bulb produces nine hundred (900) lumens. LED bulbs are eighty
             percent (80%) more efficient than incandescent lighting.
             A complete lighting unit, consisting of lamp or lamps together with the parts
LUMINAIRE:   designated to distribute the light, to position and protect the lamps, and to
             connect the lamps to the power. When used, includes ballasts and photocells.
             Commonly referred to as “fixture.”
LUMINAIRE,   The luminaire incorporates a translucent barrier, the “partial shield” around the
PARTIALLY    lamp that allows some light to pass through the barrier of the fixture’s walls while
SHIELDED:    concealing the lamp from the viewer.
LUMINAIRE,
EIGHTY-FIVE  Luminaires that do not allow light to escape from above an eighty-five degree angle
DEGREE       measured from a vertical line from the center of the lamp extended to the ground.
CUTOFF TYPE:
LUMINAIRES,  A luminaire designed and mounted level where no light is emitted at or above a
FULL CUT     horizontal plane running through the lowest point of the luminaire.
OFF:
LUMINAIRES,  The luminaire incorporates a solid barrier (the shield), which permits no light to
FULLY        escape through the barrier on the top and sides of the fixture.
SHIELDED:
LUMINAIRES,  The luminaire only incorporates clear glass, which permits all light to escape.
UNSHIELDED:
NONESSENTIAL Lighting that is not necessary for an intended purpose after the purpose has been
LIGHTING:    served. Does not include any lighting used for safety and/or public circulation
             purposes.
OPAQUE:      The effect of a part or parts of a luminaire that provide(s) a barrier above and in
             some cases around the lamp, that does not allow for any light to pass through.
PANCHANNELED Indirect, concealed light source which element is attached directly to the face of
LIGHTING:    the sign.
             The overhead glow from light emitted sideways and upwards. Skyglow is caused by the
SKYGLOW:     reflection and scattering of light by dust, water vapor, and other particles
             suspended in the atmosphere.
TEMPORARY    Lighting that is intended to be used for a special event for seven (7) days or less,
LIGHTING:    and temporary construction lighting.
             The effect of a part or parts of a luminaire that provide(s) a barrier around the
TRANSLUCENT: lamp that allows some light to pass through the barrier in a diffused manner, such
             that the lamp cannot be clearly distinguished.
UPLIGHTING:  Fully shielded lighting that is directed in such a manner as to shine light rays
             above the horizontal place.
WALL WASH:   The diversion of artificial lighting from the exterior surface of a building or
             structure. (Ord. 543, 9-3-2020)
 
9-3B-3: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   All exterior lighting installed after the effective date hereof in any
and all zoning districts in the City shall be in conformance with the
requirements established by this chapter and any other applicable ordinances.
All existing lighting installed prior to the effective date hereof in any and
all zoning districts shall be addressed as follows.
   B.   All existing exterior lighting located on a subject property that is
part of an application for design review approval, a conditional use permit,
subdivision approval, or a building permit is required to be brought into
conformance with this article before issuance of a certificate of occupancy,
final inspection or final plat recordation, when applicable.
   C.   Lighting Plans Required: All applications for design review approval, a
conditional use permit, subdivision approval, or a building permit shall
include lighting plans showing location, type, height, color temperature, lumen
output and amount of all proposed and existing fixtures. A photometric
illumination study shall be required for all development in Commercial zoning
districts and for complex residential lighting projects, as determined by
Community Development Department staff. The applicant shall provide enough
information to verify that lighting conforms to the provisions of this chapter.
The Community Development Director, Commission and/or Building Official shall
have the authority to request additional information in order to achieve the
purposes of this chapter.
   D.   All existing exterior lighting in any and all zoning districts in the
City that is not in conformance with the chapter, shall be brought into
conformance by August 1, 2025. (Ord. 543, 9-3-2020)
9-3B-4: LIGHTING STANDARDS:
   A.   General Standards:
      1.   Correlated Color Temperature: All exterior lighting shall utilize
light sources to not exceed three thousand (3,000) Kelvin.
      2.   Light Trespass and Overlighting: All existing and/or new exterior
lighting shall not cause light trespass and shall protect adjacent properties
from glare and excessive lighting. All vehicle lighting originating from a
commercial property shall be shielded from other adjacent properties.
Incidental light trespass (lighting emanating from turning motor vehicles) is
permitted.
      3.   Maximum Lighting Allowed: The total amount of outdoor lighting shall
not exceed the following maximum lumen allowances per site as identified below
per zoning district in Table 9-3B-1. Maximum Lumen Allowance. These lumen
allowances are upper limits and should not be interpreted as design goals.
Instead, design goals should be the lowest levels of lumens necessary to meet
lighting requirements of the site.
TABLE 9-3B-1.
MAXIMUM LUMEN ALLOWANCE
 
                    Recreation & Open   Residential         Commercial & Public
Zoning District     Space (REC, OS. OR- (RS-1, RS-2, RM-1,  Institutional (CC,
                    1)                  RM-2)               SC, PI)
Allowed Base Lumens 2000 Lm             5,000 Lm            14,000 Lm
Per Site
Total Site Lumen    .5 Lm (Lot Square   5000 + 1.25 Lm      14,000 + 5 Lm
Allowance           footage)1           (Allowable Building (Proposed Building
                                        Footprint)          Footprint)2
 
1   Additional lumens in excess of the calculated allowance may be permitted
through the design review process for conditionally permitted uses in the
Recreation zoning district, including but not limited to schools, churches,
etc. with a finding the exceeding the allowance is necessary to meet public
safety or security needs.
2   Additional lumens in excess of the calculated allowance may be permitted
through the design review process in Commercial and Public Institutional zoning
districts with a finding that exceeding the allowance is necessary to meet
public safety or security needs.
      4.   Nonessential Lighting: All nonessential exterior commercial,
recreational, and residential lighting shall be turned off after business hours
and/or when not in use. Lights on a timer shall be used. Sensor activated
lights shall be used to replace existing lighting that is desired for security
purposes.
      5.   Area Lights: All area lights, including streetlights and parking
area lighting, shall be level mounted and a minimum eighty-five degree (85°)
full cutoff type luminaires.
         a.   Residential streetlights shall be LED and are limited to six
thousand four hundred (6,400) lumens, unless otherwise recommended by the
Street Department.
         b.   Non-residential streetlights shall be LED and are limited to nine
thousand five hundred (9,500) lumens, unless otherwise recommended by the
Street Department.
         c.   Parking area lights shall be no taller than seventeen feet (17')
as measured from the ground to their tallest point. Parking area lights in the
Commercial and Public Institutional zoning districts shall have a correlated
color temperature of no greater than twenty-seven hundred Kelvin (2,700K) and
shall utilize adaptive lighting controls to reduce light output during vacant
periods. Parking area lights are encouraged to be greater in number, lower in
height and lower in light level, as opposed to fewer in number, higher in
height and higher in light level. Parking lot lighting shall not exceed the
Illuminating Engineering Society of North American (IESNA) recommended
illuminance (foot-candle) level and are encouraged to utilize the lowest range
available.
         d.   All freestanding area lights within a residential zone, except
streetlights, shall be mounted at a height equal to or less than the value 3 +
(D/3), where D is the distance in feet to the nearest property boundary and are
not to exceed twelve feet (12').
         e.   Freestanding luminaires shall be no higher than seventeen feet
(17') from the ground level to the top of the luminaires, except that
luminaires used for playing fields shall be exempt from the height restriction
provided all other provisions of this chapter are met and the light is used
only while the field or court is in use; and except that street lights on
arterial streets may exceed seventeen feet in height, with recommendation by
the Commission, and only with a finding that exceeding seventeen feet is
necessary to protect the safety of residences of the City. Freestanding
luminaires in the Commercial and Public Institutional zoning districts shall
have a correlated color temperature of no greater than twenty-seven hundred
Kelvin (2,700K) and shall utilize adaptive lighting controls to reduce light
output during vacant periods.
      6.   Public Outdoor Lighting: Public outdoor lighting, including holiday
lighting, shall be permitted to ensure the safety and enjoyment of the intended
public use. All public lighting shall comply with the standards established
herein and shall be turned off after hours of operation or when not in use.
When practically possible, motion sensors shall be used. New public outdoor
lighting, including street lighting, parking area lights, freestanding
luminaires, and exterior fixtures on municipal buildings shall be allowed as
recommended by the Street Department and Community Development Department when
determined necessary for public safety and/or security needs.
      7.   IESNA Guidelines: The Commission or Community Development Director
may require that any new lighting or existing lighting that comes before them
meet the guidelines for maximum illuminance output as established by the IESNA.
      8.   Luminaires: Idaho Power shall not install any luminaires after the
effective date hereof that light the public right of way without first
receiving approval for any such application by the Community Development
Director and Street Department.
   B.   Illuminance and Type of Lamp:
      1.   Illuminance levels for parking lots, sidewalks, and other walkways
provided illuminance from side mounted building lights, and freestanding
sidewalk lights (not streetlights) shall not exceed maximum illuminance levels
listed in the most current “IESNA Recommended Practices.” The city recognizes
that not every such area will require lighting.
      2.   Aboveground parking lot lighting shall not exceed an overall average
illumination of 1.5 foot-candles (1.5 Lumens/Square foot). Interior parking
structure lighting shall not exceed the minimum security illumination levels
listed in the most current “IESNA Recommended Practices”.
      3.   The use of lighting for exterior wall washing is discouraged and
limited for residences, condominiums, and apartments; the use of recessed eaves
lighting to achieve wall washing is preferred, and wall washing should strive
for uniform illumination distribution. The maximum average illumination limits
for wall washing are:
         a.   Dark colored exterior surfaces: 1.0 foot-candle (1.0 Lumens/
Square foot).
         b.   Light colored exterior surfaces: 0.5 foot-candle (.5 Lumens/
Square foot).
         c.   Illuminance measurements of indirect light creating wall wash
shall be measured with an illuminance meter four feet (4') from ground level
with the meter held horizontally and touching the wall surface.
   C.   Lighting Fixtures:
      1.   All exterior lighting shall comply with the acceptable lighting
fixtures located in Figure 1. Lighting Fixture Guidelines, of this subsection
C. All exterior lighting shall be full cutoff fixtures with the light source
fully shielded, except as exempted in this chapter.
      2.   Luminaires that have a maximum output under one thousand (1,000)
lumens per fixture (equal to one 60-watt incandescent lamp) regardless of
number of lamps, may be partially shielded provided the luminaires have an
opaque top or are under a solid overhang.
      3.   In no case shall clear glass or highly translucent glass luminaires
be allowed where the lamp is visible. Clear glass gas lanterns are exempt from
this requirement.
      4.   Nonresidential Luminaires: Nonresidential luminaires may deviate
from the requirements of these exterior lighting regulations only upon
submitting for Commission approval a design review application under article A
of this chapter, detailing the specific reasons for the proposed deviation. The
Commission may approve, deny, or approve with conditions any such application
submitted under this section.
   D.   Tables and Information Sheets: The following figures and information
sheets shall be guidelines for the public and the city for use in enforcing
this article. The city does not endorse or discriminate against any
manufacturer or company that may be shown, portrayed or mentioned by the
examples. Additional information is provided at the Sun Valley Community
Development Department.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2299c78b80534ce5d04cf25b9a6ae06e6e31344a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1140.png]
Figure 1. Lighting Fixture Guidelines
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2299c78b80534ce5d04cf25b9a6ae06e6e31344a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1138.png]
TABLE 9-3B-2.
LIGHTING FIXTURE EXCEPTIONS AND ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS
Type Of Lighting Full Cutoff Light Light Trespass Additional Requirements
                 Fixture           Standards
Type Of Lighting      Full Cutoff Light Light Trespass Additional Requirements
                      Fixture           Standards
                                                       All canopy lighting,
                                                       such as service station
                                                       lighting or covered
                                                       entries, shall be fully
                                                       recessed or fully
Canopy lighting       Required          Not exempt     shielded so as to
                                                       ensure that no light
                                                       source is visible from
                                                       or causes glare on
                                                       public rights-of-way or
                                                       adjacent properties.
                                                       Uplighting is
                                                       prohibited in all
Uplighting            Not required      Not exempt     zoning districts except
                                                       as where permitted in
                                                       this chapter.
Outdoor Recreational                                   Exempt from lumen
Lighting              Required          Not exempt     allowance and height
                                                       requirements.
                                                       Field lighting must be
                                                       designed, directed, and
                                                    shielded to illuminate
                                                       only the surface of
                                                       play and the viewing
                                                       stands.
                                                       Shall follow IESNA
                                                       recommended guidelines
                                                    according to the
                                                       appropriate class of
                                                       recreational sport.
                                                       Lighting shall be
                                                       completely extinguished
                                                       by 11:00 PM or one hour
                                                    after the end of the
                                                       event, whichever is
                                                       later. Timers shall be
                                                       utilized.
                                                       Upward flagpole
Flagpole lighting     Not required      Exempt         lighting is permitted
                                                       for governmental flags
                                                       only.
                                                       The maximum lumen
                                                    output shall be 1,300
                                                       lumens.
                                                       The external beam shall
                                                    minimize light trespass
                                                       and glare.
                                                       Flags are encouraged to
                                                    be taken down at sunset
                                                       to avoid the need for
                                                       lighting.
                                                       Floodlights with
                                                       external shielding
                                                       shall be angled
                                                       provided that no light
Floodlights           Required          Not exempt     escapes above a 25-
                                                       degree angle measured
                                                       from the vertical line
                                                       from the center of the
                                                       light extended to the
                                                       ground.
                                                       Floodlights shall not
                                                       cause glare or light to
Floodlights (cont.)                                  shine directly on
                                                       adjacent property or
                                                       public rights-of-way
                                                       Residential floodlights
                                                    shall be turned off by
                                                       eleven (11:00) P.M.
                                                       Shall be encouraged to
                                                       use timers that allow a
                                                    floodlight to go on at
                                                       dusk and off by eleven
                                                       (11:00) PM.
                                                       Shall be required to be
                                                    motion sensor
                                                       activated.
                                                       Halogen flood lights
                                                       are exempt from the
                                                    color temperature
                                                       requirements set forth
                                                       in this chapter.
                                                       Residential holiday
Holiday lights        Not required      Exempt         lighting shall only be
                                                       displayed from November
                                                       20th to March 15th.
                                                       Commercial holiday
                                                    lighting shall only be
                                                       displayed from November
                                                       1st to March 15th.
                                                       Holiday lights are
                                                       exempt from color
                                                    temperature
                                                       requirements set forth
                                                       in this chapter.
                                                       All new holiday
                                                       lighting shall be LED
                                                       lighting, or a bulb
                                                    that has been
                                                       demonstrated to be the
                                                       most energy efficient
                                                       technology available.
                                                       Flashing holiday
                                                    lighting is not
                                                       permitted.
                                                       All private holiday
                                                       lighting shall be
                                                       turned off at the close
                                                    of business hours in
                                                       the Commercial Center
                                                       Zoning District, and
                                                       after 11:00 PM in all
                                                       other zoning districts.
Neon lights           Not required      Not exempt     Not permitted.
                                                       Lighting must be
                                                       designed, directed, and
                                                       shielded to illuminate
                                                       only the face of the
Sign Lighting         Required          Not exempt     sign; and to prevent
                                                       glare and light
                                                       trespass onto
                                                       neighboring properties
                                                       or into a public right-
                                                       of-way.
                                                       Signs may be
                                                       illuminated via
Sign Lighting (cont.)                                internal, external,
                                                       backlit, or pan channel
                                                       lighting.
                                                       Sign lighting must also
                                                       meet the requirements
                                                    as defined in Article
                                                       F. Sign Regulations,
                                                       Table 9-3F-2: Sign
                                                       Category Chart.
                                                       Shall be located so as
Sensor activated                                       to prevent lighting
lighting              Required          Exempt         into adjacent
                                                       properties or into a
                                                       public right-of-way.
                                                       Lighting shall activate
                                                       only when motion on the
                                                    property is detected
                                                       and shall deactivate
                                                       within no more than 5
                                                       minutes.
                                                       Lighting shall not be
                                                       triggered by any
                                                    activity off the
                                                       property or in the
                                                       public right-of-way.
                                                       The maximum lumen
                                                    output shall be 600
                                                       lumens.
Temporary emergency                                    Lighting utilized by
and traffic control   Not required      Exempt         public safety services
lighting                                               (fire, police, repair
                                                       workers).
                                                       Lumens output shall be
Temporary lighting    Required          Exempt         approved by Community
                                                       Development Director.
 
TABLE 9-3B-3.
ADDITIONAL DEVELOPMENT RESTRICTIONS 
 
Development           Full Cutoff Light Light Trespass Additional Requirements
                      Fixture           Standards
                                                       The average foot-candle
                                                       lighting level at the
Motor vehicle fueling                                  pump for new and
stations and motor                                     existing service
vehicle service       Required          Not exempt     stations is required to
stations                                               be no greater than 30
                                                       foot-candle average, as
                                                       set by the IESNA for
                                                       urban service stations.
                                                       All radio, communication
Towers for radio                                       and navigation towers
communication and     Not required      Not exempt     that require lights
navigation                                             shall have dual lighting
                                                       capabilities.
                                                       For daytime, the white
                                                       strobe light may be
                                                    used, and for nighttime,
                                                       only red lights shall be
                                                       used.
                                                       Lighting that is
                                                    required by legal
                                                       jurisdictions are exempt
                                                       from this provision.
 
(Ord. 382, 10-25-2006; amd. Ord. 543, 9-3-2020)
9-3B-5: PROHIBITED LIGHTING:
   A.   Any light source that does not meet the requirements of this chapter.
   B.   Searchlights, beacons, laser source, neon lighting, and other high-
intensity light fixtures.
   C.   Lighting from remote operated drones.
   D.   Except as otherwise allowed by this title, any lighting that is
flashing, blinking, rotating, chasing, or rapidly changing in color or
intensity is prohibited. (Ord. 543, 9-3-2020)
9-3B-6: ENFORCEMENT:
Violation; Penalties: If the Community Development Director finds that any
provision of this article is being violated, the Community Development Director
shall give notice by certified mail, of such violation to the owner and/or to
the occupant of the subject property. Continued non-compliance for more than
seven (7) says after receipt of the notice shall result in citation. Per
Section
8-1-3, such violations shall be considered an infraction, subject to a fine of
not more than one hundred dollars ($100.00). Each day that said infraction
violation continues shall be considered a separate offense. Community
Development Department staff shall be available to assist in working with the
violator to correct said violation. (Ord. 543, 9-3-2020)
9-3B-7: NOTIFICATION:
Community Development Department permits shall include a statement asking
whether the subject property of any proposed development or use includes any
exterior lighting. (Ord. 543, 9-3-2020)
9-3B-8: CITY ROLE:
The City will commit to changing all lighting within the City rights-of-way and
on City owned property to meet the requirements of this chapter. (Ord. 543, 9-
3-2020)
ARTICLE C. INCLUSIONARY WORK FORCE HOUSING REGULATIONS
(Rep. by Ord. 413, 7-17-2008, eff. 7-23-2008)
ARTICLE D. WORK FORCE HOUSING LINKAGE REGULATIONS
(Rep. by Ord. 410, 6-19-2008, eff. 6-25-2008)
ARTICLE E. PARKING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-3E-1: Purpose
9-3E-2: Applicability
9-3E-3: Design Standards
9-3E-4: Required Number Of Off Street Parking Spaces
9-3E-5: Parking Reduction
9-3E-6: Off Street Loading Space Requirements
9-3E-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this article is to provide regulations and standards for off
street parking and loading facilities with the intent to minimize traffic
hazards and congestion, and mitigate impacts on surrounding properties. (Ord.
382, 10-25-2006)
9-3E-2: APPLICABILITY:
The following standards shall apply to any new construction, alteration, or any
new or more intense use of property. The number of off street parking spaces,
as set forth in this article, shall be provided for all allowed uses in all
districts. (Ord. 382, 10-25-2006)
9-3E-3: DESIGN STANDARDS:
   A.   Design Of Parking Areas:
      1.   All parking areas shall be designed and constructed to provide the
type and number of off street parking spaces required by this article, and
designed as required by this section.
      2.   Parking areas shall provide adequate snow storage and removal space
and adequate drainage facilities in accordance with the design criteria, as
applicable, as set forth in title 7 of this code.
      3.   Location of parking spaces relative to structure(s):
         a.   Parking spaces for all detached residential dwelling units shall
be located on the same lot as the use that they are intended to serve.
         b.   Parking for attached residential dwelling units shall be located
not more than three hundred feet (300') from the dwelling units, except as
provided by section
9-3E-5 of this article.
         c.   In the RM-1 and RM-2 districts, parking spaces shall be grouped
together into parking areas or compounds, to the maximum extent possible.
      4.   The size of the garage required for dwelling units shall be measured
by interior dimensions and shall be at least ten feet by twenty feet (10' x
20') for a one space garage and twenty feet by twenty feet (20' x 20') for a
two (2) space garage.
      5.   Designated parking spaces shall not be located within any required
setback areas on the lot as set forth in chapter 2 of this title, unless
adequate screening is provided.
      6.   All required parking as determined in section
9-3E-4 of this article shall be designed for standard vehicles. Compact stalls
may be used for any parking above the number of required parking spaces.
      7.   All parking lots and garages shall provide on site turnarounds for
all off street parking spaces and loading facilities in accord with
requirements set forth by the city fire chief.
      8.   Parking stalls and driving aisles shall be designed in accordance
with the standards in title 7 of this code.
   B.   Design Of Bicycle Parking Facilities:
      1.   Bicycle parking facilities shall be located as close as possible to
the building entrance(s).
      2.   Bicycle parking facilities shall not obstruct pedestrian walkways,
public sidewalks, or building entrances.
      3.   Bicycle parking facilities shall support the bicycle and allow the
owner to lock the frame and front wheel with one (1) lock. (Ord. 382, 10-25-
2006)
9-3E-4: REQUIRED NUMBER OF OFF STREET PARKING SPACES:
   A.   Required number of off street parking spaces are as follows:
Accessory dwelling unit                 Each unit shall have 1 parking space,
                                        either enclosed or not enclosed.
                                        1 on site parking space for every 750
Art studios and galleries and childcare square feet of net usable floor area
facilities                              and a minimum of 2 on site employee
                                        parking spaces.
Convention facilities                   1 on site parking space for every 500
                                        square feet of net usable floor area.
Dormitory                               1 space per every 4 sleeping beds.
                                        1 on site parking space for each
                                        sleeping room or for every 3 beds,
Hotels                                  whichever is greater, plus 1 on site
                                        employee parking space for every 5
                                        sleeping rooms.
                                        Each unit shall have at least the
                                        following:
                                        1. 21/2 parking spaces for each
                                        dwelling unit containing more than
                                        2,400 square feet of living area; or
                                        2. 11/2 parking spaces for a unit
                                        containing between 1,200 square feet
                                        and 2,400 square feet of living area;
                                        or
Multiple-family dwelling unit and       3. Deed restricted work force housing
townhouse development in CC District    units which shall have at least 1
                                        parking space, enclosed or unenclosed;
                                        or
                                        4. 1/2 parking space for a compact
                                        dwelling unit (less than 1,200 square
                                        feet); and
                                        5. 1/2 additional unassigned parking
                                        space for each dwelling unit.
                                        6. 1 parking space for deed restricted
                                        dwelling unit.
                                        1 on site parking space for every 4
                                        seats or 1 on site parking space for
Performing arts centers, amphitheaters, every 60 square feet of net usable
education centers                       floor area in an auditorium or place
                                        for public assembly, whichever is
                                        greater.
                                        1 on site parking space for every 250
Professional offices, retail and        square feet of net usable floor area,
service uses, including restaurants and plus 1 additional on site employee
drinking establishments                 parking space for every 750 square feet
                                        of net usable floor area.
                                        Each unit shall have at least 2 parking
                                        spaces, at least 1 of which shall be
Single-family dwelling unit             enclosed, with the exception of deed
                                        restricted work force housing units
                                        which shall have at least 1 parking
                                        space, enclosed or unenclosed.
                                        Each unit shall have at least 2 parking
                                        spaces, at least 1 of which shall be
                                        enclosed; with the exception of deed
Single-family dwelling unit in cluster  restricted work force housing units
arrangement, townhouse, or multi-       which shall have at least 1 parking
family unit                             space, enclosed or unenclosed; and
                                        there shall be 1/2 additional,
                                        unassigned on site parking space for
                                        each unit.
 
(Ord. 382, 10-25-2006; amd. Ord. 513, 6-1-2017)
   B.   For uses that are not specified, the commission shall determine the
required number of on site parking spaces based upon the following criteria:
      1.   Comparison of the particular use with those specified above;
      2.   Uses in the vicinity of the property;
      3.   A traffic study forecasting the expected traffic and parking needs
expected from the use(s);
      4.   The availability of on street, shared, and/or public parking within
the vicinity of the use; and/or
      5.   The availability of pedestrian and bicycle pathways, public transit,
vanpooling or other alternative transportation to serve the use.
   C.   One (1) bicycle parking space shall be provided for every twenty five
(25) vehicle parking spaces, except for single-family residences. (Ord. 382,
10-25-2006)
9-3E-5: PARKING REDUCTION:
Alternatives to providing on site parking as set forth in this section are
encouraged in all developments. Alternatives shall include, but not be limited
to, shared use facilities, remote parking area with transit service, access to
transit service (bus, rail, gondola, and trolley), pedestrian and bicycle
facilities, and availability of other forms of automobile transportation such
as carpool and vanpools.
   A.   Conditions favorable to providing alternatives to on site parking are
as follows:
      1.   Shared use:
         a.   There are convenient pedestrian connections between separate
properties;
         b.   The properties and/or uses are within one thousand feet (1,000')
of each other;
         c.   The principal operating hours of the uses are not in substantial
conflict with one another; or
         d.   Directional signs provide notice of the availability of parking.
      2.   Alternative transportation:
         a.   There is a transit stop or regional pedestrian and bicycle path
within one-fourth (1/4) mile of the use;
         b.   There is a program for carpooling, vanpooling, or transit
supported by the employer; or
         c.   The site is served by a park and ride lot or remote centralized
parking with transit service.
   B.   Where alternative modes of transportation are available or a parking
study has demonstrated that parking as required by section
9-3E-4 of this article is not required, on site parking may be reduced as
determined acceptable to the Director and approved by the commission through a
conditional use permit process. (Ord. 382, 10-25-2006)
9-3E-6: OFF STREET LOADING SPACE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Commercial Uses: Adequate off street loading space for commercial uses
shall be provided to meet the needs of the use.
   B.   Backing Into Street: All off street loading areas shall be designed to
limit vehicles from backing out into the street.
   C.   Screening Required: All off street loading spaces shall be screened
from view from the public right-of-way.
   D.   Proximity To Residential District: No off street loading space shall be
located closer than fifty feet (50') to an abutting residential district unless
wholly enclosed within a sound attenuating structure. Any off street loading
space located within fifty feet (50') of a residential district shall not
operate between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00)
A.M. (Ord. 382, 10-25-2006)
ARTICLE F. SIGN REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-3F-1: Purpose
9-3F-2: Applicability
9-3F-3: General Provisions
9-3F-4: Prohibited Signs
9-3F-5: Exempt Signs
9-3F-6: Amortization Of Nonconforming Signs
9-3F-7: Sign Category Chart
9-3F-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of these regulations is to create the legal framework for a
comprehensive and balanced system of street graphics. It is the intention of
this article to authorize the use of street graphics that are:
   A.   Compatible with their surroundings; (Ord. 382, 10-25-2006)
   B.   Appropriate to the type of use and zoning district to which they
pertain; (Ord. 482, 3-3-2016)
   C.   Expressive of the identity of individual proprietors and the community
as a whole; and
   D.   Legible in the circumstances in which they are seen. (Ord. 382, 10-25-
2006)
9-3F-2: APPLICABILITY:
In all districts, the use, placement, character, location and design of outdoor
signs, or indoor signs visible or intended to be visible to the public from
outside of the structure where the sign is located shall be regulated as
hereinafter provided. (Ord. 382, 10-25-2006)
9-3F-3: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
The following general provisions are applicable to all signs identified in this
title:
   A.   Location And Design: An approved sign permit shall be required prior to
placement and/or erection of all signs within the City except those signs that
are exempt as listed in section
9-3F-5 of this article. All signs are subject to review and approval by the
Community Development Director and the Planning and Zoning Commission. (Ord.
536, 4-4-2019)
   B.   Number: Refers to the allowable number of signs in that category.
      1.   If a building or premises has two (2) or more public entrances on
distinct, separate vehicular or pedestrian ways, proposals for a second sign
may be approved by the commission.
      2.   A business or organization may be permitted freestanding, wall, and
projecting and/or hanging signs or any combination thereof as long as the
combined area of all sign faces does not exceed that allowed by any one sign
category.
   C.   Height: Refers to height restrictions. The height indicated is the
maximum height (above record grade or floor level) above which no portion of a
sign or its structure may extend.
   D.   Clearance: Refers to the minimum heights (above record grade or floor
level) below which no portion of a sign or its structure may extend.
   E.   Lighting: Refers to the type of lighting allowed in a particular sign
category. All lighting shall comply with the provisions of Article B. Exterior
Lighting Regulations.
   F.   Landscaping: Is required for all freestanding signs. The ratio of
landscaped area to sign face area is two (2) square feet to one square foot.
The aggregate square footage specified is the minimum square footage of
landscaped area required. All required landscaping shall be irrigated and
maintained by the owner of the sign. The commission may require landscaping for
other categories of signs.
   G.   Power: All sign power sources must not be larger than the dimension of
the appurtenant sign or support structure, without design review approval from
the Planning and Zoning Commission. Sign power sources must be screened or
sufficiently mitigated to the maximum extent possible. (Ord. 382, 10-25-2006;
amd. Ord. 482, 3-3-2016; Ord. 536, 4-4-2019; Ord. 543, 9-3-2020)
9-3F-4: PROHIBITED SIGNS:
The following signs shall be prohibited in the City:
   A.   Animated mechanical or moving signs, mobile billboards, or electrical
appurtenances, such as, but not limited to, revolving beacons or flashing
signs.
   B.   Signs with reflective surfaces.
   C.   Any sign or sign structure which is deemed unsafe by the building
official.
   D.   Any sign or sign structure which is in violation of this article.
   E.   Any sign located so as to conflict with the clear and obvious
appearance of public devices controlling public traffic or to impair the safety
of a moving vehicle by distracting the vision of the driver.
   F.   Any sign which obstructs the view of motor vehicle operators entering a
public street from any parking area, service drive, private driveway, or other
thoroughfare.
   G.   Any sign which obstructs free ingress/egress to or from required door,
window, fire escape or other required exitway. (Ord. 382, 10-25-2006)
   H.   (Rep. by Ord. 482, 3-3-2016)
   I.   Any signs erected within the public right-of-way without an
encroachment permit as required by provisions set forth in title 7 of this
Code, except for governmental or utility signs and temporary signs posted for
less than eight (8) hours in any twenty four (24) hour period. (Ord. 382, 10-
25-2006)
9-3F-5: EXEMPT SIGNS:
The following signs shall be exempt from the rules and regulations contained
herein:
   A.   All signs erected in a public right-of-way by a public agency
controlling or directing traffic.
   B.   Banners hung across public rights-of-way which comply with applicable
City ordinances.
   C.   Governmental and/or utility warning signs.
   D.   Temporary holiday decorations.
   E.   Flags.
   F.   Windsocks.
   G.   Any sign inside a building not visible from the exterior of the
building.
   H.   Sign in or upon a vehicle; provided, that the vehicle is not left
standing in conspicuous places and used primarily as an advertising device.
   I.   H-frame signs on private property as defined in chapter 1, article C,
"Definitions", of this title. Commonly used for real estate sales and political
signs.
   J.   L-stake signs on private property as defined in chapter 1, article C,
"Definitions", of this title. Commonly used for real estate sales. (Ord. 536,
4-4-2019)
9-3F-6: AMORTIZATION OF NONCONFORMING SIGNS:
All signs which physically exist at the effective date hereof and which do not
conform to the requirements contained herein except for signs described in
subsections A through C of this section, shall be removed, changed, or altered
to conform to the provisions of this article according to the following
schedule:
TABLE 9-3F-1
AMORTIZATION SCHEDULE
 
Original Cost Of Graphic  Amortization Period
   Less than $1,000.00       6 months
   $1,000.00 to $2,000.      12 months
   $2,000.00 to $3,000.      18 months
   $3,000.00 to $4,000.      24 months
   More than $4,000.00       30 months
 
   A.   If more than one sign permitted for an activity is or becomes
nonconforming, the original cost of all the signs shall be aggregated for
purpose of determining the applicable amortization period.
   B.   Any business which relocates or closes permanently shall remove all
signs within thirty (30) days of moving or closing.
   C.   Any new business or business operating in a new location as of the
effective hereof shall comply with provisions of this article. (Ord. 382, 10-
25-2006)
9-3F-7:SIGN CATEGORY CHART:
TABLE 9-3F-2
SIGN CATEGORIES
Zoning District Sign Type Sign      Maximum Minimum   Number Allowed Lighting
                          Face Area Height  Clearance
Zoning      Sign Type    Sign        Maximum Minimum   Number      Lighting
District                 Face Area   Height  Clearance Allowed
                                                       1 per major Pan channel,
                                                       vehicular   indirect,
                                                       access to a backlit,
            Monument     70 sq. ft.  10 ft.  -         subdivision shielded
                                                       or          internally
                                                       Commercial  illuminated
                                                       District
                                                       1 sign per  Pan channel,
                                                       public      indirect,
            Freestanding 25 sq. ft.  8 ft.   -         facing      backlit,
                                                       facade of   shielded
                                                       the         internally
                                                       building    illuminated
                                                       1 sq. ft.
                                                       of sign per
                                                       5 linear
                                                       feet of
                                                       frontage,   Pan channel,
                                                       to the      indirect,
            Building                                   maximum     backlit,
            mounted      25 sq. ft.  15 ft.  8 ft.     allowable   shielded
                                                       area        internally
                                                       1 sign per  illuminated
CC, SC                                                 public
                                                       facing
                                                       facade of
                                                       the
                                                       building
            Temporary    5 sq. ft.5  4 ft.   -         1 per       None
                                                       tenant
            Hanging/                                   1 sign per
            projecting   15 sq. ft.  15 ft.  8 ft.2    commercial  Indirect
                                                       tenant
                                                       1 sign per
            Banner       30 sq. ft.  16 ft.1 8 ft.2    100 ft. of  Indirect
                                                       frontage or
                                                       2 per lot
                                                                   Indirect,
            Display                                                backlit,
            boxes        5 sq. ft.   -       -         n/a         shielded
                                                                   internally
                                                                   illuminated
            Murals       -           -       -         n/a         Indirect
                                                       15% of the
            Window signs -           -       -         window, 10  Indirect
                                                       sq. ft.
                                                       maximum
                                                       1 per major Pan channel,
                                                       vehicular   indirect,
                                                       access to a backlit,
            Monument     70 sq. ft.  10 ft.  -         subdivision shielded
                                                       or          internally
                                                       Commercial  illuminated
                                                       District
                                                                   Pan channel,
                                                       1 per       indirect,
            Freestanding 25 sq. ft.  8 ft.   -         building or backlit,
                                                       facility    shielded
                                                                   internally
                                                                   illuminated
                                                       1 sq. ft.
                                                       of sign per
                                                       5 linear
RS-1, RM-1,                                            feet of
RM-2                                                   frontage,   Pan channel,
                                                       to the      indirect,
            Building                                   maximum     backlit,
            mounted      25 sq. ft.  15 ft.  8 ft.     allowable   shielded
                                                       area        internally
                                                       1 sign per  illuminated
                                                       public
                                                       facing
                                                       facade of
                                                       the
                                                       building
                                                       1 sign per
            Temporary    5 sq. ft.5  4 ft.   -         dwelling    None
                                                       unit
                                                       1 sign per
            Banner       30 sq. ft.  16 ft.1 8 ft.2    300 ft. of  None
                                                       frontage or
                                                       1 per lot
                                                       1 per major Pan channel,
                                                       vehicular   indirect,
                                                       access to a backlit,
            Monument     70 sq. ft.  10 ft.  -         subdivision shielded
                                                       or          internally
                                                       Commercial  illuminated
                                                       District
                                                       1 sign per  Pan channel,
                                                       public      indirect,
            Freestanding 25 sq. ft.  8 ft.   -         facing      backlit,
                                                       facade of   shielded
                                                       the         internally
                                                       building    illuminated
                                                       1 sq. ft.
                                                       of sign per
                                                       5 linear
OS, PI, REC                                            feet of
                                                       frontage,   Pan channel,
                                                       to the      indirect,
            Building                                   maximum     backlit,
            mounted      25 sq. ft.  15 ft.  8 ft.     allowable   shielded
                                                       area        internally
                                                       1 sign per  illuminated
                                                       public
                                                       facing
                                                       facade of
                                                       the
                                                       building
            Temporary    5 sq. ft.5  4 ft.   -         1 per lot   None
                                                       1 sign per
            Banner       30 sq. ft.  16 ft.1 8 ft.2    100 ft. of  None
                                                       frontage or
                                                       2 per lot
                                                                   Pan channel,
                                                       1 per major indirect,
            Monument     16 sq. ft.  10 ft.  -         vehicular   backlit,
                                                       access to a shielded
                                                       subdivision internally
RA, RS-1                                                           illuminated
            Temporary    5 sq. ft.5  4 ft.   -         1 per lot   None
                                                       1 sign per
            Banner       30 sq. ft.  16 ft.1 8 ft.2    300 ft. of  None
                                                       frontage or
                                                       1 per lot
                                                       1 per major
                                                       vehicular
                                                       access to a
            Monument     70 sq. ft.  10 ft.  -         subdivision None
                                                       or
Right-of-                                              Commercial
way3                                                   District
            Temporary    5 sq. ft.5  4 ft.   -         1 per lot   None
                                                       1 sign per
            Banner       30 sq. ft.4 16 ft.1 8 ft.2    500 ft. of  None
                                                       right- of-
                                                       way
 
Notes:
      1.      Except where approved over pedestrian areas, the maximum height
may be 25 feet.
      2.      Where approved over pedestrian areas.
      3.      Subject to approval of a City right-of-way encroachment permit,
per section
7-4-1 of this Code.
      4.      Except where permitted to span a roadway, then the permissible
sign face area is 144 square feet per side.
      5.      Up to 2 riders of 1 square foot per rider may be added to each
sign.
(Ord. 536, 4-4-2019)
ARTICLE G. STANDARD REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-3G-1: Purpose
9-3G-2: Applicability
9-3G-3: Accessory Dwelling Units
9-3G-4: Accessory Structures
9-3G-5: Demolition
9-3G-6: Dog Runs
9-3G-7: Dwellings Above Commercial Structures
9-3G-8: Fences, Walls And Screens
9-3G-9: Home Occupations
9-3G-10: Key Boxes
9-3G-11: Outdoor Service And Equipment Areas
9-3G-12: Residential Use Restrictions
9-3G-13: Snow Storage
9-3G-14: Street Addresses
9-3G-15: Temporary Structures
9-3G-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this article is to establish minimum standards for uses and land
development to protect the health, safety and general welfare, protect the
environment, and maintain compatibility with adjoining land uses. (Ord. 382,
10-25-2006)
9-3G-2: APPLICABILITY:
This article shall apply to the development of all permitted and conditional
uses, structures, and land modification activities. The following regulations
are the minimum standards of development and supplement the regulations for
development in each district and in accord with chapter 2 of this title.
Additional standards may be applied as conditions for approval, or other
regulations of this code. (Ord. 382, 10-25-2006)
9-3G-3: ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS:
   A.   Number Allowed: Only one accessory dwelling unit shall be allowed on a
lot in a residential district.
   B.   Square Footage: As measured from the outside wall and excluding the
garage and parking area, an accessory dwelling unit shall have no less than
three hundred fifty (350) square feet and no greater than one thousand two
hundred (1,200) square feet of living area in addition to the total footprint
allowable for a single-family dwelling.
   C.   Maximum Size: An accessory dwelling unit shall be no more than one-
third (1/3) the area of the primary dwelling.
   D.   Additional Parking Required: At least one additional parking space,
exclusively for the accessory dwelling unit, shall be provided on the lot.
   E.   Rental Of Unit: An accessory dwelling unit may be rented out on a long
term basis only, thirty (30) continuous days or more.
   F.   Sold Separately Prohibited: An accessory dwelling unit may not be sold
separate from the primary dwelling and lot.
   G.   Maintain Character Of Single-Family Neighborhood: An accessory dwelling
unit shall maintain the character of the single-family neighborhood and, in
appearance, the unit shall be secondary to the single-family dwelling.
   H.   Minimum Lot Size: In the RA and RS-1 district, and the RS-2 district
pursuant to a conditional use permit, the minimum lot size to allow an
accessory dwelling unit shall be seventeen thousand (17,000) square feet. (Ord.
455, 12-6-2012)
9-3G-4: ACCESSORY STRUCTURES:
   A.   Dimensional Standards: Accessory structures shall comply with all
dimensional standards of the zoning district. Accessory structures shall be
detached from the primary building by a minimum of six feet (6') and are
secondary to the primary building. Through the design review process, some
degree of physical attachment, i.e., unenclosed breezeway, roof element,
enclosed walkway, corridor, mud room or other similar enclosed structure, may
be permitted provided the design and use of the accessory structure are
determined to be: an appropriate accessory use; are complementary to the design
of the primary building; and the accessory structure visually and physically
appears to be a separate and distinct structure.
   B.   Footprint:
      1.   The total footprint of all accessory structures (except for swimming
pools and sports courts) shall not exceed one-third (1/3) of the total
footprint allowable as calculated under subsection 9-2A-3I of this title or one
thousand (1,000) square feet, whichever is greater.
      2.   The footprint of accessory structures shall be in addition to the
total footprint allowable for a single-family dwelling.
   C.   Used As Storage Of Gardening Equipment: For accessory structures
located in the RA or the RS-1 district and used for the storage of gardening
equipment, the accessory structure shall be set back a minimum of thirty feet
(30') from all property lines in the RA district, and twenty feet (20') for all
property lines in the RS-1 district.
   D.   Limited To Private Use: The use of accessory structures in the RS-2,
RM-1 and RM-2 districts shall be limited to the private use by the residents
and their guests. (Ord. 455, 12-6-2012)
9-3G-5: DEMOLITION:
   A.   Permit Required: No structure shall be demolished without first
receiving approval for a demolition permit from the director.
   B.   Basis For Approval: The basis for approval of a demolition permit shall
be as follows:
      1.   A design review application for the replacement structure and/or
site development has been approved; or
      2.   The structure has been assessed by an independent building
inspection service that verifies that the building is hazardous, dangerous, or
poses an immediate threat to public safety which cannot be reasonably repaired.
(Ord. 382, 10-25-2006)
9-3G-6: DOG RUNS:
   A.   Maximum Size: Dog runs shall not be larger than one hundred fifty (150)
square feet each.
   B.   Height: No portion of the dog run shall be more than six feet (6') in
height above the surface of the ground, as measured from any point where the
dog run comes in contact with the ground.
   C.   Landscaping: Dog runs shall be landscaped so as to be obscured from the
view of neighboring dwellings.
   D.   Design: Dog runs shall be designed to be consistent with the
architectural character of the structures on the property.
   E.   Encroachment On Setback Prohibited: No dog run may encroach on an
established setback. (Ord. 382, 10-25-2006)
9-3G-7: DWELLINGS ABOVE COMMERCIAL STRUCTURES:
Multiple-family residential dwellings allowed above commercial structures or
uses shall comply with the following standards:
   A.   Signs: No signs or other advertising devices shall be placed on the
structure at or above the level of the first floor of the dwelling units;
   B.   Screening Required: Trash, service, or loading areas serving the
commercial uses shall be screened; and
   C.   Outdoor Lighting: Outdoor lighting associated with the commercial uses
within the structure, including lighting for parking, service, and loading
areas, shall be designed and located such that undue glare is not directed
toward a dwelling unit. (Ord. 382, 10-25-2006)
9-3G-8: FENCES, WALLS AND SCREENS:
   A.   Maximum Height: Except as otherwise provided herein, the maximum height
of all fences, retaining walls, freestanding walls, and screens, as measured
from record grade, shall be as follows within each district:
District Maximum Height
District Maximum Height
   RA 6 feet
   RS-4 feet
   RS-4 feet
   RM-4 feet
   RM-4 feet
   SC 4 feet
   CC 4 feet
   REC6 feet
   PI 4 feet
   OS None
 
   B.   Exemption: In all applicable zoning districts, open recreational fences
shall be exempt from the specified heights limits and may be constructed to a
height generally used or reasonably necessary to enclose the recreation
activity involved. Recreational fences shall not obstruct visibility and/or
light and shall comply with all applicable city health and safety regulations.
   C.   Approval Through Design Review Process: In all zoning districts,
fences, screens, retaining walls, and freestanding walls in excess of the
maximum height limit may be approved through the design review process.
   D.   Retaining Walls: Retaining walls may exceed the height limit for
minimal portions of a single wall or when adequate screening is provided.
Multiple retaining walls shall have a horizontal, landscaped separation of at
least three feet (3'). (Ord. 455, 12-6-2012)
9-3G-9: HOME OCCUPATIONS:
   A.   Change In Residential Character In Appearance Prohibited: No home
occupation shall cause the premises to differ from its residential character in
the appearance, deliveries, customers, parking, lighting, signs, or in the
emission of noise, fumes, odors, vibrations, or electrical interference.
   B.   Conduct Of Home Occupation: The home occupation shall be conducted
entirely in the dwelling, and not more than twenty five percent (25%) of the
gross floor area of said dwelling shall be used for a home occupation or for
storing goods associated with the home occupation. Materials may be stored in
an attached garage or storage area, provided it shall not reduce the required
off street parking below the standard established for that district.
   C.   Vehicles: The home occupation shall not involve the use of more than
one commercial vehicle.
   D.   Outgoing Pick Ups: The home occupation shall not have more than two (2)
outgoing pick ups per day from a common carrier.
   E.   Nonresident Employees: The home occupation shall be conducted by the
inhabitants of the dwelling, and no more than one nonresident employee.
   F.   Headquarters Or Main Office Prohibited: The home occupation shall not
serve as a headquarters or main office where employees come to the site and are
dispatched to other locations.
   G.   Face To Face Retail Sales: No daily or ongoing, face to face retail
sales shall be permitted from the dwelling.
   H.   Off Street Parking: Off street parking shall be in accordance with
article E of this chapter, in addition to the required off street parking for
the dwelling.
   I.   Client And Customer Visits: All visits by clients and customers shall
occur between the hours of nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) P.M.
(Ord. 382, 10-25-2006)
9-3G-10: KEY BOXES:
Where access to a property is secured through a secured gate, a key box is
required for use by city public safety officials in the case of a lifesaving or
firefighting event. (Ord. 382, 10-25-2006)
9-3G-11: OUTDOOR SERVICE AND EQUIPMENT AREAS:
   A.   Outdoor Trash Storage: No unscreened, outdoor storage of trash,
recycling, or trash containers is permitted on any property where it is visible
from neighboring properties or streets except where it is temporarily placed
during the construction or renovation of a structure.
   B.   Outdoor Mechanical Equipment: Outdoor mechanical equipment, including,
but not limited to, heaters, pumps, and fans, shall not be located within fifty
feet (50') of any abutting residences unless fully enclosed and baffled to
minimize noise detected on any adjoining property.
   C.   Service Functions: Outdoor utility meters, HVAC equipment, trash
dumpsters, trash compaction, and other service functions shall be incorporated
into the overall design of buildings and landscaping so that the visual and
acoustic impacts of these functions are fully contained and out of view from
adjacent properties and public streets. (Ord. 382, 10-25-2006)
9-3G-12: RESIDENTIAL USE RESTRICTIONS:
In all districts, no garage, tent, trailer, mobile home (not including
"manufactured house" as defined in Idaho Code section 35-4905), or other
accessory structure shall be erected or used for human habitation, except for
approved accessory dwelling units. (Ord. 382, 10-25-2006)
9-3G-13: SNOW STORAGE:
Snow storage areas shall be located on site in an amount that is equal to at
least fifty percent (50%) of the hard surfaces proposed with the project. (Ord.
455, 12-6-2012)
9-3G-14: STREET ADDRESSES:
   A.   Required: New and existing buildings shall have approved street address
numbers posted in a place that is visible from the street fronting the
property.
   B.   Specifications: Street numbers shall contrast with the background so as
to be visible both day and night and in all weather conditions. The numbers
shall be a minimum of six inches (6") tall.
   C.   Address Monument: If an address monument is used, the numbers shall be
no lower than four feet (4') from finish grade. (Ord. 382, 10-25-2006)
9-3G-15: TEMPORARY STRUCTURES:
   A.   Used During Construction: A well built shed or trailer to be used for
storage, toolshed or job office may be approved as part of a contractor's or
owner's equipment during the construction of a building or structure, provided
it is subject to the following provisions:
      1.   The temporary structure is located on the lot or development parcel
on which the construction is occurring; and
      2.   The temporary structure shall be removed from the lot within
fourteen (14) days after the certificate of occupancy has been issued by the
building official, or upon completion of the building or structure, whichever
occurs first.
   B.   Real Estate Sales Offices: Model homes or temporary structures may be
used for real estate sales offices; provided, that:
      1.   The primary business therein is conducted by the owner or agent of
record, pursuant to an approved subdivision or development plan; and
      2.   The only business conducted therein concerns negotiating or
consummating sales of lots or homes within the same development. (Ord. 382, 10-
25-2006)
ARTICLE H. HILLSIDE DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-3H-1: Purpose
9-3H-2: Applicability
9-3H-3: General Provisions
9-3H-4: Regulated Structures
9-3H-5: Regulated Site Disturbance
9-3H-1: PURPOSE:
Illustrations contained herein are meant to aid in the understanding of the
language above and are not meant to be prescriptive. The purpose of these
regulations is to promote the public health, safety, and general welfare by:
   A.   Providing for safe access and protecting the scenic character of the
city from the impact of development on hillsides, ridges, ridgelines, ridge
tops, knolls, saddles, and summits;
   B.   For the purpose of balancing cuts and fills, minimizing the height of a
façade, and breaking down the bulk and mass of a building, permitting only
development which minimizes the impact on the natural contour of the land as
described in figure A of this section and not as in figure B of this section;
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2299c78b80534ce5d04cf25b9a6ae06e6e31344a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1251.png]
 
   C.   Protecting natural landmarks and prominent natural features of
hillsides, ridges, ridgelines, ridge tops, knolls, saddles, and summits, and
the natural skyline as described in figure C of this section, and not as in
figure D of this section; and
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2299c78b80534ce5d04cf25b9a6ae06e6e31344a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1253.png]
 
   D.   Protecting property and minimizing erosion and destruction of the
natural landscape by using appropriate cuts and fills as described in figure E
of this section, and not as in figure F of this section; and
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2299c78b80534ce5d04cf25b9a6ae06e6e31344a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1255.png]
 
   E.   Promoting safe and reasonable access to and from properties, including
access by emergency services; and
   F.   Directing development to areas of least slope on hillside property
whenever such areas are part of the parcel or lot under application. (Ord. 428,
7-15-2010; amd. Ord. 558, 12-2-2021)
9-3H-2: APPLICABILITY:
The following regulations shall apply in all districts, subject to such
exceptions or further regulations as are provided in the regulations pertaining
to individual districts. (Ord. 428, 7-15-2010; amd. Ord. 558, 12-2-2021)
9-3H-3: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
All development in the city shall utilize the following design criteria in
order to provide for safe access and protect the natural, scenic character and
the aesthetic value of the city from the impact of inappropriate development on
hillsides, ridges, ridgelines, ridge tops, knolls, saddles, and summits:
   A.   Streets, driveways, and utilities are designed to run with the existing
natural contours to the maximum extent possible.
   B.   Unstabilized cut slopes shall not be steeper than two to one (2:1); in
other cases, retaining walls or similar measures acceptable to the city shall
be provided.
   C.   Cuts and fills shall be shaped, rounded, minimized, and nonuniform to
simulate natural existing contours.
   D.   Private driveways shall not exceed a seven percent (7%) slope, unless
an exception in writing is approved by the Fire Chief of up to a maximum of ten
percent (10%) slope. The inside turning radius of any private driveway shall
not be less than fifteen feet (15'); landing areas of driveway/street
intersections shall not be less than twenty-two feet (22') in length and shall
not exceed a four percent (4%) slope.
   E.   Garages should be located at the lowest possible floor level on uphill
sloping lots and at the uppermost floor level on downhill sloping lots, to
minimize grading for driveways as well as the length of driveways (minimize the
extent of grading).
   F.   Flat yard areas on sloping lots shall be minimized to reduce cuts and
fills.
   G.   Slopes designated for protection shall be identified by the applicant
and shall not be disturbed, not even on a temporary basis, during construction
on the site, as per subsection
9-5A-4K, Grading Plan, of this title.
   H.   Disturbances to hillside property affected by site preparation or
actual construction shall be revegetated in a manner that is compatible with
the site. (Ord. 428, 7-15-2010; amd. Ord. 558, 12-2-2021)
9-3H-4: REGULATED STRUCTURES:
The purpose of these regulations is to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare by using the following criteria for building design:
   A.   In the RA, RS-1, and RS-2 zoning districts, buildings on natural
topography greater than twenty percent (20%) slope shall be designed in a
manner to reduce visibility by using stepped building forms, natural colors and
materials, sloped roofs, and landscaping, and shall use a combination of these
techniques such that the building does not skyline. Skylining is defined in
9-1C-1 as "an outline of a structure against the background of the sky" and
occurs when a structure is sited near or atop the crest of a ridge, knoll,
saddle, or summit.
   B.   In the RM-1, RM-2, SC, CC, REC, and PI zoning districts, buildings on
natural topography greater than fifteen percent (15%) slope shall be designed
in a manner to reduce visibility by using stepped building forms, natural
colors and materials, sloped roofs, and landscaping, and shall use a
combination of these techniques such that the building does not skyline.
Skylining is defined in
9-1C-1 as "an outline of a structure against the background of the sky" and
occurs when a structure is sited near or atop the crest of a ridge, knoll,
saddle, or summit.
   C.   For any buildable lot of record without a platted building envelope, no
structure may be built on a record grade of over fifteen percent (15%) slope if
there is adequate area available for development below the fifteen percent
(15%) slope line. Note: The city recognizes only platted building envelopes,
but recorded building envelopes may exist in a private party agreement. The
recorded building envelope is not a substitute for a platted envelope.
   D.   No structure may be built on a record grade of over twenty five percent
(25%) slope except as provided in subsection E of this section. Where
subsection E is not applicable, if evidence acceptable to the city is provided
by the applicant showing that strict enforcement of this provision would
prohibit a substantial portion of permitted or conditional uses of the property
then the applicant may apply for a variance in accordance with Chapter 5,
Article B, of this title. All other provisions of the hillside development
regulations shall remain in effect.
   E.   The allowances provided in this section are not by-right entitlements
and depend on the Director or Commission making findings that the development
has been designed in a manner that will not create a visual concern, or
physical dominance that would unreasonably negatively impact views, as well as
findings that all other applicable standards of Sun Valley Municipal Code are
met. The allowances provided in this section are in no way intended to be a
means to permit development to be located further upslope on a development site
than would otherwise be permitted.
In the following limited circumstances structures are permitted to make minor
encroachments into record grade over twenty five percent (25%) slope without
receiving a variance through section
9-5B-8 of this title:
      1.   Areas of slope greater than twenty five percent (25%) that are
located entirely within an existing, platted building envelope and site areas
related to rotated and expanded building envelopes where building footprints
are permitted to be located in accordance with
9-2A-3-I-1-b.
         a.   This provision is not intended to allow a substantial portion of
the one-third (1/3) of a structure's footprint that is permitted to be located
outside of the envelope in accordance with
9-2A-3-I-1-a to be located upslope of the platted building envelope.
      2.   Isolated areas of slope greater than twenty five percent (25%)
located outside of an existing, platted building envelope, including
circumstances where no platted building envelope exists, that are insignificant
in size.
      3.   The toe of substantial areas of slope greater than twenty-five
percent (25%) when such encroachment is reasonably unavoidable due to
considerable site constraints including, but not limited to, limited lot depth,
providing driveway access to the lot, regulations contained within Article I.
Flood Hazard Protection and Article J. Riparian Zones, or the presence of
wetlands identified in a site-specific wetlands inventory completed within the
past 365 days.
         a.   This provision is not intended to allow a substantial portion of
the one-third (1/3) of a structure's footprint that is permitted to be located
outside of the envelope in accordance with
9-2A-3 I.1.a. to be located upslope of the platted building envelope.
      4.   Retaining walls required by Title 7, Engineering Standards and
Design Practices.
      5.   Other circumstances not described above where the Community
Development Director, when reviewing administrative applications, or the
Planning and Zoning Commission, when reviewing applications requiring a public
hearing, make a Finding of Fact that the encroachment into record grade slope
greater than twenty five percent (25%) is de minimis.
         a.   For the purpose of interpreting this ordinance, de minimis shall
mean lacking significance or importance; so minor as to merit disregard. A
finding of de minimis encroachment shall consider criteria including the square
footage of the encroachment relative to the size of the structure and the
subject property, the slope of the adjacent existing grade and adjacent
proposed finished grade, height of the portion of the structure making the
encroachment relative to the maximum height of the structure and the maximum
height permitted in the zoning district, and the visibility of the encroachment
from adjacent properties and adjacent streets, trails, or public lands.
      6.   Structures east of Sun Valley Road, within one thousand five hundred
feet (1,500'), and south of Dollar Road, may be built on a record grade of over
twenty five percent (25%) slope subject to the applicable regulations of the
respective zoning district for each property, and subject to the evaluation
standards of article A of this chapter. Encroachments into record grade slopes
over twenty five percent (25%) are permitted because the ravine of Trail Creek
does not present visual concerns or physical dominance on the city's landscape.
      7.   Existing platted lots containing significant downhill sloping
terrain as primarily accessed from above. (Ord. 428, 7-15-2010; amd. Ord. 558,
12-2-2021)
9-3H-5: REGULATED SITE DISTURBANCE:
Record grade slopes greater than twenty five percent (25%) shall remain
undisturbed except as provided in subsection A. Where subsection A is not
applicable, if evidence acceptable to the city is provided by the applicant
showing that strict enforcement of this provision would prohibit a substantial
portion of permitted or conditional uses of the property then the applicant may
apply for a variance in accordance with
9-5B-8. All other provisions of the Hillside Development regulations shall
remain in effect.
   A.   In limited circumstances site disturbances are permitted to make minor
encroachments into record grade over twenty five percent (25%) slope without
receiving a variance through section
9-5B-8 of this title. The allowances provided in this section are not by-right
entitlements and depend on the Director or Commission making findings that the
development has been designed in a manner that will not create a visual
concern, or physical dominance that would unreasonably negatively impact views,
as well as findings that all other applicable standards of Sun Valley Municipal
Code are met. The allowances provided in this section are in no way intended to
be a means to permit development to be located further upslope on a development
site than would otherwise be permitted.
If the development has been designed in a manner that will not create a visual
concern or physical dominance that would unreasonably negatively impact views,
and all other applicable standards are met, site disturbances are permitted to
encroach into record grades over twenty five percent (25%) in the following
circumstances:
      1.   Areas of slope greater than twenty five percent (25%) located
entirely within an existing, platted building envelope and site areas related
to rotated and expanded building envelopes where building footprints are
permitted to be located in accordance with
9-2A-3 I.1.b.
         a.   This provision is not intended to allow a substantial portion of
the altered site, or an associated site improvement not classified as a
structure (including but not limited to at-grade patios or decks, gas fire
pits, and site walls), to be located upslope of a platted building envelope.
      2.   Areas of slope greater than twenty five percent (25%) located
outside of an existing, platted building envelope that are reasonably
unavoidable in order to construct a driveway that meets International Fire Code
standards and or other applicable life safety standard contained in Sun Valley
Municipal Code, provided disturbed areas have been designed to integrate and
complement existing conditions or proposed conditions.
      3.   Areas of slope greater than twenty five percent (25%) located
outside of an existing, platted building envelope that are necessary in order
to construct a structure that has been permitted, either by variance or
compliance with
9-3H-4 E., provided disturbed areas will be revegetated and regraded to be
compatible with the site.
      4.   The toe of substantial areas of slope greater than twenty-five
percent (25%) when such disturbance is reasonably unavoidable due to
considerable site constraints including, but not limited to, limited lot depth,
regulations contained within Article I. Flood Hazard Protection and Article J.
Riparian Zones, or the presence of wetlands identified in a site-specific
wetlands inventory completed within the past three hundred and sixty-five (365)
days.
         a.   This provision is not intended to allow a substantial portion of
the altered site, or an associated site improvement not classified as a
structure (including but not limited to at-grade patios or decks, gas fire
pits, and site walls), to be located upslope of a platted building envelope.
      5.   In the Recreation (REC) and Public/Institution (PI) zoning
districts, land alteration related to the construction of earthen recreational
features where structures are not proposed or required for retainage.
         a.   Such land alterations shall be accompanied by a detailed
landscaping revegetation plan in order to minimize the visual impact of cuts,
fill, and grading and to facilitate integration of the new feature into the
existing landscape.
      6.   Other circumstances not described above where the Community
Development Director, when reviewing administrative applications, or the
Planning and Zoning Commission, when reviewing applications before the
Commission, make a Finding of Fact that the disturbance into record grade slope
greater than twenty five percent (25%) is de minimis.
         a.   For the purpose of interpreting this ordinance, de minimis shall
mean lacking significance or importance; so minor as to merit disregard. A
finding of de minimis encroachment shall consider criteria including square
footage of the encroachment relative to the size of the subject property, the
slope of the adjacent existing grade and adjacent proposed finished grade, the
elevation of existing adjacent grade and the proposed elevation of adjacent
finished grade, and the visibility of the encroachment from adjacent properties
and adjacent streets, trails, or public lands.
      7.   Sites east of Sun Valley Road, within one thousand five hundred feet
(1,500'), and south of Dollar Road, may be built on a record grade of over
twenty five percent (25%) slope subject to the applicable regulations of the
respective zoning district for each property, and subject to the evaluation
standards of article A of this chapter. Encroachments into record grade slopes
over twenty five percent (25%) are permitted because the ravine of Trail Creek
does not present visual concerns or physical dominance on the city's landscape.
      8.   Existing platted lots containing significant downhill sloping
terrain as primarily accessed from above. (Ord. 558, 12-2-2021)
ARTICLE I. FLOOD HAZARD PROTECTION
SECTION:
9-3I-1: Statutory Authorization, Findings Of Fact, Purpose, And Objectives
9-3I-2: General Provisions
9-3I-3: Administration
9-3I-4: Provisions For Flood Hazard Reduction
9-3I-5: Legal Status Provisions
9-3I-1: STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACT, PURPOSE, AND OBJECTIVES:
   A.   Statutory Authority: The legislature of the state of Idaho, pursuant to
Idaho Code sections 46-1020 through 46-1024, authorizes local governments to
adopt floodplain management ordinances that identify floodplains and minimum
floodplain development standards to minimize flood hazards and protect human
life, health, and property.
   B.   Findings Of Fact:
      1.   The flood hazard areas of the city of Sun Valley are subject to
periodic inundation that results in:
         a.   Loss of life and property;
         b.   Health and safety hazards;
         c.   Disruption of commerce and governmental services;
         d.   Extraordinary public expenditures for flood relief and
protection; and
         e.   Impairment of the tax base, all of which adversely affect the
public health, safety, and general welfare.
      2.   These flood losses are caused by structures in flood hazard areas,
which are inadequately elevated, floodproofed, or otherwise unprotected from
flood damages, and by the cumulative effect of obstructions in floodplains
causing increases in flood heights and velocities.
      3.   Local government units have the primary responsibility for planning,
adopting, and enforcing land use regulations to accomplish proper floodplain
management.
   C.   Statement Of Purpose: The purpose of this article is to promote public
health, safety, and general welfare and to minimize public and private losses
due to flood conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
      1.   Protect human life, health, and property;
      2.   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water
purification and sewage treatment plants, water and gas mains, electric,
telephone and sewer lines, streets, and bridges located in floodplains;
      3.   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas;
      4.   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
      5.   Minimize the need for rescue and emergency services associated with
flooding, generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
      6.   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
      7.   Ensure potential buyers are notified the property is in an area of
special flood hazard; and
      8.   Ensure those who occupy the areas of special flood hazard assume
responsibility for their actions.
   D.   Objectives And Methods Of Reducing Flood Losses: In order to accomplish
its purpose, this article includes methods and provisions to:
      1.   Require that development which is vulnerable to floods, including
structures and facilities necessary for the general health, safety, and welfare
of citizens, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
      2.   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety, and
property due to water or erosion hazards, or which increase flood heights,
velocities, or erosion;
      3.   Control filling, grading, dredging, and other development which may
increase flood damage or erosion;
      4.   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers that will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or that may increase flood hazards to other
lands;
      5.   Preserve and restore natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers which carry and store floodwaters. (Ord. 494, 5-4-
2017)
9-3I-2: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Lands To Which This Article Applies: This article shall apply to all
special flood hazard areas within the jurisdiction of the city of Sun Valley.
Nothing in this article is intended to allow uses or structures that are
otherwise prohibited by the zoning ordinance.
   B.   Basis For Special Flood Hazard Areas: The special flood hazard areas
identified by the federal emergency management agency in its flood insurance
study (FIS) for Blaine County, Idaho, and incorporated areas, dated November
26, 2010, with accompanying flood insurance rate maps (FIRM) or digital flood
insurance rate maps (DFIRM), and other supporting data, are adopted by
reference and declared a part of this article. The FIS and the FIRM are on file
at city hall, 81 Elkhorn Road, Sun Valley, ID 83353.
   C.   Establishment Of Floodplain Development Permit: A floodplain
development permit shall be required in conformance with the provisions of this
article prior to the commencement of any development activities within special
flood hazard areas determined in accordance with the provisions of subsection
9-3I-3B of this article.
   D.   Compliance: No structure or land shall hereafter be located, extended,
converted, altered, or developed in any way without full compliance with the
terms of this article and other applicable regulations.
   E.   Abrogation And Greater Restrictions: This article shall not in any way
repeal, abrogate, impair, or remove the necessity of compliance with any other
laws, ordinances, regulations, easements, covenants, or deed restrictions, et
cetera. However, where this article and another conflict or overlap, whichever
imposes more stringent or greater restrictions shall control.
   F.   Interpretation: In the interpretation and application of this article
all provisions shall be:
      1.   Considered as minimum requirements;
      2.   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
      3.   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
   G.   Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability: The degree of flood protection
required by this article is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and
is based on scientific and engineering considerations. Larger floods can and
will occur. Flood heights may be increased by manmade or natural causes. This
article does not imply that land outside the special flood hazard areas or uses
permitted within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This
article shall not create liability on the part of city of Sun Valley or by any
officer or employee thereof for flood damages that result from reliance on this
article or an administrative decision lawfully made hereunder.
   H.   Penalties For Violation: No structure or land shall hereafter be
located, extended, converted, or altered unless in full compliance with the
terms of this article and other applicable regulations.
Violation of the provisions of this article or failure to comply with any of
its requirements, including violation of conditions and safeguards established
in connection with grants of variance or special exceptions, shall constitute
an infraction under this code. Each day the violation continues shall be
considered a separate offense. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the city
of Sun Valley from taking such other lawful actions as is necessary to prevent
or remedy any violation. (Ord. 494, 5-4-2017)
9-3I-3: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Designation Of Floodplain Ordinance Administrator: The community
development director and/or his or her designee, hereinafter referred to as the
"floodplain administrator", is hereby appointed to administer and implement the
provisions of this article.
   B.   Duties And Responsibilities Of The Floodplain Administrator: The
floodplain administrator shall perform, but not be limited to, the following
duties:
      1.   Review all floodplain development applications and issue permits for
all proposed development within special flood hazard areas to assure that the
requirements of this article have been satisfied.
      2.   Review all proposed development within special flood hazard areas to
assure that all necessary local, state, and federal permits have been received,
including section 404 of the federal water pollution control act amendments of
1972, 33 USC 1334.
      3.   Notify adjacent communities and the Idaho department of water
resources state coordinator for the national flood insurance program (NFIP)
prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse and submit evidence of
such notification to the federal emergency management agency (FEMA).
      4.   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of said watercourse so that the flood carrying capacity is maintained.
      5.   Prevent encroachments into floodways unless the certification and
flood hazard reduction provisions of subsection
9-3I-4E of this article are met.
      6.   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of the
lowest floor (including basement) and all attendant utilities of all new and
substantially improved structures, in accordance with the provisions of
subsection C3 of this section.
      7.   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which all
new and substantially improved structures and utilities have been floodproofed,
in accordance with the provisions of subsection C3 of this section.
      8.   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of all
public utilities in accordance with the provisions of subsection C3 of this
section.
      9.   When floodproofing is utilized for a particular structure, obtain
certifications from a registered professional engineer or architect in
accordance with the provisions of subsection C3 of this section and subsection
9-3I-4B2 of this article.
      10.   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of
boundaries of the special flood hazard areas, floodways (for example, where
there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field
conditions), make the necessary interpretation. The person contesting the
location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the
interpretation as provided in this article.
      11.   When base flood elevation (BFE) data has not been provided in
accordance with the provisions of subsection
9-3I-2B of this article, obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any BFE data,
along with floodway data available from a federal, state, or other source,
including data developed pursuant to subsection
9-3I-4C2 of this article, in order to administer the provisions of this
article.
      12.   When base flood elevation (BFE) data is provided but no floodway
data has been provided in accordance with the provisions of subsection 9-3I-2B
of this article, obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any floodway data
available from a federal, state, or other source in order to administer the
provisions of this article.
      13.   When the lowest floor and the lowest adjacent grade of a structure
or the lowest ground elevation of a parcel in a special flood hazard area
(SFHA) is above the base flood elevation (BFE), advise the property owner of
the option to apply for a letter of map amendment (LOMA) from FEMA. Maintain a
copy of the LOMA issued by FEMA in the floodplain development permit file.
      14.   Permanently maintain all records that pertain to the administration
of this article and make these records available for public inspection,
recognizing that such information may be subject to the privacy act of 1974, as
amended.
      15.   Make on site inspections of work in progress. As the work pursuant
to a floodplain development permit progresses, the floodplain administrator
shall make as many inspections of the work as may be necessary to ensure that
the work is being done according to the provisions of this article and the
terms of the permit. In exercising this power, the floodplain administrator has
a right, upon presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises
within the jurisdiction of the community at any reasonable hour for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action.
      16.   Issue stop work orders as required. Whenever a building or part
thereof is being constructed, reconstructed, altered, or repaired in violation
of this article, the floodplain administrator may order the work to be
immediately stopped. The stop work order shall be in writing and directed to
the person doing or in charge of the work. The stop work order shall state the
specific work to be stopped, the specific reason(s) for the stoppage, and the
condition(s) under which the work may be resumed. Violation of a stop work
order constitutes a misdemeanor.
      17.   Revoke floodplain development permits as required. The floodplain
administrator may revoke and require the return of the floodplain development
permit by notifying the permit holder in writing stating the reason(s) for the
revocation. Permits shall be revoked for any substantial departure from the
approved application, plans, and specifications; for refusal or failure to
comply with the requirements of state or local laws; or for false statements or
misrepresentations made in securing the permit. Any floodplain development
permit mistakenly issued in violation of an applicable state or local law may
also be revoked.
      18.   Make periodic inspections throughout the special flood hazard areas
within the jurisdiction of the community. The floodplain administrator and each
member of his or her inspections department shall have a right, upon
presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises within the
territorial jurisdiction of the department at any reasonable hour for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action.
      19.   Follow through with corrective procedures of subsection D of this
section.
      20.   Review, provide input, and make recommendations for variance
requests.
      21.   Maintain a current map repository to include, but not be limited
to, the FIS report, FIRM and other official flood maps, and studies adopted in
accordance with the provisions of subsection
9-3I-2B of this article, including any revisions thereto including letters of
map change, issued by FEMA. Notify the NFIP state coordinator and FEMA of the
community's mapping needs.
      22.   Coordinate revisions to FIS reports and FIRMs, including letters of
map revision based on fill (LOMR-Fs) and letters of map revision (LOMRs).
   C.   Floodplain Development Application, Permit, And Certification
Requirements:
      1.   Application Requirements: Application for a floodplain development
permit shall be made to the floodplain administrator prior to any development
activities located within special flood hazard areas. The following items shall
be presented to the floodplain administrator to apply for a floodplain
development permit:
         a.   A plot plan drawn to scale which shall include, but shall not be
limited to, the following specific details of the proposed floodplain
development:
            (1)   The nature, location, dimensions, and elevations of the area
of development/disturbance; existing and proposed structures, utility systems,
grading/pavement areas, fill materials, storage areas, drainage facilities, and
other development;
            (2)   The boundary of the special flood hazard area as delineated
on the FIRM or other flood map as determined in subsection 9-3I-2B of this
article, or a statement that the entire lot is within the special flood hazard
area;
            (3)   The flood zone(s) designation of the proposed development
area as determined on the FIRM or other flood map as determined in subsection
9-3I-2B of this article;
            (4)   The boundary of the floodway(s) as determined in subsection
9-3I-2B of this article;
            (5)   The base flood elevation (BFE) where provided as set forth in
subsection
9-3I-2B;
9-3I-2C; or
9-3I-4C of this article;
            (6)   The old and new location of any watercourse that will be
altered or relocated as a result of proposed development; and
            (7)   The certification of the plot plan by a registered land
surveyor or professional engineer.
         b.   Proposed elevation, and method thereof, of all development within
a special flood hazard area including, but not limited to:
            (1)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level of the proposed
lowest floor (including basement) of all structures;
            (2)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any
nonresidential structure in zone A, AE, AH, AO, or A1-30 will be floodproofed;
and
            (3)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any proposed
utility systems will be elevated or floodproofed.
         c.   If floodproofing, a floodproofing certificate (FEMA form 086-0-
33) with supporting data, an operational plan, and an inspection and
maintenance plan that include, but are not limited to, installation, exercise,
and maintenance of floodproofing measures.
         d.   A foundation plan, drawn to scale, which shall include details of
the proposed foundation system to ensure all provisions of this article are
met. These details include, but are not limited to:
            (1)   The proposed method of elevation, if applicable (i.e., fill,
solid foundation perimeter wall, solid backfilled foundation, open foundation,
or on columns/posts/piers/piles/shear walls); and
            (2)   Openings to facilitate automatic equalization of hydrostatic
flood forces on walls in accordance with subsections
9-3I-4A8b(1) through A8b(6) of this article when solid foundation perimeter
walls are used in zones A, AE, AH, AO, and A1-30.
         e.   Usage details of any enclosed areas below the lowest floor.
         f.   Plans and/or details for the protection of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems to be located and
constructed to minimize flood damage.
         g.   Certification that all other local, state, and federal permits
required prior to floodplain development permit issuance have been received.
         h.   Documentation for placement of recreational vehicles and/or
temporary structures, when applicable, to ensure that the provisions of
subsections 9-3I-4B5 and B6 of this article are met.
         i.   A description of proposed watercourse alteration or relocation,
when applicable, including an engineering report on the effects of the proposed
project on the flood carrying capacity of the watercourse and the effects to
properties located both upstream and downstream; and
            (1)   A map (if not shown on plot plan) showing the location of the
proposed watercourse alteration or relocation.
      2.   Permit Requirements: The floodplain development permit shall
include, but not be limited to:
         a.   A complete description of all the development to be permitted
under the floodplain development permit (i.e., house, garage, pool, septic,
bulkhead, cabana, pole barn, chicken coop, pier, bridge, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations, or storage of
equipment or materials, et cetera).
         b.   The special flood hazard area determination for the proposed
development in accordance with available data specified in subsection
9-3I-2B of this article.
         c.   The flood protection elevation required for the lowest floor and
all attendant utilities.
         d.   The flood protection elevation required for the protection of all
public utilities.
         e.   All certification submittal requirements with time lines.
         f.   A statement that no fill material or other development shall
encroach into the floodway or flood fringe area of any watercourse, as
applicable.
         g.   The flood openings requirements, if in zone A, AE, AH, AO, or A1-
30.
         h.   All floodplain development permits shall be conditional upon the
start of construction of work within one hundred eighty (180) days. A
floodplain development permit shall expire one hundred eighty (180) days after
issuance unless the permitted activity has commenced as per the "start of
construction" definition of section
9-1C-1 of this title.
         i.   A statement of the limitations of below BFE enclosure uses, if
applicable (i.e., parking, building access and limited storage only).
         j.   A statement that all materials below BFE/FPE must be flood
resistant materials.
      3.   Certification Requirements:
         a.   Elevation Certificates:
            (1)   An elevation certificate (FEMA form 86-0-33) is required
prior to the actual start of any new construction. It shall be the duty of the
permit holder to submit to the floodplain administrator a certification of the
elevation of the lowest floor, in relation to mean sea level. The floodplain
administrator shall review the certificate data submitted. Deficiencies
detected by such review shall be corrected by the permit holder prior to the
beginning of construction. Failure to submit the certification or failure to
make required corrections shall be cause to deny a floodplain development
permit.
            (2)   An elevation certificate (FEMA form 86-0-33) is required
after the lowest floor is established. Within seven (7) calendar days of
establishment of the lowest floor elevation, it shall be the duty of the permit
holder to submit to the floodplain administrator a certification of the
elevation of the lowest floor, in relation to mean sea level. Any work done
within the seven (7) day calendar period and prior to submission of the
certification shall be at the permit holder's risk. The floodplain
administrator shall review the certificate data submitted. Deficiencies
detected by such review shall be corrected by the permit holder immediately and
prior to further work being permitted to proceed. Failure to submit the
certification or failure to make required corrections shall be cause to issue a
stop work order for the project.
            (3)   A final as built finished construction elevation certificate
(FEMA form 86-0-33) is required after construction is completed and prior to
certificate of compliance/occupancy issuance. It shall be the duty of the
permit holder to submit to the floodplain administrator a certification of
final as built construction of the elevation of the lowest floor and all
attendant utilities. The floodplain administrator shall review the certificate
data submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the
permit holder immediately and prior to certificate of compliance/occupancy
issuance. In some instances, another certification may be required to certify
corrected as built construction. Failure to submit the certification or failure
to make required corrections shall be cause to withhold the issuance of a
certificate of compliance/occupancy.
         The finished construction elevation certificate certifier shall
provide at least two (2) photographs showing the front and rear of the building
taken within ninety (90) days from the date of certification. The photographs
must be taken with views confirming the building description and diagram
number. To the extent possible, these photographs should show the entire
building including foundation. If the building has split-level or multi-level
areas, provide at least two (2) additional photographs showing side views of
the building. In addition, when applicable, provide a photograph of the
foundation showing a representative example of the flood openings or vents. All
photographs must be in color and measure at least three inches by three inches
(3" x 3"). Digital photographs are acceptable.
         b.   Floodproofing Certificate: If nonresidential floodproofing is
used to meet the flood protection elevation requirements, a floodproofing
certificate (FEMA form 086-0-34), with supporting data, an operational plan,
and an inspection and maintenance plan are required prior to the actual start
of any new construction. It shall be the duty of the permit holder to submit to
the floodplain administrator a certification of the floodproofed design
elevation of the lowest floor and all attendant utilities, in relation to mean
sea level. Floodproofing certification shall be prepared by or under the direct
supervision of a professional engineer or architect and certified by same. The
floodplain administrator shall review the certificate data, the operational
plan, and the inspection and maintenance plan. Deficiencies detected by such
review shall be corrected by the applicant prior to permit approval. Failure to
submit the certification or failure to make required corrections shall be cause
to deny a floodplain development permit. Failure to construct in accordance
with the certified design shall be cause to withhold the issuance of a
certificate of compliance/occupancy.
         c.   Engineered Foundation Certificate: If a manufactured home is
placed within zone A, AE, AH, AO, or A1-30 and the elevation of the chassis is
more than thirty six inches (36") in height above grade, an engineered
foundation certification is required in accordance with the provisions of
subsection
9-3I-4B3b of this article.
         d.   Watercourse: If a watercourse is to be altered or relocated, the
following shall all be submitted by the permit applicant prior to issuance of a
floodplain development permit:
            (1)   A description of the extent of watercourse alteration or
relocation; and
            (2)   A professional engineer's certified report on the effects of
the proposed project on the flood carrying capacity of the watercourse and the
effects to properties located both upstream and downstream; and
            (3)   A map showing the location of the proposed watercourse
alteration or relocation; and
            (4)   An Idaho stream channel alteration permit approval shall be
provided by the applicant to the floodplain administrator.
         e.   Certification Exemptions: The following structures, if located
within zone A, AE, AH, AO, or A1-30, are exempt from the elevation/
floodproofing certification requirements specified in subsections C3a and C3b
of this section:
            (1)   Recreational vehicles meeting requirements of subsection 9-
3I-4B5 of this article;
            (2)   Temporary structures meeting requirements of subsection 9-3I-
4B6 of this article; and
            (3)   Accessory structures less than two hundred (200) square feet
meeting requirements of subsection
9-3I-4B7 of this article.
      4.   Determinations For Existing Buildings And Structures: For
applications for building permits to improve buildings and structures,
including alterations, movement, enlargement, replacement, repair, change of
occupancy, additions, rehabilitations, renovations, substantial improvements,
repairs of substantial damage, and any other improvement of or work on such
buildings and structures, the floodplain administrator, in coordination with
the building official, shall:
         a.   Estimate the market value, or require the applicant to obtain an
appraisal of the market value prepared by a qualified independent appraiser, of
the building or structure before the start of construction of the proposed
work. In the case of repair, the market value of the building or structure
shall be the market value before the damage occurred and before any repairs are
made;
         b.   Compare the cost to perform the improvement, the cost to repair a
damaged building to its predamaged condition, or the combined costs of
improvements and repairs, if applicable, to the market value of the building or
structure;
         c.   Determine and document whether the proposed work constitutes
substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage; and
         d.   Notify the applicant if it is determined that the work
constitutes substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage and that
compliance with the flood resistant construction requirements of the adopted
Idaho building code and this article is required.
   D.   Corrective Procedures:
      1.   Violations To Be Corrected: When the floodplain administrator finds
violations of applicable state and local laws, it shall be his or her duty to
notify the owner or occupant of the building of the violation. The owner or
occupant shall immediately remedy each of the violations of law cited in such
notification.
      2.   Actions In Event Of Failure To Take Corrective Action: If the owner
of a building or property shall fail to take prompt corrective action, the
floodplain administrator shall give the owner written notice, by certified or
registered mail to the owner's last known address or by personal service,
stating:
         a.   That the building or property is in violation of the floodplain
management regulations;
         b.   That a hearing will be held before the floodplain administrator
at a designated place and time, not later than ten (10) days after the date of
the notice, at which time the owner shall be entitled to be heard in person or
by counsel and to present arguments and evidence pertaining to the matter; and
         c.   That following the hearing, the floodplain administrator may
issue an order to alter, vacate, or demolish the building; or to remove fill as
applicable.
      3.   Order To Take Corrective Action: If, upon a hearing held pursuant to
the notice prescribed above, the floodplain administrator shall find that the
building or development is in violation of this article, he or she shall issue
an order in writing to the owner, requiring the owner to remedy the violation
within a specified time period, not less than sixty (60) calendar days, nor
more than one hundred eighty (180) calendar days. Where the floodplain
administrator finds that there is imminent danger to life or other property, he
or she may order that corrective action be taken in such lesser period as may
be feasible.
      4.   Appeal: Any owner who has received an order to take corrective
action may appeal the order to the local elected governing body by giving
notice of appeal in writing to the floodplain administrator and the clerk
within ten (10) days following issuance of the final order. In the absence of
an appeal, the order of the floodplain administrator shall be final. The local
governing body shall hear an appeal within a reasonable time and may affirm,
modify and affirm, or revoke the order.
      5.   Failure To Comply With Order: If the owner of a building or property
fails to comply with an order to take corrective action for which no appeal has
been made or fails to comply with an order of the governing body following an
appeal, the owner shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished at the
discretion of the court.
   E.   Variance Procedures:
      1.   The planning and zoning commission, hereinafter referred to as "the
commission", shall hear and decide requests for variances from the requirements
of this article.
      2.   Variances may be issued for:
         a.   The repair or rehabilitation of historic structures upon the
determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the
structure's continued designation as a historic structure and that the variance
is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the
structure;
         b.   Functionally dependent facilities, if determined to meet the
definition as stated in section
9-1C-1 of this title, provided provisions of subsections E9b and E9c of this
section have been satisfied, and such facilities are protected by methods that
minimize flood damages during the base flood and create no additional threats
to public safety; or
         c.   Any other type of development, provided it meets the requirements
of this section.
      3.   In passing upon variances, the commission shall consider all
technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in other
sections of this article, and:
         a.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
         b.   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion
damage;
         c.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
         d.   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility
to the community;
         e.   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location as defined
under section
9-1C-1 of this title as a functionally dependent facility, where applicable;
         f.   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to
flooding or erosion damage, for the proposed use;
         g.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and
anticipated development;
         h.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan
and floodplain management program for that area;
         i.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles;
         j.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
         k.   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
      4.   The applicant shall include a written report addressing each of the
above factors in subsections E3a through E3k of this section with their
application for a variance.
      5.   Upon consideration of the factors listed above and the purposes of
this article, the commission may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes and objectives of this
article.
      6.   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the base flood elevation (BFE) and the
elevation to which the structure is to be built and that such construction
below the BFE increases risks to life and property, and that the issuance of a
variance to construct a structure below the BFE will result in increased
premium rates for flood insurance up to twenty five dollars ($25.00) per one
hundred dollars ($100.00) of insurance coverage. Such notification shall be
maintained with a record of all variance actions, including justification for
their issuance.
      7.   The floodplain administrator shall maintain the records of all
appeal actions and report any variances to the federal emergency management
agency and the state of Idaho upon request.
      8.   Conditions for variances:
         a.   Variances shall not be issued when the variance will make the
structure in violation of other federal, state, or local laws, regulations, or
ordinances.
         b.   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if
the variance would result in any increase in flood levels during the base flood
discharge.
         c.   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
         d.   Variances shall only be issued prior to development permit
approval.
         e.   Variances shall only be issued upon:
            (1)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
            (2)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would
result in exceptional hardship; and
            (3)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not
result in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, or
extraordinary public expense, create nuisance, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
      9.   A variance may be issued for solid waste disposal facilities or
sites, hazardous waste management facilities, salvage yards, and chemical
storage facilities that are located in special flood hazard areas provided that
all of the following conditions are met:
         a.   The use serves a critical need in the community.
         b.   No feasible location exists for the use outside the special flood
hazard area.
         c.   The lowest floor of any structure is elevated or floodproofed to
at least the flood protection elevation.
         d.   The use complies with all other applicable federal, state and
local laws.
      10.   The city of Sun Valley will notify the state NFIP coordinator of
the Idaho department of water resources of its intention to grant a variance at
least thirty (30) calendar days prior to granting the variance.
      11.   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the commission may appeal
such decision to the city council, as provided in section
9-5A-9 of this title. (Ord. 494, 5-4-2017; amd. Ord. 556, 4-1-2021)
9-3I-4: PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION:
   A.   General Standards: In all special flood hazard areas the following
provisions are required:
      1.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be designed
(or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, and
lateral movement of the structure.
      2.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage in
accordance with the technical bulletin 2, "Flood Damage-Resistant Materials
Requirements", and available from the federal emergency management agency.
      3.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damages.
      4.   All new and replacement electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing,
air conditioning equipment, and other service facilities shall be designed and/
or located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of flooding to the flood protection elevation.
These include, but are not limited to, HVAC equipment, water softener units,
bath/kitchen fixtures, ductwork, electric/gas meter panels/boxes, utility/cable
boxes, hot water heaters, and electric outlets/switches.
      5.   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
      6.   All new and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into floodwaters.
      7.   On site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
      8.   A fully enclosed area, of new construction and substantially
improved structures, which is below the lowest floor shall:
         a.   Be constructed entirely of flood resistant materials at least to
the flood protection elevation; and
         b.   Include, in zones A, AE, AH, AO, and A1-30, flood openings to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on walls by allowing for the
entry and exit of floodwaters. To meet this requirement, the openings must
either be certified by a professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed
the following minimum design criteria:
            (1)   A minimum of two (2) flood openings on different sides of
each enclosed area subject to flooding;
            (2)   The total net area of all flood openings must be at least one
square inch for each square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding;
            (3)   If a building has more than one enclosed area, each enclosed
area must have flood openings to allow floodwaters to automatically enter and
exit;
            (4)   The bottom of all required flood openings shall be no higher
than one foot (1') above the interior or exterior adjacent grade;
            (5)   Flood openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, or
other coverings or devices, provided they permit the automatic flow of
floodwaters in both directions; and
            (6)   Enclosures made of flexible skirting are not considered
enclosures for regulatory purposes, and, therefore, do not require flood
openings. Masonry or wood underpinning, regardless of structural status, is
considered an enclosure and requires flood openings as outlined above.
      9.   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction, or improvements to a
structure, which is in compliance with the provisions of this article, shall
meet the requirements of "new construction" as contained in this article.
      10.   Nothing in this article shall prevent the repair, reconstruction,
or replacement of a building or structure existing on the effective date hereof
and located totally or partially within the floodway or stream setback,
provided there is no additional encroachment below the flood protection
elevation in the floodway or stream setback, and provided that such repair,
reconstruction, or replacement meets all of the other requirements of this
article.
      11.   New solid waste disposal facilities and sites, hazardous waste
management facilities, salvage yards, and chemical storage facilities shall not
be permitted, except by variance as specified in subsection
9-3I-3E9 of this article. A structure or tank for chemical or fuel storage
incidental to an allowed use or to the operation of a water treatment plant or
wastewater treatment facility may be located in a special flood hazard area
only if the structure or tank is either elevated or floodproofed to at least
the flood protection elevation and certified in accordance with the provisions
of subsection
9-3I-3C3 of this article.
      12.   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall be
consistent with the need to minimize flood damage and determined to be
reasonably safe from flooding.
      13.   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall
have public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water
systems located and constructed to minimize flood damage.
      14.   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall
have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood hazards.
      15.   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall
have received all necessary permits from those governmental agencies for which
approval is required by Federal or State law, including section 404 of the
Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, 33 USC 1334.
      16.   When a structure is partially located in a special flood hazard
area, the entire structure shall meet the requirements for new construction and
substantial improvements.
      17.   When a structure is located in multiple flood hazard zones or in a
flood hazard risk zone with multiple base flood elevations, the provisions for
the more restrictive flood hazard risk zone and the highest base flood
elevation (BFE) shall apply.
      18.   Fill is prohibited in the SFHA, including construction of buildings
on fill. This includes not approving conditional letters or letters of map
revision (CLOMR-F or LOMR-F).
      19.   Temporary installation of flood control barriers adjacent to
structures, such as sand bags or bladders, may be placed on private property
for a period of ninety (90) days or less, unless inundation by floodwaters is
prolonged and approval for an extension has been issued via a floodplain
development permit. No application is necessary for the installation of
temporary flood control barriers installed in accordance with the regulations
of this section.
         a.   Flood control barriers, where at all possible, shall be located
not more than six feet (6') from any structure with foundations.
         b.   Flood control barriers shall be designed to protect structures
from potential floodwaters, but shall not be intended to solely divert or
displace floodwaters into the public right-of-way or adjacent private
properties.
         c.   Sand or other fill used within sandbags or similar devices shall
not be emptied into a creek or stream. Water used to fill a bladder dam shall
not be emptied into a creek or stream.
         d.   Any person who violates any provision of this subsection A19
shall be guilty of an infraction or a misdemeanor and may be fined as provided
in section
1-4-1 of this Code. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day
during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
         e.   The City may install flood control barriers for the purpose of
protecting public infrastructure.
   B.   Specific Standards: In all special flood hazard areas where base flood
elevation (BFE) data has been provided, as set forth in subsection
9-3I-2B of this article, or subsection D of this section, the following
provisions, in addition to the provisions of subsection A of this section, are
required:
      1.   Residential Construction: New construction and substantial
improvement of any residential structure (including manufactured homes) shall
have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated no lower than the flood
protection elevation, as defined in section
9-1C-1 of this title.
      2.   Nonresidential Construction: New construction and substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial, or other nonresidential structure
shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated no lower than the
flood protection elevation, as defined in section
9-1C-1 of this title. Structures located in Zones A, AE, AH, AO, and A1-30 may
be floodproofed to the flood protection elevation in lieu of elevation provided
that all areas of the structure, together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, below the flood protection elevation are watertight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water, using structural components
having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and the
effect of buoyancy. For AH and AO Zones, the floodproofing elevation shall be
in accordance with subsection F2 of this section. A registered professional
engineer or architect shall certify that the floodproofing standards of this
subsection are satisfied. Such certification shall be provided to the
Floodplain Administrator as set forth in subsection
9-3I-3C3 of this article, along with the operational plan and the inspection
and maintenance plan.
      3.   Manufactured Homes:
         a.   New and replacement manufactured homes shall be elevated so that
the lowest floor of the manufactured home is no lower than the flood protection
elevation.
         b.   Manufactured homes shall be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement, either
by certified engineered foundation system, or in accordance with the most
current edition of the Idaho Division of Building Safety's "Idaho Manufactured
Home Installation Standard" in accordance with Idaho Code section 44-2201(2).
Additionally, when the elevation would be met by an elevation of the chassis
thirty six inches (36") or less above the grade at the site, the chassis shall
be supported by reinforced piers or engineered foundation. When the elevation
of the chassis is above thirty six inches (36") in height, an engineering
certification is required.
         c.   All enclosures or skirting below the lowest floor shall meet the
requirements of subsection B4 of this section.
         d.   An evacuation plan must be developed for evacuation of all
residents of all new, substantially improved, or substantially damaged
manufactured home parks or subdivisions located within flood prone areas. This
plan shall be filed with and approved by the floodplain administrator and the
local emergency management coordinator.
      4.   Additions/Improvements:
         a.   Additions and/or improvements to pre-FIRM structures when the
addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications to
the existing structure are:
            (1)   Not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or
improvements must be designed to minimize flood damages and must not be any
more nonconforming than the existing structure; or
            (2)   A substantial improvement, both the existing structure and
the addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new
construction.
         b.   Additions to post-FIRM structures that are a substantial
improvement with no modifications to the existing structure other than a
standard door in the common wall shall require only the addition to comply with
the standards for new construction.
         c.   Additions and/or improvements to post-FIRM structures when the
addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications to
the existing structure are:
            (1)   Not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or
improvements only must comply with the standards for new construction; or
            (2)   A substantial improvement, both the existing structure and
the addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new
construction.
         d.   Any combination of repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation,
addition, or improvement of a building or structure taking place during a four
(4) year period, the cumulative cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent
(50%) of the market value of the structure before the improvement or repair is
started, must comply with the standards for new construction. For each building
or structure, the four (4) year period begins on the date of the first
improvement or repair of that building or structure subsequent to the effective
date hereof. If the structure has sustained substantial damage, any repairs are
considered substantial improvement regardless of the actual repair work
performed. The requirement does not, however, include either:
            (1)   Any project for improvement of a building required to correct
existing health, sanitary, or safety code violations identified by the building
official and that are the minimum necessary to assume safe living conditions;
or
            (2)   Any alteration of a historic structure provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a
historic structure.
      5.   Recreational Vehicles: Recreational vehicles shall be either:
         a.   Temporary Placement: Be on site for fewer than one hundred eighty
(180) consecutive days and be fully licensed and ready for highway use (a
recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking
system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities, and
has no permanently attached additions); or
         b.   Permanent Placement: Recreational vehicles that do not meet the
limitations of temporary placement shall meet all the requirements for new
construction, as set forth in subsection A of this section.
      6.   Temporary Nonresidential Structures: Prior to the issuance of a
floodplain development permit for a temporary structure, the applicant must
submit to the floodplain administrator a plan for the removal of such structure
(s) in the event of a flash flood or other type of flood warning notification.
The following information shall be submitted in writing to the floodplain
administrator for review and written approval:
         a.   A specified time period for which the temporary use will be
permitted. Time specified may not exceed six (6) months, renewable up to one
year;
         b.   The name, address, and phone number of the individual responsible
for the removal of the temporary structure;
         c.   The time frame prior to the event at which a structure will be
removed (i.e., immediately upon flood warning notification);
         d.   A copy of the contract or other suitable instrument with the
entity responsible for physical removal of the structure; and
         e.   Designation, accompanied by documentation, of a location outside
the special flood hazard area, to which the temporary structure will be moved.
      7.   Accessory Structures: When accessory structures (sheds, detached
garages, etc.) are to be placed within a special flood hazard area, elevation
or floodproofing certifications are required for all accessory structures in
accordance with subsection
9-3I-3C3 of this article, and the following criteria shall be met:
         a.   Accessory structures shall not be used for human habitation
(including working, sleeping, living, cooking, or restroom areas);
         b.   Accessory structures shall not be temperature controlled;
         c.   Accessory structures shall be designed to have low flood damage
potential;
         d.   Accessory structures shall be constructed and placed on the
building site so as to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters;
         e.   Accessory structures shall be firmly anchored in accordance with
the provisions of subsection A1 of this section;
         f.   All service facilities, such as electrical, shall be installed in
accordance with the provisions of subsection A4 of this section; and
         g.   Flood openings to facilitate automatic equalization of
hydrostatic flood forces shall be provided below flood protection elevation in
conformance with the provisions of subsection A8b of this section.
An accessory structure with a footprint less than two hundred (200) square feet
and is a minimal investment of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) or less and
satisfies the criteria outlined in subsections B7a through B7g of this section
is not required to meet the elevation or floodproofing standards of subsection
B2 of this section.
      8.   Tanks: When gas and liquid storage tanks are to be placed within a
special flood hazard area, the following criteria shall be met:
         a.   Underground tanks in flood hazard areas shall be anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement resulting from hydrodynamic
and hydrostatic loads during conditions of the base flood, including the
effects of buoyancy (assuming the tank is empty);
         b.   Elevated aboveground tanks, in flood hazard areas shall be
attached to and elevated to or above the design flood elevation on a supporting
structure that is designed to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement
during conditions of the base flood. Tank supporting structures shall meet the
foundation requirements of the applicable flood hazard area;
         c.   Not elevated aboveground tanks, that do not meet the elevation
requirements of subsection B2 of this section shall be permitted in flood
hazard areas provided the tanks are anchored or otherwise designed and
constructed to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads during conditions of the design flood,
including the effects of buoyancy assuming the tank is empty and the effects of
floodborne debris;
         d.   Tank inlets, fill openings, outlets and vents shall be:
            (1)   At or above the flood protection elevation or fitted with
covers designed to prevent the inflow of floodwater or outflow of the contents
of the tanks during conditions of the base flood; and
            (2)   Anchored to prevent lateral movement resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy, during
conditions of the base flood.
      9.   Construction Of Below Grade Crawl Space:
         a.   The interior grade of a crawl space must not be below the BFE and
must not be more than two feet (2') below the exterior lowest adjacent grade
(LAG).
         b.   The height of the below grade crawl space, measured from the
interior grade of the crawl space to the top of the crawl space foundation
wall, must not exceed four feet (4') at any point.
         c.   There must be an adequate drainage system that removes
floodwaters from the interior area of the crawl space. The enclosed area should
be drained within a reasonable time after a flood event.
         d.   The velocity of floodwaters at the site should not exceed five
feet (5') per second for any crawl space.
      10.   Other Development In Regulated Floodways:
         a.   Fences that have the potential to block the passage of
floodwaters, such as stockade fences and wire mesh fences, in regulated
floodways shall meet the limitations of subsection E of this section.
         b.   Retaining walls, bulkheads, sidewalks, and driveways that involve
the placement of fill in regulated floodways shall meet the limitations of
subsection E of this section.
         c.   Roads and watercourse crossings, including roads, bridges,
culverts, low water crossings, and similar means for vehicles or pedestrians to
travel from one side of a watercourse to the other side, which encroach into
regulated floodways, shall meet the limitations of subsection E of this
section.
         d.   Drilling water, oil, and/or gas wells including fuel storage
tanks, apparatus, and any equipment at the site that encroach into regulated
floodways shall meet the limitations of subsection E of this section.
         e.   Docks, piers, boat ramps, marinas, moorings, decks, docking
facilities, port facilities, shipbuilding, and ship repair facilities that
encroach into regulated floodways shall meet the limitations of subsection E of
this section.
   C.   Standards For Floodplains Without Established Base Flood Elevations:
Within the special flood hazard areas designated as zone A (also known as
unnumbered A zones) and established in subsection
9-3I-2B of this article, where no base flood elevation (BFE) data has been
provided by FEMA, the following provisions, in addition to the provisions of
subsection A of this section, shall apply. The BFE used in determining the
flood protection elevation (FPE) shall be determined based on the following
criteria:
      1.   When base flood elevation (BFE) data is available from other
sources, all new construction and substantial improvements within such areas
shall also comply with all applicable provisions of this article and shall be
elevated or floodproofed in accordance with standards in subsections A and B of
this section.
      2.   When floodway data is available from a federal, state, or other
source, all new construction and substantial improvements within floodway and
flood fringe areas shall also comply with the requirements of subsections B and
E of this section.
      3.   All subdivision, manufactured home park, and other development
proposals shall provide base flood elevation (BFE) data if development is
greater than five (5) acres or has more than fifty (50) lots/manufactured home
sites. Such base flood elevation (BFE) data shall be adopted by reference in
accordance with subsection
9-3I-2B of this article and utilized in implementing this article. The
applicant/developer shall submit an application for a conditional letter of map
revision (CLOMR) prior to preliminary plat approval and have obtained a letter
of map revision (LOMR) prior to any building permits for structures being
issued.
See FEMA 480 and/or FEMA 265 for further information.
      4.   When base flood elevation (BFE) data is not available from a
federal, state, or other source as outlined above, the lowest floor shall be
elevated or floodproofed (nonresidential) to two feet (2.0') above the highest
adjacent grade (HAG) at the building site or to the flood protection elevation
(FPE) whichever is higher. All other applicable provisions of subsection B of
this section shall also apply.
   D.   Standards For Riverine Floodplains With Base Flood Elevations But
Without Established Floodways Or Flood Fringe Areas: Along rivers and streams
where base flood elevation (BFE) data is provided by FEMA or is available from
another source but floodway are not identified for a special flood hazard area
on the FIRM or in the FIS report, the following requirements shall apply to all
development within such areas:
      1.   Standards of subsections A and B of this section; and
      2.   Until a regulatory floodway is designated, no encroachments,
including fill, new construction, substantial improvements, or other
development shall be permitted unless certification with supporting technical
data by a registered professional engineer is provided demonstrating that the
cumulative effect of the proposed development, when combined with all other
existing and anticipated development, will not increase the water surface
elevation of the base flood at any point within the community.
   E.   Standards For Floodways: Areas designated as floodways are located
within the special flood hazard areas established in subsection 9-3I-2B of this
article. The floodways are extremely hazardous areas due to the velocity of
floodwaters that have erosion potential and carry debris and potential
projectiles. The following provisions, in addition to standards outlined in
subsections A and B of this section, shall apply to all development within such
areas:
      1.   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements, and other developments shall be permitted unless:
         a.   It is demonstrated that the proposed encroachment would not
result in any increase in the flood levels during the occurrence of the base
flood, based on hydrologic and hydraulic analyses performed in accordance with
standard engineering practice and presented to the floodplain administrator
prior to issuance of floodplain development permit; or
         b.   A conditional letter of map revision (CLOMR) has been approved by
FEMA. A letter of map revision (LOMR) must also be obtained within six (6)
months of completion of the proposed encroachment.
      2.   If subsection E1 of this section is satisfied, all development shall
comply with all applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of this article.
      3.   Manufactured homes may be permitted provided the following
provisions are met:
         a.   The anchoring and the elevation standards of subsection B3 of
this section; and
         b.   The encroachment standards of subsection E1 of this section.
   F.   Standards For Areas Of Shallow Flooding (Zone AO, AH, AR/AO, Or AR/AH):
Located within the special flood hazard areas established in subsection 9-3I-2B
of this article, are areas designated as shallow flooding areas. These areas
have special flood hazards associated with base flood depths of one to three
feet (3') where a clearly defined channel does not exist and where the path of
flooding is unpredictable and indeterminate. In addition to subsections A and B
of this section, all new construction and substantial improvements shall meet
the following requirements:
      1.   The lowest floor shall be elevated at least as high as the depth
number specified on the flood insurance rate map (FIRM), in feet, plus a
freeboard of two feet (2'), above the highest adjacent grade; or at least four
feet (4') above the highest adjacent grade if no depth number is specified.
      2.   Nonresidential structures may, in lieu of elevation, be floodproofed
to the same level as required in subsection F1 of this section so that the
structure, together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, below that
level shall be watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage
of water and with structural components having the capability of resisting
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. Certification is
required in accordance with subsection
9-3I-3C3 of this article, and subsection B2 of this section.
      3.   Adequate drainage paths shall be provided around structures on
slopes to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed structures. (Ord.
494, 5-4-2017; amd. Ord. 539, 6-6-2019; Ord. 556, 4-1-2021)
9-3I-5: LEGAL STATUS PROVISIONS:
   A.   Effect On Rights And Liabilities Under The Existing Flood Hazard
Protection Ordinance: This article, in part, comes forward by reenactment of
some of the provisions of the flood hazard protection ordinance enacted in 2006
as amended, and it is not the intention to repeal but rather to reenact and
continue to enforce without interruption of such existing provisions, so that
all rights and liabilities that have accrued thereunder are reserved and may be
enforced. The enactment of this article shall not affect any action, suit, or
proceeding instituted or pending. All provisions of the flood hazard protection
ordinance of the city of Sun Valley enacted in 2006 as amended, which are not
reenacted herein are repealed.
   B.   Effect Upon Outstanding Floodplain Development Permits: Nothing herein
contained shall require any change in the plans, construction, size, or
designated use of any development or any part thereof for which a floodplain
development permit has been granted by the floodplain administrator or his or
her authorized agents before the time of passage of this article. Provided,
however, that when construction is not begun under such outstanding permit
within a period of one hundred eighty (180) days subsequent to the date of
issuance of the outstanding permit, construction or use shall be in conformity
with the provisions of this article. (Ord. 494, 5-4-2017)
ARTICLE J. RIPARIAN ZONES
SECTION:
9-3J-1: Title; Purpose
9-3J-2: Types Of Stream Buffers
9-3J-3: Stream Buffer Size
9-3J-4: Stream Buffer Use Limitations
9-3J-5: Channelizing Streams
9-3J-6: Nonconforming Sites
9-3J-1: TITLE; PURPOSE:
   A.   Title: This article shall be known as the RIPARIAN ZONES ORDINANCE.
   B.   Purpose: The primary purpose of the stream buffer protection standards
is to maintain land adjacent to natural streams in a vegetated state in order
to enhance and maintain water quality, protect stream channel wetlands,
minimize storm water runoff, reduce sedimentation and erosion, conserve plant
and wildlife habitat and protect wildlife movement corridors.
   C.   Intent: The intent of this article is expressly not to regulate
artificial, manmade aesthetic or decorative water features or irrigation and
drainage improvements, for example, the manmade water feature systems in Lane
Ranch, the Sun Valley Mall, Weyyakin, Villager Condos, or similar. This article
shall be operative as of the date of its adoption and shall apply to
applications for new development filed after the operative date. (Ord. 382, 10-
25-2006)
9-3J-2: TYPES OF STREAM BUFFERS:
Stream buffers shall be clearly indicated on all development plans, site plans,
preliminary plats and final plats.
   A.   Stream Buffer Protection Standards: The stream buffer protection
standards shall apply to:
      1.   Natural Perennial Streams: Trail Creek is a natural perennial
stream. A perennial stream has flowing water year round during a typical year.
The water table is located above the streambed for most of the year. Ground
water is the primary source of water for stream flow and rainfall runoff is a
supplemental source of water for stream flow 1 .
      2.   Natural Intermittent Streams: An intermittent stream has flowing
water during certain times of the year, when ground water provides water for
stream flow. During dry periods, intermittent streams may not have flowing
water. Runoff from rainfall is a supplemental source of water for stream flow 2
.
      3.   Natural Lake/Pond: A standing body of open water that occurs in a
natural depression fed by one or more streams from which a stream may flow,
that occurs due to the widening or natural blockage or cutoff of a river or
stream, or that occurs in an isolated natural depression that is not a part of
a surface river or stream. The term also includes a standing body of open water
created by artificially blocking or restricting the flow of a natural river or
stream, i.e., Sun Valley Lake, but not including flow restrictions caused by
seasonal beaver pond activity 3 .
   B.   Difference In Stream Type: Where maps show a difference in stream type
for a particular reach of natural stream, the map that shows the greater level
of stream protection shall apply.
   C.   Maps In Error: When a property owner or applicant believes that the
appropriate maps are in error, a statement, signed by a licensed engineer or
recognized expert in the field of wetland delineation, with the review and
approval of the community development director, shall determine the location or
presence of the stream or lake/pond. (Ord. 382, 10-25-2006; amd. Ord. 578, 5-1-
2025)
 
Notes
1 Source: Army Corps of Engineers.
2 Source: Army Corps of Engineers.
3 Source: Army Corps of Engineers.
9-3J-3: STREAM BUFFER SIZE:
   A.   Stream buffers shall apply on each side of the natural perennial or
intermittent stream and shall begin at the most landward limit of mean high
water mark perpendicular to the direction of stream flow.
      1.   Stream buffers for natural perennial streams and natural lakes and
ponds shall be a minimum of twenty five feet (25') in width.
      2.   Stream buffers for natural intermittent stream shall be a minimum of
five (5) and directly proportional on a one foot to one foot (1':1') ratio
based on a high water mark to high water mark width of the intermittent stream,
up to twenty five feet (25').
   B.   To meet the intent of this article, the community development director
shall require the applicant to submit an official wetland delineation study,
performed by a person certified for wetland delineation, or a survey prepared
by an Idaho licensed surveyor, or a landscape plan prepared by an Idaho
licensed landscape architect, indicating the Mean High Water Mark and existing
vegetation, in order to: a) to determine the appropriate minimum buffer
required for intermittent streams; and b) if the natural stream or natural lake
demonstrates the probability of larger than minimum setback as evident by the
presence of wetlands and more than fifty percent (50%) riparian vegetation.
(Ord. 382, 10-25-2006; amd. Ord. 578, 5-1-2025)
9-3J-4: STREAM BUFFER USE LIMITATIONS:
   A.   New Subdivisions: For new subdivisions created after the adoption of
this title, land within the required stream buffer shall not serve to meet
minimum lot size requirements.
   B.   Buildings And Other Features: Buildings and other features that require
grading and construction shall maintain a ten foot (10') setback from the edge
of the stream buffer. Certain at grade improvements such as at grade decks,
patios, walkways, or similar improvements are allowed within the required ten
foot (10') setback area but are encouraged to be separated from the buffer
area.
   C.   Stream Buffer and Vegetation Removal: The stream buffer's natural
vegetation shall remain undisturbed except in the following circumstances:
      1.   Tree removal is allowed in accordance with the regulations in
section 9-3A, provided tree stumps and root systems are left intact to assist
with maintaining stability of stream banks and soils in riparian zones.
      2.   In addition to tree removal activities permitted via 9-3A, if
vegetation proves to create a safety hazard to an adjacent land use or
structure, in accordance with
9-3A-2, vegetation may be maintained, pruned, limbed, or otherwise thinned
provided activities do not conflict with applicable state and federal agency
standards.
   D.   Variance: If evidence acceptable to the city is provided by the
applicant showing that strict enforcement of this provision would prohibit a
substantial portion of permitted or conditional uses of the property, then the
applicant may apply for a variance.
   E.   Intrusion Prohibited: Any use allowed by this article shall be designed
and constructed so as no amount of intrusion would result into the required
stream buffer to minimize clearing, grading, erosion and water quality
degradation.
   F.   Crossings: Crossings by streets, stormwater control structures, sewer
lines, driveways, bicycle paths, intakes, docks, utilities, and bridges shall
be allowed; provided, that they are designed to minimize the amount of
intrusion into the stream buffer. Such facilities may run generally within and
parallel to the stream buffer only where no alternative location is practical
and when their design minimizes the amount of intrusion of the stream buffer.
Sewer lines should be designed so routine maintenance can be accessed outside
of the undisturbed buffer area.
   G.   Recreational Activities: Stream buffers may be used for passive public
or private recreational activities such as trails and golf course fairways and
greens; provided, that: 1) service facilities for such activities, including,
but not limited to, parking, picnicking and sanitary facilities, are located
outside of the stream buffer; and 2) a finding can be made by the approving
authority that the design of the trail or golf course is consistent with the
intent of this article and that the design minimizes potential water
degradation and overall intrusion into the buffer area to the greatest extent
practicable while still allowing full function for the proposed use. Trails
within the riparian buffer shall be constructed with permeable materials, i.e.,
wood chips, stabilized soils, decomposed granite, and shall not exceed five
feet (5') in width.
   H.   Site Plan Approval: Site plan approval through the city's design review
process shall be required for any of the stream buffer intrusions described in
subsections F and G of this section. When any of the activities described above
involves land clearing, the cleared area shall be revegetated in a manner
replicating the native riparian habitat described on the site plan. (Ord. 455,
12-6-2012; amd. Ord. 578, 5-1-2025)
9-3J-5: CHANNELIZING STREAMS:
Stream channelization shall not be permitted for either natural perennial or
intermittent streams. "Stream channelization" is defined as the capture of
natural flowing streams by way of pipe, culvert, undergrounding, unnatural
riprap and bank stabilization, or similar. (Ord. 382, 10-25-2006)
9-3J-6: NONCONFORMING SITES:
Where a site has existing structures or uses of land located within the minimum
stream buffer and setback areas, the provisions of chapter 1 of this title
shall apply, except that if an existing nonconforming structure is voluntarily
or intentionally demolished (not including demolition required as a result of
catastrophic activity) or substantially remodeled (75 percent of the total
square footage or greater), the development shall comply with the required
buffer and setback requirements of this article. (Ord. 382, 10-25-2006)
ARTICLE K. WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITIES
SECTION:
9-3K-1: Title; Purpose
9-3K-2: Applicability
9-3K-3: Definitions
9-3K-4: Preferred Locations
9-3K-5: Design Review Permit Required
9-3K-6: Conditional Use Permit Required
9-3K-7: Supplementary Materials
9-3K-1: TITLE; PURPOSE:
   A.   Title: This article shall be known as the WIRELESS COMMUNICATION
FACILITIES ORDINANCE.
   B.   Purpose: The primary purpose of this article is to assure that wireless
communication networks are completed with the fewest possible facilities, in
the least visible fashion, and with the least disruptive impact on the
neighborhoods and the communities within the city. The regulations set forth in
this article are adopted to serve, protect and promote the public health,
safety and welfare, and to preserve and enhance the aesthetic qualities of the
city as set forth in the goals and objectives of the city comprehensive plan,
while concurrently allowing for the orderly and efficient development of a
wireless communication infrastructure in accordance with the federal
telecommunications act (TCA) of 1996. (Ord. 382, 10-25-2006)
9-3K-2: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   Scope: This article applies to all wireless communication facilities
existing and proposed to be located within the limits of the city. Wireless
communication facilities include "personal wireless services" as defined by the
TCA and licensed by the federal communications commission, including, but not
limited to, the types commonly known as cellular, personal communications
services (PCS), specialized mobile radio (SMR), enhanced specialized mobile
radio (ESMR), paging, land based repeaters for satellite broadcast services,
microcell antennas and similar systems which exist now or may be developed in
the future and exhibit technological characteristics similar to them. This
title shall also apply to wireless communication facilities within public
rights of way except as may be prohibited by state or federal law. Wireless
communication facilities proposed to be located in the city may be constructed
only pursuant to permits issued by the city in accordance with this title and
shall comply with all other applicable laws and regulations.
   B.   Exception: This article does not apply to handheld mobile phones,
satellite dishes, amateur radio facilities, receiving antennas for AM and FM
radio and television, which may be governed by other law. (Ord. 382, 10-25-
2006)
9-3K-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this article, the following definitions apply. These
definitions shall be adapted to the context for appropriate grammatical tense,
number, case and gender.
ANTENNA: A device or system of wires, poles, rods, dishes or other devices of
similar function, used for the transmission and/or reception of radio frequency
signals for wireless communications, as described in the telecommunications act
of 1996. It may include an omnidirectional antenna (whip), a directional
antenna (panel) and parabolic antenna (disk). It does not include the support
structure.
ANTENNA ARRAY: A set of one or more antenna.
COLLOCATION: The use of a common wireless communication facility or common site
by two (2) or more service applicants, or use by one applicant of a single site
for two (2) or more technologies. It is also called site sharing.
FACILITY: Any component of the wireless communication installation including
any towers, antennas, antenna arrays, and any structures or devices used to
contain ancillary equipment for a wireless communication facility, such as
cabinets, shelters, additions to existing structures, pedestals, and other
devices serving similar purposes. Typically it includes an air conditioning
unit, a heating unit, electrical supply, telephone hookup and backup power
supply and may include any service roads or other access accommodations used to
service the facility.
PCS: "Personal communications service" as defined in the TCA and federal
communications commission regulations.
TCA: The telecommunications act of 1996.
WIRELESS COMMUNICATION: Any "personal wireless services" as defined by the TCA
and licensed by the federal communications commission, including, but not
limited to, the types commonly known as cellular, personal communications
services (PCS), specialized mobile radio (SMR), enhanced specialized mobile
radio (ESMR), paging, ground based repeaters for satellite radio services,
microcell antennas and similar systems which exist now or may be developed in
the future and exhibit technological characteristics similar to them. (Ord.
382, 10-25-2006)
9-3K-4: PREFERRED LOCATIONS:
Wireless communication facilities are encouraged to be located in commercial,
recreation and public/institutional zoning districts whenever feasible.
Applicants are encouraged to site facilities on existing nonresidential
buildings and existing utility poles or towers. Antenna arrays are encouraged
to be located at least five hundred feet (500') from schools, child daycare
centers, hospitals, and residential dwellings. Where facilities can be
consolidated onto a site and meet the standards of this article, such
collocation is encouraged. (Ord. 382, 10-25-2006)
9-3K-5: DESIGN REVIEW PERMIT REQUIRED:
Wireless communication facilities proposed in all zoning districts shall
require an application for design review, which shall include all applicable
items for design review listed in section
9-4A-4 of this title, and all information required by section
9-3K-7 of this article. (Ord. 382, 10-25-2006)
9-3K-6: CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT REQUIRED:
Wireless communication facilities proposed in all zoning districts shall
require an application for a conditional use permit, which shall include all
applicable items for conditional use permits listed in section
9-4A-4 of this title, and all information required by section
9-3K-7 of this article. Such application for a conditional use permit is
subject to the requirements of section
9-4B-2 of this title. Conditional use permits for wireless communication
facilities within five hundred feet (500') of a school, child daycare center,
hospital, residential dwelling, or similar land use, may be granted only where
the applicant submits evidence demonstrating that there is no other feasible
alternative to the proposed location. (Ord. 382, 10-25-2006)
9-3K-7: SUPPLEMENTARY MATERIALS:
   A.   Description Of Services: A description of the services the applicant
proposes to offer at the proposed site, including:
      1.   A description of the location, type, capacity, field strength or
power density, and calculated geographic service area of the proposed antenna
or antenna array. In instances of applications that generate public
controversy, the city retains the right to retain experts, at the applicant's
expense, to review and assess the technical data.
      2.   Documentation that the applicant has obtained and is in compliance
with all applicable licenses, permits or authorizations required by the federal
communications commission.
      3.   Location of all existing, proposed and anticipated wireless
communication facilities in the applicant's network located in the city, or
within one mile of the city limits, in any direction.
      4.   A description of how the proposed facility fits into, and is a
necessary part of, the applicant's network.
      5.   If the proposal does not include collocation, written documentation
of all efforts made to collocate at another site, and a justification for the
decision not to collocate.
      6.   In the instance where a facility is proposed within five hundred
feet (500') of any school, child daycare center, hospital or residential
dwelling, the applicant shall submit a narrative description of alternative
sites considered, if any, and include specific reasons these alternative sites
were deemed infeasible.
   B.   Design: All project applications shall adhere to the following
criteria:
      1.   Location Relative To Schools, Child Daycare Centers, Hospitals, And
Residential Dwellings: Drawings shall include the location of all schools,
child daycare centers, hospitals, and residential dwellings within five hundred
feet (500') of the antenna array.
      2.   Height: With the exception of installations on preexisting
structures, the installation shall not exceed the height limitations for the
applicable zoning district. Additional height may be considered through the
conditional use permit process.
      3.   Minimal Visual Impact: All wireless communication facility
applicants shall employ all practical means to conceal or minimize the number
of facilities and reduce their visual impact, including:
         a.   Most Diminutive Technology: Use of the smallest components
necessary to provide service that are in use or proposed for use within Blaine
County.
         b.   Most Efficient Technology: Use of the most efficient components
to serve the city. In this context, "most efficient" technology is that which
allows the applicant to use the fewest number of wireless communication
installations to serve the city.
         c.   Stealth Design: The wireless communication facility shall be
designed to visually and operationally blend into the surrounding area, in a
manner compatible with the local community character. The facility shall use
the most quiet cooling equipment and whisper emergency generating apparatus.
Artificial trees may be permitted in exceptional circumstances but are highly
disfavored and discouraged. When artificial trees are proposed, all paint,
materials and colors shall be listed by manufacturer and color number. When an
artificial tree is proposed, the applicant shall provide sufficient samples,
models or other information to demonstrate that alternative designs have been
considered and rejected, and the reasons for the rejections.
         d.   Landscaping: In the event portions of the facility will be
exposed to public view, and if additional plantings would further minimize the
visual impact of the facility, the applicant shall provide a landscape plan,
with an emphasis on native, drought tolerant plants. When existing mature
landscaping is proposed to be removed or trimmed for the installation or
operation of a wireless communication facility, the applicant shall identify
the location of said landscaping by species and size on the landscape plan. In
such an instance, trimming or removal of existing landscaping shall be minimal
and subject to approval by the city.
         e.   Setbacks: Wireless communication facilities shall comply with all
setback requirements for structures within the applicable zoning district.
However, where a finding is made by the planning and zoning commission, as part
of design review process, that the proposed location would reduce visual
impact, improve safety, or otherwise exhibit superior design attributes, the
applicant may propose to locate any wireless communication facility component
within a required setback.
   C.   Operational Plan: All applications for wireless communication
facilities shall include written assurances that the facilities shall be
operated in accordance with the following:
      1.   Security Lighting: Security lighting shall be kept to a minimum in
every instance and should only be triggered by a motion detector where
practical. Security lighting potentially impacting residential districts and
prominent view areas shall be minimized and all lighting shall be compliant
with the city's exterior lighting regulations 1 . Prominent views are listed in
action item 1.1.2 of the comprehensive plan.
      2.   Maintenance: All facilities, landscaping, and related equipment
shall be maintained in good working order and free from trash, debris, graffiti
and designed to discourage vandalism. Any damaged equipment shall be repaired
or replaced within thirty (30) calendar days. Damaged, dead or decaying plant
materials shall be removed and replaced within thirty (30) calendar days.
      3.   Maintenance Hours:
         a.   Routine Maintenance: Routine maintenance of equipment located in
or adjacent to existing residential land uses shall be conducted only during
the hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. to five o'clock (5:00) P.M. weekdays,
not including holidays. In other areas, routine maintenance may be conducted at
any time.
         b.   Emergency Repairs And Maintenance: Emergency repairs and
maintenance shall be conducted only in the cases of power outages and equipment
failures or malfunctions.
         c.   Equipment Change Out And Overhaul: Equipment change out and
overhaul may occur any time with thirty (30) days' notice to the city to allow
notice to property owners and residents within three hundred feet (300') of the
facility, if applicable.
      4.   Monitoring: Once the wireless communication facility is operating,
the city may require the applicant to submit documentation that the facility is
operating within the technical standards as described in the application and
the federal communications commission permit. Independent field strength or
power density measurements shall be provided to the city within thirty (30)
days of written request to the applicant. At five (5) year intervals from the
date when the city issues any permit authorized by this article, the applicant
shall submit the following information, in writing, to the community
development director:
         a.   Confirmation that the facility continues to operate in compliance
with all terms and conditions of approval by the city.
         b.   Independent field strength or power density measurements taken
within the past thirty (30) days that verify that the facility continues to
operate in compliance with all terms and conditions and emissions standards
imposed by the federal communications commission.
         c.   Confirmation that there is no equipment available that would
enhance the safety, efficiency or visibility of the facility or reduce the size
of the facility.
         d.   Confirmation that there are not more appropriate locations
available for the facility.
         e.   Confirmation that the facility continues to function as an
essential element of the applicant's network.
         f.   Documentation of any complaints received by the applicant since
the inception of operations regarding the operation and maintenance of the
facility, including the applicant's actions to address the complaints.
      5.   Construction Time, Abandonment And Decommissioning: All wireless
communication facilities which receive a conditional use permit under this
article shall be completed and operational within one hundred eighty (180)
calendar days of the issuance of the permit and all related permits or
licenses. The construction time may be extended for an additional one hundred
eighty (180) calendar days upon a showing of good faith efforts to complete the
facility, which shall take into account complications beyond the control of
applicant, including seasonal considerations. If the facility is not completed
and operational by the end of the extension period, then the permit shall
expire, and the applicant must reapply for the permit; however, this provision
shall not apply when the applicant demonstrates to the satisfaction of the
community development director that the operational delay is due entirely to
factors beyond the control of the applicant, in which event, the director may
extend the construction time in his or her discretion. The director reserves
the right to consult with the planning and zoning commission regarding any
proposed extension. Any facility that ceases operating for more than ninety
(90) consecutive days shall be considered abandoned. In such an event, the
applicant must either: a) apply for all permits required at the time of
expiration to reactivate the operation; or b) remove all elements of the
facility and restore the site. In the event the applicant fails to apply for
permits or perform the removal and restoration within these ninety (90) days,
the property owner shall have the facility removed. (Ord. 382, 10-25-2006)
 
Notes
1 1. See article B of this chapter.
ARTICLE L. AVALANCHE DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
SECTION:
9-3L-1: Title; Purpose
9-3L-2: Types Of Avalanche Zones
9-3L-3: Avalanche Zone Review
9-3L-4: Application Submittals
9-3L-5: Warning And Disclaimer Of Safety And Liability
9-3L-1: TITLE; PURPOSE:
   A.   Title: This article shall be known as the AVALANCHE ZONES ORDINANCE.
   B.   Purpose: The purpose of this ordinance is to define the minimum
submittals required to accompany development applications and Building Permit
applications.
   C.   Applicability: This chapter applies to all development proposed to
occur in the following locations:
      1.   Within the boundary identified Avalanche Areas on the Areas of
Environmental Concern map included in the 2015 City of Sun Valley Comprehensive
Plan Update and subsequent updates to the Comprehensive Plan; this boundary is
also included as the Avalanche Overlay in the City of Sun Valley online
Geographic Information System (GIS) map. Or;
      2.   Within the boundary of an avalanche risk zone mapped in a site-
specific study, whether or not the subject parcel's avalanche risk is indicated
on the Areas of Environmental Concern or GIS maps referenced in the above
section.
         a.   Site-specific studies for properties not identified on the Areas
of Environmental Concern map or GIS map referenced above may be submitted
voluntarily by the applicant or may be requested by the City if the city has
reason to believe avalanche risk mays exist. By way of example and not
limitation, such rationale includes the presence of significant areas of slope
between twenty-seven (27) to thirty-one (31) degrees or steeper, historic
occurrences of avalanches affecting the subject parcel, and the proximity of
the proposed development's location to an avalanche risk boundary identified in
a prior study that includes the subject parcel. Or;
      3.   Within the boundary of an avalanche risk area identified in other
studies submitted to and accepted by the city as evidence of avalanche risk
subsequent to adoption of this ordinance. (Ord. 567, 9-1-2022)
9-3L-2: TYPES OF AVALANCHE ZONES:
Avalanche risk zones are typically classified as Red or Blue. Other
classifications may exist.
   A.   The Red Avalanche Zone, also known as the Red Zone or High Potential
Hazard Zone, is an area reached by frequent or powerful avalanches. The Red
Avalanche Zone experiences frequent avalanches (with an average return period
of thirty (30) years or less) or reference impact pressures of six hundred
(600) pounds per square foot or greater as measured on a flat, rigid surface
normal to the flow direction. Either the impact or return period condition is
sufficient to define the Red Avalanche Zone.
   B.   The Blue Avalanche Zone, also known as the Blue Zone or Moderate
Potential Hazard Zone, is an area reached by less frequent and less powerful
avalanches. The Blue Avalanche Zone experiences an average return period of
thirty (30) through three hundred (300) years and reference impact pressures of
less than six hundred (600) pounds per square foot. Both impact conditions and
the return period must exist in order for an area to be classified as a Blue
Zone. (Ord. 567, 9-1-2022)
9-3L-3: AVALANCHE ZONE REVIEW:
All applications for development subject to this ordinance, as defined by
9-3L-1-C, shall submit the minimum information identified in Section
9-3L-4 in order for the application to be certified complete, accepted by the
City, and reviewed. (Ord. 567, 9-1-2022)
9-3L-4: APPLICATION SUBMITTALS:
The City may require additional information to be submitted and any application
for development in an avalanche zone may be subject to additional review by a
consultant selected by the City. Minimum submittal information required
includes:
   A.   Applications for development on parcels described in
9-3L-1-C and issued under the authority of Title 9, the Development Code, that
may or may not be subject to subsequent receipt of a Building Permit, Grading
Permit, or other local, state or federal permit, shall include the following
submittals:
      1.   Site Specific Avalanche Analysis report prepared by an engineer or
other licensed professional with expertise in the field of avalanche forces,
occurrences, and behavior.
         a.   Expertise in the field of avalanche forces, occurrences and
behavior shall be demonstrated by evidence accepted by Community Development
Director, Planning and Zoning Commission or City Council including, but not
limited to, submittal and approval of prior applications for development in Red
or Blue avalanche zones in City limits, American Avalanche Association or
Canadian Avalanche Association certification, proficiency in avalanche modeling
software, receipt of specialized training or mentoring in avalanche hazard,
snow science, and risk assessments.
      2.   Site Plan indicating red, blue and/or other risk zones, where
applicable.
      3.   Construction Management Plan indicating red, blue and/or other risk
zones, where applicable.
      4.   Identification of any buildings, structures, or landforms (for
example, berms) existing and proposed in the avalanche paths.
      5.   For subdivisions within an avalanche zone, additional submittals
detailed in
9-5A-4-0-2 shall be submitted.
      6.   For applications subject to a Compliance Statement per
9-5A-4, the relationship of the proposed site to known natural hazards shall be
addressed.
   B.   Applications for development on parcels described in
9-3L-1-C and issued under the authority of Title 8, Building Regulations, or
Title 7, Engineering Specifications, Plans, Permit and Compliance, shall
include the following submittals:
      1.   Site Specific Avalanche Analysis report prepared by an engineer or
other licensed professional with expertise in the field of avalanche forces,
occurrences, and behavior.
         a.   Expertise in the field of avalanche forces, occurrences and
behavior shall be demonstrated by evidence accepted by Community Development
Director, Planning and Zoning Commission or City Council including, but not
limited to, submittal and approval of prior applications for development in Red
or Blue avalanche zones in City limits, American Avalanche Association or
Canadian Avalanche Association certification, proficiency in avalanche modeling
software, receipt of specialized training or mentoring in avalanche hazard,
snow science, and risk assessments.
      2.   Site Plan indicating Red, Blue and/or other risk zones, where
applicable.
      3.   Construction Management Plan indicating red, blue and/or other risk
zones, where applicable.
      4.   Identification of any buildings, structures, or landforms (for
example, berms) existing and proposed in the avalanche paths.
      5.   Letter signed and sealed by a Professional Engineer (PE) licensed in
the State of Idaho, accompanied by supporting structural calculations,
confirming that all buildings, and structures proposed within the avalanche
risk areas identified in the site-specific study have been designed to:
         a.    Withstand the forces described in the site-specific study.
      6.   Letter signed by an expert in the field of avalanche forces,
occurrences and behavior addressing the proposed development's considerations
related to neutrality of snow deflection onto neighboring properties, the
City's right-of-way, and adjacent private roads.
      7.   A copy of a notarized letter of acknowledgement, that has been
signed by the property owner and recorded with the Blaine County Recorder's
Office, acknowledging that the proposed development is located an area of
avalanche risk and that the following risks may occur:
         a.   The property and any development that occurs are subject to
damage by avalanche forces.
         b.   In the event of an avalanche or a period of avalanche risk the
City may suspend delivery of services, such as snow plowing operations, fire,
and police services. (Ord. 567, 9-1-2022)
9-3L-5: WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF SAFETY AND LIABILITY:
   A.   Avalanches occur naturally, suddenly and unpredictably based upon
steepness of slope and runout area, exposure, snowpack composition, wind,
temperature, rate of snowfall and other interacting factors. The avalanche
hazard zones designated in this title are considered reasonable for regulatory
purposes and are based upon and limited by the engineering and scientific
methods of study. This title does not represent or imply that areas outside the
areas identified as avalanche risk zones are free from avalanches or avalanche
danger.
   B.   The fact that the City has not prohibited development, construction or
use of real property within areas identified as avalanche hazard zones does not
constitute a representation, guarantee or warranty of any kind as to the safety
of any construction, use or occupancy. The granting of any permit or approval
for any structure or use, or the declaration or failure to declare the
existence of an avalanche hazard shall not constitute a representation,
guarantee or warranty of any kind or nature by the City, or any official or
employee, of the practicality or safety of any construction, use or occupancy,
and shall create no liability upon or cause of action against such public body,
or its officials or employees, for any injury, loss or damage that may result.
   C.   Avalanches occur naturally, suddenly and unpredictably, and persons who
develop or occupy property and structures within areas identified as avalanche
hazard zones do so at their own risk. (Ord. 567, 9-1-2022)
CHAPTER 4
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
ARTICLE A. GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
9-4A-1: Purpose
9-4A-2: Applicability
9-4A-3: Scope
9-4A-4: Standards
9-4A-5: Design
9-4A-6: Preliminary Plat
9-4A-7: Final Plat
9-4A-8: Surety Agreements
9-4A-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of these regulations is to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare, by providing for:
   A.   The harmonious development of land situated within the jurisdiction of
the city and in context with the immediate neighborhood;
   B.   The preservation of the natural and scenic character and aesthetic
value of hillsides, ridges, ridgelines, ridge tops, knolls, saddles, and
summits in the city by regulating development thereon;
   C.   The prevention of scarring of hillsides, ridges, ridgelines, ridge
tops, knolls, saddles, and summits made by inappropriate cuts and fills and/or
access streets to these areas;
   D.   The prevention of grading that does not follow the natural contour of
the land;
   E.   The protection of natural landmarks and prominent natural features
including hillsides and the natural skyline;
   F.   The regulation of site alteration and structural development on
hillsides, ridges, ridgelines, ridge tops, knolls, saddles, and summits to
assure that site alteration and structural development occurs in a manner that
minimizes building visibility by establishing building envelopes or footprints
suitable for building on lower angle slopes below ridgelines and ridge tops;
   G.   Providing for safe access for emergency vehicles to structures on
sloping property;
   H.   Direct development to appropriate areas of least slope on hillside
property whenever such areas are part of the parcel or lot under application;
   I.   Prohibiting subdivision of property where the resulting subdivision
creates new building sites and/or private drives that significantly impact the
natural, scenic character and aesthetic value of hillsides, ridges, ridgelines,
ridge tops, knolls, saddles, and summits in the city;
   J.   Limiting the subdivision of land with slopes greater than fifteen
percent (15%);
   K.   The coordination of streets within proposed subdivisions with other
existing or planned streets;
   L.   The retention of adequate open space for travel, light, air and
recreation in any proposed subdivision;
   M.   Adequate transportation, water, drainage, sanitary facilities and other
necessary utilities within any proposed subdivision;
   N.   Adequate safeguards from the dangers posed by subdivisions located in
areas prone to avalanches, floods or similar natural phenomena;
   O.   The avoidance of scattered subdivision of land which could result in
either of the following:
      1.   Inadequate supply of water, sewer service, fire protection,
transportation or other essential public services; or
      2.   An excessive expenditure of public funds for the supply of such
public services;
   P.   The extent and the manner in which:
      1.   Streets shall be created and improved; and
      2.   Water, sewer and other utility mains, piping, connections or other
facilities shall be installed;
   Q.   The manner and form of making and filing any subdivision plat; and
   R.   The administration and enforcement of subdivision regulations. (Ord.
382, 10-25-2006)
9-4A-2: APPLICABILITY:
These regulations shall apply to the subdividing of land within the corporate
limits of the City. (Ord. 382, 10-25-2006; amd. Ord. 569, 2-1-2024)
9-4A-3: SCOPE:
These regulations and procedures shall be complied with prior to any of the
following:
   A.   Division of land into two (2) or more lots or parcels for transfer of
ownership, building of improvements or leasing as described herein, whether
immediate or in the future;
   B.   The improvement of any land;
   C.   Any alteration, modification, change, addition to or deletion from any
recorded plat, and including modifications to building envelopes and
footprints, boundary shifts and/or removal of lot lines between existing
platted lots or parcels and/or unplatted tracts of land. (Ord. 382, 10-25-2006)
9-4A-4: STANDARDS:
   A.   Compliance With Minimum Design Standards: All plats submitted pursuant
to the provisions of this title, and all subdivisions, improvements and
facilities done, constructed or made in accordance with said provisions shall
fully comply with the minimum design standards as set forth in this Code as
follows:
TABLE
9-4A-1
STANDARDS AND CODE SECTION PROVISIONS
Standard Section
Standard                                Section
Cuts, fills, and grading                7-2-2
Design review                           Title 9, chapter 3, article A
Driveways                               7-6-13
Easements                               7-3-2
Erosion control                         7-2-4
Floodplain                              Title 9, chapter 3, article I
Fire hydrants                           7-3-8
Hillside development                    Title 9, chapter 3, article H
Lot design                              9-4A-5
Monuments                               7-3-3
Nonvehicular transportation             7-3-7
Parking lots                            7-6-14
Planting strips                         7-3-5
Private streets                         Title 7, chapter 5
Public water and sewer systems          7-3-4
Storm drainage and erosion control      7-2-3 and
                                        7-2-4
Street dedication                       7-3-6
Street design and development standards Title 7, chapter 6
Street lighting and traffic control     7-3-9
devices
Utility systems, easements and design   7-3-1 and
                                        7-3-2
Zoning district regulations             Title 9, chapter 2, articles A, B and C
 
   B.   More Restrictive Standards: Any more restrictive standards adopted and
made applicable by any highway district, State Highway Department or other
Federal, State or local regulatory agency shall prevail over those standards
set forth in this title.
   C.   Minimum Standards: The minimum standards for land subdivision are
intended for flat land areas not for hillsides, natural resource areas, and
areas of unique character. Compliance with the minimum standards without regard
to special characteristics of the land does not create an entitlement to the
densities set forth in chapter 2 of this title.
   D.   Compliance With Standards: Compliance with the standards in this title
may limit the amount of land available for development including limitation of
development above slopes greater than fifteen percent (15%).
   E.   Additional Requirements: Compliance with the minimum standards does not
automatically ensure approval of a plat by the city. Additional requirements
may be added by the council before approval in order to implement the purpose
of this code, the objectives of the comprehensive plan, or provide for the
public health, safety, and general welfare. (Ord. 382, 10-25-2006; amd. Ord.
569, 2-1-2024)
9-4A-5: DESIGN:
   A.   Preservation Of Special Sites: In order to preserve, retain, enhance
and promote the existing and future appearance within the proposed subdivision
of natural topographical features, historic and cultural landmarks, scenic
beauty and resources, the applicant, in planning and designing the proposed
subdivision, shall give special consideration to the following:
      1.   Preservation of historical, natural, ecological, architectural,
archaeological, and sites of scenic value or significance, including, but not
limited to, those identified in the city's comprehensive plan.
      2.   Preservation of existing stream channels, lakes and other natural
bodies of water.
      3.   Retention of undeveloped ridges, ridgelines, ridge tops, knolls,
saddles, summits, natural features and hilltops by avoiding development in such
areas, to provide preservation of natural features and undeveloped hillsides
greater than twenty five percent (25%) in slope.
      4.   Prevention of scarring of undeveloped hillsides, ridges, ridgelines,
ridge tops, knolls, saddles, and summits by avoiding cuts and fills and/or
access streets to these areas.
      5.   Preservation of tree and shrub masses, areas containing large
concentrations of wildflowers or unique rock or geological formations.
      6.   Preservation, wherever reasonably possible, of important view
corridors, vistas and scenic panoramas; to include the natural skyline. (Ord.
382, 10-25-2006)
   B.   Lot Design:
      1.   The lot size, width, depth, shape and orientation and minimum
setback lines shall comply with the minimum requirements of this title.
      2.   Except for single-family lots that are deed restricted to provide
deed-restricted workforce housing, the minimum lot depth shall not be less than
one hundred feet (100') and the depth to width ratio of the usable area of the
lot shall not be less than three to one (3:1).
      3.   Each proposed individual lot platted for a single-family dwelling
shall have sufficient available area for, and shall create, a building envelope
suitable for building meeting the following standards:
         a.   The envelope shall be not less than two thousand five hundred
(2,500) square feet, which can be developed in accordance with the standards of
this title.
         b.   One-half (1/2) of such proposed building envelope suitable for
building shall have a record grade of fifteen percent (15%) slope or less. The
other one-half (1/2) of the building envelope may have a record grade of twenty
five percent (25%) slope or less.
         c.   Each proposed building envelope suitable for building, subject to
the slope requirements in chapter 3, article H of this title shall be located
below the skyline and shall be sited in such a manner as not to allow any
structure built on it to skyline.
         d.   The visibility of each proposed building envelope suitable for
building, subject to the slope requirements in subsection 3b of this section,
shall be minimized through siting of lots such that the proposed building
envelope is not located on a ridge, ridgeline, ridge top, knoll, saddle, or
summit.
      4.   Side lot lines shall be substantially at right angles or radial to
street lines, except where other treatment may be justified.
      5.   Every lot shall have access to a public street due to adjacency to
the street or through legal use of a shared driveway, except in estate
developments, townhouse, or condominium developments where lots may abut upon a
private street furnishing satisfactory access to a public street.
      6.   Every lot shall be connected to public water and sewer systems,
unless the property is over five hundred feet (500') from a public system as
measured from the closest property line and an alternative utility system is
approved by the city engineer.
      7.   Double frontage lots shall be avoided wherever possible. (Ord. 455,
12-6-2012)
   C.   Public Sites And Open Space:
      1.   Purchase Of Public Sites: Where it is determined that a proposed
park, playground, school or other public use, as shown on the future
acquisition map adopted by the city and authorized by Idaho Code section 67-
6517, is located in whole or in part within the proposed subdivision, the
commission shall notify the appropriate public agency concerning the land
proposed to be acquired. Within thirty (30) days of the date of notice, the
public agency may request the commission and council to suspend consideration
of the proposed subdivision for sixty (60) days. If an agreement on the
purchase of said property is not reached by the end of said sixty (60) day
period, the city shall resume consideration of the subdivision.
      2.   Large Scale Subdivisions: In the case of subdivisions with greater
than ten (10) lots or units, the Council may require park or open space
facilities of acceptable size and location for the needs of subdivision
residents. (Ord. 382, 10-25-2006)
   D.   Easements:
      1.   At minimum, easements shall be dedicated for all required utilities,
shared accesses, and public improvements. The Council may require additional
easements. (Ord. 569, 2-1-2024)
9-4A-6: PRELIMINARY PLAT:
   A.   Optional Preapplication Review: The applicant may, at his/her option,
prior to the filing of an application and preliminary plat for a proposed
subdivision, submit to the director, for his/her review and recommendations, a
preliminary schematic rendering of, and appropriate explanatory narrative
information for the proposed subdivision.
   B.   Director's Action: Within thirty (30) days from the date of receiving
the request for preapplication review, the director shall inform the applicant
as to the following:
      1.   General conformance or nonconformance of the proposed subdivision
with the requirements of this chapter.
      2.   General compliance with the objectives and requirements of the
city's comprehensive plan and applicable provisions of this title and title 7
of this code.
      3.   Other public and private agencies which the director believes may
have some jurisdiction over or interest in aspects of the proposed subdivision.
   C.   Application Requirements: An application, submittal requirements
including preliminary civil drawings providing adequate detail regarding how
the development will be served by necessary street, stormwater, and utility
infrastructure, and fees, in accordance with chapter 5 of this title shall be
submitted to the director. At the discretion of the director or city engineer,
appropriate supplementary information may also be required to sufficiently
detail the proposed development within any special development area, including,
but not limited to, hillside, planned unit development, floodplain, cemetery,
and/or unique areas of development.
   D.   Application Review: In completing his/her review, the director may
solicit the assistance and recommendations of any other agency or organization
he/she deems appropriate, including the following:
      1.   Agencies of city, county or state government having an interest in
or authority over proposed subdivision or any portion thereof;
      2.   Appropriate utility companies, irrigation companies or districts,
drainage districts and the city water and sewer district;
      3.   The governing board or superintendent of the school district in
which the proposed subdivision is located;
      4.   Private planners, engineers or other professionals having expertise
in matters relevant to the proposed subdivision;
      5.   A technical committee of city staff that may also enlist the support
of persons having specific knowledge in civil and geotechnical engineering,
public facility and services, utilities, site design and landscaping.
   E.   Director's Action: The director shall compile and transmit to the
commission and the applicant, the report of the technical committee together
with his/her findings and recommendations. If changes in the preliminary plat
are recommended, the director shall inform the applicant, in writing, of these
recommendations.
   F.   Public Hearings: The commission and council shall hold public hearings
on the subdivision in accordance with chapter 5 of this title.
   G.   Commission Action:
      1.   Site Inspection: As part of a noticed public meeting, the commission
may inspect the site of the proposed subdivision.
      2.   Findings: In determining the acceptability or unacceptability of the
proposed subdivision, the commission shall consider the following:
         a.   The conformance of the proposed subdivision and preliminary plat
with the requirements of this title and all other applicable ordinances and
provisions of this code.
         b.   The conformance of the proposed subdivision with the
comprehensive plan and this title.
         c.   The availability of existing public services to accommodate the
anticipated needs of the proposed development.
         d.   The necessity for off site improvements to connect the proposed
subdivision to existing public services and utilities.
         e.   The financial capability of the city and other public agencies to
provide required additional municipal services to the proposed development.
         f.   Compliance of the proposed subdivision with the design and
improvement standards specified in chapter 3 of this title and title 7 of this
code.
   H.   Council Action:
      1.   Council Review And Action: The council shall review and take action
on the preliminary plat in accordance with chapter 5 of this title.
      2.   Authority Of City To Impose Conditions On Approval Of Preliminary
Plat: In order to ensure compliance with this chapter, including the design and
improvement standards in sections
9-4A-4 and
9-4A-5 of this article, the intent and provisions of this title, and to provide
for the public health, safety, and welfare, the Council may impose conditions
on the approval of a preliminary plat of the subdivision. Conditions may
include but are not limited to improvements necessary to serve the development
and the delayed or phased development of residential and commercial structures
so as to ensure that necessary services and facilities can be provided.
Examples include but are not limited to:
         a.   Water distribution systems and appurtenances including fire
hydrants, fire alarms and other fire control devices.
         b.   Sewer lines, pumps and appurtenant sewage collection and disposal
devices, together with devices for the removal of materials and water from
sewage not amenable to or capable of treatment or reduction by the sewer
district's sewage treatment processes or prohibited by state or federal laws or
regulations.
         c.   Streets, curbs and gutters, street base coarse material, wearing
coarse material, bridges, sidewalks, bicycle pathways, street signs, traffic
control devices, intersection signals, vehicle turning and deceleration lanes.
         d.   Storm drainage structures, lines and appurtenances, including
culverts or other devices to enclose open ditches and to inhibit access to them
by children, together with drainage easements sufficient to accommodate
expected runoffs as determined according to generally accepted drainage
accommodation principles.
         e.   Electrical distribution facilities, transformers and
appurtenances, underground wiring, ornamental and safety street lighting,
underground communication systems wiring and underground cable television
system and wiring, gas distribution systems and appurtenances.
         f.   Preservation or replacement of trees, shrubs, ground cover and
other vegetation, installation of soil stabilization improvements to prevent
erosion or degradation of surface water quality and inhibit vegetative growth
in impounded waters or streams.
   I.   Construction of Improvements:
      1.   After the approval of the Preliminary Plat by the City Council the
applicant shall submit an application issued under the authority of Title 7
with construction plans, prepared by a civil engineer licensed in the state of
Idaho, detailing profiles, cross sections, specifications, and other supporting
data for required infrastructure and improvements, including but not limited to
public and private streets, utilities, and other facilities, to serve the
subdivision.
      2.   Upon the City’s issuance of the permit for construction under Title
7 the applicant shall install all required infrastructure and improvements to
serve the subdivision. When completion of all required infrastructure and
improvements is imminent, with the exception of items that are permitted to be
guaranteed via section
9-4A-8, the applicant may then submit a Final Plat application for agendization
with City Council; City Council shall not act on a Final Plat application until
all required infrastructure and improvements have been completed or have been
guaranteed as permitted by section 9-4A-8. (Ord. 382, 10-25-2006; amd. Ord.
569, 2-1-2024)
9-4A-7: FINAL PLAT:
   A.   Application: When completion of all required infrastructure and
improvements is imminent, with the exception of items that are permitted to be
guaranteed via section
9-4A-8, the applicant may then submit a Final Plat application for agendization
with City Council; City Council shall not act on a Final Plat application until
all required infrastructure and improvements have been completed or have been
guaranteed as permitted by section
9-4A-8.
      1.   The applicant shall submit, to the Director, the following:
         a.   The final plat in a form determined by the City.
         b.   As built drawings for all improvements required in the portion of
the subdivision contained in the final plat.
         c.   Submittals as required by section
9-5A-4 of this title.
   B.   Director's Review:
      1.   The Director shall review the final plat for compliance with the
approved or conditionally approved preliminary plat. If the Director determines
that the final plat differs significantly from the approved preliminary plat,
or that the conditions of preliminary plat approval have not been met in the
final plat, the Director may require that the final plat be submitted to the
commission for its evaluation and decision in the same manner as required in
the preliminary plat process.
      2.   The Director may transmit one copy of the final plat, or other
documents submitted, for review and recommendation to the departments and
agencies the director deems appropriate to assure compliance with the approved
preliminary plat and/or conditions of preliminary plat approval.
   C.   Council Actions: The Council shall approve, approve conditionally,
disapprove, or table the final plat for a period not exceeding thirty (30)
days, for the purpose of obtaining additional information.
      1.   Land Subdivisions:
         a.   If the Final Plat substantially conforms to the approved
Preliminary Plat, and the as built drawings are accepted by the City in
accordance with a recommendation from the City Engineer, Fire Chief and
Community Development Director the Council shall approve the Final Plat.
         b.   If the Council denies the final plat, the Council shall specify:
            (1)   The ordinance and standards used in evaluating the
application;
            (2)   The reason for denial; and
            (3)   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain
approval.
      2.   Townhouse and Condominium Subdivisions:
         a.   If the Final Plat substantially conforms to the approved
Preliminary Plat, and the as built drawings are accepted by the City in
accordance with a recommendation from the City Engineer, Fire Chief and
Community Development Director the Council shall approve the Final Plat.
         b.   If Council denies the Final Plat, the County shall specify:
            (1)   The ordinance and standards used in evaluating the
application;
            (2)   The reason for denial; and
            (3)   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain
approval.
   D.   Recording Final Plat:
      1.   No final subdivision plat shall be filed with the County Recorder
until the plat has been acted upon by the commission, if applicable, and
approved by the Council. No lots within the proposed subdivision, condominium
subdivision or townhouse subdivision shall be conveyed until the plat has been
recorded in the Office of the County Recorder.
      2.   Upon approval of the final plat by the Council and the inclusion of
the following information and signatures on the final plat, the applicant shall
submit the final plat to the County Recorder for recording:
         a.   Certification and signature of the Council’s representative
verifying that the subdivision has been approved;
         b.   The sanitary restrictions placed upon the subdivision by the
State Department of Health and Welfare pursuant to Idaho Code section 50-1326
or the signature and certification of the appropriate State official indicating
that the sanitary restrictions have been satisfied or removed. (Ord. 529, 8-2-
2018)
      3.   The applicant shall have either one year, or the time period
specified in the subdivision’s phasing agreement, or the time period permitted
via an extension approved by City Council, to complete the following tasks:
         a.   Record the Final Plat; and/or
         b.   Execute and record the necessary deeds to accomplish the plat
amendment as approved; and
         c.   Provide copies of the recorded plat to the city. (Ord. 569, 2- 1-
2024)
9-4A-8: SURETY AGREEMENTS:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to establish procedures that
guarantee the completion of improvements where recording of a Final Plat is
desired but the improvements required by the city have not been completed.
   B.   Applicability: The provisions of this section shall apply only to those
improvements that are not needed to protect the public health, safety and life.
Applicable improvements include landscaping, irrigation systems and site
amenities. The following improvements must be installed and are not eligible
for surety: water, sewer, and power facilities; parking lot paving and
striping; and street paving.
   C.   Process:
      1.   All improvements related to public life, safety and health shall be
completed prior to occupancy of the structures.
      2.   In the event that an applicant and/or owner cannot complete the
nonlife, safety and health improvements within the time specified in the final
plat approval or prior to occupancy, the city may activate a surety agreement
in accordance with these procedures.
      3.   A surety agreement shall meet the following requirements:
         a.   The bond shall accrue to the city and shall cover construction of
the required public improvements.
         b.   The bond shall be in an amount equal to one hundred fifty percent
(150%) of the total estimated cost of completing construction of the specific
public improvements, as estimated by the city building official and approved by
the council.
         c.   The bond shall be in full force and effect for a period to be
specified by the council.
         d.   The bond shall be written by a surety company authorized to do
business in the state of Idaho and acceptable to the council.
      4.   The Council may accept an alternative to a bond in the form of a
cash deposit, certified check, negotiable bond or irrevocable bank letter of
credit. If accepted, the applicant shall proceed as follows:
         a.   A cash deposit, certified check, negotiable bond or irrevocable
bank letter of credit shall be deposited with an escrow agent or trust company.
         b.   The dollar value of the cash deposit, certified check, negotiable
bond or irrevocable bank letter of credit shall be equal to one hundred fifty
percent (150%) of the estimated cost of construction for the specific public
improvements, as estimated by the city and approved by the council.
         c.   The escrow time for the cash deposit, certified check, negotiable
bond or irrevocable bank letter of credit shall be for a period to be specified
by the council.
         d.   By an agreement entered into between the council and the
applicant, provision for progressive payment out of the cash deposit, or
reduction of the certified check, negotiable bond or irrevocable bank letter of
credit, to the extent of the cost of the completed portion of the public
improvements may be made.
      5.   Unless one or more of the above specified financial guarantees of
improvement completion has been accomplished, no approval of the final plat or
recording thereof shall be permitted unless the applicant provides satisfactory
proof that all required public improvements and facilities have been fully and
satisfactorily constructed and installed.
      6.   The city engineer and/or director shall verify and certify that the
required improvements, as detailed in the surety agreement, have been
installed. The as built plans shall be reviewed and approved by the city
engineer or director.
      7.   Upon certification of the city engineer and/or the director, the
city shall release the sureties deposited with the city.
   D.   Penalty For Failure To Complete Construction: In the event the
applicant shall, in any case, fail to complete such work within the period of
time required by the conditions of guarantee for the completion of public
improvements, it shall be the responsibility of the council to proceed to have
such work completed. In order to accomplish this, the council shall reimburse
itself for the cost and expense thereof by appropriating cash deposit,
certified check, negotiable bond or irrevocable bank letter of credit which the
applicant may have deposited in lieu of a surety bond, or may take such steps
as may be necessary to require performance by the bonding or surety company.
(Ord. 382, 10-25-2006; amd. Ord. 569, 2-1- 2024)
ARTICLE B. SUPPLEMENTAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
9-4B-1: Plat Amendments
9-4B-2: Condominiums
9-4B-3: Townhouses
9-4B-4: Vacations And Dedications
9-4B-5: Phasing
9-4B-1: PLAT AMENDMENTS:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of these regulations is to allow for the
adjustment of property lines between existing properties, minor changes in a
recorded plat and relocation of an existing building envelope.
   B.   Applicability: These provisions apply to all existing recorded plats.
   C.   Application:
      1.   The plat amendment application shall be submitted in accordance with
chapter 5 of this title.
      2.   For requests to adjust or establish a building envelope, a plat
amendment application shall include a complete design review submittal for
review in accordance with chapter 3, article A of this title. The design review
shall be considered prior to or concurrently with commission making a
determination regarding an application for establishing or relocating a
building envelope or building footprint.
   D.   Public Hearings: The commission and council shall hold public hearings
on the plat amendment in accordance with chapter 5 of this title.
   E.   Standards:
      1.   A plat amendment shall not lower the dimensions of the lot below the
minimum dimensional standards prescribed by this title;
      2.   A plat amendment shall not increase the original number of
properties, and may decrease the original number of properties; and
      3.   A plat amendment shall not change or move any public streets or
publicly dedicated areas in any manner.
   F.   Findings: An application for a plat amendment shall not be granted
unless the commission and council find that:
      1.   The adjustment is appropriate for the lot and the surrounding
neighborhood;
      2.   The adjustment is consistent with the goals of the city
comprehensive plan;
      3.   The adjustment will not affect the character of the neighborhood in
a materially adverse manner; and
      4.   The adjustment will not cause undue traffic congestion, or dangerous
traffic conditions.
   G.   Additional Findings For Establishment or Relocation Of a Building
Envelope:
      1.   The location of the building envelope and siting of the building
footprint is appropriate for the lot and the surrounding neighborhood;
      2.   The location of the building envelope and siting of the building
footprint is consistent with the purposes and goals of the comprehensive plan;
      3.   The location of the building envelope and siting of the building
footprint will not cause undue traffic congestion, nor dangerous traffic
conditions; and
      4.   The location of the building envelope and siting of the building
footprint will not affect the character of the neighborhood in a materially
adverse manner.
   H.   Recording: Upon approval of the plat amendment by the council, subject
to any applicable conditions of approval and the regulations of chapter 5 of
this title, the applicant shall have either one year, or the time period
specified in the subdivision’s phasing agreement, or the time period permitted
via an extension approved by City Council, to complete the following tasks:
      1.   Record the Final Plat; and/or
      2.   Execute and record the necessary deeds to accomplish the plat
amendment as approved; and
      3.   Provide copies of the recorded plat to the city. (Ord. 382, 10-25-
2006; amd. Ord. 569, 2-1-2024)
9-4B-2: CONDOMINIUMS:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to set forth supplemental
provisions that protect the public health, safety and general welfare in
condominium developments.
   B.   Applicability: These provisions shall apply to all property to be
subdivided with condominium ownership.
   C.   Procedures:
      1.   Preliminary Plat: All procedures of section
9-4A-6 , and supplemental provisions contained in section
9-4B-2 -D-1, shall be followed.
         a.   At the city's discretion, a Building Permit may be approved for
construction of a foundation prior to completion of the entirety of
infrastructure required by section
9-4A-8 -B. Approval of such a Building Permit is not guaranteed and is subject
to:
            (1)   Receipt of a complete Building Permit application submittal
for construction of the entire building;
            (2)   A determination by the Director that permitting construction
of a foundation prior to completion of all necessary infrastructure will not be
detrimental to public health, safety or welfare;
            (3)   Acceptance of a surety agreement, in a form and amount
consistent with section
9-4A-8 , that covers removal of the foundation, removal or capping utilities,
and restoration of affected area to a condition that is complementary to the
surrounding neighborhood and poses no threat to public health, safety and
welfare; and
            (4)   A copy of a notarized statement recorded with Blaine County
and signed by the property owner holding the City harmless and authorizing the
City to undertake work related to removal of the foundation, associated
utilities and other improvements, and site restoration.
      2.   Final Plat: All procedures, standards, and processes of section
9-4A-7 , and supplemental provisions contained in section
9-4B-2 -D-2, shall be followed except where superseded by the procedures
outlined below:
         a.   The Council may review and approve a Final Plat prior to issuance
of a Certificate of Occupancy provided a plat note is included on the Final
Plat noting no conveyance of an individual unit shall occur until after a
Certificate of Occupancy has been issued for the unit or, when not governed by
a Phasing Agreement allowing phased platting of individual units, Certificates
of Occupancy have been issued for all units within the building subject to
Final Plat.
         b.   Upon approval of the Final Plat application by the Council,
subject to any applicable conditions of approval, the applicant shall record
the Final Plat, declaration, deeds, bylaws, administrative provisions, and/or
articles of incorporation as provided in Idaho Code section 55-1506.
   D.   Supplemental Provisions:
      1.   Design: Applications for Condominium Subdivisions shall adhere to
the following design standards in addition to the standards specified in
section
9-4A-5 :
         a.   Garages:
            (1)    All garages shall be designated on the preliminary and final
plats and on all deeds as part of a particular townhouse unit.
            (2)   Detached garages may be platted on separate sublots;
provided, that the ownership of detached garages is tied to specific townhouse
units on the townhouse plat and in any owner's documents. Detached garage(s)
may not be conveyed and/or owned separately from any dwelling unit(s) within
the townhouse development. (Ord. 382, 10-25-2006)
      2.   Preliminary Plat: Applications for Condominium Subdivision
Preliminary Plats shall provide the following items in addition to the
submittals required for sections
9-5A-4  and
9-4A-6 :
         a.   Concurrent Design Review required: Preliminary Plats for
condominium subdivisions shall be reviewed concurrent with an application for
Design Review as set forth in chapter 3, article of this title.
         b.   Diagrammatic floor plans of the building or buildings built or to
be built in sufficient detail to identify each unit, its relative location and
approximate dimensions, showing elevations where multilevel or multistory
structures are diagramed.
         c.   A declaration and bylaws consistent with the provisions contained
in Idaho Code section 15-1505. (Ord. 569, 2-1-2024)
9-4B-3: TOWNHOUSES:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to set forth supplemental
provisions, in addition to the requirements of section
9-4A-6 , to provide for the public health, safety and welfare of purchasers and
residents of townhouse developments.
   B.   Applicability: These provisions apply to all property to be subdivided
into townhouse sublots.
   C.   Procedures:
      1.   Preliminary Plat: All procedures of section
9-4A-6 , and supplemental provisions contained in section
9-4B-3 -D-1, shall be followed.
         a.   At the city's discretion, a Building Permit may be approved for
construction of a foundation prior to completion of the entirety of
infrastructure that is necessary to be completed in order to apply for and
obtain Final Plat approval. Approval of such a Building Permit is not
guaranteed and is subject to:
            (1)   Receipt of a complete Building Permit application submittal
for construction of the entire building;
            (2)   A determination by the Director that permitting construction
of a foundation prior to completion of all necessary infrastructure will not be
detrimental to public health, safety or welfare;
            (3)   Acceptance of a surety agreement, in a form and amount
consistent with section
9-4A-8 , that covers removal of the foundation, removal or capping utilities,
and restoration of affected area to a condition that is complementary to the
surrounding neighborhood and poses no threat to public health, safety and
welfare; and
            (4)   A copy of a notarized statement recorded with Blaine County
and signed by the property owner holding the City harmless and authorizing the
City to undertake work related to removal of the foundation, associated
utilities and other improvements, and site restoration.
      2.   Final Plat: All procedures, standards, and processes of section
9-4A-7 , and supplemental provisions contained in section
9-4B-3 -D-2, shall be followed except where superseded by the procedures
outlined below:
         a.   The Council may review and approve a Final Plat prior to issuance
of a Certificate of Occupancy provided a plat note is included on the Final
Plat noting no conveyance of an individual unit shall occur until after a
Certificate of Occupancy has been issued for the unit or, when not governed by
a Phasing Agreement allowing phased platting of individual units, Certificates
of Occupancy have been issued for all units within the building subject to
Final Plat.
         b.   Upon approval of the Final Plat application by the Council,
subject to any applicable conditions of approval, the applicant shall record
the Final Plat, declaration, deeds, bylaws, administrative provisions, and/or
articles of incorporation as provided in Idaho Code section 55-1506.
   D.   Supplemental Provisions:
      1.   Design: Applications for Townhouse Subdivisions shall adhere to the
following design standards in addition to the standards specified in section
9-4A-5 :
         a.   Compliance with International Code Council codes:
            (1)   All Townhouse Sublots shall result in sublots and units that
comply with applicable International Code Council codes adopted by the City of
Sun Valley.
         b.   Garages:
            (1)    All garages shall be designated on the preliminary and final
plats and on all deeds as part of a specific townhouse unit.
            (2)   Detached garages may be platted on separate sublots;
provided, that the ownership of a detached garage is tied to a specific
townhouse unit on the townhouse plat and in any deed documents. Detached garage
(s) may not be conveyed and/or owned separately from any dwelling unit(s)
within the townhouse development. (Ord. 382, 10-25-2006)
      2.   Preliminary Plat: Applications for Townhouse Subdivision Preliminary
Plats shall provide the following items in addition to the submittals required
by sections
9-5A-4  and
9-4A-6 :
         a.   Concurrent Design Review required: Preliminary Plats for
townhouse sublots shall be reviewed concurrent with an application for Design
Review as set forth in chapter 3, article of this title.
         b.   The applicant of the townhouse project shall submit with the
preliminary plat application a copy of the proposed party wall agreement(s) and
any proposed document(s) creating an association of owners of the proposed
townhouse sublots, which shall adequately provide for the control and
maintenance of all commonly held facilities, garages, landscaping, parking and/
or open site areas. (Ord. 569, 2-1-2024)
9-4B-4: VACATIONS AND DEDICATIONS:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to set forth provisions for
vacating an existing subdivision, public right of way or easement or for
dedication of street right of way or easement.
   B.   Applicability: These regulations shall apply to all land within the
legally defined city limits. These provisions shall not apply to the widening
of any street which is shown in the comprehensive plan for the city, or the
dedication of streets, rights of way or easements to be shown on a recorded
subdivision.
   C.   Application: An application for vacation or dedication shall be
submitted in accordance with chapter 5 of this title.
   D.   Public Hearings: The commission and council shall hold public hearings
on the vacation in accordance with chapter 5 of this title.
   E.   Council Action:
      1.   Vacations: Whenever public rights of way or lands are vacated, the
council shall provide adjacent property owners with a quitclaim deed for the
vacated rights of way in such proportions as are prescribed by law.
      2.   Dedications: When a dedication is approved, the required street
improvements shall be constructed or a bond furnished, assuring the
construction, prior to acceptance of the dedication.
   F.   Deed: To complete the acceptance of any dedication of land, the owner
shall furnish to the city a deed describing and conveying such lands to be
recorded with the county recorder. (Ord. 382, 10-25-2006)
9-4B-5: PHASING:
   A.   Applicability: Any subdivider wishing to develop a land, condominium or
townhouse subdivision or Planned Unit Development in multiple phases shall
comply with the additional requirements and regulations set forth in this
section.
   B.   Concurrent Review: A development proposed to be completed in phases
shall submit a Phasing Plan concurrent with the Preliminary Plat application.
   C.   Phasing Plan: A Phasing Plan shall include the following minimum
requirements. The Director, Commission or Council may require additional
information to be submitted.
      1.   Timeline and schedule for completion of all phases of the
subdivision;
      2.   Illustrative plan delineating the phases of the development;
      3.   Appropriate identification of each phase on the concurrent
Preliminary Plat application materials; and
      4.   If a townhouse or condominium development, adequate information
indicating how all applicable City codes shall be met, including but not
limited to Title 7, Title 8, and Title 9.
   D.   Phasing Plan Governance: The approved phasing plan shall govern all
phases of the project. Phased development projects or portions of phased
development projects that have not received Final Plat approval are subject to
additional regulations of subsequently adopted or amended ordinances and
statutes.
   E.   Planning and Zoning Commission Action:
      1.   Public hearing required: Upon receipt of the Preliminary Plat
application and the application for a phased development project, the
Administrator shall notice both applications for a public hearing in accordance
with Chapter 5 of this title.
      2.   Commission review: The Commission shall review both applications
during a public hearing. At the Commission meeting where the public hearing is
held, the commission shall take public comment, testimony from the applicant
and all interested parties, and review all information and data available.
After review of the applications, the commission shall make findings and
recommendations to City Council.
   F.   Council Action:
      1.   Public hearing required: Upon receipt of the Preliminary Plat
application and the application for a phased development project, the
Administrator shall notice both applications for a public hearing in accordance
with Chapter 5 of this title.
      2.   Council review: The council shall act on both applications during a
public hearing. At the Council meeting where the public hearing is held, the
Council shall take public comment, testimony from the applicant and all
interested parties, and review all information and data available, including
the recommendations of the planning and zoning commission. The Council has the
authority to approve, amend, or deny the Phasing Plan application.
   G.   Required Improvements; Timeline:
      1.   At minimum, each phase of such development shall contain all the
necessary elements and improvements to exist independently from proposed future
phases in a stable manner. The City Council may require that the subdivider
install all or a portion of the required improvements for the entire project as
set forth in the development plan.
      2.   The Council has the authority to set the timeline and schedule for
completion of all phases of the subdivision.
   H.   Amendment:
      1.   Minor amendments: Amendments to an approved Phasing Plan that are
minor in nature, as evidenced by their substantial conformance with the
approved Phasing Plan, may be reviewed and approved by the Community
Development Director.
      2.   Major amendments: Amendments to an approved Phasing Plan that are
determined by the Community Development Director to be major, as evidenced by
one or more element constituting a substantive amendments to the approved
Phasing Plan, must be reviewed by the Planning and Zoning Commission during a
public hearing for the purpose of the Commission making recommendations to
Council. The amendment shall then be forwarded to the City Council for a public
hearing, review and a decision by the Council.
   I.   Recording Required: All Phasing Agreements and amendments thereto shall
be recorded with the Blaine County Recorder's office. (Ord. 569, 2-1-2024)
CHAPTER 5
ADMINISTRATION
ARTICLE A. GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
9-5A-1: Purpose
9-5A-2: Duties And Authority
9-5A-3: General Application Process
9-5A-4: Required Application Information
9-5A-5: Administrative Process With Notice
9-5A-6: Administrative Process Without Notice
9-5A-7: Public Hearing Process
9-5A-8: Expiration Of Approvals
9-5A-9: Appeals
9-5A-10: Substantial Conformance
9-5A-11: Enforcement
9-5A-12: Fees
9-5A-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this article is to set forth the roles, responsibilities, and
processes in the administration of permits that are authorized by this title
consistent with Idaho Code section 67-6502 et seq. (Ord. 382, 10-25-2006)
9-5A-2: DUTIES AND AUTHORITY:
   A.   City Council: The council shall have the authority to set policy and
legislation affecting land use and the administration of this title, including
establishing application fees by resolution. The council shall act on
recommendations from the commission in legislative matters, some quasi-judicial
applications, and serve as a review authority on appeals of the commission.
   B.   Commission: The commission shall be the designated planning agency for
the city. The commission shall be responsible for final action on site specific
permits and for recommendations to the council on land use legislation,
comprehensive plan amendments, and other policy matters. In addition to the
duties listed in section
2-1-3 of this code, the duties of the commission regarding implementation of
this title shall be as follows:
      1.   Provide for citizen meetings, hearings, surveys, or other methods to
obtain advice on the planning process, comprehensive plan, and implementation;
      2.   Promote a public interest in and understanding of the commission's
activities;
      3.   Make recommendations to the council concerning the comprehensive
plan, planning process, or implementation of the comprehensive plan;
      4.   Conduct public hearings, make decisions and recommendations to the
council based on the required findings and standards for applications in accord
with article B of this chapter; and
      5.   Serve as the review authority in appeals of decisions of the
director.
      6.   The commission may, at its discretion, delegate some of its
functions to the commission chair, a commission subcommittee, or to the
director. (Ord. 382, 10-25-2006)
   C.   Community Development Director: The director shall be the
administrative official for the development code. The director or his or her
authorized staff shall administer and enforce this title and fulfill all the
duties imposed by law including, but not limited to:
      1.   Interpret provisions in the enforcement and administration of this
title;
      2.   Provide information to the public on planning, design, zoning, and
subdivision matters;
      3.   Receive and examine applications including, but not limited to, the
following:
         a.   With the consent of the owner, enter upon any property to make
examinations and surveys;
         b.   Determine the completeness of applications in providing the
required information;
         c.   Maintain records of all materials and correspondence related to
land use applications;
         d.   Maintain records of the commission and council hearings and
actions thereon; and
         e.   Transmit to the commission or council all applications related to
this title;
      4.   Review and act on administrative design review applications,
including certain related improvements such as fences, minor exterior
alterations to existing structures including changes in materials and/or
colors, and minor changes to existing or approved landscaping and grading;
      5.   Serve as the local administrator for flood hazard protection
program;
      6.   Serve as the lighting administrator;
      7.   Review and act on minor amendments to an approved master plan
development;
      8.   Recommend action to the council on all final plats that are in
substantial conformance with the conditions of the preliminary plat; and
      9.   Serve as the water pollution control officer and make the
investigations, inspections and tests necessary for the enforcement of title 4,
chapter 4, article C, "Water Pollution Control", of this code. (Ord. 455, 12-6-
2012)
   D.   Summary Of Actions: Table
9-5A-1 of this section is a summary list of the actions that the city shall
take in administration of this title, the body responsible for the action, and
reference to the process under which the action shall be taken. (Ord. 382, 10-
25-2006)
TABLE
9-5A-1
AUTHORITIES AND PROCESSES
Permit/Decision Recommending Authority Final Decision Making Body Process
Permit/Decision           Recommending Authority Final Decision Making Process
                                                 Body
Annexation                PZ                     CC                    PH
Comprehensive plan        PZ                     CC                    PH
amendment
Conditional use           None                   PZ                    PH
Conditional use,          None                   PZ                    PH
revocation
Design review,            None                   D                     AN
administrative
Design review, commission None                   PZ                    PH
Design review, extension  None                   PZ                    A
of time
Development agreement     PZ                     CC                    PH
Development agreement,    PZ                     CC                    PH
revocation
Development code          PZ                     CC                    PH
amendment
Exterior lighting not     None                   D                     A
associated with a permit
Flood hazard              None                   D                     CC
administration
Master plan development   PZ                     CC                    PH
Master plan development,  PZ                     CC                    PH
major amendment
Master plan development,  None                   D                     A
minor amendment
Nonconforming structure,
degree for purpose of     None                   PZ                    PM
restoration
Parking requirements not  None                   PZ                    PM
specified by the code
Planned unit development  PZ                     CC                    PH
Plat, amendment           PZ                     CC                    PH
Plat, final               D/PZ                   CC                    PH
Plat, preliminary         PZ                     CC                    PH
Temporary use             None                   D                     A
Vacations and dedications PZ                     CC                    PH
Variance                  None                   PZ                    PH
Zoning district boundary  PZ                     CC                    PH
amendment
 
Notes:
   A   = Administrative   PH   = Public hearing
   AN   = Administrative with public notice   PM   = Public meeting
   CC   = Council   PZ   = Commission
   D   = Director
(Ord. 382, 10-25-2006; amd. Ord. 413, 7-17-2008, eff. 7-23-2008)
9-5A-3: GENERAL APPLICATION PROCESS:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to outline the general
application process for a permit or decision under provisions of this title.
   B.   Application Requirements:
      1.   All requests for permits and decisions in accordance with this title
shall submit an application to the director on forms approved by the commission
and provided by the community development department.
      2.   Any substantive changes to the application requirements, the
director shall submit the changes to the commission at a public hearing.
      3.   At a minimum, the application shall require the following
information:
         a.   Name, address and contact information of the applicant and the
applicant's representative;
         b.   Proof of current ownership in the property which is the subject
of the application or signed letter of authorization from the property owner
for making the application;
         c.   Legal description of the property; and
         d.   Statement of project intent for making the application.
      4.   Some requests for permits and decisions shall require additional
application information in accordance with section
9-5A-4 of this article.
      5.   As determined by the director, some information may or shall be
submitted in an electronic format.
      6.   All applications shall be accompanied by a filing fee in an amount
established by council resolution.
   C.   Determination Of Completeness:
      1.   An application shall contain all information deemed necessary by the
director to determine if the proposal will comply with the applicable
requirements of this title.
      2.   Within thirty (30) days of receipt of an application, or such later
time, but not to exceed sixty (60) days, as reasonably appropriate consistent
with staff or consultant workloads, the director shall find the application as
complete for review or require additional information to be submitted.
      3.   After the application is certified, the commission, the building
official, or the director may require applicants to submit additional
information and materials.
      4.   No further action shall be taken on the application until such
additional information and materials have been submitted. If the additional
information is not submitted within thirty (30) days from the director's
request, or a date mutually agreed upon by the applicant and the director, the
application will be returned to the applicant.
      5.   The director shall issue a notice of application acceptance and
completion either by letter to the applicant or by public notice of the pending
public hearing or action on the application.
      6.   The director shall assign a file number and begin processing the
application once the application is deemed complete. (Ord. 382, 10-25-2006)
9-5A-4: REQUIRED APPLICATION INFORMATION:
   A.   Table Of Required Information: In order to be determined complete,
applications for permits or decisions shall be accompanied by the information
identified by an "X" in table
9-5A-2 of this section and described in detail in the subsections that follow:
(Ord. 387, 6-21-2007)
TABLE
9-5A-2
REQUIRED APPLICATION INFORMATION1
 Permit/Decision
             Design Conditional Exterior Development Master Plan     Plat,     Plat, Plat,       Temporary          Official
 Annexation2 Review Use         Lighting Agreement   Development PUD Amendment Final Preliminary Use       Variance Zoning Map
                                                                                                                    Amendment2
             Permit/Decision
                         Design Conditional Exterior Development Master Plan     Plat,     Plat, Plat,       Temporary          Official
             Annexation2 Review Use         Lighting Agreement   Development PUD Amendment Final Preliminary Use       Variance Zoning Map
                                                                                                                                Amendment2
Compliance   X           X      X                                See             X                                     X        X
statement                                                        subsection
Preliminary  X                                       X           9-5A-4D of  X   X         X     X                              X
title report                                                     this
Neighborhood X           X      X                                article     X   X               X           X         X        X
map
Master plan  X                                       X                                           X
Subdivision                                                                      X         X     X
map
Site plan    X           X                                                   X   X               X           X                  X
Landscape                X                                                   X
plan
Schematic                X                                                   X   X               X
drawings
Lighting                 X                  X                                                    X
plan
Topographic  X           X                                                   X                   X
survey
Grading plan             X                                                   X                   X
Soils report                                                                                     X
                                                                                                                                Engineerin
                                                                                                                                g drawing
                                                                                                                                and
Hydrology                                                                                                                       specificati
report                                                                                           X                              onsSee
                                                                                                                                subsection
                                                                                                                                9-5A-4D of
                                                                                                                                this
                                                                                                                                articleXX
Natural
hazard and   X                                                                             X                           X
resources
analysis
Dedications
and          X                                                   X           X   X         X
easements
Covenants
and deed                                                                     X   X         X     X
restrictions
Will-serve   X           X                                                   X             X     X                              X
letter
Three-
dimensional
 
Notes:
1.   Depending on the nature of the request and at the discretion of the
director, application information may be waived or additional information may
be required, including, but not limited to, design review, three-dimensional
depictions, topographic survey, and schematic drawings.
2.   For applications requesting an official zoning map amendment or
annexation, a legal description of the subject property may be required.
(Ord. 387, 6-21-2007; amd. Ord. 413, 7-17-2008, eff. 7-23-2008; Ord. 547, 9-3-
2020)
   B.   Compliance Statement: The compliance statement is the applicant's
explanation of compliance with the standards for review of the proposed
application.
      1.   For a design review with no platted building envelope or a plat
amendment to relocate a building envelope, the compliance statement shall
explain impacts of the proposal on the following:
         a.   The present or potential use and development of each adjoining
lot or property, including the impact on views;
         b.   Adjoining land uses and the enjoyment of other lots within the
same subdivision;
         c.   Access by firefighting equipment and emergency vehicles both to
the proposed structure and to adjoining dwellings and buildings;
         d.   Access to existing and planned utility service lines;
         e.   Ease of access to adjoining streets;
         f.   Cuts and fills necessitated by the proposed siting for access to
the site or for the establishment of building pads or foundations for the
proposed structures;
         g.   Relationship of the proposed site to known natural hazards, such
as floodplains and avalanche areas;
         h.   Effect of the proposed siting on existing natural drainage
patterns; and
         i.   Alternative sites, if any, which were considered, and the reasons
for rejecting each.
      2.   For a variance, the compliance statement shall explain the
compliance of the proposal with the following considerations:
         a.   The need for the variance is not the result of actions of the
applicant or property owner;
         b.   The variance will not unreasonably diminish either the health,
safety or welfare of the community neighborhood;
         c.   The variance is the only reasonable alternative to overcome the
undue hardship; and
         d.   The variance is the minimum relief necessary to allow reasonable
use of the subject property. (Ord. 387, 6-21-2007)
      3.   For an official zoning map amendment, the compliance statement shall
explain the compliance of the proposal with the following considerations:
         a.   The official zoning map amendment is consistent with the
comprehensive plan and future land use map and reasonably implements the
applicable provisions of the comprehensive plan, and a previously approved
master plan development that is consistent with the comprehensive plan that
existed at the time of approval, if applicable; (Ord. 455, 12-6-2012)
         b.   The official zoning map amendment complies with the regulations
in effect for the proposed zoning district, specifically the purpose statement,
and is particularly suitable for the proposed permitted uses;
         c.   The official zoning map amendment has minimal or no adverse
impacts on the natural environment, including, but not limited to, water
quality, air quality, noise, vegetation, riparian corridors, hillsides and
other natural features;
         d.   The official zoning map amendment is not materially detrimental
to the public health, safety, and welfare, or any significant impacts can be
satisfactorily mitigated, as determined by the planning and zoning commission
or city council;
         e.   Essential public facilities and services, including, but not
limited to, emergency services, transit, work force housing and schools, are
available to support the proposed uses and density or intensity without
creating additional requirements at public cost for such public facilities and
services; and
      4.   For an annexation, the compliance statement shall explain the
compliance of the proposal with the following considerations:
         a.   The annexation complies with the considerations set forth in
subsection B3 of this section, including an exhibit depicting proposed zoning;
and
         b.   The annexation does not result in demands on public facilities
that exceed the capacity of such facilities, including, but not limited to,
emergency services, transportation and transit facilities, waste treatment
facilities, water supply, parks, drainage, schools, work force housing, and
emergency facilities; and
         c.   The annexation balances the cost of public services and
facilities with anticipated municipal revenues;
         d.   The annexation complies with the procedures as set forth in Idaho
Code 50-222; and
         e.   The extent to which the annexation provides contributions,
dedications and benefits to the city. (Ord. 387, 6-21-2007)
   C.   Neighborhood Map: The neighborhood map is a map showing the location of
the proposed project within the city, the subdivision or the neighborhood.
      1.   The map shall show the location of contiguous lots and lot(s)
immediately across any public or private street, building envelopes and/or
existing buildings and structures at a scale of not less than one inch equals
one hundred feet (1" = 100').
      2.   For design review applications, the map shall show the impact of the
proposed siting on view corridors of existing buildings, structures and/or
building envelopes.
      3.   For subdivision applications, the map shall show the location of the
subdivision in relation to the alignment of streets and other public rights of
way within the subdivisions with those existing in the immediately surrounding
areas.
   D.   Master Plan: The master plan is a plan that includes narrative
information and illustrations about the proposal.
      1.   The required narrative information shall be as follows:
         a.   Description of land use intent, including explanation of land use
concept; preliminary concept of uses and ranges of square footage and
locational distribution; public open space and view corridor protection
concept; and integrated transportation plan for autos, bicycles, transit and
pedestrians within the site and to other off site transportation systems,
including trails;
         b.   Results of a preliminary traffic evaluation to identify capacity
of street network, including intersections, and any improvements that will be
needed as a result of the development of the master plan;
         c.   Ranges of proposed densities by use expressed as units;
         d.   Estimate of population and population characteristics, e.g.,
seasonal, part time or permanent, generated by the development or
redevelopment;
         e.   Description of the general mass, scale and character of the
buildings;
         f.   General summary of general public facility requirements to serve
the development, including a study regarding the sufficiency of domestic and
irrigation water to serve the new development;
         g.   Work force (employee) generation estimates and general concept
plan to meet work force housing and commuter transportation needs;
         h.   General statement regarding considerations for how construction
work force commuter transit needs and housing requirements will be managed;
         i.   Description of density changes at the periphery of the site if
needed to provide appropriate transitions and to promote compatibility between
the site and adjacent land uses; and
         j.   Estimated phasing and sequence of development and estimated
timing of the project implementation, where known, for site improvements, off
site improvements, open site areas, and right of way dedications, and
supporting infrastructure.
      2.   The required illustrative plans shall be as follows:
         a.   An integrated transportation system, including, but not limited
to, streets and intersections, bicycle and pedestrian paths, parking, and
transit systems;
         b.   Illustrative diagram showing development parcels maximum unit
densities, site ingress and egress, and relationship of development to public
amenities, public facilities and/or open site areas. Where possible, potential
building locations should be depicted on each development parcel;
         c.   Open space and scenic view protection concept plan, showing the
general location for the intended public and private open site areas and
bicycle, pedestrian and trail paths; and
         d.   Proposal for incorporation of existing structures in future
development plans, if any, including the protection of "special sites" as
defined in the comprehensive plan, as updated.
   E.   Subdivision Map:
      1.   The preliminary plat map shall be provided on paper with the
dimensions of twenty four inches by thirty six inches (24" x 36"), and which
shall be drawn to a scale of not less than one inch to one hundred feet (1" =
100'). The preliminary plat map shall include the following information:
         a.   The name of the proposed subdivision;
         b.   The names, addresses and telephone numbers of the planners,
engineers, surveyors or other persons who designed the subdivision and prepared
the plat;
         c.   The legal description of the proposed subdivision, and a
topographical map showing the proposed subdivision at a scale of not less than
one inch to one hundred feet (1" = 100');
         d.   The intended use of the proposed subdivision, e.g., single-
family residential, multiple-family residential, commercial or recreational;
         e.   Sites proposed within the subdivision for parks, playgrounds,
schools and other similar public facilities;
         f.   Streets and public rights of way, including proposed street names
and dimensions;
         g.   Blocks, if any, building envelopes and lot lines as required by
subsection 10-4-4F of this title, showing the dimensions and numbers of each.
In addition to providing this information on the plat or supporting addenda,
the applicant shall stake the perimeters of each lot and the center of its
building envelope sufficiently to permit the commission to locate the same when
inspecting the site of the proposed subdivision;
         h.   Contour lines, shown at two foot (2') intervals, referenced to an
established bench mark, including location and elevation; and
         i.   Location of any proposed or existing utilities, including, but
not limited to, domestic water supply, storm and sanitary sewers, irrigation
laterals, ditches, drainages, bridges, culverts, water mains, fire hydrants,
and their respective profiles.
      2.   The final plat map shall include and be in compliance with all items
required under Idaho Code title 50, chapter 13, and shall be drawn at such a
scale and contain lettering of such size as to enable the same to be placed on
one sheet of eighteen inch by twenty four inch (18" x 24") drawing paper, with
no part of the drawing nearer to the edge than one inch (1"). The reverse of
said sheet shall not be used for any portion of the drawing, but may contain
written matter as to dedications, certifications and other information.
   F.   Site Plan: The site plan is a map showing the building lot, at a scale
of not less than one inch equals twenty feet (1" = 20'), and shall include the
following information:
      1.   Property dimensions and legal description of the land;
      2.   Location of the proposed building, improvement, sign, fence or other
structure, and the relationship to the platted building envelope and/or
building zone;
      3.   Building envelope dimensions with the center of the envelope
(building envelope centroid) location established in relation to property
lines;
      4.   Front, rear and side yard dimensions and setbacks from all
structures to property lines;
      5.   Adjacent public and private street right of way lines;
      6.   Snow storage areas; and
      7.   Total square footage of all proposed structures calculated for each
floor. If the application is for an addition or alteration to an existing
building or structure then the new or altered portions shall be clearly
indicated on the plans and the square footage of new or altered portion and the
existing building shall be included in the calculations.
   G.   Landscape Plan: The landscape plan shall be prepared by a landscape
architect, at the same scale as the site plan, and shall include the following
information:
      1.   The existing and proposed arrangement of all trees, shrubs, ground
covers, lawn or revegetated areas;
      2.   A plant list of the variety, size, and quantity of all proposed
vegetation; and
      3.   All areas to be covered by automatic irrigation shall be shown on
the plan.
   H.   Schematic Drawings: The schematic drawings are of proposed structures,
and shall be provided of a scale not less than one- eighth inch per foot (1/8"
= 1') and include the following information:
      1.   Floor plans;
      2.   Elevations, including recorded grade lines;
      3.   Cross sections indicating highest points of all structures and/or
buildings, showing relationship to recorded grade existing prior to any site
preparation, grading or filling;
      4.   Decks, retaining walls, architectural screen walls, solid walls, and
other existing and proposed landscape features shall be shown in elevations and
sections with the details to show the completed appearance of those structures;
      5.   Overall dimensions of all proposed structures; and
      6.   Specifications to be noted on the plans:
         a.   Exterior surface materials; and
         b.   Exterior color scheme; a color board shall be presented to the
commission, or designee, at the scheduled meeting.
   I.   Lighting Plan: The lighting plan shall include the location, type,
height, lumen output, and illuminance level of all exterior lighting.
   J.   Topographic Survey: The topographic map is a map of the application
site and adjoining parcels prepared by an engineer and/or land surveyor, at a
scale of not less than one inch to one hundred feet (1" = 100'). If the site
has been known to have been altered over time, then the applicant shall provide
evidence of the natural topography of the site.
   K.   Grading Plan: The grading plan is a plan showing existing and proposed
topography at a scale of not less than one inch equals twenty feet (1" = 20').
The plan shall show two foot (2') contours for the entire proposal site and one
foot (1') contours for details, including all planimetric features. The plan
shall include the following information:
      1.   All existing site features including existing structures, trees,
rock outcroppings, streams, avalanche and floodplain hazard areas;
      2.   All existing easements and utility locations;
      3.   Approximate limiting dimensions, elevations and finish contours to
be achieved by the contemplated grading within the project, showing all
proposed cut and fill slopes, drainage channels and related construction, and
finish and spot grade elevations for all wall and fence construction, and paved
and recreational surfaces;
      4.   Slope and soil stabilization and revegetation plan, including
identification of areas where existing or natural vegetation will be removed
and the proposed method of revegetating. Show all areas of disturbance and
construction fencing locations; revegetation is required for all disturbed
areas; and
      5.   All areas with a natural slope of less than fifteen percent (15%),
fifteen percent (15%) to twenty percent (20%), twenty percent (20%) to twenty
five percent (25%) and over twenty five percent (25%), clearly marked by
differing shade, tone, or color as described in figure H of this section.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2299c78b80534ce5d04cf25b9a6ae06e6e31344a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1109.gif]
 
      6.   For sites with slopes greater than fifteen percent (15%), the
commission may require alternative site studies.
   L.   Soils Engineering Report: The soils engineering report shall be
prepared by an engineer and shall include the following information:
      1.   The nature, distribution and strength of existing soil;
      2.   Conclusions and recommendations for grading procedures;
      3.   Opinions and recommendations regarding the adequacy of the soil for
the proposed development; and
      4.   The design criteria for any corrective measures which are
recommended.
   M.   Hydrology Report: The hydrology report shall be prepared by an engineer
and shall include the following information:
      1.   Existing Hydrological Conditions: A description of the hydrological
conditions existing within the proposed site, the adequacy of the existing
conditions for the proposed project and the design criteria for any recommended
corrective measures; and
      2.   Existing Surface Drainage Patterns: A map or drawing showing
existing surface drainage patterns in the proposed site and identifying any
anticipated changes in those patterns due to the project development.
      3.   Preliminary Plat: Preliminary plans and approximate locations of all
surface and subsurface drainage devices, dams, reservoir or other devices to be
employed in controlling drainage water within the project site, including
proposed, existing and natural drainage swales, culverts, catch basins and
subsurface drain piping.
      4.   Final Plat: A storm drainage plan shall be submitted showing
compliance with the standards of section
7-2-3 of this code. The storm drainage plan shall include:
         a.   A map indicating the on site and off site drainage area
applicable to the site;
         b.   Detailed engineering plans of all subsurface drainage
improvements to be constructed as a part of the proposed development; and
         c.   Location of all drainage easements or drainage rights of way.
      5.   Design Review: A plan showing roof drainage, drip lines and roof
snow deposit areas.
   N.   Engineering Drawings And Specifications: The engineering drawings and
specifications are for streets, water systems, sewers and other required public
improvements to support the proposal. The plans shall contain sufficient
information and detail to enable the director to make a determination as to
conformance of the proposed improvements to applicable regulations, ordinances
and standards. These drawings and specifications may be in a preliminary form
for the preliminary plat application.
   O.   Natural Resources And Hazards Analysis: The natural hazards and
resources analysis shall provide an inventory and recommendation regarding
natural conditions existing on the site. The analysis shall include the
following information:
      1.   Significant natural resources existing on the site shall be
identified including vegetation; fish and wildlife habitat; unique rock or
geologic formations; and water, including streams and riparian zones. A plan
for preservation and/or mitigation of significant resources should be prepared
by a qualified professional.
      2.   For subdivisions within an avalanche zone, an avalanche analysis
shall be prepared by an engineer or recognized expert in the field of avalanche
occurrence and behavior. The analysis shall detail steps to be taken to
minimize or eliminate danger to public safety, welfare or property from
avalanches, including at a minimum:
         a.   The method which applicant intends to use in giving notice to the
public and prospective purchasers of subdivision property that an avalanche
hazard exists;
         b.   Locations, dimensions and specifications of any excavations,
berms, retaining walls or similar devices which the applicant proposes to
construct as barriers against potential avalanches;
         c.   Proposed deed restrictions or covenants relating to special
structural requirements to be imposed upon structures built within the
subdivision in an effort to protect them and their inhabitants from damage by
avalanches;
         d.   If the applicant proposes to divert potential avalanches from the
subdivision or in any manner alter the naturally existing avalanche path, the
plans should clearly show the anticipated path the diverted avalanche is
expected to follow; and
         e.   As certified by the engineer and/or expert, the adequacy and
effectiveness of the applicant's proposals to minimize or eliminate avalanche
hazards in the proposed subdivision.
      3.   For subdivisions within a floodplain, detailed information on the
nature, source and extent of the hazard and the proposed actions to minimize or
eliminate danger to public health, safety or property. The analysis shall
include the following information:
         a.   The location of existing water channels and drainageways,
floodway, floodplain and base flood elevation;
         b.   The location of all planned improvements including dams, dikes
and similar structures; and
         c.   All planned diversions, alterations or rerouting of channels and
drainageways.
   P.   Dedications And Easements: The statement of intent for dedications and/
or easements shall include the location, size, dimensions and purpose.
   Q.   Covenants Or Deed Restrictions: The draft of any proposed covenants and
deed restrictions to be recorded with the plat or plat amendment. (Ord. 382,
10-25-2006)
   R.   (Rep. by Ord. 410, 6-19-2008, eff. 6-25-2008)
   S.   (Rep. by Ord. 410, 6-19-2008, eff. 6-25-2008)
   T.   Water And Sewer: A letter from the city water and sewer district
indicating that water and sewer facilities and services can be provided to the
proposed development.
   U.   Three-Dimensional Depiction: A three-dimensional (3-D) representation
of the project site and adjacent properties generated by a computer or as a
model.
   V.   Additional Information: The commission, the director, the city
engineer, or the building official may require an applicant to submit
additional information and materials as part of any application. All requests
for additional information shall be in writing. (Ord. 382, 10-25-2006)
9-5A-5: ADMINISTRATIVE PROCESS WITH NOTICE:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to outline the specific
application process for actions by the director with prior notice to adjoining
property owners.
   B.   Notice To Adjacent Property Owners: Applications shall include written
notice to adjacent property owners on a form provided by the city.
   C.   Notice Of Pending Decision: The notice of a pending decision by the
director shall be mailed at least fifteen (15) days prior to any decision by
the director.
   D.   Action Of Director: The director shall take action within thirty (30)
days of receipt of a complete application.
   E.   Referral To Commission: The director may refer any administrative
application to the commission for a decision.
   F.   Conditions Of Approval: The director may require conditions of approval
that are deemed necessary to protect the public health, safety, and welfare,
and prevent undue adverse impact on surrounding properties.
   G.   Findings Of Fact And Conclusions Of Law: The director shall provide the
applicant written findings of fact and conclusions of law in accord with Idaho
Code section 67-6519 stating the reasons for the decision reached. All
conditions of approval shall be attached to the written decision.
   H.   Notice Of Director's Decision; Appeal: Mailed notice of the director's
decision shall be sent to all parties of record. Any person aggrieved by the
director's decision may submit an appeal in accord with section
9-5A-9 of this article. The director's decision is not final until the end of
the fifteen (15) day appeal period. (Ord. 382, 10-25-2006)
9-5A-6: ADMINISTRATIVE PROCESS WITHOUT NOTICE:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to outline the specific
application process for actions by the director with no required public notice.
   B.   Request For Administrative Decision: Administrative decisions requested
of the director that do not require notice shall be submitted, in writing, to
the director on a form determined by the director.
   C.   Action Of Director: The director shall take action within ten (10) days
or such later time, but not to exceed sixty (60) days, as reasonably
appropriate consistent with staff or consultant workloads, of receipt of the
request for an administrative decision.
   D.   Response Of Director: The director shall respond, in writing, with the
basis of his/her decision and mailed to the person making the request. (Ord.
382, 10-25-2006)
9-5A-7: PUBLIC HEARING PROCESS:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to outline the specific
application process for actions that require a public hearing.
   B.   Public Notice Requirements: Applications that require a public hearing
shall be noticed in accord with the noticing requirements identified in table
9-5A-3 of this section, and the following relevant procedures in order to
maximize public notice, elicit comment and increase public awareness of
projects and pending city actions:
      1.   Radius Notice:
         a.   Application submittals shall include a public notice describing
the proposal on a form provided by the city and addressed envelopes to all
property owners required to be notified of the public hearing.
         b.   At least fifteen (15) days prior to the public hearing, the city
shall send the public notice of the time, place and description of the
application by first class mail to the property owners required to be notified
of the public hearing.
      2.   Posting On The Site: A public notice shall be posted by the city on
the premises for which the permit is sought. The notice shall be posted in a
prominent on site location, or at a number of on site locations commensurate
with the size of the property or multiple exposures to neighboring uses and the
public. The notice shall be of a size and format appropriate for the site
conditions to maximize public notification and awareness. For small individual
lots or minor applications the minimum notice size shall be eight and one-half
inches by eleven inches (8.5" x 11") and of a color appropriate to stand out in
the seasonal background. For larger properties or major projects the notice
size shall be larger, up to a maximum of six (6) square feet and of a color
appropriate to stand out in the seasonal background. The notice shall be posted
not less than fifteen (15) days prior to the public hearing.
      3.   Alternate Forms Of Notice: When mailed notice is required to two
hundred (200) or more property owners, alternate forms of notice may be
provided by the city as follows:
         a.   Posting of the notice in five (5) conspicuous locations within
the city;
         b.   Making notice available to all forms of media for use as a public
service announcement; or
         c.   Paid advertisement of notice in local print media.
      4.   Legal Notice: At least fifteen (15) days prior to the public
hearing, the city shall publish a public notice of the time, place and
description of the application in the official newspaper of general
circulation.
      5.   Transmission Of Information: The director may transmit the notice,
application and other documents submitted for review and recommendation to city
departments and other agencies, members of the public and community
organizations as deemed appropriate based on the nature of the project and
relevant issues involved in the development application.
      6.   City Website And Electronic Notification: All public notices and
public hearing agendas shall be posted on the city's webpage and forwarded via
electronic notification/fax to all parties who have notified the city of their
interest in receiving such notices and agendas. At least fifteen (15) days
prior to the public hearing, the city shall give electronic notification to all
political subdivisions providing services within the city, including the school
district. Additionally, at least fifteen (15) days prior to the public hearing,
the city shall provide electronic notification to newspapers, radio and
television stations serving the city for use as a public service announcement.
      7.   Posting In Five Prominent Places: All notices for public hearings or
administrative actions shall be posted in five (5) prominent locations within
the city, conspicuous to the public.
      8.   Notice Of Pending Development Application Review: A notice of
pending development application review shall be posted by the applicant on the
project site in a prominent location for all proposed projects determined by
the community development director to be major or large scale. The notice shall
be in a form acceptable to the community development director as discussed in a
predevelopment meeting and shall specify to the public that a development
application(s) has been submitted to the city for review, list each type of
application submitted, identify the general scope and description of the
project, and display proper contact information for the applicant and the city.
The notice shall be posted on site within ten (10) calendar days of the
application submittal date and is separate and distinct from other required
site posting notices for public hearings.
TABLE
9-5A-3
PUBLIC NOTICING REQUIREMENTS4
Permit/Decision Properties Within 300' Radius Legal On Site
Permit/Decision                    Properties Within 300' Radius Legal On Site
Annexation                         X                             X     X
Design review, planning and zoning X                                  X
commission
Comprehensive plan amendment 1     X                             X     X
Conditional use2                   X                             X     X
Conditional use, revocation        X                             X     X
Development agreement              X                             X      
Development agreement revocation   X                             X      
Development code/city code                                      X      
amendment
Master plan development            X                             X     X
Master plan development, major     X                             X     X
amendment
Planned unit development           X                             X     X
Plat, amendment                    X                             X     X
Plat, final                        X                             X     X
Plat, preliminary                  X                             X     X
Vacations and dedications3         X                             X     X
Variance                           X                             X     X
Official zoning map amendment4     X                             X     X
 
   Notes:
      1.    Comprehensive Plan Amendment: If the commission recommends a
material change to the plan after the public hearing, the public notice for the
council hearing shall include the commission's recommendation.
      2.    Alternate Mailing Notice: When mailed notice is required for 200 or
more people, the alternate noticing requirements as set forth in this section
may be substituted for mailed notice.
      3.    Vacations: Radius notice shall be sent by certified mail. Legal
notice shall be published once a week for 2 successive weeks, the last of which
shall not be less than 7 days prior to the public hearing.
      4.    Public Notice: At the discretion of the director or commission or
council, public notice may be sent to property owners beyond properties within
a 300 foot radius of the external boundaries of the application.
(Ord. 455, 12-6-2012)
   C.   Commission Public Hearing:
      1.   Hearing Date: Within ninety (90) days of receipt of an application
certified as complete, or as reasonably appropriate consistent with staff or
consultant workloads, the commission public hearing shall be conducted.
Notwithstanding such certification, the commission may extend the time provided
for review and action by making a finding that additional materials and/or
information are required due to the complexity of the application or for other
reasons deemed appropriate.
      2.   Consent Agenda: The commission may place any application on the
consent section of a commission agenda. An application placed on the consent
agenda shall be reviewed by the commission chairperson and a staff member.
During the meeting, the chairperson may recommend that the consent agenda
application(s) be approved, including any conditions and findings of fact; or,
if there are any written or oral comments regarding an application, and if the
chairperson determines that the application should be considered by the entire
commission, then the application shall be heard under the new business section
of the commission agenda.
      3.   Public Hearing Testimony: The commission shall hear all persons
interested in an application at the duly noticed public hearing. Written
statements, mailed or hand delivered to city hall and received twenty four (24)
hours in advance of the public hearing, shall be entered into the record of the
hearing. Communication by electronic mail to individual commission members
shall not be considered as part of the public record. The applicant shall offer
competent evidence in support of the application sufficient to enable the
commission to consider the matter and to make findings on the subject. The
applicant has the burden of presenting all necessary and relevant information
and evidence in support of the application.
      4.   Commission Decision: After hearing the evidence and considering the
application, the commission shall make its decision. The commission shall
report the facts upon which it based its conclusion, the ordinances and
standards used in evaluating the application, the actions, if any, that the
applicant could take to obtain a permit, and whether a permit is granted,
granted with conditions, or denied. The commission shall make its findings and
decision within thirty five (35) days from the date of the public hearing,
unless the commission determines that additional time is required to properly
evaluate the application.
   D.   Council Public Hearing:
      1.   Commission Transmittal: Upon recommendation of approval or
disapproval by the commission, the application, together with a complete copy
of the commission's findings and report of action, shall be transmitted to the
council.
      2.   Public Hearing: Within thirty (30) days of the commission completing
its findings and report, the city shall notice a council public hearing.
         a.   The public notice shall be made in the same manner in which the
hearing was noticed before the commission, unless otherwise required by the
local land use planning act, Idaho Code section 67-6501 et seq.
         b.   Public notice shall also be sent, by first class mail, to all
persons who appeared in person and provided a legible record of their name and
address, or submitted testimony, in writing, before the commission's
proceedings. Such notification shall be made at least fifteen (15) days prior
to the council meeting. The failure or lack of notification of any parties of
record shall not invalidate the action taken by the council on the application
provided, the spirit of this notification procedure is observed.
      3.   Testimony: At the hearing before the council, the council shall
consider the record and report of the commission and may or may not elect to
hear testimony of representatives of the applicant and commission and any
witnesses, including interested citizens affected by the proposed application.
      4.   Council Decision: Upon conclusion of its review, the council shall
take action on the application and adopt its findings of fact and conclusions
by the next regular scheduled council meeting. In its decision, the council
shall base its findings upon the record and report of the commission and, if
taken, testimony presented before it. The council may sustain, modify with
conditions, or reject the recommendations of the commission; or remand the
application to the commission for additional proceedings and findings. (Ord.
382, 10-25-2006)
9-5A-8: EXPIRATION OF APPROVALS:
   A.   Expiration: All application approvals shall expire three hundred sixty
five (365) days from the date of approval unless: 1) the city issues a building
permit for the proposed improvement, development, or use prior to the
expiration of the three hundred sixty five (365) day period; or 2) by condition
of approval or development agreement, a time period for completion of the
application has been specified.
   B.   Extension: An extension may be granted by the commission or its
designee upon findings that the application and/or applicable city regulations
have not changed. Such extension must be applied for within sixty (60) days of
the expiration date for the original approval; only one extension of not more
than three hundred sixty five (365) days shall be granted, except for appeals
from the provisions of chapter 3, article K of this title wherein two (2) 180-
day extensions may be granted. (Ord. 382, 10-25-2006)
9-5A-9: APPEALS:
   A.   Notice Of Appeal: Any applicant and any person owning an interest in
real property which is within three hundred feet (300') of the exterior
boundary lines of the property which is subject to an application who is
dissatisfied, may appeal the action of the decision maker. An appeal shall be
made, in writing, and filed with the city clerk within ten (10) days after the
action of the decision maker.
   B.   Review Authority: Appeals of commission decisions are heard and decided
by the council. Appeals of the director's decisions are heard and decided by
the commission.
   C.   Hearing Schedule: The city shall set the matter for hearing by the
review authority at the next regularly scheduled meeting of the review
authority if such scheduling provides reasonably adequate time for all parties
involved to be prepared to conduct the hearing; and if such scheduling does not
provide reasonably adequate time, then at the next regularly scheduled meeting
of the review authority.
   D.   Hearing Record: Unless the review authority, by order promptly issued,
directs that the appeal be otherwise heard, the appeal will be on the record of
the decision maker supplemented by such new evidence as may be presented.
   E.   Hearing Notice: The city shall give notice of the time and place of the
hearing on appeal by mailing copies of the notice by certified mail, postage
prepaid, to the applicant or petitioner, the appellant and to any interested
person who has filed a written request for notice with the city.
   F.   Decision: After the hearing on the appeal, the review authority shall
make its decision and adopt findings of fact and conclusions, in writing,
within thirty five (35) days. In its decision, the review authority shall
determine whether the application or petition should be granted, granted with
conditions, remanded to the decision maker for additional proceedings and
findings, or denied. The city shall transmit a copy of the decision of the
review authority together with a copy of its findings and conclusions to the
decision maker; and shall transmit a copy of its decision, findings and
conclusions to the appellant by certified mail. The decision of the council
shall be final. The decision of the commission on an appeal of the director may
be appealed to the council. (Ord. 382, 10-25-2006)
9-5A-10: SUBSTANTIAL CONFORMANCE:
   A.   Conformance Required: All development shall be constructed or carried
out in conformance with the approval, conditions of approval, and mitigation
measures adopted by the city in review of the development application.
   B.   Changes:
      1.   Any changes in the design, construction, operation or use shall be
brought to the immediate attention of the director for determination if the
changes are in substantial conformance with the city's action. The director may
consult the decision making body in making a substantial conformance
determination.
      2.   Any changes found by the Director not to be in substantial
conformance with the approval shall be remanded to the decision making body for
a formal determination. Changes not found to be in substantial conformance
shall require a new development application. (Ord. 455, 12-6-2012)
9-5A-11: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Violations A Nuisance: No land in the City may be used for a purpose
not permitted under this title. Any use of land or structure contrary to this
provision is unlawful and a public nuisance. On order of the City Council, the
City Attorney shall commence an action for the abatement and removal of the
nuisance and for an injunction preventing the further unlawful use.
   B.   Requirement For Subdivision Plat Approval: No subdivision plat required
by this title or the Idaho Code shall be admitted to the public land records of
the County or recorded by the County Recorder until such subdivision plat has
received final approval by the Council. No public board, agency, commission,
official or other authority shall proceed with the construction of or authorize
the construction of any of the public improvements required by this title until
the final plat has received the approval by the Council. The City Attorney
shall, in addition to taking whatever criminal action deemed necessary, take
steps to civilly enjoin any violation of this title.
   C.   Voided Permits, Certificates Or Licenses: Each employee of the City who
has the duty or authority to issue a permit shall comply with this title. A
permit, certificate or license issued by an employee of the City which does not
comply with this title is void.
   D.   Violation; Penalties: Violation of the provisions of this title by
failure to comply with any of its requirements (including violations of
conditions and safeguards established in connection with conditions) shall
constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates this title or fails to comply
with any of its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code and, in addition, shall pay all costs and expenses involved
in the case. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the City from taking such
other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation. (Ord.
382, 10-25-2006)
9-5A-12: FEES:
In the application of fees for the review of permit applications, the following
rules shall apply:
   A.   Adoption By Resolution: Application fees shall be established by
Council resolution, including circumstances for reduced or waiver of fees.
   B.   Basis For Calculation: For any requested public hearing involving more
than one application, the filing fee shall be calculated on the basis of the
cumulative fee for the individual application(s).
   C.   Fees Not Refundable: Fees are not refundable, except as allowed by the
Council. The Council shall not authorize the refund of more than eighty percent
(80%) of a permit fee. An applicant must request a refund in writing on or
before the one- year anniversary of the date of a submitted application. (Ord.
535, 12-6-2018)
ARTICLE B. SPECIFIC PROVISIONS
SECTION:
9-5B-1: Purpose
9-5B-2: Conditional Use
9-5B-3: Design Review
9-5B-4: Development Agreement
9-5B-5: Development Code Amendment
9-5B-6: Master Plan Development
9-5B-7: Planned Unit Development
9-5B-8: Variance
9-5B-9: Zoning Map Amendment And Annexation
9-5B-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this article is to set forth the requirements for certain types
of application reviews that are distinct for the specific application,
including review procedures, standards for review and findings for approval.
The provisions included in this article are in addition to those set forth in
article A of this chapter. (Ord. 382, 10-25-2006)
9-5B-2: CONDITIONAL USE:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to establish procedures that
allow for a particular use on a particular property subject to specific terms
and conditions of approval.
   B.   Applicability: The provisions of this section apply to all conditional
uses identified throughout this title.
   C.   General Provisions:
      1.   Commission Approval Required: Conditional uses, as have been
designated throughout this title, shall be allowed only upon the approval of an
application by the commission, subject to the requirements of this chapter and
such conditions as the commission may attach. Such approval shall be in the
form of a written permit.
      2.   Precedent Not Created: A conditional use permit shall not be
considered as establishing a binding precedent to grant other conditional use
permits.
      3.   Transferability: Conditional use permits shall not be transferable
from one parcel of land to another. Unless otherwise stated in the conditions
attached to a permit, the permit shall be granted to the applicant and
successors in interest to the premises for which it was approved.
      4.   Conditions Of Approval: Upon the granting of a conditional use
permit, the commission may attach conditions to said permit including, but not
limited to, those:
         a.   Minimizing adverse impact on other development;
         b.   Controlling the sequence and timing of development;
         c.   Controlling the duration of development;
         d.   Assuring that development is maintained properly;
         e.   Designating the exact location and nature of development;
         f.   Requiring provision for on site or off site public facilities or
services;
         g.   Requiring more restrictive standards than those generally
required in an applicable ordinance;
         h.   Requiring mitigation of effects of the proposed development upon
service delivery by any political subdivision, including school districts,
providing services within the planning jurisdiction.
      5.   Terms Of Permits:
         a.   At the discretion of the commission, a conditional use permit may
contain an expiration date. If no extension is requested pursuant to this
section, the original permit shall expire at the end of its stated term.
         b.   A conditional use permit is deemed void within one year after the
permit is granted if the use has not been utilized.
         c.   Upon written request submitted by the applicant or successor in
interest prior to the expiration date of a conditional use permit, the
commission may extend the term of said permit. The commission shall hold a
public hearing and give notice in the same manner as notice of an original
hearing for an application for a conditional use permit.
         d.   A conditional use permit is deemed void if the use has ceased for
a continuous period of one year or more.
      6.   Revocation:
         a.   The commission shall have the authority to review any conditional
use permit based upon a written complaint; a change in any applicable city
ordinances; or the conditions attached to the permit by the commission.
         b.   If the commission finds that there is a probable cause for
revoking a conditional use permit, the commission shall give notice of a
hearing to the applicant and the public in the same manner as a notice of a
hearing for an application for a conditional use permit. The commission shall
hold a hearing on the question of revoking the permit and, if it finds that
grounds for revocation exist, it may revoke the permit.
         c.   The commission may revoke a conditional use permit for any of the
following grounds:
            (1)   Violation of this code;
            (2)   Violation of the conditions of the permit after written
notice of the violations and a ten (10) day period to correct said violations;
or
            (3)   Causing or allowing a nuisance, as determined in title 4,
chapter 1 of this code, in connection with the use for which the permit was
granted.
   D.   Required Findings: In order to grant a conditional use permit, the
commission shall make the following findings:
      1.   The use is appropriate to the location, the lot, and the
neighborhood, and is compatible with the uses permitted in the applicable
zoning district;
      2.   The use will be supported by adequate public facilities or services
to the surrounding area, or conditions can be established to mitigate adverse
impacts;
      3.   The use will not unreasonably diminish either the health, safety or
welfare of the community; and
      4.   The use is not in conflict with the comprehensive plan or other
adopted plans, policies, or ordinances of the city. (Ord. 382, 10-25-2006)
9-5B-3: DESIGN REVIEW:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to establish the specific
findings for approval of design review applications.
   B.   Required Findings: In order to approve a design review application and
based on the standards set forth in chapter 3, article A of this title, the
commission shall make the following findings:
      1.   The proposed design is in conformance with the purpose of the zoning
district and all dimensional regulations of that district.
      2.   The proposed design is in conformance with the standards for design
review as set forth in chapter 3, article A of this title.
      3.   The proposed design does not significantly impact the natural,
scenic character and aesthetic value of hillsides, ridges, ridgelines, ridge
tops, knolls, saddles, and summits in the city.
      4.   The proposed design is in context and complementary to adjacent
properties.
      5.   The proposed design is compatible with the community character and
scale of the neighborhood.
      6.   The proposed design adheres to standards for the protection of
health, safety, and general welfare.
      7.   The proposed design is of quality architectural character and
materials.
      8.   The use is not in conflict with the comprehensive plan or other
adopted plans, policies, or ordinances of the city. (Ord. 382, 10-25-2006)
9-5B-4: DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to establish a procedure for
accommodating specific land uses in the city while continuing to provide for
the protection of the public health, safety and welfare in accordance with
Idaho Code section 67-6511A. Where the council finds that approval of a
requested zone or rezone by itself is inconsistent with the zoning district and
the comprehensive plan, then this section is intended to provide reasonable
standards and procedures in order to:
      1.   Implement the goals and policies of the comprehensive plan;
      2.   Preserve and protect the character of the city;
      3.   Assure the public health, safety and welfare of present and future
citizens of the city;
      4.   Protect and enhance the natural resources of the city from adverse
impact of development and to integrate new development harmoniously into the
city's natural environment;
      5.   Protect property rights by balancing the rights of abutting and
neighboring landowners to enjoy their property without undue disturbance from
abutting or neighboring uses; and
      6.   Provide for specific land uses in neighborhoods that are determined
compatible but prohibited by current zoning and, improve circulation and reduce
traffic congestion and hazards on existing and proposed streets.
   B.   Applicability: A development agreement may be used in the annexation or
rezoning process in any zoning district, regardless of lot size, subject to the
standards provided for in this section.
   C.   General Provisions:
      1.   Subsequent Actions: A development agreement shall not prevent the
city in subsequent actions applicable to the property, from applying new
standards, regulations or policies that do not conflict with the written
commitments within the development agreement.
      2.   Compliance With Codes: Nothing in this section shall be construed as
relieving the property which is subject to development agreement restrictions
from further compliance with all other permit and code requirements of the
city.
      3.   Obligation Of City: By permitting or requiring commitments pursuant
to this section, the city does not obligate itself to approve a proposed zone
change or annexation that is requested concurrent with a proposed development
agreement.
      4.   Encumbrance: The owner or lessee of a valid interest in the property
and all subsequent property owners of the property encumbered by the
development agreement shall comply with all conditions, terms, obligations and
duties contained in the development agreement. Failure to comply shall result
in termination of the agreement as specified in subsection D of this section.
   D.   Procedures:
      1.   Request For Development Agreement: At any time during the processing
of an annexation or a rezone application, a request to enter into a development
agreement for the subject property may be submitted by the applicant, or may be
recommended by the commission at the commission's public hearing, or may be
required by the council at the council's public hearing.
         a.   In the event an applicant seeks to enter into a development
agreement, the development agreement shall be taken to the commission at the
time of the scheduled rezone or annexation hearing. The commission shall
forward its recommendation to the council regarding each of the applicant's
requests.
         b.   In the event of a recommendation by the commission that a
development agreement should be required, the rezone or annexation request
shall be forwarded to the council with a recommendation that the request be
denied or that the council remand the matter back to the commission for a
public hearing as specified in subsection D2 of this section. The council
shall, upon remand, direct the commission on specific issues to be addressed in
the development agreement. If, however, the applicant agrees to submit an
application for a development agreement, then the commission shall defer its
recommendation to the council until a public hearing on the development
agreement is held.
         c.   In the event of a determination by the council that a development
agreement should be entered into, then the council shall remand the matter back
to the commission for a public hearing as specified in subsection D2 of this
section. The council shall, upon remand, direct the commission on specific
issues to be addressed in the development agreement.
      2.   Public Hearing: The commission shall review and make recommendation
to the council regarding the development agreement as part of the public
hearing process for an annexation or rezone request.
      3.   Recordation: The development agreement shall be attached to the
ordinance establishing the zoning map amendment. The agreement shall take
effect and shall be recorded in the office of the Blaine County recorder within
ten (10) days of adoption of the ordinance establishing the zoning map
amendment by the city council. The ordinance number shall be clearly referenced
on the official zoning map for the city.
      4.   Modification: A development agreement shall only be modified after
public hearing by the city council. Major modifications, as determined by the
director, shall require a hearing and recommendation by the commission prior to
hearing by the council.
      5.   Enforcement: Development agreements may be enforced by the city
through any means deemed to be appropriate, including, but not limited to,
specific enforcement, injunctive relief, monetary damages, criminal penalties
and/or termination of the development agreement. Such enforcement options shall
not be considered exclusive, but may be combined as deemed appropriate by the
city.
      6.   Revocation: In the event the city believes that grounds exist for
revocation of the development agreement, the applicant or their successors and
assignees shall be given written notice, by certified mail, of the apparent
violation or noncompliance, providing a statement of the nature and general
facts of the violation or noncompliance and providing the property owner
fifteen (15) calendar days to furnish evidence that:
         a.   Corrective action has remedied the violation or noncompliance;
         b.   Rebuts the alleged violation or noncompliance; and/or
         c.   A request to amend the development agreement has been submitted.
      7.   Revocation Hearing: In the event that the applicants or their
successors and assignees fail to provide evidence reasonably satisfactory to
the city as provided in subsection D6 of this section, the director shall refer
the apparent violation or noncompliance to the council for a public hearing as
set forth in section
9-5A-7 of this chapter.
         a.   The council shall provide the applicants or their successors and
assignees notice and reasonable opportunity to be heard concerning the matter
and a public hearing shall be conducted.
         b.   The council shall issue a written decision terminating the
development agreement or remanding it back to the commission for the amendment
process pursuant to the public hearing process as set forth in section
9-5A-7 of this chapter.
      8.   Termination Of Agreements: In the event that a development agreement
is terminated or amended by the city council, after public hearing, for failure
to comply with any of the commitments expressed in the agreement, the city
shall take the following actions:
         a.   The property shall be rezoned to its prior zoning designation. In
the case of an initial zoning designation established at the time of
annexation, termination of the agreement shall result in a city zoning
designation deemed appropriate by the council and set forth in the terms of the
development agreement.
         b.   All uses that are not compatible with the subsequent zoning
designation following termination of the development agreement shall cease. The
owner of the property shall apply for a conditional use permit for the
property, if the use(s) is conditionally allowed within the subsequent zoning
district.
   E.   Standards: The standards identified in this subsection shall apply to
all annexations and rezones involving development agreements, unless otherwise
specified.
      1.   Comprehensive Plan Compliance: Compliance with the goals and
policies of city comprehensive plan shall be demonstrated in a written
narrative.
      2.   Neighborhood:
         a.   There shall be compatible transition in scale, building form, and
proportion between the proposed structure/use and existing structures and
landscape.
         b.   All development within the project area shall comply with the
standards and criteria as set forth in chapter 3, article A of this title.
Conceptual approval is required prior to the approval of a development
agreement and the zone change or annexation.
         c.   Alteration to the record grade shall be in compliance with this
title.
         d.   The proposed use(s) and development of the subject property shall
be appropriate for the location, the lot and the neighborhood.
         e.   The proposed use(s) and development shall not adversely affect
the character, public health, safety, and/or general welfare of the
neighborhood or the community.
      3.   Infrastructure:
         a.   The proposed use and development of the subject property shall
not cause undue traffic congestion, or dangerous traffic conditions.
         b.   The proposed use(s) and development of the subject property shall
not adversely impact other infrastructure such as, but not limited to, public
utilities and communication systems, water, wastewater, and drainage systems,
as well as snow storage and snow removal. (Ord. 382, 10-25-2006)
9-5B-5: DEVELOPMENT CODE AMENDMENT:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to establish procedures for
amendments to the text, tables and graphics of this title, including
supplements, changes, modifications or repeals.
   B.   Applicability: The provisions of this section shall apply to all text
within this title.
   C.   Procedures:
      1.   Amendment Initiated By City: Any member of the council or the
commission may propose to amend this title following notice and public hearing
procedures set forth in article A of this chapter.
      2.   Amendment Not Initiated By City: The prospective applicant for a
development code amendment shall complete a preapplication conference with the
director. The director shall make a recommendation to the commission on the
merits of considering the applicant's request. The commission shall review the
request at a public hearing and then determine if an application should be
brought forward to amend the development code. Upon approval of the request by
the commission, an application, fees, and public notice in accord with article
A of this chapter shall be provided.
      3.   Public Hearings: The commission and council shall hold public
hearings on the development code amendments as set forth in article A of this
chapter.
      4.   Effective Date: The amendment shall become effective by a favorable
vote of a majority of the members of the city council.
   D.   Required Findings: In order to grant a text amendment to the
development code, the council shall make the following findings:
      1.   The text amendment complies with the applicable provisions of the
comprehensive plan;
      2.   The text amendment shall not be materially detrimental to the public
health, safety, and welfare; and
      3.   The text amendment shall not result in an adverse impact upon the
delivery of services by any political subdivision providing public services
within the city including, but not limited to, school districts. (Ord. 382, 10-
25-2006)
9-5B-6: MASTER PLAN DEVELOPMENT:
   A.   Purpose: It is the intent of this section to describe the process for
review and action on a master plan development ("MPD"). This process will
establish a workable framework for the development of large or phased projects
which are under single ownership or control, whether or not contiguous. The
goal of this section is to ensure the orderly planning and development of land
by requiring new development to:
      1.   Implement the goals and objectives of the city's comprehensive plan,
as amended, including the future land use map, the land use designations and
the land use planning area guidelines, if applicable;
      2.   Contribute to the social, economic and environmental sustainability
of the city;
      3.   Strengthen the resort character of the city;
      4.   Develop in a manner that is highly respectful of the natural
setting, that is at a human scale and ensures neighborhood compatibility;
      5.   Provide for an integrated transportation system which prioritizes a
pedestrian environment and mass transit and reduces vehicular trips;
      6.   Result in a contribution of amenities to the community, including
maintaining public access to recreational facilities;
      7.   Designate and protect open site area in perpetuity;
      8.   Provide for a mix of housing types for visitors and year round and
seasonal residents;
      9.   Provide for the housing needs of the work force through a variety of
dispersed units within the city, or an alternative area as approved by the city
council;
      10.   If necessary, plan for the coordinated and phased construction of
infrastructure, including public facilities and transportation system
components; and
      11.   Remain consistent with the intent of this title.
   B.   Applicability: The MPD process may be utilized in all zones within the
city and shall be required prior to the development or redevelopment of large
properties within the city; and may be required by the director for properties
which are in scenic view corridors or contain a special site as defined in the
comprehensive plan or for areas requesting an official zoning map amendment or
annexation. Applications for MPD approval in an area designated in the
comprehensive plan as a land use planning area (LUPA) shall be accepted only
where the uses, densities, intensities and site development standards comply
with the intent of LUPA text, specifications, goals and objectives as set forth
in the comprehensive plan.
   C.   General Provisions:
      1.   The city may require that multiple properties, whether contiguous or
not, under single ownership be processed under a single comprehensive MPD
application. The establishment of a hotel or performing arts/symphony center in
the CC district, as specifically provided for in the city comprehensive plan,
may be processed without a comprehensive MPD application for the entire large
parcel or LUPA by submitting a development site MPD application for the
proposed hotel or performing arts/symphony center. Certain development site MPD
submittal requirements may be waived or additional information may be required
as determined by the director.
      2.   Approval of an MPD will constitute approval of a master plan which
establishes a framework to guide all future development within the area defined
by the MPD.
      3.   Development applications may be filed in conjunction with an MPD
application; however, no construction shall commence on any component of an
approved MPD except upon receipt of design review, conditional use, variance,
subdivision and/or PUD approval.
      4.   All development of the MPD site shall be regulated by applicable
regulations of this title and other code regulations in effect at the time the
development application is submitted and certified as complete by the city.
Development applications include, but are not limited to, design review,
conditional use, variance, subdivision, planned unit development and/or phasing
plans.
   D.   Procedures:
      1.   Preapplication Conference: A preapplication conference shall be held
with the director and, as appropriate, other city staff in order for the
applicant to become acquainted with the MPD procedures and any related city
requirements and schedules. The applicant shall be the owner(s) of the
property. The owner may designate a representative to work with the staff and
the city. The staff will give preliminary feedback to the applicant based on
information available at the preapplication conference and will inform the
applicant of issues or special requirements which may result from the proposal.
The applicant may request a preapplication conference with the commission prior
to application submittal. If requested, the conference will be noticed as a
public hearing.
      2.   Application: The MPD application shall be submitted in accordance
with subsection
9-5A-4D of this chapter.
      3.   Public Hearings: The commission and council shall hold public
hearings on the MPD as set forth in article A, "General Provisions", of this
chapter.
      4.   Commission Review And Action: The commission shall recommend
approval or denial of an MPD to the city council. Such action shall be in the
form of written findings of fact, conclusions of law and, in the case of
approval, conditions of approval. Action shall occur only after the required
public hearing is held.
      5.   Council Review And Approval: As a condition to approval of an MPD,
the council may enter into a master plan agreement as provided for in
subsection D8 of this section.
      6.   Major And Minor Amendments: An approved MPD may be amended at any
time using the process set out herein, and may be amended simultaneously with
the processing of a development application. The director shall decide whether
a proposed amendment is a "major" or "minor" amendment. In order to initiate an
amendment, the applicant shall submit to the director an application on those
items that would change if the proposed amendment were approved. Review of
applications for amendments shall be governed by those criteria set forth in
subsection E of this section. Approved amendments shall be recorded as set
forth in subsection D7 of this section.
         a.   Major Amendments: Changes of the following types shall define an
amendment as major:
            (1)   Changes which would modify or reallocate the allowable
building height, mix of uses, or density of a development; or
            (2)   Changes which would alter the location or amount of land
dedicated to open space, amenities, trails, natural areas or public facilities;
or
            (3)   Modify any other aspect of the MPD that would significantly
change its character; or
            (4)   A series of minor amendments that cumulatively change the
overall character of the MPD.
         b.   Minor Amendments: Amendments that are not major amendments shall
be termed "minor amendments" and shall be reviewed by the director. The
director shall approve, approve with conditions or deny said amendments.
      7.   Recording Of An Approved MPD:
         a.   All approved MPDs, and all approved amendments to such MPDs,
specifying the land within its boundaries, shall be recorded in the Blaine
County recorder's office with a notation that all land within such boundaries
shall be subject to the provisions of such MPD or amendment unless or until
amended. Such recording shall be a "memorandum of MPD" stating generally that
the site has been approved as an MPD on file with the city.
         b.   All MPDs and MPD amendments recorded hereunder shall be binding
upon the applicants and their successors and assigns, and shall guide the
location of improvements and infrastructure of site specific applications. It
is expressly understood that site specific applications shall be regulated by
the zoning, subdivision and other code regulations in effect at the time any
application for development, design review, conditional use, variance,
subdivision or phasing is submitted and certified as complete by the city.
      8.   Master Plan Agreement:
         a.   At the request of the applicant, a master plan agreement may be
submitted to establish and set by mutual contract the zoning, open space
dedications and/or MPD densities of an approved MPD. The master plan agreement
shall be consistent with the comprehensive plan, the MPD approval and
conditions, if any, and in a form approved by the city attorney. A master plan
agreement may be applied for concurrently with an MPD application or at any
time subsequent to the approval of an MPD application.
         b.   A proposed master plan agreement shall be reviewed by the
commission and the commission shall make a recommendation to the council for
approval, approval with conditions, or denial of the requested master plan
agreement. The council, upon receipt of the commission recommendation, may
approve, approve with conditions or deny the submitted master plan agreement.
An approved master plan agreement shall be recorded in the Blaine County
recorder's office.
   E.   Required Findings: The commission shall make the following findings in
order to recommend approval of an MPD or approval of an MPD amendment. In some
cases, conditions of approval will be attached to the approval to ensure
compliance with these findings. The commission, if denying an MPD application,
shall state findings why such application does not comply with one or more of
the following findings:
      1.   The MPD is consistent with the city comprehensive plan, as amended,
including the future land use map and the land use planning area guidelines and
land use designations, if applicable;
      2.   The MPD complies with each applicable element of the purpose of this
section, as set out in subsection A of this section;
      3.   The MPD meets the minimum requirements of this chapter;
      4.   The MPD promotes the orderly planning and development of land, as
set forth in the purpose for this process, subsection A of this section;
      5.   The MPD has been properly noticed and public hearing held in
accordance with this code;
      6.   The MPD complies with all city zoning regulations and codes in
effect at the time of the MPD application. (Ord. 386, 4-19-2007)
9-5B-7: PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT:
   A.   Planned unit development may include a combination of different
dwelling types or variety of land uses which complement each other and
harmonize with existing and proposed land uses in the vicinity. (Ord. 382, 10-
25-2006)
   B.   In order to provide locations for well planned developments which
conform with the objectives of this title, although they deviate in certain
respects from the zoning map and/or the regulations of this title, conditional
use permits for planned unit developments may be applied for, subject to the
following qualifications:
      1.   A planned unit development may include any use allowed either as a
permitted or conditional use in any of the zoning districts of the city.
      2.   Minimum size of a planned unit development shall be at least four
(4) acres. (Ord. 435, 6-28-2010)
   C.   In addition to such information as is otherwise required for a
conditional use permit application, the application shall include:
      1.   A detailed development plan for the entire planned unit development,
drawn to scale, and showing proposed locations and identifications of all
streets and structures.
      2.   A tabulation of the number of dwelling units and structures proposed
for each use.
      3.   A development timetable.
      4.   Projected cost of the total development, with supporting data. (Ord.
382, 10-25-2006)
9-5B-8: VARIANCE:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to establish procedures for
modification from the bulk and placement requirements of this title.
   B.   Applicability:
      1.   The provisions of this section shall apply to requests to vary from
the requirements of this title with respect to lot size, coverage, width, and
depth; front, side, and rear setbacks; parking spaces; building height; and all
other provisions of this title affecting the size and shape of a structure or
the placement upon properties.
      2.   A variance does not relieve an applicant from any of the procedural
provisions of this title, nor does it allow establishment of a use that is not
otherwise permitted in the applicable zoning district.
   C.   Process: A variance shall be allowed only upon the approval of an
application by the commission, subject to the requirements of this chapter, a
showing of undue hardship because of unique physical characteristics of the
site, and that the variance is not in conflict with the public interest.
   D.   General Provisions:
      1.   Conditions Of Approval: Upon the granting of a variance, the
commission may impose any conditions it considers necessary to assure:
         a.   The variance will not constitute a grant of special privilege
inconsistent with the limitations on other properties in the vicinity and the
applicable zoning district in which the subject property is located; and
         b.   Secure substantially the purpose of city regulations and give
effect to the comprehensive plan.
      2.   Conforming Variance: Any structure, building, fence, sign or use
built, erected, reconstructed, used, maintained, established, existing or
occupied under an approved variance as herein provided shall be deemed in
conformity with the provisions of this title to the extent it complies with the
provisions of said variance.
      3.   Precedent Not Created: Approval of a variance shall not be
considered as establishing a binding precedent to grant other variance
requests.
      4.   Extension Of Time: Upon request for an extension of time as set
forth in section
9-5A-8 of this chapter, the commission shall hold a public hearing and give
notice in the same manner as notice of an original hearing for an application
for a variance.
   E.   Required Findings: A variance shall be granted by the commission only
if the applicant demonstrates all of the following:
      1.   The subject property is deprived, by provision of this title, of
rights and privileges enjoyed legally by other properties in the vicinity and
under the applicable zoning district because of the unique size, shape,
topography or location of the subject property (a finding of undue hardship);
      2.   The need for the variance is not the result of actions of the
applicant or property owner;
      3.   The variance will not unreasonably diminish either the health,
safety or welfare of the community neighborhood;
      4.   The variance is the only reasonable alternative to overcome the
undue hardship; and
      5.   The variance is the minimum relief necessary to allow reasonable use
of the subject property. (Ord. 382, 10-25-2006)
9-5B-9: ZONING MAP AMENDMENT AND ANNEXATION:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to establish procedures for
amendments to the official zoning map and annexations of land. The official
zoning map amendment process is not intended to relieve particular hardships or
confer special privileges or rights on any property.
   B.   Applicability: The provisions of this section shall apply to all lands
within the city limits, the area of city impact, and all other annexable land
as set forth in Idaho Code section 50-222. Lands that are zoned open recreation
(OR-1) prior to the adoption of the development code and the creation of the
recreation and open space zoning districts (ordinance 382, 2006) and designated
as OR-1 on the official zoning map shall be required to apply for and receive
an official zoning map amendment consistent with the land use designation shown
on the comprehensive plan future land use map prior to, or in conjunction with,
the processing of any development applications for improvements on the
respective OR-1 zoned lands.
   C.   Initiation Of Official Zoning Map Amendment And Annexation: The process
for official zoning map amendment or the annexation of land can be initiated
only by the council, commission, Community Development Department staff or the
owner of the property upon application of owner or said property owner’s
authorized legal representative. A proposed official zoning map amendment or
the annexation of land may be initiated by the city at the written request of a
property owner.
   D.   Procedures:
      1.   Official Zoning Map Amendment And/Or Annexation Initiated By Council
Or Commission: The council or commission shall follow the procedures for
amendment to the official zoning map as set forth in Idaho Code section 67-6511
and for annexation of land as set forth in Idaho Code section 50-222.
      2.   Official Zoning Map Amendment And/Or Annexation Initiated By The
Property Owner: The owner of a subject property or owner's authorized legal
representative shall complete a preapplication conference with the director
prior to submittal of an application for official zoning map amendment and/or
annexation of land. An application, fees, and public notice in accord with
article A, "General Provisions", of this chapter, shall be provided. The
procedures of Idaho Code sections 67-6511 and 50-222, as applicable, shall be
followed.
      3.   Public Hearings: The commission and council shall hold a public
hearing on the official zoning map amendment and/or annexation of land as set
forth in article A, "General Provisions", of this chapter.
   E.   Development Agreement:
      1.   The applicant may submit or the council may require a development
agreement in conjunction with the annexation or official zoning map amendment
pursuant to Idaho Code section 65-6711A and section
9-5B-4, "Development Agreement", of this article. (Ord. 387, 6-21-2007)
   F.   Required Official Zoning Map Amendment Findings:
      1.   The official zoning map amendment is consistent with the
comprehensive plan and future land use map and reasonably implements the
applicable provisions of the comprehensive plan, a previously approved master
plan development that is consistent with the comprehensive plan that existed at
the time of approval, if applicable; and (Ord. 455, 12-6-2012)
      2.   The official zoning map amendment complies with the regulations in
effect for the proposed zoning district, including the purpose statement, and
is suitable for the proposed permitted uses; and
      3.   The official zoning map amendment has minimal or no adverse impacts
on the natural environment, including, but not limited to, water quality, air
quality, noise, vegetation, riparian corridors, hillsides and other natural
features; and
      4.   The official zoning map amendment is not materially detrimental to
the public health, safety, and welfare, or any significant impacts can be
mitigated satisfactorily as determined by the planning and zoning commission or
city council; and
      5.   Essential public facilities and services, including, but not limited
to, emergency services, transit, work force housing and schools, are available
to support the proposed uses and density or intensity without creating
additional requirements at public cost for such public facilities and services.
   G.   Annexation Findings:
      1.   The proposed annexation of land is in the best of interest of the
city, balances the cost of public services and facilities with anticipated
municipal revenues, and complies with the procedures as set forth in Idaho Code
section 50-222. (Ord. 387, 6-21-2007; amd. Ord. 547, 9-3-2020)
