CITY OF TROY, IDAHO
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Code current through 2021-003, passed 12-8-2021
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
      
11.   WARDS AND BOUNDARIES
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title
   
10.02   Acceptance
   
10.03   Amendments
   
10.04   Maintenance of city code
   
10.05   Repeal of general ordinances
   
10.06   Public utility ordinances
   
10.07   Saving clause
   
10.08   General constructional rule
   
10.09   Plural and singular words
   
10.10   Masculine and feminine gender
   
10.11   Priority of ordinance
   
10.12   Definitions
   
10.13   Captions
   
10.14   Severability
 
   
10.99   Penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE.
   This codification of the general ordinances of the City of Troy is declared
to be the official “City Code of the City of Troy.”
§ 10.02 ACCEPTANCE.
   Any official copy of the code shall be received without further proof in all
courts and in all administrative tribunals of the state.
§ 10.03 AMENDMENTS.
   Any ordinance amending the code shall set forth the title, chapter, and
section number of the section or sections to be amended. All such ordinances
shall comply with the provisions of the code and Idaho Code Title 50, Ch. 9,
regarding passage, execution, and publication of ordinances. All such
amendments shall be promptly forwarded to the codifiers by the City Clerk and
such ordinance shall be promptly published and inserted in its proper place in
each copy of the city code.
§ 10.04 MAINTENANCE OF CITY CODE.
   Upon receipt of each published ordinance from the codifiers, the City Clerk
shall promptly forward a copy of each page thereof to each person having an
official copy of the city code. The City Clerk may collect a fee for each copy
of the city code and an annual fee for maintenance thereof; provided, such fees
shall be established by resolution or ordinance duly passed by the City
Council.
§ 10.05 REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES.
   All general ordinances of the city are hereby repealed, except as herein
specifically preserved or are, by implication, reserved from repeal, subject to
the saving clauses herein contained, excluding without limitation the special
ordinances relating to the following subjects: tax levies; appropriation of
public moneys; boundaries, and annexations; franchises; ordinances granting
special rights to persons or correspondence; contracts; issuance of warrants;
public salaries; ordinances establishing name or vacating streets, alleys, or
other public places; improvement districts; bonds; local elections; the sale or
exchange of real estate; sign ordinances; economic development; urban renewal;
public utilities; zoning; and all special ordinances of any kind, except for
those provisions in such special ordinances which the code expressly amends.
§ 10.06 PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES.
   No ordinance or section thereof relating to railroad or railroad crossings
of streets and other public ways, or relating to the conduct, duties, service,
or rates of public utilities, shall be repealed by the adoption of the code or
by §
10.05, except as this code specifically provides for such repeal.
§ 10.07 SAVING CLAUSE.
   Any ordinance amending or repealing any section of the code shall not be
deemed or construed to abate any pending action based upon such amended or
repealed section, nor shall the passage of such ordinance prevent the arrest,
prosecution, and punishment of any violation of such section committed prior to
the effective date of such ordinance.
§ 10.08 GENERAL CONSTRUCTIONAL RULE.
   Except as expressly stated in the code, all words shall have their ordinary,
generally accepted meaning.
§ 10.09 PLURAL AND SINGULAR WORDS.
   Whenever any word in the code is used in either the singular or in the
plural form, then such word shall be deemed to include both the plural and
singular forms of such word, unless the context indicates an intent otherwise.
§ 10.10 MASCULINE AND FEMININE GENDER.
   When any person is referred to in any section of the code by use of the
masculine gender, then such reference shall be deemed to include the feminine
gender unless the context indicates an intent otherwise.
§ 10.11 PRIORITY OF ORDINANCE.
   In the event of any discrepancy or conflict between the code and any
ordinance passing or amending the same section of the code, then the provisions
of the ordinance shall prevail.
§ 10.12 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGENT. A person acting on behalf of another.
   CITY. The City of Troy, Latah County, State of Idaho.
   CITY ATTORNEY. An attorney appointed by the Mayor to provide general counsel
and legal assistance to the city and to prosecute or defend all civil actions
in which the city is a party.
   COUNCIL or BOARD. The lawfully elected governing body of Troy, Idaho.
   COUNTY. The County of Latah, Idaho.
   CRIME. An act in violation of this code.
   FELONY. A crime as defined under Idaho Code § 18-111.
   IDAPA. Idaho Administrative Regulations. A numbering designation for all
administrative rules in Idaho which denotes rules promulgated in accordance
with the Idaho Administrative Procedure Act, Idaho Code Title 67, Chapter 52.
   INFRACTION. A civil public offense, not constituting a crime, which is
punishable only by a penalty not exceeding $100 and for which no incarceration
may be imposed.
   LICENSE. The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, trade,
profession, or occupation.
   MISDEMEANOR. Every crime, except a felony.
   OCCUPANT. Any person who occupies the whole or any part of such building or
land, whether alone or with others.
   OFFENSE. A crime or other violation of this code.
   OPERATOR. The person who is generally in charge of or responsible for
conducting any business, profession, or enterprise.
   OWNER. Any person owning real or personal property, including any part
owner, joint owner, tenant in common, joint tenant, remainderman, or person
holding a life estate or reversionary interest of any kind.
   PERSON. A human being and any public or private corporation, firm,
partnership, trust, estate, sole proprietorship, association, organization,
government, or any other entity recognized under state law.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Money, goods, chattels, effects, rights in action, and
all written instruments evidencing any pecuniary obligation.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
   STATE. The State of Idaho.
   STREET. All public roads, ways, alleys, and rights-of-way used for the
movement of vehicular traffic, including any public sidewalks adjacent thereto.
   TENANT. Any person who occupies any building or real property for a
consideration to the owner.
§ 10.13 CAPTIONS.
   The captions and titles used at the commencement of each section or division
of the code are used only to indicate the content of the section and shall not
limit, modify, or in any manner affect the scope, meaning, or intent of the
provisions thereafter.
§ 10.14 SEVERABILITY.
   The provisions of this code are hereby declared to be severable and if any
provision of this chapter or the application of such provision to any person or
circumstance is declared invalid for any reason, such declaration shall not
affect the validity of the remaining portions of this code.
§ 10.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person convicted of a violation of any section of this code shall
be fined in a sum not to exceed $100 for any one offense, and such person may
be confined in the municipal or county jail for a period of not more than 30
days.
(Prior Code, § 1-3-1)
   (B)   Any person in default of payment of any fine imposed shall be
imprisoned in the municipal or county jail for a period of one day for each $5
of such fine.
(Prior Code, § 1-3-2)
CHAPTER 11: WARDS AND BOUNDARIES
Section
   
11.01   Boundaries defined
   
11.02   Boundaries established, declared, and ordained
§ 11.01 BOUNDARIES DEFINED.
   The city shall, and is hereby declared to, embrace, include, and contain
within its corporate limits all the territory embraced, included, and
encompassed with the lines and boundaries set forth in §
11.02.
(Prior Code, § 1-10-1) (Ord. 229, passed 5-21-1979)
§ 11.02 BOUNDARIES ESTABLISHED, DECLARED, AND ORDAINED.
   The current city limits are as provided by Ord. 329, as may be amended, on
file in the city office.
(Prior Code, § 1-10-2) (Ord. 329, passed 8-11-1997)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   ELECTIONS
      
31.   CITY COUNCIL
      
32.   CITY OFFICIALS
      
33.   POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
CHAPTER 30: ELECTIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Election poll hours
Initiative and Referendum
   
30.15   Creation of right
   
30.16   Number of petitioners required
   
30.17   Form of petitions
   
30.18   Time for filing petitions
   
30.19   Printing of petition and sheets for signatures
   
30.20   Verification on sheets for signatures
   
30.21   Examination and certification of signatures
   
30.22   Sufficiency of petition, notification, effect of Council action,
election
   
30.23   Form of ballot
   
30.24   Conduct of elections
   
30.25   Costs of elections
   
30.26   Canvass of returns
   
30.27   Prohibited acts
 
   
30.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 ELECTION POLL HOURS.
   The polls of the city for all general and special city elections shall open
at 12:00 p.m. and remain open until 8:00 p.m., at which time they shall close.
(Prior Code, § 1-12-1) (Ord. 333, passed 9-10-1997)
INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM
§ 30.15 CREATION OF RIGHT.
   The people of this city shall have the right to enact ordinances through the
initiative process, and to repeal ordinances through the referendum process,
according to the procedures set forth herein.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-1) (Ord. 263, passed 8-1-1988)
§ 30.16 NUMBER OF PETITIONERS REQUIRED.
   To enact an ordinance by initiative or to repeal an ordinance by referendum,
there shall be attached or appended to the petition the signatures of the legal
voters of the city equal to at least 20% of the total number of voters
registered to vote at the last general election in the city.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-2) (Ord. 263, passed 8-1-1988)
§ 30.17 FORM OF PETITIONS.
   (A)   The initiative petition shall be in substantially the following form:
 
Initiative Petition to the Mayor and Council of the City of Troy, Idaho:
We, the undersigned citizens and legal voters of the City of Troy, respectfully
demand that the following proposed ordinance, to wit: (setting out full text of
measure proposed) shall be submitted to the legal voters of the City of Troy,
for their approval or rejection at an election to be called in accordance with
state law, and each for himself or herself says: I have personally signed this
petition; I am a legal voter of the City of Troy; my residence and post office
are correctly written after my name.
Name ________________ Street and No. __________________ P.O. _________________
(Here follow numbered lines for signatures)
 
   (B)   The petition for referendum on any ordinance passed by the City
Council shall be in substantially the same form with appropriate title and
changes, setting out in full the text of the ordinance to be referred to the
people for their approval or rejection.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-3) (Ord. 263, passed 8-1-1988)
§ 30.18 TIME FOR FILING PETITIONS.
   Referendum petitions with the requisite number of signatures attached shall
be filed with the City Clerk not less than 60 days following the final adoption
of the ordinance to be subject to referendum.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-4) (Ord. 263, passed 8-1-1988)
§ 30.19 PRINTING OF PETITION AND SHEETS FOR SIGNATURES.
   (A)   Before or at the time of initiating the circulation of any petition or
referendum, the person or persons, organization or organizations under whose
authority the petition is to be circulated, shall send or deliver to the City
Clerk a copy of such petition duly signed by at least 20 electors eligible to
sign such petition. The Clerk shall immediately examine the petition and
specify the form and kind and size of paper on which the petition shall be
printed and circulated for further signatures. All petitions and sheets for
signatures shall be printed on a good quality bond or ledger paper, on pages
eight and one-half inches in width and 13 inches in length, with a margin of
one and three-fourths inches at the top for binding, and the sheets for
signatures shall have numbered lines thereon from one to 20 for signatures.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall indicate in writing on the petition that he or
she has approved it as to form. The Clerk shall inform the person or persons,
organization or organizations under whose authority the petition is to be
circulated, in writing, that the petition must be perfected with the required
number of certified signatures within 60 days following the date of approval as
to form. Any petition that has not been perfected with the required number of
certified signatures within the 60 days allowed shall be declared null and void
ab initio in its entirety.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-5) (Ord. 263, passed 8-1-1988)
§ 30.20 VERIFICATION ON SHEETS FOR SIGNATURES.
   Each and every signature sheet of each petition containing signatures shall
be verified on the face thereof in substantially the following form by the
person who circulated said sheet of the petition, by his or her affidavit
thereon, as a part thereof:
State of Idaho      )
)
County of Latah   )
I, _____________, swear, under penalty of perjury, that every person who signed
this sheet of the foregoing petition signed his or her name thereto in my
presence. I believe that each has stated his or her name and the accompanying
required information on the signature sheet correctly, and that the person was
eligible to sign this petition.
Signature _________________________________
Post Office Address ________________________
Subscribed and sworn to before me this ________ day of _________, 20______.
(Notary Seal)
Notary Public ____________________________
Residing at ______________________________
 
(Prior Code, § 1-11-6) (Ord. 263, passed 8-1-1988)
§ 30.21 EXAMINATION AND CERTIFICATION OF SIGNATURES.
   All petitions with attached signature sheets shall be presented on the same
day to the City Clerk, who shall make a cursory examination of them to
determine whether the petitions apparently contain the necessary number of
signatures.
   (A)   Grounds for rejection.
      (1)   If the total number of signatures on the petitions is not
sufficient to satisfy the number required by §
30.16, all petitions with attached signature sheets shall be retained by the
City Clerk, who shall notify in writing the person filing the petition of the
number of signatures needed, and further signatures may be gathered, if within
the time limit set by §
30.19.
      (2)   (a)   If the cursory examination of the signature sheet reveals any
of the following, the City Clerk shall summarily reject such signatures and
they shall not be counted:
            1.   Erasures on any signature;
            2.   Illegible or undecipherable signatures;
            3.   Signatures not properly identified by all of the information
required on the sheet;
            4.   Duplicate signatures; or
            5.   Signatures of persons who have requested in writing to have
their names removed from the petition.
         (b)   Each rejected signature shall be drawn through with ink and
initialed by the Clerk. If the total number of signatures not rejected is not
sufficient to satisfy the number required by §
30.16, all petitions with attached signatures sheets shall be retained by the
Clerk, who shall notify in writing the person filling the petition of the
number of signatures needed, and further signatures may be gathered if, within
the time limit of §
30.19.
   (B)   Petitions filed with the City Clerk.
      (1)   All petitions presented to the City Clerk found to apparently
contain the necessary number of signatures, after the cursory examination
provided for in division (A) above, shall be filed with the City Clerk and
become public records of the city not to be returned.
      (2)   The City Clerk shall examine each such signature purported to be
that of a registered elector of the city, and compare each such signature with
the registration documents available to the City Clerk. The City Clerk shall
summarily reject all signatures which are not the signatures of a registered
elector of the city; and such rejected signatures shall not be counted. Each
rejected signature shall be drawn through with ink and initialed by the City
Clerk. The City Clerk, within ten days after the filing of the petition, shall
complete his or her examination. The City Clerk shall certify each signature
found to comply with all of the requirements of this subchapter by an
appropriate mark following each signature. The City Clerk shall total the
number of certified signatures, and if found to total the number of signatures
required by §
30.16, shall proceed as provided in §
30.22.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-7) (Ord. 263, passed 8-1-1988)
§ 30.22 SUFFICIENCY OF PETITION, NOTIFICATION, EFFECT OF COUNCIL ACTION,
ELECTION.
   (A)   In the event that a petition filed with a City Clerk does not contain
the required number of certified signatures, the City Clerk shall inform the
person or organization under whose authority the petition was circulated that
the petition is defective for lack of certified signatures, and specify the
number of additional signatures required to make the petition valid. The
petition must be perfected within 30 days of the date that the City Clerk finds
the petition defective for lack of certified signatures. If the petition is not
perfected within the 30-day period, the Clerk shall declare the petition null
and void ab initio in its entirety.
   (B)   In the event that a petition filed with a City Clerk is found by the
City Clerk to contain the required number of certified signatures, the City
Clerk shall promptly, by certified mail, inform the petitioners, and shall also
notify the City Council, at its next meeting, that the initiative or referendum
petition is in proper form.
   (C)   If the petition is for a referendum, the City Council shall have 30
days from the date of certification of the petition to repeal the ordinance
being referred to the voters. In the event the Council repeals the ordinance,
the referendum petition shall be declared null and void.
   (D)   If the petition is an initiative petition, the City Council shall have
30 days to pass an ordinance substantially as proposed by the petition. In the
event the Council passes such an ordinance, the initiative petition shall be
null and void.
   (E)   In the event the City Council neither repeals the ordinance which is
the subject of referendum petition, nor enacts an ordinance which is the
subject of initiative petition, an election shall be ordered by the City Clerk
to be conducted citywide. A special election for initiative or referendum shall
be provided not more than 90 days from the next date of submittal of the
petition, the initiative or referendum shall be submitted at the time of the
next municipal election.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-8) (Ord. 263, passed 8-1-1988)
§ 30.23 FORM OF BALLOT.
   The City Council shall prepare a ballot for an initiative or referendum
election in one of the following ways.
   (A)   If the full text of the ordinance or proposed ordinance to be voted
upon does not exceed 100 words in length, it may be set out in full on the
election ballot.
   (B)   If the full text of the ordinance or proposed ordinance to be voted
upon exceeds 100 words in length, and the Council votes not to have it printed
at length on the election ballot, it shall, with the assistance of the City
Attorney, prepare a short title and description of the ordinance or proposed
ordinance which shall clearly and impartially state its purpose and effect,
which short title and description shall be printed on the election ballot.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-9) (Ord. 263, passed 8-1-1988)
§ 30.24 CONDUCT OF ELECTION.
   Initiative or referendum elections, whether special or general, shall be
conducted and the results thereof canvassed and certified in all respects as
near as practicable, in like manner as general elections, except as otherwise
provided.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-10) (Ord. 263, passed 8-1-1988)
§ 30.25 COSTS OF ELECTIONS.
   Upon the filing of any initiative or referendum petition with the City
Clerk, petitioners shall post bond with the Clerk in an amount sufficient to
offset the estimated expense of conducting the election, unless such election
is to be held at the time of a regular general municipal election. As near as
practicable after the election, the total actual expenses of the election shall
be tabulated by the City Clerk. The petitioners shall be jointly and severally
liable for payment into the City Treasury of the whole amount of the expenses
of such election.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-11) (Ord. 263, passed 8-1-1988)
§ 30.26 CANVASS OF RETURNS.
   The Mayor and Council shall meet within five days after said election to
canvass the votes cast at such election, and the City Clerk shall immediately
announce the results. Any initiative measure approved by a majority of the
votes cast shall be in full force and effect from the date of such
announcement. Any ordinance which is the subject of a referendum receiving less
than a majority of the votes cast shall be repealed, effective on the date of
such announcement.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-12) (Ord. 263, passed 8-1-1988)
§ 30.27 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   A person is guilty of a misdemeanor who:
   (A)   Signs any name other than his or her own to any initiative or
referendum petition;
   (B)   Knowingly signs his or her name more than once on the same initiative
or referendum petition;
   (C)   Signs his or her name to any initiative or referendum petition,
knowing that he or she is not a registered city elector;
   (D)   Witnesses the signing of a petition by a person the witness knows is
not a qualified city elector;
   (E)   Wilfully or knowingly circulates, publishes, or exhibits any false
statement or representation concerning the contents, purport, or effect of any
initiative or referendum petition for the purpose of obtaining any signature to
any such petition, or for the purpose of persuading any person to sign any such
petition;
   (F)   Presents to any officer for filing any initiative or referendum
petition to which is attached, appended, or subscribed any signature which the
person so filing such petition knows to be false or fraudulent, or not the
genuine signature of the person purporting to sign such petition, or whose name
is attached, appended, or subscribed thereto;
   (G)   Circulates or causes to circulate any initiative or referendum
petition, knowing the same to contain false, forged, or fictitious names;
   (H)   Makes any false affidavit concerning any initiative or referendum
petition or the signatures appended thereto; or
   (I)   Offers, proposes, or threatens for any pecuniary reward or
consideration:
      (1)   To offer, propose, threaten, or attempt to sell, hinder, or delay
any initiative or referendum petition or any part thereof or any signatures
thereon;
      (2)   To offer, propose, or threaten to desist from beginning, promoting,
or circulating any initiative or referendum petition; or
      (3)   To offer, propose, attempt, or threaten in any manner or form to
use any recall petition or any power or promotion or opposition in any manner
or form for extortion, blackmail, or secret or private intimidation of any
person or business interest.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-13) (Ord. 263, passed 8-1-1988) Penalty, see §
30.99
§ 30.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person found in violation of §
30.27 shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $300 or by incarceration in the
county jail for a period not to exceed 30 days, or by both such fine and
imprisonment. Each fraudulent signature or wrongfully filed petition shall
constitute a separate violation.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-14) (Ord. 263, passed 8-1-1988)
CHAPTER 31: CITY COUNCIL
Section
   
31.01   Powers
   
31.02   Terms
   
31.03   Meetings
   
31.04   Vacancies
   
31.05   Special meetings
   
31.06   Council President
   
31.07   Attendance at meetings
§ 31.01 POWERS.
   The legislative authority of the city shall be vested in the Council, which
shall consist of four members, one-half of whom shall be elected at each
general city election. Qualifications for the office of Council member shall be
the same as set forth for Mayor in §
32.25. All Council members shall be selected at large and shall be selected by
popular vote of all of the electors voting at a regular election.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-1)
§ 31.02 TERMS.
   Each Council member shall hold office for a term of four years and until his
or her successor is elected and qualified. Council members elected at each
general city election shall be installed at the first meeting in January
following election. The manner of conducting that first meeting shall be as
follows: The incumbents shall meet and conduct such business as may be
necessary to conclude the fiscal matters of the preceding year; the newly
elected shall then subscribe to the oath of office, be presented certificates
of election, assume the duties of their position, and participate in the
conduct of such business as may be necessary. The first item of business
following the installation of the new members shall be the election of one of
the members of the Council as President of the Council. Two Council members
shall be elected at each general city election.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-2)
§ 31.03 MEETINGS.
   Regular meetings of the City Council shall be held in the Council chambers
on the second and fourth Wednesdays of each month at the hour of 5:00 p.m. For
the purpose of holding regular or special meetings, a number of Council members
less than a majority may compel the attendance of absent members. Regular or
special meetings of the Council may be recessed until further notice or until a
call by the Mayor. At all meetings of the Council, a majority of the full
Council shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business unless
otherwise provided by law. A question before the Council shall be decided by a
majority of the members present.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-3) (Ord. 2010-01, passed 4-14-2010)
§ 31.04 VACANCIES.
   A vacancy on the Council shall be filled by appointment made by the Mayor,
with the consent of the Council, which said appointee shall serve only until
the next general city election, at which time such vacancy shall be filled for
the balance of the original term.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-4)
§ 31.05 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   One-half plus one of the members of the full Council shall have the power to
call special meetings of the Council, the object of which shall be submitted to
the members of the Council in writing. The call and object, as well as the
disposition thereof, shall be entered upon the journal of the Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-5)
§ 31.06 COUNCIL PRESIDENT.
   (A)   The President of the Council shall be elected by the remaining members
of the Council as provided in §
31.02. He or she shall preside at all meetings of the Council in the absence of
the Mayor and, while presiding, he or she shall retain his or her right to vote
on any issue before the Council. During the absence of the Mayor or during the
inability of the Mayor to serve for any reason, the President shall serve in
the capacity of Mayor, and while so serving, his or her actions shall have the
same authority as if the act were performed by the Mayor.
   (B)   If for any reason, the President of the Council becomes unable to
serve or if he or she moves his or her residence from the city, the Council
shall, at the next regular meeting, elect some other member of the Council to
serve as President of the Council until the end of the fiscal year.
   (C)   A President of the Council shall be elected for a term of one year or
until his or her successor is elected and qualified, and an election for
President of the Council shall be held at the first meeting of each and every
fiscal year.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-6)
§ 31.07 ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS.
   The Mayor, with the consent of a majority of the Council members present at
any regular meeting, may levy a fine of $5 for each absence of a member from a
regular meeting of the Council, unless said absence has been previously excused
by either the Mayor or the President of the Council. Three unexcused absences
in succession by any member shall constitute notice by said member of his or
her inability to perform the duties of Council member and his or her office
shall thereupon be declared vacant by the Mayor and a successor elected, as
provided in §
31.04.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-7)
CHAPTER 32: CITY OFFICIALS
Section
Officers
   
32.01   Appointments
   
32.02   Terms
   
32.03   Removal
   
32.04   Clerk
   
32.05   City Attorney
   
32.06   Chief of Police
   
32.07   Fire Chief
   
32.08   Treasurer
   
32.09   Bonds
   
32.10   Salaries
Mayor
   
32.25   Qualifications
   
32.26   Term
   
32.27   Authority
   
32.28   Messages
   
32.29   Meetings
   
32.30   Accounts and reports
   
32.31   Police powers
   
32.32   General powers
   
32.33   May require aid
   
32.34   Remission of fines
   
32.35   Veto power
   
32.36   Vacancy
City Superintendent
   
32.50   Appointment
   
32.51   Duties
OFFICERS
§ 32.01 APPOINTMENTS.
   The Mayor, with the consent of the Council, shall appoint a Clerk, Attorney,
Treasurer, and such other officers as may be deemed necessary for the efficient
operation of the city. The Clerk and Treasurer, before entering upon their
duties, shall execute a bond to the city conditioned upon the faithful
performance of their duties, each such bond to be in the penal sum of $15,000.
All official bonds shall be approved by the Council, and when so approved,
shall be filed with the Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-1)
§ 32.02 TERMS.
   All appointive officers shall hold office for a period of one year, unless
their appointment shall be otherwise governed by the provisions of this code
and until their successors are appointed and qualified.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-2)
§ 32.03 REMOVAL.
   Any appointive officer may, at any time, be removed by official action of
the Mayor; provided, that a majority of the Council shall concur in said
action; provided further, all officers holding their position by virtue of
appointment without the official concurrence of the Council may be removed or
discharged at the pleasure of the appointing power.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-3)
§ 32.04 CLERK.
   The duties of the Clerk, appointed as provided in §
32.01, shall be as follows.
   (A)   Keep seal, ordinances, and records.
      (1)   The Clerk shall be custodian of the seal and affix the same to
documents as in this code provided or as may be required by law.
      (2)   The Clerk shall also be custodian of all public records, documents,
ordinances, resolutions, and orders of the Council and such other materials as
may be delivered into his or her custody.
   (B)   Attend meetings, keep minutes, and records. The Clerk shall attend all
sessions of the Council and keep a correct journal of the proceedings, and he
or she shall keep in a separate book a record of ordinances passed by the
Council, and he or she shall see that the official copies of this code on file
in his or her office are kept up to date with all replacement pages inserted in
their proper places according to the direction of the ordinances passed by the
Council.
   (C)   Report to Council. The Clerk shall prepare and present to the Council,
at its regular meeting each month, a full and complete statement of the
financial transactions of his or her office during the preceding month. Said
statement shall set forth all receipts for licenses issued; money received with
applications for licenses which are to come before the Council; all other funds
received by him or her as Clerk, and said report shall give a detailed
explanation of disbursements, including a statement of the aggregate of
warrants and checks of each fund issued, of warrants redeemed and checks paid
during the month and warrants and checks outstanding against each fund at the
close of such month. He or she shall also, at the close of each fiscal year,
present to the Council an annual report covering the operations for the entire
year, which shall also contain a description of the bonds issued and sold
during the year, and the terms of sale; and he or she shall itemize each and
every expense thereof. The Clerk shall also make such additional reports and
furnish such other data from the records and files of his or her office as may
be requested by the Mayor or Council.
   (D)   Copies of city records. It shall be the duty of the Clerk to furnish
any city officer with a certified copy of any record, paper, or public document
on file in his or her office or in his or her custody, for the use of such
officer in the discharge of his or her official duties, and he or she shall
also furnish a certified copy of any such record, paper, or document to any
other person upon the payment in advance of $0.50 per folio of 100 words.
   (E)   Books and records. The Clerk shall keep such books and permanent
records of the transactions and business of his or her office as may be
necessary to accurately disclose all transactions and business of his or her
office. He or she shall also countersign all warrants and checks and keep a
warrant register and abstract of expenditures, showing the numbers and amounts
of warrants issued and the person to whom issued, the date redeemed, the date
interest paid, and the several funds against which each of said warrants is
drawn.
   (F)   Audit claims. The Clerk shall file and audit all claims against the
city and shall submit the same to the Council at the next regular meeting or
when ordered by the Council to do so.
   (G)   Licenses. The Clerk shall issue all licenses, a duplicate of which
shall be kept on file, but no license shall be issued to any person unless fees
and charges fixed by provisions of this code shall have first been paid, for
which payment the Clerk shall issue a receipt in duplicate. The Clerk shall
endorse upon the receipt and duplicate receipt the number of the license
issued, the number of the application for license, and the duplicate of such
receipt so issued shall be kept on file with the duplicate license.
   (H)   Money to Treasurer. Within ten days after the filing of his or her
monthly report, as provided in this section, the Clerk shall deposit with the
Treasurer all funds collected by him or her during the preceding month, less
refunds of money paid on applications for licenses which had been disallowed by
the Council.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-4)
§ 32.05 CITY ATTORNEY.
   The City Attorney shall be the legal advisor of the Mayor and Council. He or
she shall commence, prosecute, and defend all suits or actions on behalf of the
city, or that may be ordered by the Council. He or she shall prepare all
ordinances required by the Council and attend all Council meetings and give his
or her opinion upon any matters submitted to him or her by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-5)
§ 32.06 CHIEF OF POLICE.
   (A)   The Chief of Police, under the direction of the Mayor, shall direct
and control the police of the city. He or she shall preserve the peace and good
order of the city, quell riots, arrest and bring all violators of the
provisions of this code before the Police Judge for trial, either with or
without process, serve all processes issued by the Police Judge to him or her
directed, and enforce all orders and judgments of said courts, and take such
measures as shall secure the peace and good order of all public meetings. The
Chief of Police, in execution of his or her duty, with or without warrant, in
arresting any person accused or suspected of crime or in the suppression of any
riot or unlawful assembly, or in the prevention of the violation of the
provisions of this code, shall have the power to call upon any citizen or
bystander to assist him or her in the execution of his or her duty. He or she
shall inquire into and report to the Police Judge all violations of the
provisions of this code and criminal laws of this state, and cause all
ordinances passed by the Council to be enforced. He or she shall take into
custody with or without process, any person found violating the provisions of
this code and bring such person before the Police Judge to be dealt with
according to law.
   (B)   The Chief of Police shall, with the consent of the Mayor, appoint such
special police officers as may be required, but no such special police officers
shall be appointed for a period longer than ten days, without the consent of
the Council, and the same shall not be reappointed at the expiration of the ten
days without the consent of the Council. All such appointments of special
police officers shall be reported to the Council by the Mayor at the next
regular meeting after such appointment.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-6)
§ 32.07 FIRE CHIEF.
   (A)   The Chief of the Fire Department shall have, subject to the approval
of the Council, supervision of all the affairs and business of the Department,
control of all Fire Department property and equipment, and the work of all the
members and employees thereof, and while attending fires, answering fire calls
and returning therefrom, subject to the approval of the Council, shall have the
authority of a police officer.
   (B)   The First Assistant Chief and Second Assistant Chief shall assist the
Chief of the Fire Department in his or her duties. In the absence of the Chief
of the Fire Department, they shall perform the duties of such Chief.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-7)
§ 32.08 TREASURER.
   (A)   The Treasurer shall be the custodian of all monies belonging to the
city. He or she shall keep a separate account of each fund or appropriation and
the debits and credits belonging thereto. He or she shall give a receipt to
every person paying money into the Treasury, thereon specifying the date of
payment and on what account paid. He or she shall also file copies of such
receipts with his or her monthly reports. He or she shall, at the end of each
and every month, and as often as may be required, render an account to the
Council, under oath, showing the state of the Treasury at the date of such
account and the balance of money in the Treasury. He or she shall also
accompany such account with a statement of all receipts and disbursements,
together with all warrants redeemed and paid by him or her, which said
warrants, with any and all vouchers held by him or her, shall be filed with his
or her said account in the office of the Clerk.
   (B)   If the Treasurer shall neglect or fail from the space of ten days from
the end of each and every month, to render his or her said account, his or her
office shall be declared vacant, and the Council shall fill the vacancy by
appointment. The Treasurer shall deliver to his or her successor in office all
books, money, papers, and any other personal property pertaining to his or her
office.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-8)
§ 32.09 BONDS.
   The several officers in this section named shall give bonds to the city with
two or more sufficient sureties in the penal sums as follows, provided surety
bonds may be furnished at the expense of the city in lieu of personal bonds:
   (A)   Clerk: $1,500; and
   (B)   Treasurer: $5,000.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-9)
§ 32.10 SALARIES.
   The salaries of all officers shall set by resolution of the Council and
shall be paid monthly immediately following the first Council meeting of the
month.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-10)
MAYOR
§ 32.25 QUALIFICATIONS.
   Any person shall be eligible to hold the office of Mayor who is a qualified
elector of the city at the time of his or her election and who remains a
qualified elector during his or her term of office.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-1)
§ 32.26 TERM.
   The term of the office of Mayor shall be for a period of four years, except
as otherwise specifically provided in this code or in state law. He or she
shall take office at the time and in the same manner as provided in Chapter 31
of this code for the installation of Council members.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-2)
§ 32.27 AUTHORITY.
   The Mayor shall be the chief administrative official of the city. He or she
shall preside over all meetings of the Council and determine the order of
business, subject to such rules as the Council may prescribe. He or she shall
have a vote only when the Council is equally divided. The Mayor shall have the
superintending control of all the officers and affairs of the city. He or she
shall preserve order and take care that the provisions of this code and of
state law are complied with and enforced.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-3)
§ 32.28 MESSAGES.
   The Mayor shall, from time to time, communicate to the Council such
information and recommend such measures as, in his or her opinion, may tend to
the improvement of the finances, the protection, health, security, comfort, and
general welfare and prosperity of the city.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-4)
§ 32.29 MEETINGS.
   The Mayor shall have power to call special meetings of the Council, the
object of which shall be submitted to the Council in writing. The object and
call, as well as the disposition thereof, shall be entered upon the journal by
the Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-5)
§ 32.30 ACCOUNTS AND REPORTS.
   The Mayor shall have the power, when he or she deems it necessary, to
require any officer of the city to exhibit his or her accounts, books, or other
papers, and to make written reports pertaining to his or her office to the
Council.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-6)
§ 32.31 POLICE POWERS.
   The Mayor shall have such jurisdiction as may be vested in him or her by the
provisions of this code over all places within five miles of the corporate
limits of the city, for the enforcement of any health or quarantine law and
regulation thereof, and shall have jurisdiction in all matters vested in him or
her by the provisions of this code within one mile of the corporate limits of
the city and over such properties as may be owned by the city, regardless of
the location of said properties.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-7)
§ 32.32 GENERAL POWERS.
   The Mayor shall have and exercise such powers, prerogatives, and authority
as is conferred by the laws of the state or as may be conferred on him or her
by the Council, and he or she shall have the power to administer oaths,
solemnize marriages, issue marriage certificates, and he or she shall sign all
contracts and conveyances in the name or and on behalf of the city. The Mayor
may receive the sum of $5 for solemnizing a marriage.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-8)
§ 32.33 MAY REQUIRE AID.
   The Mayor shall have the power to call on every male inhabitant in the city
over the age of 21 years to aid in enforcing the laws of the city.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-9)
§ 32.34 REMISSION OF FINES.
   The Mayor shall have the power and authority to remit fines and forfeitures,
and to grant reprieves and pardons for all offenses arising under the
provisions of this code.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-10)
§ 32.35 VETO POWER.
   The Mayor shall have power to veto or sign any ordinance passed by the
Council; provided that any ordinance vetoed by the Mayor may be passed over his
or her veto by a vote of one-half plus one of the members of the full Council,
notwithstanding the veto, and should the Mayor neglect or refuse to sign any
ordinance, and return the same with his or her objections, in writing, at the
next regular meeting of the Council, the same shall become law without his or
her signature.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-11)
§ 32.36 VACANCY.
   (A)   In case of a temporary vacancy in the office of Mayor due to absence
or disability, the President of the Council shall exercise the office of Mayor
during such disability or temporary absence, and until the Mayor shall return.
   (B)   (1)   When a vacancy occurs in the office of Mayor by reason of death,
resignation, or permanent disability, the Council shall fill the vacancy from
within or without the Council as may be deemed in the best interests of the
city.
      (2)   Said appointee shall serve until the next general city election, at
which election a Mayor shall be elected for the full four-year term.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-12)
CITY SUPERINTENDENT
§ 32.50 APPOINTMENT.
   The Mayor may appoint, with approval of the Council, a City Superintendent,
who shall hold office for the duration of his or her appointment unless sooner
removed by the Mayor, with the concurrence of the Council.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-1)
§ 32.51 DUTIES.
   The City Superintendent shall have charge of the superintending of all
municipal works as follows.
   (A)   Streets and alleys. He or she shall supervise the grading, surfacing,
repairs, and maintenance of all streets and alleys.
   (B)   Sewer. He or she shall supervise the installation and maintenance of
all sewer lines in the municipality, except the installation of sewer projects
which are accomplished by contract.
   (C)   Water. He or she shall supervise the installation and maintenance of
all water mains and water services, except the installation of water mains so
accomplished by contract.
   (D)   Electrical. Electrical manufacture and distribution systems.
   (E)   Equipment. He or she shall have charge of and supervise the repair and
upkeep of all city works equipment.
   (F)   Employment and supervision. He or she may employ, with the consent of
the Council, such help as is needed to carry on the work of the city, such help
to be directly under his or her supervision.
   (G)   Other duties. The Superintendent shall be responsible for the
accomplishment of such other work of the city which the Council may from time
to time assign to him or her.
   (H)   To make report. The Superintendent shall present to the Council at its
regular meeting each month a written report of the city work accomplished the
preceding month and also, as far as can be foreseen, city work planned for the
current month.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-2)
CHAPTER 33: POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
Section
   
33.01   Depository designated
   
33.02   Official newspaper
§ 33.01 DEPOSITORY DESIGNATED.
   The First Bank of Troy is hereby designated the official depository for
funds of the city. The Treasurer is hereby ordered and directed to keep all
monies belonging to, or in the care of, the Treasurer in the above named
depository; provided, however, that when so authorized by the Mayor and
Council, certain city funds may be, by the Treasurer, invested in securities as
authorized by law.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-1)
§ 33.02 OFFICIAL NEWSPAPER.
   The “Daily Idahonian” is hereby designated the official newspaper of the
city, and all ordinances, notices, and publications required by law to be given
publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the city shall be
published in said “Daily Idahonian.”
(Prior Code, § 1-8-1) (Ord. 260, passed 4-21-1987)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   SOLID WASTE
      
51.   WATER AND SEWER
CHAPTER 50: SOLID WASTE
Section
Solid Waste Disposal
   
50.01   Short title
   
50.02   Definitions
   
50.03   Solid waste collection from entire city
   
50.04   Separation of solid waste
   
50.05   Compulsory service
   
50.06   Regulations
   
50.07   Regulations related to hauling
   
50.08   Solid waste accumulation unlawful
   
50.09   Collection from private property
   
50.10   Solid waste produced by business units
   
50.11   Burning prohibited
   
50.12   Solid waste disposal prohibited
   
50.13   Theft of service
   
50.14   Suppression of nuisances
   
50.15   Rates
Garbage Removal System
   
50.30   Definitions
   
50.31   Responsible authority
   
50.32   Compulsory use of the system
   
50.33   Refuse collection
   
50.34   Refuse accumulation unlawful
   
50.35   Containers
   
50.36   Collecting period; fee
   
50.37   Method of payment; Sanitary Fund
   
50.38   Licensing and contracting
 
   
50.99   Penalty
SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL
§ 50.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and cited as the “Solid Waste Ordinance of
the City of Troy, Idaho.”
(Prior Code, § 4-5-1) (Ord. 258, passed 1-19-1987)
§ 50.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. When not
inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense include the
future, words in the plural number include the singular number, and words in
the singular number include the plural number. The word SHALL is always
mandatory and not merely directory. These definitions shall apply to all rules,
regulations, or agreements entered into pursuant to this subchapter.
   ASHES. The residue from the burning of wood, coal, coke, or other
combustible materials.
   BAGS. See definition of CONTAINERS.
   BUNDLE. Small trees, branches, shrub and brush trimmings or newspapers and
magazines securely tied together forming an easily handled package not to
exceed four feet in length and/or 35 pounds in weight.
   BUSINESS. An individual, partnership, association, corporation, company,
trust, firm, estate, joint venture, unit, agent, public agency, industry, or
other legal entity operating as a self-contained independent enterprise, such
as a beauty shop, retail shop, professional office, and the like.
   BUSINESS UNIT. Each space occupied by an individual business. A BUSINESS
UNIT shall be deemed occupied when either occupied or producing solid waste.
   CITY. City of Troy, Idaho.
   CONTAINERS.
      (1)   BAGS. Plastic sacks designed to store solid waste with sufficient
wall strength to maintain physical integrity when lifted by top. Total weight
of a BAG and its contents shall not exceed 35 pounds for collection services.
      (2)   COMPACTOR CONTAINER. A receptacle designed to compact solid waste
and to be moved by mechanical means so that its contents can be emptied.
      (3)   MANUAL CONTAINER (GARBAGE CAN). A receptacle with a capacity of
greater than 20 gallons but not more than 36 gallons, tapered so that it is
larger at the top than at the bottom, made of metal, plastic, or fiberglass
having a tightfitting lid which completely covers the top of the container,
rodentproof, and having handles of adequate strength for lifting.
      (4)   MECHANICAL CONTAINER. A receptacle designed for loose solid waste
to be lifted by mechanical means so that its contents can be emptied.
   COUNCIL. City Council of the City of Troy, Idaho.
   CURB LINE/CURBSIDE. The portion of right-of-way or private property adjacent
to the traveled portion of the city rights-of-way used for the placement of all
solid waste containers on collection days. Containers shall be placed as close
as is reasonably possible to the traveled right-of-way without obstructing
parking lanes or public sidewalks.
   DIRECTOR. City Supervisor or such person so designated by City Supervisor or
Mayor.
   DISPOSAL. Disposing of solid waste in a disposal site; disposal of solid
waste for resource recovery or transportation to another site or facility.
   DISPOSAL SITE. Waste facility or site where solid waste is disposed of,
reduced or recovered, such as sanitary landfills, transfer stations,
incinerators, and resource recovery facilities which are licensed or approved
to receive for processing solid waste by all governmental bodies or agencies
having jurisdiction.
   EQUIPMENT. Equipment used by a franchisee within the city for the collection
or disposal of solid waste.
   FRANCHISEE. The person, persons, or corporation holding a contract and/or
franchise issued or granted by the city authorizing such person to operate,
conduct, or maintain a municipal solid waste collection and disposal system
upon or over any streets, alleys, and public ways of the city.
   GARBAGE CAN. See definition of CONTAINERS.
   GENERATOR. Any resident of a residential unit or business unit who creates
or produces hazardous waste.
   HAUL. An individual trip transporting solid waste from the producer, or any
other point within the city to a disposal site.
   INSPECTOR. The authorized employee or agent of the city designated by the
director as having the duty of enforcement of this subchapter.
   PREMISES. Land and all buildings and structures thereon, including, but not
excluding by terms of enumeration, single- or multi-family dwellings, rooming
houses, apartment houses, hospitals, convalescent and nursing homes, hotels and
motels, restaurants, drive-in establishments, schools (kindergartens, academic,
trade, or industrial), and any other place of habitation, office, shop, or
establishment, or place of conducting a business, trade, or occupation.
   PRODUCER. Residential unit or business unit, as defined in this section.
   RESIDENT. Every person in possession, charge, custody, or control of any
premises where solid waste is created or accumulated.
   RESIDENTIAL UNIT. A dwelling within the corporate limits of the city
occupied by a person or group of persons. A RESIDENTIAL UNIT shall be deemed
occupied when either occupied or producing solid waste. Each UNIT within an
apartment or condominium dwelling shall be treated as an individual dwelling
unit, unless served by a mechanical container or compactor.
   SERVICE. Solid waste collection and disposal of, or resource recovery from
solid waste, as further defined by agreement.
   SOLID WASTE. All solid waste or semisolid waste, including, without
limitation: bulky, household, hazardous, infectious garbage, rubbish, refuse,
trash, ashes or swill, newsprint or wastepaper, corrugated paper or cardboard,
grass clippings, compost, discarded appliances, equipment, furniture, vehicle
parts, tires, vegetable or animal wastes, wire, cement, demolition, or other
wastes resulting from industrial, commercial, agricultural, institutional, and
residential activities. Includes material that is no longer directly usable by
the producer, owner, resident, or possessor of the material, but may be
recovered by another person. SOLID WASTE shall include materials that may have
value and thus be recovered. The fact that materials are separated or
segregated from other SOLID WASTE does not remove the materials from this
definition. SOLID WASTE shall include waste presently in liquid form. No
material shall be considered SOLID WASTE until placed for collection.
      (1)   BULKY WASTE. Stoves, refrigerators, water tanks, washing machines,
furniture, appliances, springs, mattresses, carpets, demolition, commercial,
industrial, tree stumps, tree trunks, logs, vehicle bodies and parts, wire,
large dead animals (over ten pounds), cement, sheet rock, sod, dirt, tires,
rock, loose branches, or any item weighing over 60 pounds or over four feet in
length.
      (2)   HAZARDOUS WASTE. Any chemical, compound, mixture, substance, or
article which is designated by the United States Environmental Protection
Agency or other appropriate agency of the federal government or state to be
HAZARDOUS, as that term is defined by or pursuant to law.
      (3)   HEAVY WASTE. Heavy waste and materials resulting from excavations,
construction, remodeling, repair, or demolition operations including rocks,
tree trunks, logs, cement, concrete, and sod.
      (4)   HOUSEHOLD WASTE. The waste produced by an ordinary residential unit
fitting into a bag, manual container, or bundle less than four feet in length.
Does not include bulky, infectious, or hazardous wastes or any type of solid
waste that is not normally collected by the franchisee at residential or
business units, on the regular collection routes.
      (5)   INFECTIOUS WASTE. Any material, chemical, compound, mixture,
substance, or article known to be INFECTIOUS by the producer or which is
designated by the United States Environmental Protection Agency or other
appropriate agency of the federal government or the state to be INFECTIOUS, as
that term is commonly defined or defined by or pursuant to law.
      (6)   PUTRESCIBLE WASTE. Solid waste which has capacity to become rotten
or foul.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-2) (Ord. 258, passed 1-19-1987)
§ 50.03 SOLID WASTE COLLECTION FROM ENTIRE CITY.
   (A)   All solid waste from the entire confines of the city shall be placed
for collection by the producer as provided for in this subchapter, and such
regulations as the Council may approve, and shall be collected by a duly
authorized franchisee or contractor in order to maintain and preserve the
sanitation and thereby the health and welfare of the city.
   (B)   The Council reserves the right to issue a franchise to such
franchisees as are necessary to carry out the terms of this subchapter. The
Council reserves the right to award a franchise contract for the entire city or
any portion thereof if deemed to be in the public interest. The Council may
advertise for proposals or bids to provide collection services and may award
one or more franchises within the city based on cost and a subjective
evaluation of the services offered by the proponent or bidder. The Council may
enter into a contract or contracts for solid waste services after reviewing and
giving fair consideration to proponents.
   (C)   The Council shall charge a franchise fee or license fee to all
franchisees. Said fee shall initially be set at 5% of gross receipts, but may
be revised by the City Council from time to time by resolution. Fees shall be
payable on a monthly basis based on the licensee’s gross revenue. Revenues
retained by the city shall be used exclusively for costs related to the city’s
management of the solid waste system. Such revenues may be utilized for
administration, code enforcement, maintenance of rights-of-way, cleaning
programs, and for costs incurred in enforcing this subchapter. The Council may
waive a franchise fee where the franchisee is providing a public service worthy
of such subsidy.
   (D)   The city shall have the power to regulate the maximum rate which a
franchisee may charge subject to the provisions contained in any agreement
between the city and franchisee. Franchisees shall maintain records of
estimated tonnage or yardage of solid waste hauled from the city through actual
weighing of trucks or spot check weighing at reasonable intervals or estimated
yardage. The city may require that franchisees be bonded and maintain minimum
levels of liability insurance.
   (E)   The city shall bill and collect all fees for solid waste collection
within the city unless otherwise agreed. It shall be unlawful for any
franchisee to discount or “kick back” funds or provide gifts to any producer,
government entity or an agent or employee thereof. The city shall not be
responsible for unpaid or bankrupt accounts.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-3) (Ord. 258, passed 1-19-1987) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.04 SEPARATION OF SOLID WASTE.
   All solid waste shall be drained of excess water and all wet household solid
waste or putrescible waste, and any animal defecation, shall be separately
wrapped in tightly secured plastic bags before being placed in a container.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-4) (Ord. 258, passed 1-19-1987) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.05 COMPULSORY SERVICE.
   No producer shall be permitted to refuse collection services provided for
herein, and the failure of any producer to receive such service shall not
exempt such producer from the payment of charges herein provided for, save and
except any of those producers residing in areas in which collection service is
not available for the entire area, and in such areas where no service is
rendered. The boundaries within the municipality exempted from such charges
shall be established by the director.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-5) (Ord. 258, passed 1-19-1987) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.06 REGULATIONS.
   The director is hereby empowered to prepare rules and regulations from time
to time in connection with the preparation, handling, collection, and disposal
of solid waste within the city, subject to the approval of the City Council.
Three copies of said rules and regulations shall be retained at City Hall for
use by the public and the franchisee shall be immediately notified of all
changes. The director may direct that the franchisee shall not collect solid
waste from any premises where said rules and regulations are not complied with,
and the failure to collect the same by such direction shall not relieve the
producer of such premises from the payment of fees or penalties as provided for
herein.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-6) (Ord. 258, passed 1-19-1987) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.07 REGULATIONS RELATED TO HAULING.
   (A)   No person shall be permitted to haul solid waste over the streets of
the city unless such vehicle so conveying such waste is equipped with a canvas
top or some other device effective to prevent the waste from being strewn and
littered about the streets and alleys. No person shall convey solid waste over
and across the streets or the alleys of the city for hire or for any person
other than himself or herself unless he or she shall have first filed a written
application and received a franchise to haul from the city.
   (B)   No person, whether having entered into an agreement with the city for
collection of solid waste or not, shall be permitted to transport the solid
waste over public thoroughfares in anything other than watertight containers.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-7) (Ord. 258, passed 1-19-1987) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.08 SOLID WASTE ACCUMULATION UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit or to allow to accumulate in
or about any yard, lot, place, or premises; or upon any street, alley, or
sidewalk adjacent to such lot, yard, place, or premises owned or occupied by
such person, any solid waste so as to cause such yard, lot, premises, or street
or alley or sidewalk adjacent thereto to be or remain in such condition as to
cause or create a nuisance, obstruction, hazard to the public health, or
offensive odor or rodent harborage or thereby to be or to become, or to cause
or create, a public or private nuisance within the limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-8) (Ord. 258, passed 1-19-1987) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.09 COLLECTION FROM PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   All solid waste, except ashes, shall be placed in authorized
containers. Unless approved otherwise, all solid waste shall be placed at the
curb line, as defined in §
50.02, in a manner whereby it may be easily seen.
   (B)   Solid waste producers not abutting public streets or alleys shall
permit access to the franchisee for collection and disposal of solid waste
placed in containers.
   (C)   Solid waste shall not be placed in any type of container except those
defined herein. No manual container (garbage can) may be filled to a weight
exceeding 60 pounds. Worn out manual containers may not be utilized. Solid
waste shall not be compacted in a container to the extent of obstructing an
easy removal from the container.
   (D)   Ashes placed for collection shall be cold and free from any fire, live
coals, or other substances which might ignite. Ashes shall be placed in tightly
secured plastic bags and placed in a separate metal container from any
flammable materials.
   (E)   Small tree limbs, when tied in bundles not over four feet long and
weighing less than 35 pounds, will be collected.
   (F)   Magazines and papers may be tied in bundles but must not be put out in
wet weather or any earlier than 12 hours before collection time unless in a
sealed container.
   (G)   Broken concrete, rocks, plaster, discarded building materials, trees,
large tree limbs, and other bulky waste may not be placed for collection as
household waste.
   (H)   Bags containing solid waste will be collected but may not be set out
for service until the morning of the collection day. Bags may be placed for
collection in advance of the collection day if they contain only leaves, grass
cuttings, weeds, and hedge trimmings. Bags containing solid waste must weigh
less than 35 pounds.
   (I)   Loose paper, wastebasket material, wastepaper, and the like, must be
placed in covered containers.
   (J)   Dead animals or portions thereof placed for collection must weigh less
than ten pounds and must be placed in a securely tied plastic bag, then in a
container with a tightfitting lid.
   (K)   Hazardous waste must be disposed of in a manner consistent with
federal, state, and city regulations. Anyone needing to dispose of hazardous
waste must contact the director and franchisee. All fees and charges regarding
hazardous wastes shall be the responsibility of the generator. The franchisee
may require a deposit from the generator prior to pick up of hazardous waste.
Title to hazardous waste shall remain with the generator.
   (L)   Infectious solid waste must be disposed of in a manner consistent with
federal, state, and city regulations. Such waste must be double bagged in
securely tied plastic bags, inside clearly marked puncture proof plastic
containers in a manner approved, and placed by the director and the franchisee,
who shall be notified by the producer of the fact that such waste is being
placed for pick up. Title to infectious waste shall remain with the producer.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-9) (Ord. 258, passed 1-19-1987) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.10 SOLID WASTE PRODUCED BY BUSINESS UNITS.
   (A)   Every owner or lessee or person in charge of any commercial or
industrial establishment or other similar place where solid waste is produced
or accumulated shall provide or cause to be provided for such producer, a
metal, watertight container into which all solid waste which has been properly
and sanitarily prepared for disposal shall be placed. Said container shall have
a tightfitting cover and shall be kept covered. Individual arrangements shall
be reviewed by the director and franchisee.
   (B)   Loose paper, wastebasket material, wastepaper, and the like, must be
placed in covered containers.
   (C)   Solid waste resulting from the construction, reconstruction, or
repairs of premises shall not be placed with other solid waste for collection,
but shall be disposed of directly by the producer owning, occupying, or leasing
the premises, unless specific arrangements have been made with the director and
franchisee.
   (D)   Residents having a commercial use in their home shall be billed a
commercial rate.
   (E)   Hazardous and infectious waste must be disposed of in a manner
consistent with federal, state, and city regulations and as set forth elsewhere
in this subchapter and other reasonable regulations which may be formulated by
the director.
   (F)   Mechanical containers and compactors may not be filled in a manner
which exceeds safe loading weights and volumes.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-10) (Ord. 258, passed 1-19-1987) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.11 BURNING PROHIBITED.
   The burning of substances of any kind within the city is hereby prohibited
except by special permit issued by the Fire Chief or except during specific
periods authorized for burning by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-11) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.12 SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to incinerate solid waste or to
deposit the same on vacant lots or private property. No person, including the
franchisee, shall drop, spill, or permit solid waste to fall upon any private
property, public street, alley, or right-of-way without immediately cleaning up
said waste.
   (B)   After emptying any container (except bags), franchisee’s employee
shall return containers to the location in which such containers were taken and
shall replace the covers. Space about the containers shall be left free from
any solid waste spilled during the collection. The franchisee is not
responsible for cleaning up conditions about solid waste containers caused by
the carelessness of the owner or others. (Prior Code, § 4-5-12) (Ord. 258,
passed 1-19-1987) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.13 THEFT OF SERVICES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit solid waste in any
commercial container placed for a private or public individual, business, or
agency unless the person has been so authorized by the owner or individual in
charge of the container.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person not a resident of the city to
leave solid waste with a city resident for pick up pursuant to this subchapter.
   (C)   Violation of this section shall be construed as THEFT OF SERVICES.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-13) (Ord. 258, passed 1-19-1987) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.14 SUPPRESSION OF NUISANCES.
   (A)   The director shall take cognizance of all solid waste related
nuisances within the limits of the jurisdiction of the city and shall take such
measures as may be effectual to suppress and abate the same, including
contracting to abate such nuisances and billing the property owner for the
expenses of abatement.
   (B)   The improper collection, disposal, or discharge into the atmosphere of
hazardous material is hereby declared to be a nuisance and is unlawful.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-14) (Ord. 258, passed 1-19-1987) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.15 RATES.
   The City Council is hereby authorized to adopt rates to be charged producers
and generators by resolution.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-16) (Ord. 258, passed 1-19-1987)
GARBAGE REMOVAL SYSTEM
§ 50.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COLLECTOR. The person holding a license or contract with the city and
authorized to collect, handle, transport, and dispose of refuse and wastes.
   GARBAGE. Includes all putrescible waste, except sewage and body waste.
   REFUSE. Solid wastes, including garbage and rubbish.
   RUBBISH. Refuse other than garbage.
   WASTE. Unwanted solid, liquid, or gaseous materials.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-1)
§ 50.31 RESPONSIBLE AUTHORITY.
   The Council shall be responsible for the enforcement of the provisions of
this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-2)
§ 50.32 COMPULSORY USE OF THE SYSTEM.
   Every owner and occupant of premises within the prescribed limits of the
city must use the refuse collection and disposal system herein provided and
shall deposit, or cause to be deposited, in accordance with this subchapter,
all rubbish and garbage that is of such nature that it is perishable, or may
decompose or may be scattered by wind or otherwise, which is accumulated on
such premises.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-3) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.33 REFUSE COLLECTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of collecting,
transporting, hauling, or conveying any refuse over the streets or alleys, or
to dump or dispose of the same, unless and until such person is licensed
therefor or has a contract therefor as an authorized representative of the
city.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-4) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.34 REFUSE ACCUMULATION UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit or to suffer to accumulate in
or about any yard, lot, place, or premises, or upon any street, alley, or
sidewalk adjacent to such lot, yard, place, or premises, owned or occupied by
such person, any garbage or refuse.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-5) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.35 CONTAINERS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every owner or occupant of any place where
garbage or rubbish is created or accumulated to at all times keep or cause to
be kept portable appurtenances consisting of metal or other approved type of
containers for the deposit therein of rubbish and garbage and, except as
otherwise provided, to deposit or cause to be deposited all rubbish and garbage
therein.
   (B)   Such containers shall consist of not more than two 30-gallon cans
covered with a metal cover and kept in a sanitary condition, with the inside
and outside thereof washed at such time as to keep the same free and clean of
all accumulated grease and decomposing material and so that no odor nuisance
shall exist. All garbage or refuse cans shall be placed in a place accessible
to the collector.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-6) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.36 COLLECTING PERIOD; FEE.
   (A)   The Mayor shall designate the time and schedule for the collection of
garbage and rubbish.
   (B)   Fees and rates for the collection of garbage and rubbish shall be set
by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-7)
§ 50.37 METHOD OF PAYMENT; SANITARY FUND.
   (A)   Fees shall be carried on the water or other utility or service bill
and the same shall be paid with said bill, and other service may be
discontinued to any premises if the entire bill is not paid. Said charges shall
then become delinquent.
   (B)   The proceeds from the collection of fees and charges herein provided
shall be placed in a special fund to be known as the Sanitary Service Revenue
Fund, and all expenses of the city in the operation of the sanitary collection
and disposal system shall be paid out of such Fund; and any surplus remaining
therein at the end of each fiscal year shall be transferred by the Council to
the General Fund.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-8)
§ 50.38 LICENSING AND CONTRACTING.
   The Council shall have sole authority to license or contract for the
performance of all services pertaining to refuse collection and disposal. All
rules, regulations, and conduct of operations and all fees as provided for in
this subchapter shall be as determined and prescribed by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-9)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
50.01 through
50.15 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined in an amount not exceeding $300. Each day such violation is
committed or permitted to continue and/or each separate incident shall
constitute a separate offense and shall be punishable as such hereunder.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-15) (Ord. 258, passed 1-19-1987)
CHAPTER 51: WATER AND SEWER
Section
General Provisions
   
51.001   Outdoor water use
Water Meters
   
51.015   Water and sewer billings; meters required
   
51.016   Payment
   
51.017   Supply only through meters
   
51.018   Water rates
   
51.019   Meter reading
   
51.020   Due dates
   
51.021   Water turnoff policy
   
51.022   Application; service outside city limits
   
51.023   Sewer regulation compliance
Sewer Regulations
   
51.035   Sewer connections required
   
51.036   Drains required
   
51.037   Permits; sewer connections
   
51.038   Application
   
51.039   Revocation of permit
   
51.040   Sewer rates
   
51.041   Due dates
   
51.042   Water turnoff
   
51.043   Water and sewer
   
51.044   Connection specifications
   
51.045   Drain material, grade
   
51.046   Connection notice required
   
51.047   Specifications for drains
   
51.048   Plans to accompany application
   
51.049   Right of entry, inspection
   
51.050   Injury to sewer prohibited
   
51.051   Drain permit required
   
51.052   Use of public sewers
   
51.053   City employees responsible
   
51.054   Workmanship and materials
   
51.055   Drains to sewers, specifications
   
51.056   Galvanized iron pipe
   
51.057   Terra cotta sewers prohibited
   
51.058   Soil pipe specifications
   
51.059   Specifications for joints
   
51.060   Connecting sewer, connection defined
   
51.061   Sewer connection application; fees
   
51.062   Private sewers prohibited and abolished
   
51.063   City not liable
   
51.064   Illegal connections prohibited
Water and Sewer Connection Fees
   
51.075   Purposes and findings
   
51.076   Basis for fees
   
51.077   Short title and applicability
   
51.078   Definitions
   
51.079   Imposition of water and sewer facilities connection fees
   
51.080   Computation of fees
   
51.081   Payment of fees
   
51.082   Connection Fee Trust Funds established
   
51.083   Use of funds
   
51.084   Refund of fees paid
   
51.085   Exemptions and credits
   
51.086   Installation fees
   
51.087   Review
Cross-Connection Control
   
51.100   Definitions
   
51.101   Cross-connections
   
51.102   Use of backflow prevention devices
   
51.103   Cross-connection inspection
   
51.104   Additional remedies
 
   
51.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.001 OUTDOOR WATER USE.
   Due to the possibility on an annual basis that the city ground water
reservoir may run low in the summertime, the City Council hereby authorizes the
Mayor to proclaim an emergency restriction on outdoor water use when deemed
necessary.
(Prior Code, § 7-9-1) (Ord. 2005-04, passed 9-12-2005) Penalty, see §
51.999
WATER METERS
§ 51.015 WATER AND SEWER BILLINGS; METERS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Meters required. All property owners upon whose premises water is
consumed by the owner, by tenants, and otherwise, must have a water meter, to
be furnished by the city, at the expense of the property owner, installed in,
at, and upon the respective premises, and all water used in, on, or upon said
premises shall pass through and be measured by said water meter, and all such
water shall hereafter become subject to, and charged as, water used as herein
provided for upon said premises. In the event that any property owner shall
refuse to allow such meter to be installed, or refuse to pay for the same, or
refuse to pay the meter rates, hereinafter provided, it shall be the duty of
the Chief of Police to forthwith discontinue the water from the premises of
such property owner, or the property.
   (B)   Billings for sewer charges. All charges fixed and established as a
monthly rate shall be billed and shall be due and payable monthly. Such charges
shall be billed with the city water charges and the collection procedures set
out in this code shall apply to such sewer charges as well as to water charges.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-1) (Ord. 81, passed 2-2-1915)
§ 51.016 PAYMENT.
   Before a meter is installed, as provided in §
51.015, the property owner shall pay to the Treasurer $100 for standard
installation of meter and service line. The cost of the meter and valves
necessary to effect installation shall also be paid by the property owner prior
to installation. The fee for the service line pipe shall be as determined by
Council.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-2) (Ord. 254, passed 5-5-1986)
§ 51.017 SUPPLY ONLY THROUGH METERS.
   When a meter has been installed, water will not thereafter be supplied to
the premises of such property owner, except upon meter rates, to be paid by the
property owner, for all water used upon said premises, whether by himself or
herself, tenant, or otherwise.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-3) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.018 WATER RATES.
   The rates for water supplied through meters shall be as determined from time
to time by resolution of the Council.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-4)
§ 51.019 METER READING.
   Meter reading shall be on the twenty-fifth day of each month, and shall
continue to be read until all meters have been read. Upon reading said meters
as aforesaid, the Clerk shall collect all monies due from consumers for water
consumed during the preceding month, and turn over and deliver to the treasurer
all monies so collected, together with a water roll containing the names of all
water consumers, the meter readings and the amount collected from each
consumer, on or before the sixth day of each month.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-5) (Ord. 81, passed 2-2-1915)
§ 51.020 DUE DATES.
   (A)   Collection of water and utility charges. All water and other utility
charges for water consumed and other services shall be due and payable to the
city upon receipt of billing. Such bills shall be delinquent if not paid within
21 days of billing. Any owner or tenant may, within 15 days of the date of
billing, contact the City Clerk, in writing, and request that such person be
placed on the agenda of the next regular meeting, to give any reasons as to why
the bill is improper or should not be charged. After hearing such person
regarding the reason that his or her water should not be shut off, the City
Council may allow such person additional time to make payment or take action
deemed appropriate by the City Council or take such other action as is
appropriate under the circumstances.
   (B)   Procedure for nonpayment. In the event nonpayment is not timely made,
the following procedures shall be conducted.
      (1)   On the first day following the last day for timely payment, the
City Treasurer shall add a late charge of $5, which each owner shall pay in
addition to the amount of water charges.
      (2)   After the twenty-first day following billing, the City Treasurer
shall cause a notice of delinquency to be mailed to each property owner whose
utility charges and late charges remain unpaid. The notice of delinquency shall
include the name of owner, a statement that the water charges have not been
paid, the amount of the payment due, including the late charge, and the date
water services will be shut off due to the delinquency. This notice shall also
be mailed or delivered to tenants living on the premises.
      (3)   After the forty-fifth day following billing, the City Clerk shall
cause to be delivered to the premises a second delinquency notice setting forth
the date that water service will be discontinued. This notice may be part of a
shutoff notice. The second notice of delinquency shall include the following:
         (a)   The name of the owner;
         (b)   A statement that the water charges have not been paid;
         (c)   The amount of all water charges due, including the late charge;
         (d)   A statement that, unless the full amount due is paid, the water
service will be discontinued and the water will be shut off; and
         (e)   A statement that if the water is shut off, it will not be turned
on until the past-due water charges, including the late charge, plus a charge
of $30 for reinstatement of water service, plus a deposit of $50 as security
for the payment of future water charges, are paid.
      (4)   After the forty-eighth day following billing, the City Treasurer
shall prepare a list of all owners who have been mailed a second notice of
delinquency and who have failed to pay the utility charges and all other
charges referenced in such second notice of delinquency. The City Treasurer
shall deliver said list to the Water Commissioner, or his or her designee, who
shall cause the water service of each owner to be discontinued by shutting off
the water to the premises.
   (C)   Nonliability of city. The city shall not be held liable under any
circumstances for any damages resulting from a deficiency or failure of water,
whether by shutting off the water to make repairs or connections or by shutting
off the water due to the nonpayment of water charges, or for any other cause
whatsoever.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-6) (Ord. 336, passed 11-10-1997)
§ 51.021 WATER TURNOFF POLICY.
   (A)   Property owner responsible. The property owner is responsible for
payment of utility charges. The city will not directly charge the tenant of
rented dwelling units, spaces, or business property. The property owner shall
inform the City Clerk at City Hall in writing of all changes of status as to
occupancy or vacancy of rental units, spaces, or business properties. In the
event the required notice is not given to the City Clerk, the owner shall be
responsible for all water charges reflected by the most recent information
given to the City Clerk.
   (B)   Turnoff authorized. On the forty-eighth day following billing, it
shall be the duty of the Water Commissioner, and he or she is hereby authorized
and empowered, to shut off and discontinue all water to any premises, whether
the owner or tenant of any premises, where such owner, occupant, and any tenant
has become delinquent for the previous month, and has failed, refused, or
neglected to pay the water rent and for utilities, as herein provided, and when
such water is so turned off, the same shall not be reinstated or returned on,
until all delinquent water rents have been paid, together with the fine and
penalties and delinquency.
   (C)   Deposit required. An owner who has had water service discontinued for
failure to pay utility charges shall be charged $30 to have water service
restored and such owners shall also deposit with the city the sum of $50 as
security for payment of future water charges, which sum shall be applied
against subsequent unpaid water charges before a notice of delinquency is
issued. The deposit of $50 shall be refunded to the depositor after one year of
timely payment of all water charges.
   (D)   Amendment. All security deposits, reconnect fees, late fees, and
collection policies may be amended by resolution of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-7) (Ord. 336, passed 11-10-1997)
§ 51.022 APPLICATION; SERVICE OUTSIDE CITY LIMITS.
   (A)   Application for water service shall be made to the Council. Whenever
the Council determines that the city has a water supply in excess of the needs
of the citizens and residents within the city limits, the Council may, in its
discretion, authorize water service from the city water system to one or more
persons outside the city limits.
   (B)   The Council shall, from time to time, fix the rates for such water
service. Any water service outside the city limits may be limited, restricted,
or terminated at any time upon order of the Council. Neither this code
provision or the providing of water service or the fixing of rates for water
service outside the city limits shall be read as imposing upon the city any
duty to provide such water service.
   (C)   Whenever the Council authorizes water service outside the city limits,
the Council shall determine and fix the terms and conditions upon which such
water service is authorized, and the Council shall have the right, from time to
time, to modify such terms and conditions. Neither the authorization for or
providing of water service outside the city shall give rise to any right in the
water user to water service or any particular quantity or quality of water.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-8)
§ 51.023 SEWER REGULATION COMPLIANCE.
   No water shall be furnished by the city to any premises at any time during
which the owner, tenant, or occupant of such premises is in violation of or has
refused, failed, or neglected to comply with the sewer regulations of the city.
In the event that the owner, tenant, or occupant of any premises shall violate
or refuse, fail, or neglect to comply with the sewer regulations of the city,
it shall be the duty of the Water Commissioner, upon resolution of the Council
therefor, to shut off and discontinue water service to such premises, and such
water service shall be discontinued to such premises until the owner, tenant,
or occupant of the premises has complied with the sewer regulations of the
city.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-9)
SEWER REGULATIONS
§ 51.035 SEWER CONNECTIONS REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   The Water Commissioner is hereby empowered and it is hereby made
his or her duty in all cases where there is a public sewer in any street,
highway, or alley in the city to compel every owner or occupant of lands,
buildings, or premises, fronting or abutting on streets, highways, or alleys or
within 300 feet of the same in case of unplatted land, to construct or cause to
be constructed a sewer service connection in the manner hereinafter described,
which shall connect such lands, buildings, or premises with the nearest
accessible public sewer (unless such connections be impracticable by reason of
the topography of the ground).
      (2)   The Water Commissioner shall have power and authority to examine
all buildings, as to plumbing, drainage, and ventilation thereof, and when in
his or her judgment, the plumbing fixtures or the sewerage connection fixtures
are found to be defective or unsanitary he or she shall have the power to order
their removal, repair, or substitution and require the ventilation and drainage
of such building to be placed in a sanitary condition and he or she shall
thereupon give the owner or any person occupying any building or premises
notice in writing, specifying the time when any defective drainage sewerage
connection or unsanitary fixtures must be completed or corrected. The Water
Commissioner shall make a copy of such notice which shall be kept in the office
of the Clerk and open to the inspection of the public during the hours of said
Clerk’s office. After the time fixed by the Water Commissioner for the
completion of said connection and repairs, the owner or occupant shall be held
responsible for refusal to comply with such notice.
   (B)   The term PRIVATE DWELLING HOUSE shall mean and constitute all houses
occupied by persons or owners for the use of themselves and family, and this
shall not be construed to mean the houses used or occupied as private or public
boarding, lodging, or rooming houses.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-1)
§ 51.036 DRAINS REQUIRED.
   Every person owning any land or premises in all cases where there is a
public sewer in any street, highway, or alley shall make a sufficient drain,
from his or her lot or premises, connected with such sewer, and the Water
Commissioner shall have the power in all cases where there is a public sewer as
aforesaid to cause such connection to be made, and shall give such owner or
occupant notice in writing, specifying the time at which said drain or
improvement must be completed, provided such time shall not exceed ten days. If
such owner or occupant shall fail, neglect, or refuse to comply with the same
within the time specified, the Water Commissioner shall report the same to the
Council and the Council shall immediately, either at a regular meeting or at a
special meeting called for that purpose, cause said drain or improvements to be
constructed and the amount paid for the construction of the same shall be
assessed against the lands or premises so drained and improved, and the same
shall be reported to the Council as to the amount of such assessments for said
work and improvements and upon confirmation by the Council, the same shall
constitute a lien upon said lands and premises so drained or improved.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-2)
§ 51.037 PERMITS; SEWER CONNECTIONS.
   When any private drainpipe connected with any public sewer or drain becomes
obstructed, broken, or out of order, the Water Commissioner shall, if the owner
or occupant of such premises fails to repair the same after two days’ notice so
to do, cause such drainpipe to be removed, reconstructed, repaired, altered, or
cleaned as he or she may deem expedient, at the expense of the owner or
occupant of said premises as aforesaid, to be collected as provided in §
51.036. No person shall make any connection with any of the public sewers, nor
shall any opening be made into the same until the person making the same shall
obtain from the Water Commissioner a permit so to do and upon obtaining such
permit, the person shall perform said work in strict conformity with the
provisions of this subchapter and under the supervision of the Water
Commissioner, and he or she shall also replace and repair the streets, alleys,
or highways over, in, or through which the same may pass, to as good a state
and condition as at the time of the commencement of said work and maintain the
same in good order to the satisfaction of the Water Commissioner, and shall
conform in all respects to the rules and regulations of the city relative to
the streets, alleys, and highways thereof.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-3) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.038 APPLICATION.
   (A)   All applications for permits shall be made by the owner or agent and
must state the location of the sewer, the number of the lot and block, the
number of the buildings to be connected, and how they are occupied.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to extend any private sewer or
drain beyond the limits of the building or property for which the permit has
been issued, or to connect with any private or general sewer without having
first obtained such permit.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-4) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.039 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   All permits to connect sewers and drains shall be upon the express condition
that the Council may at any time revoke or annul the same and the person making
such connection, or their successors in interest, shall have no right to claim
any damage in consequence of such permit being revoked or annulled.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-5)
§ 51.040 SEWER RATES.
   The rates for sewer service shall be determined from time to time by
resolution of the Council. Sewer rates shall be adjusted annually based on the
city costs of sewer operations, maintenance, and replacement. Any future
modification to the rate shall, to the fullest extent possible, be based upon
and utilize a rate determination process based on an evaluation of equivalent
users (EU), one EU being the sewage flow from one typical family residence.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-6) (Ord. 280, passed 7-16-1990)
§ 51.041 DUE DATES.
   All sewer service charges shall be due and payable as set forth in §
51.020.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-7) (Ord. 336, passed 11-10-1997)
§ 51.042 WATER TURNOFF.
   On the twenty-fifth day of each month, it shall be the duty of the Water
Commissioner, and he or she is hereby authorized and empowered, to shut off and
discontinue all city water service to any premises, whether owner or tenant of
any premises, where such owner, tenant, or occupant of the premises has become
delinquent in the payment of his or her sewer charges or sewer penalties for
the previous month, and has failed, refused, or neglected to pay the sewer
charges and penalties as herein provided; and when such water is so turned off,
the same shall not be reinstated or turned on again until all delinquent sewer
charges and penalties have been paid, together with the further sum of $2.50 as
compensation for the turning on of the water on or in said delinquent premises.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-8)
§ 51.043 WATER AND SEWER.
   In cases where a charge is made and paid for both water and sewer service to
the same premises, the delinquent owner, tenant, or occupant of the premises
shall be obligated to pay the delinquency charges and penalties under this
subchapter, and, upon payment of the delinquency charges and penalties under
this subchapter, shall be excused from again paying the same delinquency
charges and penalties under the water rate provisions of this code.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-9)
§ 51.044 CONNECTION SPECIFICATIONS.
   All connections with public sewers or drains shall be made in a workmanlike
manner, and even with the inside surface of the sewer. Where the connecting “Y”
has been left or in case the Water Commissioner shall deem best, any person
making such connection shall remove a joint of the sewer pipe and insert in its
place a “Y” properly placed and securely cemented before making connection
therewith. When a “Y” has been left, the connection shall be made without
damage or breaking the same. The street must be opened and the paving or
planking deposited in a manner that will occasion the least inconvenience to
the public and to provide for free passage. One half of the street must be kept
clear for the purpose of passage of vehicles, and bridgeways must be provided
on sidewalks for foot passengers. In refilling the trenches, the earth must be
deposited in layers of not more than six inches in depth and well rammed and
tamped to prevent settlements. As soon as any such drain or sewer is completed,
the paving or planking of streets or sidewalks must be reconstructed in as good
a condition as previous to the excavation and all rubbish and surplus earth
immediately removed.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-10) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.045 DRAIN MATERIAL, GRADE.
   The drains which enter into any public sewer or drain in any street, alley,
avenue, or highway shall be built of such fixed material and with such grade
and in such manner as is specified by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-11) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.046 CONNECTION NOTICE REQUIRED.
   Notice in writing must be given to the Water Commissioner at the office of
the Clerk, when such work shall be ready for inspection, by any person desiring
to make connection with any public sewer or drain, at least six hours previous
to the time of making such connections. The Water Commissioner or his or her
authorized agent shall inspect the same and the connections must be made in the
manner prescribed in this subchapter as well as to the satisfaction of the
Water Commissioner before the trench is filled.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-12) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.047 SPECIFICATIONS FOR DRAINS.
   It shall be unlawful to construct or extend any drainpipe for the reception
of sewerage or wastewater under or into any building, or to connect the same
with a public sewer unless said drain shall in its plan and construction
conform with the following requirements.
   (A)   There shall be in said drain a trap so constructed as to bar the
passage of air from beyond the trap into the house by an obstacle equal to one
inch in depth of water.
   (B)   Between said trap and the foot soil pipe, there shall be connected
with the drain an inlet pipe for the admission of fresh air, the soil pipe
within the building shall be continued above the earth and left above the same,
so that the whole drain may be thoroughly and constantly ventilated.
   (C)   The owner or occupant, where the building is used as a hotel, tenement
house, boarding house, or restaurant, must provide a properly constructed
grease trap, through which all slops of a greasy nature shall be drained and
the Water Commissioner is hereby authorized and directed to compel any person
to provide and use a grease trap as aforesaid, whenever, in his or her
judgment, the same is necessary. In all cases, the connection with a cast iron
soil pipe, whether inside the building or otherwise, shall be made with pig
lead and oakum and thoroughly caulked.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-13) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.048 PLANS TO ACCOMPANY APPLICATION.
   Whenever any person desires to construct a house drain to be connected with
or discharged into any sewer, he or she shall, before beginning work upon the
same, deposit with the Clerk a plan thereof, which shall show the whole course
of the drain from the connection with the sewer to its termination within the
house, with the location of all branches and fixtures to be connected
therewith, said plans or a copy thereof to be left on file in the office of the
Clerk. If upon investigation, the Water Commissioner shall find that the plans
do not conform with the requirements of this subchapter, the Commissioner shall
issue no permit for its construction or connection, with any sewer, and it
shall be unlawful to construct said drain or to connect the same either
directly or indirectly with any sewer.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-14) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.049 RIGHT OF ENTRY, INSPECTION.
   The Water Commissioner shall have the right to enter upon any premises
drained by any house drain or connected with any public sewer at all reasonable
hours to ascertain whether the provisions of this subchapter or any other
regulation in regard to house drains has been complied with, and if he or she
should find that said drain or its attachments are in conflict with the
provisions of any law, he or she shall notify the owner of said premises, or
the agent of such owner, of the fact. lt shall thereupon be the duty of said
owner or agent to cause said drain or its attachments to be so altered,
repaired, or reconstructed, so as to make them conform to the requirements
stated herein, within ten days after the time of receiving such notice.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-15)
§ 51.050 INJURY TO SEWER PROHIBITED.
   No person shall injure, break, or remove any portion of any manhole,
lamphole, flush tank, septic tank, or any part of the public sewer or sewer
system.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-16) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.051 DRAIN PERMIT REQUIRED.
   When any person shall desire to lay any pipe or pipes in any of the streets
on which sewerage pipes are laid, he or she shall give at least 24 hours’
notice to the Water Commissioner of the intention so to do and procure a permit
therefor before proceeding.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-17) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.052 USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS.
   The use of the public sewers within the city system shall be in accordance
with the following regulations.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any stormwater,
ground water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, or processed waters into any
sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as storm sewers, or to dry wells.
Industrial cooling water or unpolluted process waters may be discharged, on
approval of the City Council and Health Department, to dry wells or other
disposal areas.
   (C)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
      (1)   Any gasoline, benzene, naptha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid, or gas;
      (2)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids,
organic chemicals, or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by
interaction with other wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage disposal
process, constitute any hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance,
or create any hazard in the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant,
including, but not limited to, cyanides in excess of two milligrams per liter
as CN in the wastes discharged to the public sewer;
      (3)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5, or having any
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment, and personnel of the sewage works; or
      (4)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable
of causing obstruction to flow in sewers, or other interference with the proper
operation of the sewage works, such as, but not limited to, ashes, cinders,
sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar, plastics, wood,
underground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and fleshings, entrails,
paper dishes, cups, milk containers, and the like, either whole or ground by
garbage grinders.
   (D)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
substances, materials, or waters if it appears likely in the opinion of the
City Council or the Health District that such wastes can harm either the
sewers, sewage disposal process, or equipment, or have an adverse effect on the
receiving stream or ground water, or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public
property, or constitute a nuisance. In forming its opinion as to the
acceptability of these wastes, the Council or Health District will give
consideration to such factors as the quantities of subject wastes in relation
to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of construction of the sewers,
nature of the sewage disposal process, capacity of the sewage disposal system,
and other pertinent factors. The substances prohibited are those listed as
hazards or hazardous wastes by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) in the
EPA priority pollutant list, or other substances deemed unacceptable by the
City Council, the Health District, or the State Department of Health and
Welfare, Division of Environment.
   (E)   All new connections to the sewer system must conform to the latest
edition of the Plumbing Code as adopted by the International Conference of
Building Officials.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-18) (Ord. 280, passed 7-16-1990) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.053 CITY EMPLOYEES RESPONSIBLE.
   It shall be the duty of any city employee, in all cases where he or she
shall find any person engaged in the breaking of ground for the purpose of
making connection with the public sewer, to ascertain at once if such person is
duly authorized to perform such work and, in the event that such person is not
duly authorized or does not have a permit, to order them to desist under
penalty of this code and to immediately report the facts to the Chief of Police
and the Water Commissioner.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-19)
§ 51.054 WORKMANSHIP AND MATERIALS.
   All materials used in connections must be of good quality, free from
defects, and the work must be executed in a thorough and workmanlike manner and
to the entire satisfaction and approval of the Water Commissioner.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-20) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.055 DRAINS TO SEWERS, SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Every house or building connected with the public sewer, or private
cesspool, must have a house drain through which sewerage is carried,
constructed of cast iron pipe which shall extend five feet outside of the
building or foundation. The drains are to be laid in trenches of uniform grade
or securely suspended from floor timbers by strong iron hangers, and shall have
proper fall of not less than one- fourth of an inch per foot towards the main
sewer and in an straight a line as possible.
   (B)   All changes in direction or connections of soil or waste pipes shall
be made by means of “Y” branches with one-eighth and one-sixteenth bends.
Sanitary tees shall only be made in vertical lines of pipe. Heel outlets shall
not be used for vent connections. Saddle hubs and saddle bands are strictly
prohibited. There shall be a cleanout put in the sewer at the last change of
direction or at the end of the horizontal main drain of the building. All
cleanouts shall be closed by brass screw covers, and shall be kept accessible.
When sewers are laid beneath the floor, manholes must be constructed to give
access to cleanouts.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-21) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.056 GALVANIZED IRON PIPE.
   Where cast iron pipe is specified in any of these provisions, galvanized
iron pipes of standard thickness may be used; provided, that the fittings are
so constructed as to form a uniform bore with the pipe of any building;
provided, however, that all pipes used shall be of a grade known as standard
and to conform to all provisions as to weight and thickness. No opening shall
be provided in a sewer pipe in any building for the purpose of receiving the
drainage of the cellar unless special permission is granted and any opening so
made must be immediately and firmly closed.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-22) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.057 TERRA COTTA SEWERS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   In no case shall terra cotta or Orangeburg sewers be laid under any
building, nor shall any owner or occupant of any building, or any plumber
interested in the plumbing work, about such building, allow any terra cotta
sewers to be laid within five feet of such building, and in all cases before a
new or old building is placed on any lot which has terra cotta sewer, which
would come under any part of the foundation, said sewer or terra cotta pipe
must be replaced by an iron sewer which must be extended five feet outside of
the building or area. Terra cotta sewers running parallel with any building or
within ten feet of such building must be at least one and one-half feet below
the foundation or level with the basement floor. Where it is practicable to do
so, cast iron pipes must be laid and used.
   (B)   All terra cotta sewer pipes used for house drainage shall not be less
than four inches in diameter, thoroughly vitrified and glazed, straight and
free from defect and laid in trenches, in as straight a line as possible, with
a fall of not less than one-fourth of an inch to the foot. All joints must be
made of the best quality of number one cement and clean, sharp sand. Each joint
shall be carefully cleaned on the inside when laid. The cement must be pressed
into the hub, and beveled outside the sockets, made smooth and solid and left
uncovered until examined by the Water Commissioner. Said examination to be made
within eight hours after being notified.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to lay sewer pipe to connect any
building with the public sewer or private cesspool or to construct cesspools,
except under the direction of the Water Commissioner and, after having obtained
a permit as hereinbefore provided, except as to such lateral sewers as may be
put in under the direction of the Water Commissioner, and in no case shall the
laterals extend inside the property line.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-23) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.058 SOIL PIPE SPECIFICATIONS.
   All cast iron soil pipes and fittings must be sound and free from holes or
cracks and of a grade known in commerce as standard. Said standard pipes to be
plain and uncoated. The following weights per linear foot will be accepted as
complying with the provisions of this subchapter:
 
      Pounds per Linear Foot
2-in. 3-1/2
3-in. 4-1/2
4-in. 6-1/2
6-in. 10-1/2
7-in. 14-1/2
8-in. 18
 
(Prior Code, § 7-6-24) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.059 SPECIFICATIONS FOR JOINTS.
   Joints in cast iron pipe must be made of pure pig lead, well caulked and no
paint, varnish, or putty be allowed in caulking said joints. Joints in
galvanized pipe shall be screwed joints. Joints on lead or brass pipe shall be
in all cases wiped, soldered joints or screwed joints, with standard pipe
thread. All joints shall be made with galvanized iron pipes or lead pipes.
Approved combination ferrules may be used on outside fixtures. No rubber
couplings or washers shall be used to connect vent pipes.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-25) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.060 CONNECTING SEWER, CONNECTION DEFINED.
   The words CONNECTING SEWER or CONNECTION, as used herein, shall mean that
portion of any sewer pipe or line which is located within any street or alley
and which is or has been constructed at private expense and connected with the
city sewer system.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-26)
§ 51.061 SEWER CONNECTION APPLICATION; FEES.
   The Water Commission is hereby authorized to permit connections to be made
with the city sewer system; provided, that any person desiring to so connect
with sewer system shall make application therefor, in writing to the Water
Commissioner, and in which application he or she shall describe in particular
the connection to be made and along what streets or alleys the applicant
proposes to construct any sewer, the probable cost of such connection along
said street or alley, and the applicant shall give such other information as
the Water Commissioner may demand. If a permit is granted, such connecting
sewer shall be of such size and shall be built of such materials and at such
point and of such grade and depth as the Water Commissioner and City Engineer
may direct, taking into consideration future connections which may be made with
such connecting sewer. The Water Commissioner may refuse to issue such permit
if the proposed connection would overload any existing sewer or drain. All
decisions of the Water Commissioner hereunder may be reviewed and modified or
reversed by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-27) (Ord. 292, passed 2-15-1993)
§ 51.062 PRIVATE SEWERS PROHIBITED AND ABOLISHED.
   (A)   Private sewers prohibited. All connections with the city sewer system
in any street or alley shall belong to the city and no private sewer, except as
otherwise provided in this subchapter, shall be deemed valid and binding upon
the city or any of its inhabitants.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-32)
   (B)   Private sewers abolished. It is the intent and purpose to abolish all
private sewer connections with the city sewer system and the city shall own all
sewer connections may be private persons along any street or alley, and the
city shall own, control, and operate all sewers laid or placed along any street
or alley.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-33)
§ 51.063 CITY NOT LIABLE.
   The city shall in no circumstances become liable to any person who has
constructed a connecting sewer except to the extent of the money collected for
his use and benefit as herein provided. In the event that the city has paid
monies so collected to any person claiming to be the rightful owner of the land
to which the right to be reimbursed for subsequent connections may be
appurtenant, it shall not be liable to any other person for and on account of
such monies.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-34)
§ 51.064 ILLEGAL CONNECTIONS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall connect with the sewer system of the city without a permit
as hereinbefore set forth. Any illegal connection may be prevented by the city
by severing such connection or by injunction or other appropriate action,
instituted in the name of either the city or the property owner entitled to
reimbursement. The right to collect reimbursement for connecting with a sewer
connected at private expense on which cost statements have been filed as herein
provided may be enforced by the property owner beneficially interested in an
ordinary civil action in any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-35) Penalty, see §
51.999
WATER AND SEWER CONNECTION FEES
§ 51.075 PURPOSES AND FINDINGS.
   The City Council finds, determines, and declares that:
   (A)   This subchapter is intended to assist in the improvement and increased
capacity of the city water and sewer systems;
   (B)   The purpose of this subchapter is to assure that new development bears
a proportionate share of the cost of capital expenditures necessary to provide
water and sewer facilities in the city; and
   (C)   This subchapter is also intended to permit the city to recover its
installation costs.
(Prior Code, § 7-6A-1) (Ord. 292, passed 2-15-1993)
§ 51.076 BASIS FOR FEES.
   (A)   The city must expand its water and sewer facilities if new development
is to be accommodated without decreasing current standards of public health.
   (B)   The imposition of connection fees is one of the preferred methods of
ensuring that development bears a proportionate share of the cost of water and
sewer facilities necessary to accommodate such development. This must be done
in order to promote and protect the public health, safety, and welfare.
   (C)   Connecting to the city water and/or sewer system will create a need
for the construction, equipping, or expansion of water and sewer facilities.
   (D)   The fees established by §
51.080 do not exceed the costs of providing additional water and sewer
facilities necessitated by the connection to the county water and sewer
systems.
   (E)   The sewer connection fee analysis and water connection fee analysis
prepared by the City Engineer dated February 15, 1993, set forth a reasonable
methodology for the determination of the need of and costs related to
participation in the water and sewer facilities of the city.
(Prior Code, § 7-6A-2) (Ord. 292, passed 2-15-1993)
§ 51.077 SHORT TITLE AND APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Troy Water and
Sewer Facilities Connection Fee Ordinance.”
   (B)   This subchapter shall apply in incorporated areas of the city.
(Prior Code, § 7-6A-3) (Ord. 292, passed 2-15-1993)
§ 51.078 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CAPITAL EQUIPMENT. Equipment with an expected use life of three years or
more.
   CITY. The City of Troy.
   CONNECTION TO THE WATER AND/OR SEWER SYSTEM. The physical connection of a
building, structure, or land use to the city water and/or sewer lines, no
matter if such CONNECTION is made through or by intermediate lines.
   DEVELOPMENT ORDER. A regulatory approval by the city.
   ENGINEER. The City Engineer.
   FEE PAYER. A person applying for connection to the city water and/or sewer
system. WATER AND SEWER FACILITIES are city-owned facilities.
(Prior Code, § 7-6A-4) (Ord. 292, passed 2-15-1993)
§ 51.079 IMPOSITION OF WATER AND SEWER FACILITIES CONNECTION FEES.
   (A)   Any person who, after the effective date hereof, seeks to connect to
the city water system is hereby required to pay a water facilities connection
fee in the manner and amount set forth in this subchapter.
   (B)   Any person who, after the effective date hereof, seeks to connect to
the city sewer system, is hereby required to pay a sewer facilities connection
fee in the manner and amount set forth in this subchapter.
   (C)   Any person who, after the effective date hereof, seeks to connect to
the water or sewer systems of the city shall also pay an installation fee
reimbursing the city costs in physically connecting the user to the water and/
or sewer system.
(Prior Code, § 7-6A-5) (Ord. 292, passed 2-15-1993)
§ 51.080 COMPUTATION OF FEES.
   (A)   At the option of the fee payer, the amount of the water and/or sewer
facilities connection fee may be determined by the fee schedules established by
resolution of the City Council.
   (B)   In the case of change of use, redevelopment, or expansion or
modification of an existing use which requires a new, replacement, or
additional connection to the city water and/or sewer system, the connection fee
shall be based upon the net increase in the size of the meter for the new
connection over the size of the meter for the previous connection.
   (C)   If a fee payer opts not to have the connection fee determined
according to division (A) above, then the fee payer shall prepare and submit to
the City Council an independent fee calculation study for the land development
activity for which a connection to the city water and/or sewer system is
sought. The independent fee calculation study shall follow the prescribed
guidelines adopted by motion of the City Council. The documentation submitted
shall show the basis upon which the independent fee calculation was made. The
city shall consider the documentation submitted by the fee payer, but is not
required to accept such documentation as he or she shall reasonably deem to be
inaccurate or not reliable and may, in the alternative, require the fee payer
to submit additional or different documentation for consideration. If an
acceptable independent fee calculation study is not presented, the fee payer
shall pay water and sewer facilities impact fees based upon the schedule as
adopted by resolution. If an acceptable independent fee calculation study is
presented, the City Council may adjust the fee to that appropriate to the
particular fee payer.
(Prior Code, § 7-6A-6) (Ord. 292, passed 2-15-1993)
§ 51.081 PAYMENT OF FEES.
   (A)   The fee payer shall pay the water and sewer facilities connection fee
required by this subchapter to the City Clerk or his or her designee prior to
obtaining a building permit and at least five days prior to connection to the
city water and/or sewer system.
   (B)   All funds collected shall be properly identified by and promptly
transferred for deposit in the appropriate Water and Sewer Facilities
Connection Fee Trust Fund to be held in separate accounts as determined in §
51.081 and used solely for the purposes specified in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-6A-7) (Ord. 292, passed 2-15-1993)
§ 51.082 CONNECTION FEE TRUST FUNDS ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   There are hereby established two separate dedicated water and sewer
facilities connection fee trust funds:
      (1)   The Water Facilities Connection Fee Trust Fund; and
      (2)   The Sewer Facilities Connection Fee Trust Fund.
   (B)   Funds withdrawn from these accounts must be used in accordance with
the provisions of §
51.083.
(Prior Code, § 7-6A-8) (Ord. 292, passed 2-15-1993)
§ 51.083 USE OF FUNDS.
   (A)   Funds collected from water and sewer facility connection fees shall be
used solely for the purpose of acquiring, constructing, equipping, and/or
making capital improvements to water and sewer facilities under the
jurisdiction of the city, and shall not be used for maintenance or operations.
   (B)   Funds from the Water Facilities Connection Fee Trust Fund may only be
used for water facilities purposes and funds from the sewer facilities
connection fee trust fund may only be used for sewer facilities purposes. Funds
shall be deemed expended in the order in which they are collected.
   (C)   In the event that bonds or similar debt instruments are issued for
advanced provision of capital facilities for which water and sewer facilities
connection fees may be expended, connection fees may be used to pay debt
service on such bonds or similar debt instruments to the extent that the
facilities provided are of the type described in division (A) above.
   (D)   At least once each fiscal period, the City Water and Sewer
Commissioners shall present to the City Council a proposed capital improvement
program for water and sewer facilities, assigning funds from the several water
and sewer facilities connection fee trust funds to specific water and sewer
facilities improvement projects and related expenses. Monies not assigned in
any fiscal period shall be retained in the same water and sewer facilities
connection fee trust funds until the next fiscal period, except as provided by
the refund provisions of this subchapter.
   (E)   Funds may be used to provide refunds as described in §
51.084.
   (F)   Funds may be used to rebate developer costs for providing water and/or
sewer capital facilities in excess of the capacity required to the individual
developer making the provision. Any rebates must be pursuant to a refunding
agreement entered between the developer and city after the effective date
hereof.
(Prior Code, § 7-6A-9) (Ord. 292, passed 2-15-1993)
§ 51.084 REFUND OF FEES PAID.
   Any funds not expended or encumbered by the end of the calendar quarter
immediately following ten years from the date the water or sewer facilities
impact fee was paid shall, upon application of the then current landowner, be
returned to such landowner; provided, that the landowner submits an application
for a refund to the City Clerk within 180 days of the expiration of the ten-
year period.
(Prior Code, § 7-6A-10) (Ord. 292, passed 2-15-1993)
§ 51.085 EXEMPTIONS AND CREDITS.
   (A)   Exemptions.
      (1)   The following shall be exempted from payment of the connection fee:
         (a)   Alterations or expansion of an existing building where no
additional or larger water and/or sewer connections are requested and where the
use is not changed;
         (b)   The replacement of a building or structure with a new building
or structure of the same size and use where no additional or larger water and/
or sewer connections are requested and where the use is not changed; and
         (c)   The installation of a replacement mobile home on a lot or other
such site when a water and/or sewer capital facilities connection fee for such
mobile home site has previously been paid pursuant to this subchapter, or where
a mobile home legally existed on such site on or prior to the effective date
hereof.
      (2)   Any claim of exemption must be made no later than the time of
application for a building or mobile home placement permit. Any claim not so
made shall be deemed waived.
   (B)   Services disconnected. No exemption will exist where water and/or
sewer services have been disconnected either physically for six months or more
or after notice, as indicated on the city records.
   (C)   Credit or reimbursement.
      (1)   Water and sewer facilities capital improvements may be offered by
the fee payer as total or partial payment of the required connection fee. The
fee payer must request a water and sewer facilities connection fee credit. If
the City Council accepts such an offer, the credit shall be determined and
provided in the following manner:
         (a)   Credit for the dedication of land shall be valued:
            1.   At 100% of the most recently assessed value by the County
Appraiser;
            2.   By such other appropriate method as the City Council may have
accepted prior to the effective date hereof for particular water and sewer
facilities improvement; or
            3.   By fair market value established by private appraisers
acceptable to the city. Credit for the dedication of water and sewer facilities
land shall be provided when the property has been conveyed at no charge to, and
accepted by, the city or county in a manner satisfactory to the City Council.
         (b)   Applicants for credit for construction of water and sewer
facilities improvements shall submit acceptable engineering drawings and
specifications and construction cost estimates to the city. The City Council
shall determine credit for construction based upon either these cost estimates
or upon alternative engineering criteria and construction cost estimates if the
City Council determines that such estimates submitted by the applicant are
either unreliable or inaccurate. The City Clerk shall provide the applicant
with a letter or certificate setting forth the dollar amount of the credit, the
water and sewer facilities connection fee components to which the credit will
apply, the reason for the credit, and the legal description or other adequate
description of the project or development to which the credit may be applied.
The applicant must sign and date a duplicate copy of such letter or certificate
indicating his or her agreement to the terms of the letter or certificate and
return such signed document to the City Clerk before credit will be given. The
failure of the applicant to sign, date and return such document within 60 days
shall nullify the credit.
         (c)   Except as provided in division (C)(1)(d) below, credit against
connection fees otherwise due will not be provided until:
            1.   The construction is completed and accepted by the city; or
            2.   A suitable maintenance and warranty bond is received and
approved by the City Clerk, when applicable.
         (d)   1.   Credit may be provided before completion of specified water
and sewer facilities improvements if adequate assurances are given by the
applicant that the standards set out in division (C)(1)(c) above will be met
and if the fee payer posts security as provided in this division (C)(1)(d) for
the costs of such construction. Security in the form of a performance bond,
irrevocable letter of credit, or escrow agreement shall be posted with and
approved by the City Clerk in an amount determined by the City Council.
               2.   If the water and sewer facilities construction project will
not be constructed within one year of the acceptance of the offer by the city,
the amount of the security shall be increased by 10%, compounded for each year
of the life of the security. The security shall be reviewed and approved by the
City Council prior to acceptance of the security of the City Clerk.
            3.   If the water and sewer facilities construction project is not
to be completed within one year of the date of acceptance of the fee payer’s
offer, the City Council must approve the water and sewer facilities
construction project and its scheduled completion date prior to the acceptance
of the offer by the City Clerk.
      (2)   Any request for credit consideration must be made no later than the
time of application for connection. Any claim not so made shall be deemed
waived.
      (3)   Credits shall not be transferable from one project or development
to another without the approval of the City Council.
      (4)   Credits shall not be transferable from one component of the water
and sewer facilities connection fee to another component of this fee.
(Prior Code, § 7-6A-11) (Ord. 292, passed 2-15-1993)
§ 51.086 INSTALLATION FEES.
   In addition to the foregoing connection fees, any person requesting
connection to the city water or sewer system shall pay installation fees based
on the city cost of connecting the applicant to the system.
   (A)   The basic water installation fee shall be as established by resolution
of the City Council.
   (B)   The basic sewer installation fee shall be as established by resolution
of the City Council.
   (C)   Any installation requiring materials or labor in excess of the basic
installation or requiring repair of a curb, sidewalk, or roadway shall pay for
additional services according to a fee schedule adopted by resolution.
   (D)   Basic installation fees shall be paid at the time of building permit
application or at least five days prior to installation where no building
permit is required.
   (E)   Any additional fee shall be billed after installation, paid within 30
days of billing. Services may be terminated for nonpayment.
(Prior Code, § 7-6A-12) (Ord. 292, passed 2-15-1993)
§ 51.087 REVIEW.
   The fees contained in §§
51.080 and
51.086 should be reviewed by the City Council at least once each fiscal year.
After careful review, amended fees may be adopted by a duly adopted resolution.
(Prior Code, § 7-6A-13) (Ord. 292, passed 2-15-1993)
CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL
§ 51.100 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BACKFLOW. The flow, other than the intended direction of flow, of any
foreign liquids, gases, or substances into the distribution system of a public
water supply.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE. A device to counteract back pressure or prevent
back siphonage.
   CONTAMINATION. The entry into or presence in a public water supply of any
substance which may be deleterious to health and/or quality of the water.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any physical arrangement whereby a public water supply is
connected, directly or indirectly, with any other water supply system, sewer,
drain, conduit, pool, storage reservoir, plumbing fixture, or other device
which contains or may contain contaminated water, sewage, or other waste or
liquids of unknown or unsafe quality which may be capable of imparting
contamination to the public water supply as a result of backflow.
   ENGINEER. Professional engineer registered in the state, retained to provide
engineering services to the city.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The State Department of Health and Welfare, Division of
Environment, local representative or his or her authorized agent.
   PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY. Any system or water supply intended or used for human
consumption or other domestic uses, including source, treatment, storage,
transmission, and distribution facilities, where water is furnished to any
collection or number of individuals, or is made available to the public for
human consumption or domestic use.
   SUPERVISOR. The City Water Department Supervisor.
(Prior Code, § 7-7-1) (Ord. 247, passed 4-2-1984)
§ 51.101 CROSS-CONNECTIONS.
   No water service connection to any premises shall be installed or continued
in use by the city unless the water supply is protected by backflow prevention
devices as may be required by this subchapter. The installation or maintenance
of a cross-connection which will endanger the water quality of the potable
water supply of the city shall be unlawful and is prohibited. Any such cross-
connection now existing or hereafter installed is hereby declared to be a
public nuisance and the same shall be abated. The control or elimination of
cross connections shall be in accordance with this chapter and the regulations
set forth in the “Idaho Regulations for Public Drinking Water Systems,”
together with the latest edition of appropriate manuals of standard practice
pertaining to cross-connection control approved by the Engineer. The Council
shall have the authority to establish requirements more stringent than state
regulations if they deem that the conditions so dictate. The city shall adopt
rules and regulations as necessary to carry out the provisions of this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-7-2) (Ord. 247, passed 4-2-1984) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.102 USE OF BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES.
   (A)    Backflow prevention devices shall be installed at the service
connection or within any premises where, in the judgment of the city, the
nature and extent of activities, or the material stored on the premises, would
present an immediate and dangerous hazard to health and/or be deleterious to
the quality of the water should a cross-connection occur. Even though such
cross-connection does not exist at present, the backflow prevention devices
shall be installed under circumstances including, but not limited to, the
following:
      (1)   Premises having an auxiliary water supply, unless the quality of
the auxiliary supply is in compliance with the state drinking water regulations
and is acceptable to the city;
      (2)   Premises having internal cross-connections that are not
correctable, or intricate plumbing arrangements which make it impracticable to
ascertain whether or not cross-connections exist;
      (3)   Premises where entry is restricted so that inspections for cross-
connections cannot be made with sufficient frequency or at sufficiently short
notice to assure that cross-connections do not exist;
      (4)   Premises having a repeated history of cross-connections being
established or reestablished;
      (5)   Premises on which any substance is handled under pressure so as to
permit entry into the public water supply, or where a cross-connection could
reasonably be expected to occur. This shall include the handling of process
waters and cooling waters;
      (6)   Premises where materials of a toxic or hazardous nature are handled
in such a way that if back siphonage should occur, a serious health hazard
might result;
      (7)   The following types of facilities will fall into one of the above
categories where a backflow prevention device is required to protect the public
water supply. A backflow prevention device shall be installed at these
facilities unless the city determines that no hazard exists:
         (a)   Sewage treatment plants;
         (b)   Chemical or other industrial plants;
         (c)   Agricultural chemical storage, formulation, and distribution
facilities;
         (d)   Petroleum storage facilities; and
         (e)   Underground sprinkling devices or systems.
      (8)   Other premises, as specified by the city, where backflow prevention
devices are required to protect the public water supply.
   (B)   The type of protective device required shall depend on the degree of
hazard which exists:
      (1)   An air gap separation or a reduced pressure principle backflow
prevention device shall be installed where the public water supply may be
contaminated with sewage, industrial waste of a toxic nature, or other
contaminant which could cause a health or system hazard; or
      (2)   In the case of a substance which may be objectionable but not
hazardous to health, a double check valve assembly, air gap separation, or a
reduced pressure principle backflow prevention device shall be installed.
   (C)   Backflow prevention devices required by this subchapter shall be
installed at the meter, at the property line of the premises when meters are
not used, or at a location designated by the city. The device shall be located
so as to be readily accessible for maintenance and testing, and furthermore,
where no part of the device will be submerged.
   (D)   Backflow prevention devices required by this subchapter shall be
installed under the supervision of, and with the approval of, the supervisor.
   (E)   Any protective device required by this subchapter shall be a model
approved by the city. A double check valve assembly or a reduced pressure
principle backflow prevention device will be approved if it has successfully
passed performance tests of the University of Southern California Engineering
Center or other testing laboratories satisfactory to the engineer. These
devices shall be furnished and installed by and at the expense of the customer.
   (F)   Backflow prevention devices installed pursuant to this subchapter,
except atmospheric vacuum breakers, shall be inspected and tested annually, or
more often if necessary. Inspections, tests, and maintenance shall be at the
customer’s expense. Whenever the devices are found to be defective, they shall
be repaired or replaced at the customer’s expense. Inspections, tests, repairs,
and records thereof shall be accomplished under the city’s supervision by
certified testers.
   (G)   No underground sprinkling device will be installed without adequate
backflow prevention devices at the point from which the water for irrigation is
taken from the public water supply.
   (H)   Failure of the customer to cooperate in the installation, maintenance,
testing, or inspection of backflow prevention devices required by this
subchapter shall be grounds for the termination of water service to the
premises, or, in the alternative, the installation of an air gap separation at
the customer’s expense.
(Prior Code, § 7-7-3) (Ord. 247, passed 4-2-1984) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.103 CROSS-CONNECTION INSPECTION.
   (A)   No water shall be delivered to any structure hereafter built within
the city or within areas served by city water until the same shall have been
inspected by the city for possible cross-connections and been approved as being
free of same.
   (B)   Any construction for industrial or other purpose which is classified
as hazardous facilities pursuant to §
51.102, where it is reasonable to anticipate intermittent cross-connections, or
determined by the city, shall be protected by the installation of one or more
backflow prevention devices at the point of service from the public water
supply or any other location designated by the city.
   (C)   Inspections shall be made periodically of all buildings, structures,
or improvements of any nature now receiving water through the city system, for
the purpose of ascertaining whether cross-connections exist. Such inspections
shall be made by the city.
(Prior Code, § 7-7-4) (Ord. 247, passed 4-2-1984)
§ 51.104 ADDITIONAL REMEDIES.
   In the event an improper cross-connection is not corrected within the time
limit set by the city, or in the event the city is refused access to any
property for the purpose of determining whether or not cross-connections exist,
delivery of water to the property shall cease until the deficiency is corrected
to the city’s satisfaction. In addition, the city may effect the necessary
repairs or modifications at the expense of the property owner and refuse
delivery of water to the property until the costs thereof shall have been paid.
(Prior Code, § 7-7-5) (Ord. 247, passed 4-2-1984)
§ 51.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   After notification by mail and by verbal notification by either the
Mayor or his or her representative, a violation of §
51.001 will be a misdemeanor and punishable by a fine not to exceed $1,000.
(Prior Code, § 7-9-2)
   (C)   A violation of §§
51.075 through
51.087 shall be prosecuted as a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, the violator
shall be punishable; however, in addition to or in lieu of any criminal
prosecution, the city shall have the power to sue in civil court to enforce the
provisions of §§
51.075 through
51.087. If convicted, a person shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $300,
by imprisonment in the county jail for a period not to exceed 30 days, or by
both such fine and imprisonment.
(Prior Code, § 7-6A-14)
   (D)   Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects, refuses to comply
with, or resists the enforcement of any of the provisions of §§
51.100 through
51.104 or the rules and regulations as adopted by the city shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall for each offense be
punished by a fine in any sum not exceeding $300 or imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 90 days, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
(Prior Code, § 7-7-6)
(Ord. 247, passed 4-2-1984; Ord. 292, passed 2-15-1993; Ord. 2005-04, passed 9-
12-2005)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   MOTOR VEHICLE CRIMES
      
74.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
75.   TRAFFIC AND PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Records
Traffic Control Devices
   
70.15   Authority to install traffic control devices
   
70.16   Specifications for traffic control devices
   
70.17   Obedience to official traffic control devices
   
70.18   When traffic control devices required
   
70.19   Traffic control signal legend
   
70.20   Pedestrian control signals
   
70.21   Flashing signals
   
70.22   Display of unauthorized signs, signals, or markings
   
70.23   Interference with official traffic control devices
   
70.24   Crosswalks and safety zones
   
70.25   Traffic lanes
Equipment
   
70.40   When lighted lamps are required
   
70.41   Visibility distance and mounted height of lamps
   
70.42   Headlamps on motor vehicles
   
70.43   Taillamps
   
70.44   Stop lamps and turn signals
   
70.45   Lamps on parked vehicles
   
70.46   Number of driving lamps required or permitted
   
70.47   Brakes
   
70.48   Horns and warning devices
   
70.49   Mirrors
   
70.50   Windshields must be unobstructed and equipped with wipers
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Vehicles of the Fire Department, police
vehicles, and such ambulances and emergency vehicles as are designated or
authorized by the Commissioner of Law Enforcement or the Chief of Police.
   BICYCLE. Every device propelled by human power upon which any person may
ride, having two tandem wheels, either of which is over 20 inches in diameter.
   BUS. Every motor vehicle designed for carrying more than ten passengers and
used for the transportation of persons.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a public
thoroughfare when, within any 600 feet along such thoroughfare there are
buildings in use for business or industrial purposes, including, but not
limited to, hotels, banks, or office buildings, railroad stations, and public
buildings which occupy at least 300 feet of frontage on one side or 300 feet
collectively on both sides of the thoroughfare.
   COMMERCIAL VEHICLE. Every vehicle designed, maintained, or used primarily
for the transportation of property.
   CONTROLLED ACCESS HIGHWAY. Every highway, street, or roadway in respect to
which owners or occupants of abutting lands and other persons have no legal
right of access to or from the same, except at such points only and in such
manner as may be determined by the public authority having jurisdiction over
such highway, street, or roadway.
   CROSSWALK.
      (1)   The part of a roadway at an intersection included within the
connections of the lateral lines of the sidewalks on opposite sides of the
highway measured from the curbs or, in the absence of curbs, from the edges of
the traversable roadway.
      (2)   Any portion of a roadway at an intersection or elsewhere distinctly
indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on the surface.
   DRIVER. Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
   FARM TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily as a farm
implement for drawing plows, mowing machines, and other implements of
husbandry.
   INTERSECTION.
      (1)   The area embraced with the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the
roadways of two highways which join one another at, or approximately at, right
angles, or the area within which vehicles traveling upon different highways
joining at any other angle may come in conflict.
      (2)   Where a highway includes two roadways 30 feet or more apart, then
every crossing of each roadway of such divided highway by an intersecting
highway shall be regarded as a separate INTERSECTION. In the event such
intersecting highway also includes two roadways 30 feet or more apart, then
every crossing of two roadways of such highways shall be regarded as a separate
INTERSECTION.
   LANED ROADWAY. A roadway which is divided into two or more clearly marked
lanes for vehicular traffic.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled and every vehicle which
is propelled by electric power obtained from overhead trolley wires, but not
operated upon rails.
   MOTORCYCLE. Every motor vehicle having a saddle for the use of the rider and
designed to travel on not more than three wheels in contact with the ground,
but excluding a tractor.
   OWNER. A person who holds the legal title of a vehicle orm in the event a
vehicle is the subject of an agreement for the conditional sale or lease
thereof with the right of purchase upon performance of the conditions stated in
the agreement, and with an immediate right of possession vested in the
conditional vendee or lessee, or in the event a mortgagor of a vehicle is
entitled to possession, then such conditional vendee or lessee or mortgagor
shall be deemed the OWNER for the purpose of this title.
   PARK. When prohibited, the standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not,
otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in
loading or unloading.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
   POLICE OFFICER. Every officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic or to
make arrests for violations of traffic regulations.
   PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY. Every way or place in private ownership and used
for vehicular travel only by the owner or by those having express or implied
permission from the owner.
   RAILROAD. A carrier of persons or property upon cars, other than streetcars,
operated upon stationary rails.
   RAILROAD SIGN OR SIGNAL. Any sign, signal, or device erected and intended to
give notice of the presence of railroad tracks or the approach of a railroad
train.
   RAILROAD TRAIN. A steam engine, electric or other motor, with or without
cars coupled thereto, operated upon rails, except streetcars.
   RESIDENCE DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a public
thoroughfare not comprising a business district when the property on such
thoroughfare, for a distance of 300 feet or more, is in the main improved with
residences or residences and buildings in use for business.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway.
   ROADWAY. The portion of a highway improved, designed, or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. In the event a highway
includes two or more separate ROADWAYS, the term ROADWAY, as used herein, shall
refer to any such ROADWAY separately but not to all such ROADWAYS collectively.
   SAFETY ZONE. The area or space officially set apart within a roadway for the
exclusive use of pedestrians and which is protected or is so marked or
indicated by adequate signs as to be plainly visible at all times while set
apart as a SAFETY ZONE.
   SCHOOL BUS. Every motor vehicle owned by a public or governmental agency and
operated for the transportation of children to or from school, or privately
owned and operated for compensation for the transportation of children to or
from school.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral
lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines, intended for the use of
pedestrians.
   STOP, STOPPING, or STANDING.
      (1)   Complete cessation of movement, when required.
      (2)   When prohibited, any stopping or standing or a vehicle, whether
occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or
in compliance with the directions of a police officer or traffic control sign
or signal.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel.
   THROUGH ROADWAY. Every roadway or portion thereof on which vehicular traffic
is given preferential right-of-way, and at the entrances to which vehicular
traffic from intersecting roadways is required by law to yield right-of-way to
vehicles on such THROUGH ROADWAY in obedience to either a stop sign or a yield
sign, when such signs are erected as provided in this title.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, streetcars, and
other conveyances either singly or together while using any thoroughfare for
purposes of travel.
   TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL. Any device, whether manually, electrically, or
mechanically operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and to
proceed.
   TRAILER. Every vehicle with or without motive power, designed for carrying
persons or property and for being drawn by a motor vehicle and so constructed
that no part of its weight rests upon the towing vehicle.
   TRUCK. Every motor vehicle designed, used, or maintained primarily for the
transportation of property.
   TRUCK TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily for drawing
other vehicles and not so constructed as to carry a load other than a part of
the weight of the vehicle and load so drawn.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a thoroughfare, except devices moved by human
power or used exclusively upon stationary tracks or rails.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-1)
§ 70.02 RECORDS.
   (A)   Form for traffic citations.
      (1)   The Police Department shall provide, in appropriate form, traffic
citations containing notices to appear which shall be issued in books with
citations in quadruplicate.
      (2)   The Chief of Police shall be responsible for the issuance of such
books and shall maintain a record of every such book and each citation
contained therein issued to individual members of the Police Department and
shall require and retain a receipt for every book so issued.
(Prior Code, § 8-14-1)
   (B)   Disposition and records of traffic citations.
      (1)   Every police officer, upon issuing a traffic citation to an alleged
violator of any provision of this title, shall deposit the original or a copy
of such traffic citation with the court having jurisdiction over the alleged
offense.
      (2)   Upon the deposit of the original or a copy of such traffic citation
with the court, said original or copy of such traffic citation may be disposed
of only by trial in said court or other official action by the judge of said
court, including a forfeiture of bail or by the deposit of sufficient bail with
or payment of a fine to the court by the person to whom such traffic citation
has been issued by a police officer.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for any police officer to dispose of a traffic
citation or copies thereof or of the record of the issuance of the same in a
manner other than as required herein.
      (4)   The Chief of Police shall require the return to him or her of a
copy of every traffic citation issued by an officer under his or her
supervision to an alleged violator of any traffic law and of all copies of
every traffic citation which has been spoiled or upon which any entry has been
made and not issued to an alleged violator.
      (5)   The Chief of Police shall also maintain or cause to be maintained
in connection with every traffic citation issued by an officer under his or her
supervision a record of the disposition of the charge by the court in which the
original or copy was deposited.
(Prior Code, § 8-14-2)
   (C)   Illegal cancellation of traffic citation; audit of records.
      (1)   Any person who cancels or solicits the cancellation of any traffic
citation, in any manner other than as provided in this title, shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor.
      (2)   Every record of traffic citations required in this section shall be
audited at least biennially and a summary of all traffic violation notices
issued shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation.
(Prior Code, § 8-14-3)
   (D)   Record of traffic cases; report of convictions.
      (1)   The Police Judge shall keep or cause to be kept a record of every
traffic complaint, traffic citation, or other legal form of traffic charge
deposited with or presented to said court and shall keep a record of every
official action by said court, including, but not limited to, a record of every
conviction, forfeiture resulting from every said traffic complaint, or citation
deposited with or presented to said court.
      (2)   Within ten days after the conviction or forfeiture of bail of a
person upon a charge of violating any provision of this title, the Magistrate
or Clerk of the court of record in which such conviction was had or bail was
forfeited shall prepare and immediately forward to the State Department of Law
Enforcement an abstract of the record of said court covering the case in which
said person was so convicted or forfeited bail, which abstract must be
certified by the person so required to prepare the same to be true and correct.
A report need not be made of any conviction involving the illegal parking or
standing of a vehicle.
      (3)   The abstract must be made upon a form furnished by the Department
of Law Enforcement and shall include the name and address of the party charged,
the number, if any, of his or her operator’s or chauffeur’s license, the
registration number of the vehicle involved, the nature of the offense, the
date of hearing, the plea, the judgment, or whether bail forfeited, and the
amount of the fine or forfeiture as the case may be.
      (4)   The court of record shall also forward a like report to the State
Department of Law Enforcement upon the conviction of any person of manslaughter
or other felony in the commission of which a vehicle was used.
      (5)   The failure, refusal, or neglect of the judicial officer to comply
with any of the requirements of this section shall constitute misconduct in
office and shall be grounds for removal therefrom.
(Prior Code, § 8-14-4)
Penalty, see §
10.99
TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.15 AUTHORITY TO INSTALL TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   At the direction of the City Council, the Chief of Police shall direct and
coordinate the Maintenance Department to place and maintain traffic control
signs, signals, and devices when and as required under the traffic regulations
of the municipality to make effective the provisions of said regulations and,
under the direction of the Chief of Police, place and maintain such additional
traffic control devices as the Council may deem necessary.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-1) (Ord. 328, passed 3-10-1997)
§ 70.16 SPECIFICATIONS FOR TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   All traffic control signs, signals, and devices shall conform to approved
specifications. All signs and signals required hereunder for a particular
purpose shall so far as practicable be uniform as to type and location
throughout the municipality. All traffic control devices so erected and not
inconsistent with the provisions of this title shall be official traffic
control devices.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-2)
§ 70.17 OBEDIENCE TO OFFICIAL TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any official
traffic control device applicable thereto placed in accordance with the traffic
regulations of the municipality, unless otherwise directed by a police officer,
subject to the exceptions granted the driver of an authorized emergency
vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.18 WHEN TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES REQUIRED.
   No provisions of this title for which signs are required shall be enforced
against an alleged violator if, at the time and place of the alleged violation,
an official sign is not in proper position and sufficiently legible to be seen
by an ordinarily observant person. Whenever a particular section does not state
that signs are required, such section shall be effective even though no signs
are erected or in place.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-4)
§ 70.19 TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL LEGEND.
   Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic control signals exhibiting the
words “go,” “caution,” or “stop,” or exhibiting different colored lights
successively one at a time or with arrows, the following colors only shall be
used and said terms and light shall indicate and apply to drivers of vehicles
and pedestrians as follows.
   (A)   Green alone or “go.”
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal, except when prohibited herein,
may proceed straight through or turn right or left unless a sign at such place
prohibits either such turn. But vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning
right or left, shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles and to
pedestrians lawfully within the intersection or an adjacent crosswalk at the
time such signal is exhibited.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing the signal may proceed across the roadway within
any marked or unmarked crosswalk.
   (B)   Yellow alone or “caution” when following the green or “go” signal.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal is thereby warned that the red
or “stop” signal will be exhibited immediately and such vehicular traffic shall
not enter the intersection when the yellow or “caution” signal is exhibited.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing such signal are thereby advised that there is
insufficient time to cross the roadway, and any pedestrian then starting to
cross shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles.
      (3)   Pedestrians facing such signal shall not enter the roadway until
the green or “go” is shown alone unless authorized to do so by a pedestrian
“walk” signal.
   (C)   Red alone or “stop.”
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before entering the
crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or, if none, then before
entering the intersection and shall remain standing until green or “go” is
shown alone.
      (2)   No pedestrian facing such signal shall enter the roadway until the
green or “go” is shown alone unless authorized so to do by a pedestrian “walk”
signal.
   (D)   Red with green arrow.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing such signal may cautiously enter the
intersection only to make the movement indicated by such arrow but shall yield
the right-of-way to pedestrians lawfully within a crosswalk and to other
traffic lawfully using the intersection.
      (2)   No pedestrian facing such signal shall enter the roadway until the
green or “go” is shown alone unless authorized so to do by a pedestrian “walk”
signal.
   (E)   Traffic control signals at place other than intersection. In the event
an official traffic control signal is erected and maintained at a place other
than an intersection, the provisions of this subchapter shall be applicable
except as to those provisions which by their nature can have no application.
Any stop required shall be made at a sign or marking on the pavement indicating
where the stop shall be made, but in the absence of any such sign or marking,
the stop shall be made at the signal.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.20 PEDESTRIAN CONTROL SIGNALS.
   Whenever special pedestrian control signals exhibiting the words “walk” or
“wait” or “don’t walk” are in place, such signals shall indicate as follows.
   (A)   “Walk.” Pedestrians facing such a signal may proceed across the
roadway in the direction of the signal and shall be given the right-of-way.
   (B)   “Wait” or “don’t walk.” It shall be unlawful for any pedestrian to
start to cross the roadway in the direction of such signal, but any pedestrian
who has partially completed his or her crossing on the “walk” signal shall
proceed to a sidewalk or safety zone while the wait signal is showing.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.21 FLASHING SIGNALS.
   Whenever an illuminated flashing red or yellow signal is used in a traffic
sign or signal, it shall require obedience by vehicular traffic as follows.
   (A)   Flashing red (stop signal). When a red lens is illuminated with rapid
intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at a limit line when marked or, if
none, then before entering the intersection, and the right to proceed shall be
subject to the rules applicable after making a stop at a stop sign.
   (B)   Flashing yellow (caution signal). When a yellow lens is illuminated
with rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed through the
intersection or past such signal only with caution.
   (C)   Railroad crossings. This section shall not apply at railroad grade
crossings. Conduct of drivers of vehicles approaching railroad grade crossings
shall be governed by the rules set forth in §§
71.070 through
71.072.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.22 DISPLAY OF UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS, SIGNALS, OR MARKINGS.
   (A)   No person shall place, maintain, or display upon or in view of any
highway any unauthorized sign, signal, marking, or device which purports to be
or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic control device or
railroad sign or signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of traffic,
or which hides from view or interferes with the effectiveness of traffic, or
which hides from view or interferes with the effectiveness of any official
traffic control device or any railroad sign or signal.
   (B)   No person shall place or maintain nor shall any public authority
permit upon any highway any traffic sign or signal bearing thereon any
commercial advertising.
   (C)   This section shall not be deemed to prohibit the erection upon private
property adjacent to highways of signs giving useful directional information
and of a type that cannot be mistaken for official signs.
   (D)   Every such prohibited sign, signal, or marking is hereby declared to
be a public nuisance and the authority having jurisdiction over the highway is
hereby empowered to remove the same or cause it to be removed without notice.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.23 INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICIAL TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, without lawful authority, to attempt to
or in fact alter, deface, injure, knock down, or remove any official traffic
control device or any railroad sign or signal or any inscription, shield, or
insignia thereon, or any part thereof.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-9) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.24 CROSSWALKS AND SAFETY ZONES.
   At the direction of the City Council, the Chief of Police is hereby
authorized:
   (A)   To direct and coordinate the Maintenance Department to maintain, by
appropriate devices, marks or lines upon the surface of the roadway, crosswalks
at intersections where, in his or her opinion, there is particular danger to
pedestrians crossing the roadway and at such other places as he or she may deem
necessary; and
   (B)   To establish safety zones of such kind and character and at such
places as he or she may deem necessary for the protection of pedestrians.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-10) (Ord. 328, passed 3-10-1997)
§ 70.25 TRAFFIC LANES.
   (A)   At the direction of the City Council, the Chief of Police is hereby
authorized to direct and coordinate the Maintenance Department to mark traffic
lanes upon the roadway of any street or highway where a regular alignment of
traffic is necessary.
   (B)   Where such traffic lanes have been marked, it shall be unlawful for
the operator of any vehicle to fail or refuse to keep such vehicle within the
boundaries of such lane except when lawfully passing another vehicle or
preparatory to making a lawful turning movement.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-11) (Ord. 328, passed 3-10-1997) Penalty, see §
10.99
EQUIPMENT
§ 70.40 WHEN LIGHTED LAMPS ARE REQUIRED.
   Every vehicle upon a highway at any time from one-half hour after sunset to
one-half hour before sunrise and at any other time when there is not sufficient
light to render clearly discernible persons and vehicles on the highway at a
distance of 500 feet ahead shall display lighted lamps and illuminating devices
as hereinafter respectively required for different classes of vehicles, subject
to exceptions with respect to parked vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 8-9-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.41 VISIBILITY DISTANCE AND MOUNTED HEIGHT OF LAMPS.
   (A)   Whenever requirement is hereinafter declared as to the distance from
which certain lamps and devices shall render objects visible or within which
such lamps or devices shall be visible, said provisions shall apply during the
times stated in §
70.40 in respect to a vehicle without load when upon a straight, level,
unlighted highway under normal atmospheric conditions, unless a different time
or condition is expressly stated.
   (B)   Whenever requirement is hereinafter declared as to the MOUNTED HEIGHT
OF LAMPS OR DEVICES, it shall mean from the center of such lamp or device to
the level ground upon which the vehicle stands when such vehicle is without a
load.
(Prior Code, § 8-9-2)
§ 70.42 HEADLAMPS ON MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   Every motor vehicle, other than a motorcycle or motor driven cycle,
shall be equipped with at least two headlamps with at least one on each side of
the front of the motor vehicle, which headlamps shall comply with the
requirements and limitations set forth in this subchapter.
   (B)   Every motorcycle and every motor driven cycle shall be equipped with
at least one and not more than two headlamps, which shall comply with the
requirements and limitations of this subchapter.
   (C)   Every headlamp upon every motor vehicle, including every motorcycle
and motor driven cycle, shall be located at a height measured from the center
of the headlamp of not more than 54 inches nor less than 24 inches to be
measured as set forth in §
70.41(B).
(Prior Code, § 8-9-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.43 TAILLAMPS.
   (A)   Every motor vehicle, motorcycle, trailer, semitrailer, and pole
trailer, and any other vehicle which is being drawn at the end of a train of
vehicles, shall be equipped with at least one taillamp mounted on the rear,
which, when lighted as required in §
70.40, shall emit a red light plainly visible from a distance of 500 feet to
the rear; provided, that in the case of a train of vehicles, only the taillamp
on the rearmost vehicle need actually to be seen from the distance specified.
And further, every such above mentioned vehicle, other than a truck tractor,
shall be equipped with at least two taillamps mounted on the rear, which when
lighted as required in §
70.40, shall comply with the provisions of this section.
   (B)   Every taillamp upon every vehicle shall be located at a height of not
more than 72 inches nor less than 20 inches.
   (C)   Either a taillamp or a separate lamp shall be so constructed and
placed as to illuminate with a white light the rear registration plate, shall
be so wired as to be lighted whenever the headlamps or auxiliary driving lamps
are lighted.
(Prior Code, § 8-9-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.44 STOP LAMPS AND TURN SIGNALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell any new motor vehicle,
including any motorcycle or motor-driven cycle, unless it is equipped with at
least one stop lamp. Stop lamps shall display a red or amber light, or any
shade of color between red and amber, visible from a distance of not less than
100 feet to the rear in normal sunlight, and which shall be actuated upon
application of the service (foot) brake, and which may but need not be
incorporated with one or more other rear lamps.
   (B)   No person shall sell or offer for sale or operate on the highways any
new motor vehicle, trailer, or semitrailer unless it is equipped with
mechanical or electrical turn signals meeting the following requirements. Any
motor vehicle may be equipped and, when required, shall be equipped with lamps
or mechanical signal devices showing to the front and rear for the purposes of
indicating an intention to turn either to the right or left. When lamps are
used for such purpose, the lamps showing to the front shall be located on the
same level and as widely spaced laterally as practicable and, when in use,
shall display a white or amber light, or any shade of color between white and
amber, visible from a distance of not less than 100 feet to the front in normal
sunlight, and the lamps showing to the rear shall be located at the same level
as widely spaced laterally as practicable and, when in use, shall display a red
or amber light, or any shade of color between red and amber, visible from a
distance of not less than 100 feet to the rear in normal sunlight. When
actuated, such lamps shall indicate the intended direction of turning by
flashing the lights showing to the front and rear on the side toward which the
turn is made. Where mechanical signal devices are used for such purpose, said
devices shall be self-illuminated when in use at the times specified in §
70.40.
   (C)   No stop lamp or signal lamp or device shall project a glaring light.
(Prior Code, § 8-9-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.45 LAMPS ON PARKED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Whenever a vehicle is lawfully parked upon a street during the hours
between one-half hour after sunset and one-half hour before sunrise, and in the
event there is sufficient light to reveal any person or object within a
distance of 500 feet upon such street, no lights need be displayed upon such
parked vehicle.
   (B)   Whenever a vehicle is parked or stopped upon a roadway or shoulder
adjacent thereto, whether attended or unattended, during the hours between one-
half hour after sunset and one-half hour before sunrise, if there is not
sufficient light to reveal any person or object within a distance of 500 feet
upon such roadway, such vehicle so parked or stopped shall be equipped with one
or more lamps meeting the following requirements: at least one lamp shall
display a white or amber light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the front
of the vehicle, and the same lamp or at least one other lamp shall display a
red or amber light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear of the
vehicle, and the location of said lamp or lamps shall always be such that at
least one lamp or combination of lamps meeting the requirements of this section
is installed as near as practicable to the side of the vehicle which is closest
to passing traffic. The foregoing provision shall not apply to a motor-driven
cycle.
   (C)   Any lighted headlamps upon a parked vehicle shall be depressed or
dimmed.
(Prior Code, § 8-9-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.46 NUMBER OF DRIVING LAMPS REQUIRED OR PERMITTED.
   (A)   At all times specified in §
70.40, at least two lighted lamps shall be displayed, one on each side at the
front of every motor vehicle other than a motorcycle or motor-driven cycle,
except when such vehicle is parked subject to the regulations governing lights
on parked vehicles.
   (B)   Whenever a motor vehicle equipped with headlamps as herein required is
also equipped with any auxiliary lamps or a spot lamp or any other lamp on the
front thereof projecting a beam of intensity greater than 300 candlepower, not
more than a total of four of any such lamps on the front of a vehicle shall be
lighted at any one time when upon a street or highway.
(Prior Code, § 8-9-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.47 BRAKES.
   (A)   Brake equipment required.
      (1)   Every motor vehicle, other than a motorcycle or motor-driven cycle,
when operated upon a roadway, shall be equipped with brakes adequate to control
the movement of and to stop and hold such vehicle, including two separate means
of applying the brakes, each of which means shall be effective to apply the
brakes to at least two wheels. If these two separate means of applying the
brakes are connected in any way, they shall be so constructed that failure of
any one part of the operating mechanism shall not leave the motor vehicle
without brakes on at least two wheels.
      (2)   Every motorcycle and every motor-driven cycle, when operated upon a
highway, shall be equipped with at least one brake which may be operated by
hand or foot.
      (3)   Every trailer or semitrailer of a gross weight of 3,000 pounds or
more, when operated upon a roadway, shall be equipped with brakes adequate to
control the movement of and to stop and to hold such vehicle and so designed as
to be applied by the driver of the towing motor vehicle from its cab, and said
brakes shall be so designed and connected that in case of an accidental
breakaway of the towed vehicle, the brakes shall be automatically applied.
      (4)   Every new motor vehicle, trailer, or semitrailer hereafter sold and
operated upon the streets shall be equipped with service brakes upon all wheels
of every such vehicle, except that any semitrailer of less than 1,500 pounds’
gross weight need not be equipped with brakes.
      (5)   One of the means of brake operation shall consist of a mechanical
connection from the operating lever to the brake shoes or bands and this brake
shall be capable of holding the vehicle, or combination of vehicles, stationary
under any condition of loading on any upgrade or downgrade upon which it is
operated.
      (6)   The brake shoes operating within or upon the drums on the vehicle
wheels of any motor vehicle may be used for both service and hand operation.
   (B)   Performance ability of brakes.
      (1)   Every motor vehicle or combination of vehicles, at all times and
under all conditions of loading, shall, upon application of the service (foot)
brake, be capable of decelerating and developing a braking force equivalent to
such deceleration according to the minimum requirements set forth herein, and
also of stopping within the distances set forth herein:
 
                                                                                                  Equivalent
                                                                                                  Braking
                                                                            Stopping Deceleration Force of
                                                                            Distance              Vehicle of
                                                                                                  Combination
                                                                                                  Weight
Passenger vehicles, not including buses                                     25 ft.   17 ft. per   53%
                                                                                     second
Single unit vehicles with a manufacturer’s gross vehicle weight rating of 30 ft.   14 ft. per   43.5%
less than 10,000 pounds                                                              second
Single unit, 2-axle vehicle with a manufacturer’s gross vehicle weight    40 ft.   14 ft. per   43.5%
rating of 10,000 or more pounds                                                      second
All other vehicles and combinations with a manufacturer’s gross vehicle   50 ft.   14 ft. per   43.5%
weight rating of 10,000 or more pounds                                               second
 
      (2)   Compliance with standards set forth herein shall be determined
either by actual road tests conducted on a substantially level (not to exceed a
plus or minus 1% grade), dry, smooth, hard surfaced road that is free from
loose material, and with stopping distances measured from the actual instant
braking controls are moved and from an initial speed of 20 mph, or else by
suitable mechanical tests in a testing lane which recreates such same
conditions, or by a combination of both methods.
   (C)   Maintenance of brakes. All brakes shall be maintained in good working
order and shall be so adjusted as to operate as equally as practicable with
respect to the wheels on opposite sides of the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 8-9-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.48 HORNS AND WARNING DEVICES.
   (A)   Every motor vehicle, when operated upon a public thoroughfare, shall
be equipped with a horn in good working order and capable of emitting sound
audible under normal conditions from a distance of not less than 200 feet, but
no horn or other warning device shall emit an unreasonably loud or harsh sound
or whistle. The driver of a motor vehicle shall, when reasonably necessary to
ensure safe operation, give audible warning with his or her horn but shall not
otherwise use such horn when upon a thoroughfare.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be equipped with nor shall any person use upon a
vehicle any siren, whistle, or bell, except as otherwise permitted in this
section.
   (C)   It is permissible, but not required, that any commercial vehicle be
equipped with a theft alarm signal device which is so arranged that it cannot
be used by the driver as an ordinary warning signal.
   (D)   Any authorized emergency vehicle may be equipped with a siren,
whistle, or bell capable of emitting sound audible under normal conditions from
a distance of not less than 500 feet, but such siren shall not be used except
when such vehicle is operated in response to an emergency call or in the
immediate pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the law, in which said
latter events the driver of such vehicle shall sound said siren when reasonably
necessary to warn pedestrians and other drivers of the approach thereof.
(Prior Code, § 8-9-9) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.49 MIRRORS.
   Every motor vehicle which is so constructed or loaded as to obstruct the
driver’s view to the rear thereof from the driver’s position shall be equipped
with a mirror so located as to reflect to the driver a view of the roadway for
a distance of at least 200 feet to the rear of such vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 8-9-10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.50 WINDSHIELDS MUST BE UNOBSTRUCTED AND EQUIPPED WITH WIPERS.
   (A)   No person shall drive any motor vehicle with any sign, poster, or
other nontransparent material upon the front windshield, side wings, or side or
rear windows of such vehicle which obstructs the driver’s clear view of the
roadway or any intersecting roadway.
   (B)   The windshield on every motor vehicle shall be equipped with a device
for cleaning rain, snow, or other moisture from the windshield, which device
shall be so constructed as to be controlled or operated by the driver of the
vehicle.
   (C)   Every windshield wiper upon a motor vehicle shall be maintained in
good working order.
(Prior Code, § 8-9-11) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
Enforcement and Obedience to Traffic Regulations
   
71.001   Authority of Police and Fire Department officials
   
71.002   Required obedience to traffic regulations
   
71.003   Obedience to Police and Fire Department officials
   
71.004   Propelling pushcarts or riding animals
   
71.005   Use of coasters, roller skates, and similar devices
   
71.006   Public employees to obey traffic regulations
   
71.007   Authorized emergency vehicles
Rules of the Road
   
71.020   Drive on right side of roadway
   
71.021   Passing vehicles proceeding in opposite directions
   
71.022   Overtaking a vehicle on the left
   
71.023   Overtaking on the right
   
71.024   Limitations on overtaking on the left
   
71.025   Driving to left of center of roadway
   
71.026   One-way streets and alleys
   
71.027   Driving on roadway laned for traffic
   
71.028   Following too closely
   
71.029   Driving on divided highways
   
71.030   Method of turning at intersections
   
71.031   Starting parked vehicle
   
71.032   Turning movements and required signals
   
71.033   Method of giving hand and arm signals
   
71.034   Vehicle approaching or entering intersection
   
71.035   Vehicle turning left at intersection
   
71.036   Vehicle entering stop or yield intersection
   
71.037   Vehicle entering highway from private road or driveway
   
71.038   Operation of vehicles on approach of authorized emergency vehicles
   
71.039   Driving through safety zone prohibited
   
71.040   State motor vehicle laws adopted
   
71.041   Restricted turning movements
Miscellaneous Driving Rules
   
71.055   Limitations of backing
   
71.056   Riding on motorcycle
   
71.057   Obstruction to driver’s view or driving mechanism
   
71.058   Following fire apparatus prohibited
   
71.059   Crossing fire hose
   
71.060   Driving through funeral or other processions
   
71.061   Drivers in a procession
   
71.062   Funeral procession to be identified
   
71.063   When permits required for parades and processions
   
71.064   Clinging to vehicles
   
71.065   Driving on sidewalk
   
71.066   Boarding or alighting from vehicles
   
71.067   Unlawful riding
   
71.068   Railroad trains not to block streets
   
71.069   Bus stops
   
71.070   Obedience to signal indicating approach of train
   
71.071   Certain vehicles to stop at railroad crossings
   
71.072   Moving heavy equipment at railroad crossings
   
71.073   Stop signs and yield signs
   
71.074   Emerging from alley or private driveway
   
71.075   Overtaking and passing school bus
Speed
   
71.090   Basic rule; speed limits
   
71.091   Minimum speed limits
Pedestrians
   
71.105   Pedestrians subject to traffic regulations
   
71.106   Pedestrians’ right-of-way in crosswalk
   
71.107   Crossing at other than crosswalk
   
71.108   Drivers to exercise due care
   
71.109   Pedestrians to use right half of crosswalk
   
71.110   Pedestrians on roadways
   
71.111   Pedestrians soliciting rides or business
ENFORCEMENT AND OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
§ 71.001 AUTHORITY OF POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENT OFFICIALS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the officers of the Police Department, or such
officers as are assigned by the Chief of Police, to enforce all street traffic
laws of the state and the municipality.
   (B)   Officers of the Police Department, or such officers as are assigned by
the Chief of Police, are hereby authorized to direct all traffic by voice,
hand, or signal; provided, that in the event of a fire or other emergency or to
expedite traffic or to safeguard pedestrians, officers of the Police Department
may direct traffic as conditions may require.
   (C)   Officers of the Fire Department, when at the scene of a fire, may
direct or assist the police in directing traffic thereat or in the immediate
vicinity.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-1)
§ 71.002 REQUIRED OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to do any act forbidden or fail to
perform any act required herein.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.003 OBEDIENCE TO POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENT OFFICIALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person wilfully to fail or refuse to comply
with any lawful order or direction of a police officer or Fire Department
official.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.004 PROPELLING PUSHCARTS OR RIDING ANIMALS.
   Every person propelling any pushcart or driving any animal drawn vehicle or
riding an animal upon a roadway shall be subject to the provisions of this
title applicable to the driver of any vehicle, except those provisions which by
their own nature can have no application.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-4)
§ 71.005 USE OF COASTERS, ROLLER SKATES, AND SIMILAR DEVICES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person upon roller skates or riding any
coaster, toy vehicle, or similar device to go upon any roadway except while
crossing a street on a crosswalk and, when crossing, such person shall be
granted all of the rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable
to pedestrians. This section shall not apply upon any street while set aside as
a play street.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.006 PUBLIC EMPLOYEES TO OBEY TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to the driver of any vehicle
owned by or used in the service of the United States government, this state,
county, or municipality, and it shall be unlawful for any such driver to
violate any of the provisions of this title, except as otherwise permitted.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.007 AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (A)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to an
emergency call or when in the pursuit of an actual suspected violator of the
law or when responding to, but not upon returning from, a fire alarm, may
exercise the privileges set forth in this section, but subject to the
conditions herein stated.
   (B)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle may:
      (1)   Park or stand, irrespective of the provisions of this title;
      (2)   Exceed the prima facie speed limits so long as he or she does not
endanger life or property; and
      (3)   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement or turning in
specified directions.
   (C)   The exemption herein granted to an authorized emergency vehicle shall
apply only when the driver of any said vehicle while in motion sounds audible
signal or bell, siren, or exhaust whistle as may be reasonably necessary and
when the vehicle is equipped with at least one lighted lamp displaying a red
light visible under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet
to the front of such vehicle, except that an authorized emergency vehicle
operated as a police vehicle need not be equipped with or display a red light
visible from in front of the vehicle.
   (D)   The foregoing provisions shall not relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons, nor shall such provisions protect the driver from consequences of his
or her reckless disregard for the safety of others.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-7)
RULES OF THE ROAD
§ 71.020 DRIVE ON RIGHT SIDE OF ROADWAY.
   (A)   Upon all roadways of sufficient width, a vehicle shall be driven upon
the right half of the roadway, except as follows:
      (1)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction under the rules governing such movement;
      (2)   When the right half of a roadway is closed to traffic while under
construction or repair;
      (3)   Upon a roadway divided into three marked lanes for traffic under
the rules applicable thereon; or
      (4)   Upon a roadway designated and signposted for one-way traffic.
   (B)   Upon all roadways, any vehicle proceeding at less than the normal
speed of traffic at the time and place and under the conditions then existing
shall be driven in the right hand lane then available for traffic, or as close
as practicable to the right hand curb or edge of the roadway, except when
overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same direction or when
preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a private road or
driveway.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.021 PASSING VEHICLES PROCEEDING IN OPPOSITE DIRECTIONS.
   Drivers of vehicles proceeding in opposite direction shall pass each other
to the right, and upon roadways having width for not more than one line of
traffic in each direction, each driver shall give to the other at least one-
half of the main traveled portion of the roadway as nearly as possible.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.022 OVERTAKING A VEHICLE ON THE LEFT.
   The following rules shall govern the overtaking and passing of vehicles
proceeding in the same direction, subject to those limitations, exceptions, and
special rules hereinafter stated.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction shall pass to the left thereof at a safe distance and shall not
again drive to the right side of the roadway until safely clear of the
overtaken vehicle.
   (B)   Except when overtaking and passing on the right is permitted, the
driver of an overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in favor of the
overtaking vehicle an audible signal and shall not increase the speed of his or
her vehicle until completely passed by the overtaking vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.023 OVERTAKING ON THE RIGHT.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass upon the right of
another vehicle only under the following conditions:
      (1)   When the vehicle overtaken is making or about to make a left turn;
      (2)   Upon a street or highway with unobstructed pavement not occupied by
parked vehicle of sufficient width for two or more lines of moving vehicles in
each direction; or
      (3)   Upon a one-way street, or upon any roadway on which traffic is
restricted to one direction of movement, where the roadway is free from
obstructions and of sufficient width for two or more lines of moving vehicles.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass another vehicle upon the
right only under conditions permitting such movement in safety. In no event
shall such movement be made by driving off the pavement or main traveled
portion of the roadway.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.024 LIMITATIONS ON OVERTAKING ON THE LEFT.
   No vehicle shall be driven to the left side of the center of the roadway in
overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same direction unless
such left side is clearly visible and is free of oncoming traffic for a
sufficient distance ahead to permit such overtaking and passing to be
completely made without interfering with the safe operation of any vehicle
approaching from the opposite direction or any vehicle overtaken. In every
event, the overtaking vehicle must return to the right hand side of the roadway
before coming within 100 feet of any vehicle approaching from the opposite
direction.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.025 DRIVING TO LEFT OF CENTER OF ROADWAY.
   (A)   No vehicle shall, at any time, be driven to the left side of the
roadway under the following conditions:
      (1)   When approaching the crest of a grade or upon a curve in the
highway where the driver’s view is obstructed within such distance as to create
a hazard in the event another vehicle might approach from the opposite
direction;
      (2)   When approaching within 100 feet of or traversing any intersection
or railroad grade crossing; or
      (3)   When the view is obstructed upon approaching within 100 feet of any
bridge, viaduct, or tunnel.
   (B)   The foregoing limitations shall not apply upon a one-way roadway.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.026 ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   (A)   The Council may designate any street or alley under its jurisdiction
for one-way traffic and shall direct the erection of appropriate signs giving
notice thereof.
   (B)   Upon a roadway designated and signposted for one-way traffic, a
vehicle shall be driven only in the direction designated.
   (C)   A vehicle passing around a rotary traffic island shall be driven only
to the right of such island.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.027 DRIVING ON ROADWAY LANED FOR TRAFFIC.
   Whenever any roadway has been divided into two or more clearly marked lanes
for traffic, the following rules, in addition to all others consistent
herewith, shall apply.
   (A)   A vehicle shall be driven as nearly as practicable entirely within a
single lane and shall not be moved from such lane until the driver has first
ascertained that such movement can be made with safety.
   (B)   Upon a roadway which is divided into three lanes, a vehicle shall not
be driven in the center lane except when overtaking and passing another vehicle
where the roadway is clearly visible and such center lane is clear within a
safe distance, or in preparation for a left turn or where such center lane is,
at the time, allocated exclusively to traffic moving in the direction the
vehicle is proceeding and is signposted to give notice of such allocation.
   (C)   Official signs may be erected directing slow-moving traffic to use a
designated lane or designating those lanes to be used by traffic moving in a
particular direction regardless of the center of the roadway and drivers of
vehicles shall obey the directions of every such sign.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.028 FOLLOWING TOO CLOSELY.
   (A)   The driver of a motor vehicle shall not follow another vehicle more
closely than is reasonable and prudent, having due regard for the speed of such
vehicles and the traffic upon and the condition of the highway.
   (B)   The driver of any motor truck or motor vehicle drawing another vehicle
when traveling upon a roadway outside of a business or residence district and
which is following another motor truck or motor vehicle drawing another vehicle
shall, whenever conditions permit, leave sufficient space so that an overtaking
vehicle may enter and occupy such space without danger, except that this shall
not prevent a motor truck or motor vehicle drawing another vehicle from
overtaking and passing any like vehicle or other vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-9) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.029 DRIVING ON DIVIDED HIGHWAYS.
   Whenever any street has been divided into two roadways by leaving an
intervening space or by a physical barrier or clearly indicated dividing
section so constructed as to impede vehicular traffic, every vehicle shall be
driven only upon the right hand roadway, and no vehicle shall be driven over,
across, or within any such dividing space, barrier, or section, except through
an opening in such physical barrier or dividing section or space or at a
crossover or intersection established by public authority.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.030 METHOD OF TURNING AT INTERSECTIONS.
   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do so as
follows.
   (A)   Right turns. Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn shall
be made as close as practicable to the right hand curb or edge of the roadway.
   (B)   Left turns on two-way roadways. At any intersection where traffic is
permitted to move in both directions on each roadway entering the intersection,
an approach for a left turn shall be made in that portion of the right half of
the roadway nearest the centerline where it enters the intersection and, after
entering the intersection, the left turn shall be made so as to leave the
intersection to the right of the centerline of the roadway being entered.
Whenever practicable, the left turn shall be made in that portion of the
intersection to the left of the center of the intersection.
   (C)   Left turns on other than two-way roadways. At any intersection where
traffic is restricted to one direction on one or more of the roadways, the
drivers of a vehicle intending to turn left at any such intersection shall
approach the intersection in the extreme left hand lane lawfully available to
traffic moving in the direction of travel of such vehicle and, after entering
the intersection, the left turn shall be made so as to leave the intersection,
as nearly as practicable, in the left hand lane lawfully available to traffic
moving in such direction upon the roadway being entered.
   (D)   Signs posted. The Chief of Police is authorized to place markers,
buttons, or signs within or adjacent to intersections indicating the course to
be traveled by vehicles turning at such intersections and such course to be
traveled as so indicated may conform to or be other than as prescribed by law.
When authorized markers, buttons, or other indications are placed within an
intersection indicating the course to be traveled by vehicles turning thereat,
it shall be unlawful for a driver of a vehicle to disobey the directions of
such indicators.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.031 STARTING PARKED VEHICLE.
   No person shall start a vehicle which is stopped, standing, or parked unless
and until such movement can be made with reasonable safety.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-12) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.032 TURNING MOVEMENTS AND REQUIRED SIGNALS.
   (A)   No person shall turn a vehicle at an intersection unless the vehicle
is in proper position upon the roadway as required in §
71.030, or turn a vehicle to enter a private road or driveway or otherwise turn
a vehicle from a direct course or move right or left upon a roadway unless and
until such movement can be made with reasonable safety. No person shall so turn
any vehicle without giving an appropriate signal in the manner hereinafter
provided in the event any other traffic may be affected by such movement.
   (B)   A signal of intention to turn right or left when required shall be
given continuously during not less than the last 100 feet traveled by the
vehicle before turning.
   (C)   No person shall stop or suddenly decrease the speed of a vehicle
without first giving an appropriate signal in the manner provided herein to the
driver of any vehicle immediately to the rear where there is opportunity to
give such signal.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-13) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.033 METHOD OF GIVING HAND AND ARM SIGNALS.
   All signals herein required given by hand and arm shall be given from the
left side of the vehicle in the following manner and such signals shall
indicate as follows:
   (A)   Left turn: hand and arm extended horizontally;
   (B)   Right turn: hand and arm extended upward; and
   (C)   Stop or decrease speed: Hand and arm extended downward.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.034 VEHICLE APPROACHING OR ENTERING INTERSECTION.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle approaching an intersection shall yield the
right-of-way to a vehicle which has entered the intersection from a different
street.
   (B)   When two vehicles enter an intersection from different streets at
approximately the same time, the driver of the vehicle on the left shall yield
the right-of-way to the vehicle on the right.
   (C)   The right-of-way rules declared in divisions (A) and (B) above are
modified at through streets and otherwise as hereinafter stated in this title.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-15) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.035 VEHICLE TURNING LEFT AT INTERSECTION.
   The driver of a vehicle within an intersection intending to turn to the left
shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle approaching from the opposite
direction which is within the intersection or so close thereto as to constitute
an immediate hazard, but said driver, having so yielded and having given a
signal when and as required by this subchapter, may make such left turn, and
the drivers of all other vehicles approaching the intersection from said
opposite direction shall yield the right-of-way to the vehicle making the left
turn.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-16) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.036 VEHICLE ENTERING STOP OR YIELD INTERSECTION.
   (A)   Preferential right-of-way at an intersection may be indicated by stop
signs or yield signs.
   (B)   Except when directed to proceed by a police officer or traffic control
signal, every driver of a vehicle approaching a stop intersection indicated by
a stop sign shall stop as required by this title and, after having stopped,
shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle which has entered the intersection
from another roadway or which is approaching so closely on said roadway as to
constitute an immediate hazard, but said driver, having so yielded, may
proceed, and the drivers of all other vehicles approaching the intersection
shall yield the right-of-way to the vehicle so proceeding.
   (C)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign shall, in obedience
to such sign, slow down to a speed reasonable for the existing conditions, or
shall stop if necessary as provided in Chapter 150 of this code, and shall
yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian legally crossing the roadway on which
he or she is driving, and to any vehicle in the intersection or approaching on
another roadway so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard. Said driver,
having so yielded, may proceed, and the drivers of all other vehicles
approaching the intersection shall yield to the vehicle so proceeding;
provided, however, that if such driver is involved in a collision with a
pedestrian in a crosswalk or a vehicle in the intersection after driving past a
yield sign without stopping, such collision shall be deemed prima facie
evidence of his or her failure to yield right-of-way.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-17) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.037 VEHICLE ENTERING HIGHWAY FROM PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY.
   The driver of a vehicle about to enter or cross a highway from a private
road or driveway shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on
said highway.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-18) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.038 OPERATION OF VEHICLES ON APPROACH OF AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (A)   Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle
equipped with at least one lighted lamp exhibiting red light visible under
normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of such
vehicle, other than a police vehicle when operated as an authorized emergency
vehicle, and when the driver is giving audible signal by siren, exhaust
whistle, or bell, the driver of every other vehicle shall yield the right-of-
way and shall immediately drive to a position parallel to, and as close as
possible to, the right hand edge or curb of the roadway clear of any
intersection and shall stop and remain in such position until the authorized
emergency vehicle has passed, except when otherwise directed by a police
officer.
   (B)   This section shall not operate to relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle to drive with due regard for the safety of all persons using
the roadway.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-19) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.039 DRIVING THROUGH SAFETY ZONE PROHIBITED.
   No vehicle shall, at any time, be driven through or within a safety zone.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-20) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.040 STATE MOTOR VEHICLE LAWS ADOPTED.
   (A)   It is hereby declared to be the intent of the governing body of the
city to aid and assist by whatever means possible, for the utmost consistency
in traffic regulation among and between agencies of the state having such
jurisdiction. Toward that end, adoption of the state motor vehicle laws by the
cities of the state is a necessary means of assuring maximum uniformity within
the state.
   (B)   There is hereby adopted, for the purpose of establishing rules and
regulations for the use of all streets and public thoroughfares of the city
that certain code, identified as the 1969 Revised Edition, State Motor Vehicle
Laws, more particularly Idaho Code Title 49, published by the Department of Law
Enforcement, and as the same may hereafter be revised by the state legislature,
or amended by the governing body, and the same is hereby adopted and
incorporated as an ordinance of the city as though set forth at length herein.
   (C)   Three copies of the state motor vehicle laws, together with any
revisions or amendments, duly certified by the City Clerk, shall be kept on
file in his or her office for use and examination of and by the public.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-21)
§ 71.041 RESTRICTED TURNING MOVEMENTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any driver of any vehicle to turn such
vehicle so as to proceed in the opposite direction upon any street or alley
within the corporate limits of the city, except at an intersection and then
only when such movement can be made in safety and without interfering with
other traffic unless posted otherwise.
   (B)   No person shall park any vehicle or move any vehicle except in the
direction of lawful traffic movement.
   (C)   No person shall move any vehicle across the center of any street or
highway, whether marked with a centerline or unmarked, to park any vehicle or
to move any parked vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-22) (Ord. 215, passed 11-2-1976) Penalty, see §
10.99
MISCELLANEOUS DRIVING RULES
§ 71.055 LIMITATIONS ON BACKING.
   It shall be unlawful for any driver of a vehicle to back the same unless
such movement can be made with reasonable safety and without interfering with
other traffic.
(Prior Code, § 8-10-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.056 RIDING ON MOTORCYCLE.
   A person operating a motorcycle shall ride only upon a permanent and regular
seat attached thereto, and such operator shall not carry any other person, nor
shall any other person ride on a motorcycle unless such motorcycle is designed
to carry more than one person.
(Prior Code, § 8-10-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.057 OBSTRUCTION TO DRIVER’S VIEW OR DRIVING MECHANISM.
   (A)   No person shall drive a vehicle when it is so loaded, or when there
are in the front seat such number of persons, exceeding three, as to obstruct
the view of the driver to the front or sides of the vehicle, or as to interfere
with the driver’s control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   (B)   No passenger in a vehicle shall ride in such position as to interfere
with the driver’s view ahead or to the sides, or to interfere with his or her
control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 8-10-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.058 FOLLOWING FIRE APPARATUS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any driver of any vehicle, other than one on
official business, to follow any fire apparatus traveling in response to a fire
alarm closer than 500 feet, or drive or park such vehicle within the block
where fire apparatus has stopped in answer to a fire alarm.
(Prior Code, § 8-10-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.059 CROSSING FIRE HOSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or permit any vehicle to be
driven over any unprotected hose of the Fire Department when laid down on any
street or private driveway to be used at any fire or alarm of fire without the
consent of the Fire Department official in command.
(Prior Code, § 8-10-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.060 DRIVING THROUGH FUNERAL OR OTHER PROCESSIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for a driver of a vehicle to drive between the vehicles
comprising a funeral or other authorized procession while they are in motion
and when such vehicles are conspicuously designated.
(Prior Code, § 8-10-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.061 DRIVERS IN A PROCESSION.
   Each driver in a funeral or other procession shall drive as near to the
right hand edge of the roadway as practical and shall follow the vehicle as
close as is practical and safe.
(Prior Code, § 8-10-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.062 FUNERAL PROCESSION TO BE IDENTIFIED.
   A funeral composed of a procession of vehicles shall be identified as such
by the display upon the outside of each vehicle of a pennant or other
identifying insignia, or by such other method as may be determined and
designated by the Chief of Police.
(Prior Code, § 8-10-8)
§ 71.063 WHEN PERMITS REQUIRED FOR PARADES AND PROCESSIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any funeral procession or parade containing persons
or vehicles to occupy, march, or proceed along any street, except in accordance
with a permit issued by the Chief of Police and such other regulations as are
set forth in Chapter 114 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 8-10-9) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.064 CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person riding upon a bicycle, coaster, roller
skates, sled, or toy vehicle to attach the same or himself or herself to any
vehicle upon a roadway.
(Prior Code, § 8-10-10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.065 DRIVING ON SIDEWALK.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver of a vehicle to drive within any
sidewalk area except at a permanent or temporary driveway. No person shall park
a vehicle within any sidewalk area.
(Prior Code, § 8-10-11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.066 BOARDING OR ALIGHTING FROM VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to board or alight from any vehicle
while such vehicle is in motion.
(Prior Code, § 8-10-12) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.067 UNLAWFUL RIDING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride any vehicle upon any portion
thereof not designated or intended for the use of passengers. This provision
shall not apply to an employee engaged in the necessary discharge of a duty or
to persons riding within truck bodies in space intended for merchandise.
(Prior Code, § 8-10-13) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.068 RAILROAD TRAINS NOT TO BLOCK STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for the directing officer or the operator of any
railroad train to direct the operation of or to operate the same in such manner
as to prevent the use of any street for purposes of travel for a period of time
longer than ten minutes, except that this provision shall not apply to trains
or cars in motion other than those engaged in switching.
(Prior Code, § 8-10-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.069 BUS STOPS.
   (A)   The Chief of Police shall have the authority to designate bus stops at
such locations and in such manner and number as may be necessary and of the
greatest benefit and convenience to the public. Every such bus stop shall be
designated by appropriate signs.
   (B)   The operator of a bus shall not stop such bus at any place for the
purpose of taking on or discharging passengers other than at a bus stop so
designated except in case of emergency.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop, stand, or park a vehicle
at an authorized bus stop so designated or between the right curb and any such
stop, except that the operator of a passenger vehicle may temporarily stop
thereat for the purpose of and while actually engaged in the discharge or the
pick up of passengers then in readiness at the curb.
(Prior Code, § 8-10-15) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.070 OBEDIENCE TO SIGNAL INDICATING APPROACH OF TRAIN.
   (A)   Whenever any person driving a vehicle approaches a railroad grade
crossing under any of the circumstances stated in this section, the driver of
such vehicle shall stop within 50 feet but not less than 15 feet from the
nearest rail or such railroad, and shall not proceed until he or she can do so
safely. The foregoing requirements shall apply when:
      (1)   A clearly visible electric or mechanical signal device gives
warning of the immediate approach of a railroad train;
      (2)   A crossing gate is lowered or when a human flag person gives or
continues to give a signal of the approach or passage of a railroad train;
      (3)   A railroad train approaching within approximately 1,500 feet of the
highway crossing emits a signal audible from such distance and such railroad
train, by reason of its speed or nearness to such crossing, is an immediate
hazard; or
      (4)   An approaching railroad train is plainly visible and is in
hazardous proximity to such crossing.
   (B)   No person shall drive any vehicle through, around, or under any
crossing gate or barrier at a railroad crossing while such gate or barrier is
closed or is being opened or closed.
(Prior Code, § 8-7-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.071 CERTAIN VEHICLES TO STOP AT RAILROAD CROSSINGS.
   (A)   The driver of any motor vehicle carrying passengers for hire, or of
any school bus carrying any schoolchild, or any vehicle carrying explosive
substances or inflammable liquids as a cargo or part of a cargo, before
crossing at grade any track or tracks of a railroad, shall stop such vehicle
within 50 feet but not less than 15 feet from the nearest rail of such railroad
and, while so stopped, shall listen and look in both directions along such
track for any approaching train, and for signals indicating the approach of a
train, except as hereinafter provided, and shall not proceed until he or she
can do so safely. After stopping as required herein and, upon proceeding when
it is safe to do so, the driver of any said vehicle shall cross only in such
gear of the vehicle that there will be no necessity for changing gears while
traversing such crossing and the driver shall not shift gears while crossing
the track or tracks.
   (B)   No stop need be made at any such crossing where a police officer or a
traffic control signal directs traffic to proceed.
   (C)   This section shall not apply at street railway grade crossings within
a business or residence district.
(Prior Code, § 8-7-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.072 MOVING HEAVY EQUIPMENT AT RAILROAD CROSSINGS.
   (A)   No person shall operate or move any crawler type tractor, steam
shovel, derrick, roller, or any equipment or structure having a normal
operating speed of ten mph, or a vertical body or load clearance of less than
one-half inch per foot of the distance between any two adjacent axles, or in
any event of less than nine inches, measured above the level surface of a
roadway, upon or across any tracks at a railroad grade crossing without first
complying with this section.
   (B)   Notice of any such intended crossing shall be given to a station agent
of such railroad and a reasonable time be given to such railroad to provide
proper protection at such crossing.
   (C)   Before making any such crossing, the person operating or moving any
such vehicle or equipment shall first stop the same not less than 15 feet nor
more than 50 feet from the nearest rail of such railroad and, while so stopped,
shall listen and look in both directions along such track for any approaching
train and for signals indicating the approach of a train, and shall not proceed
until the crossing can be made safely.
   (D)   No such crossing shall be made when warning is given by automatic
signal, crossing gates, or a flag person or otherwise of the immediate approach
of a railroad train or car. If a flag person is provided by the railroad,
movement over the crossing shall be under his or her direction.
(Prior Code, § 8-7-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.073 STOP SIGNS AND YIELD SIGNS.
   (A)   The Council may designate through roadways and cause to be erected
stop signs or yield signs at specified entrances thereto or designate any
intersection as a stop intersection or as a yield intersection and order
erected stop signs or yield signs at one or more entrances to such
intersection.
   (B)   Every stop sign shall bear the word “stop” in letters not less than
eight inches in height. Every yield sign shall bear the word “yield” in letters
not less than seven inches in height. Every stop sign and every yield sign
shall, at nighttime, be rendered luminous by internal illumination, or by a
floodlight projected on the face of the sign, or by efficient reflecting
element in the face of the sign.
   (C)   Every stop sign and every yield sign shall be erected as near as
practicable to the nearest line of the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection or, if there is not crosswalk, then as near as practicable to the
nearest line of the intersecting roadway.
   (D)   Except when directed to proceed by a police officer or traffic control
signal, every driver of a vehicle approaching a stop intersection indicated by
a stop sign shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection or, in the event there is no crosswalk, shall stop at clearly
marked stop line, but if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting
roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting
roadway before entering the intersection.
   (E)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign, if required for
safety to stop, shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the near side of
the intersection or, in the event there is no crosswalk, at a clearly marked
stop line, but if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway
where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway.
(Prior Code, § 8-7-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.074 EMERGING FROM ALLEY OR PRIVATE DRIVEWAY.
   The driver of a vehicle within a business or residence district emerging
from an alley, driveway, or building shall stop such vehicle immediately prior
to driving onto a sidewalk or onto the sidewalk area extending across any
alleyway or driveway, and shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian as may
be necessary to avoid collision, and upon entering the roadway, shall yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on said roadway.
(Prior Code, § 8-7-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.075 OVERTAKING AND PASSING SCHOOL BUS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle, upon meeting or overtaking from either
direction any school bus which has stopped on the highway for the purpose of
receiving or discharging any schoolchildren, shall stop the vehicle before
reaching such school bus and shall not proceed until such school bus resumes
motion, or until signaled by the driver to proceed.
   (B)   Every bus used for the transportation of schoolchildren shall bear
upon the front and rear thereon a plainly visible sign containing the words
“school bus” in letters not less than eight inches in height. When a school bus
is being operated upon a highway for purposes other than the actual
transportation of children either to or from school, all markings thereon
indicating “school bus” shall be covered or concealed.
   (C)   The driver of a vehicle upon a highway with separate roadways need not
stop upon meeting or passing a school bus which is on a different roadway or
when upon a controlled access highway and the school bus is stopped in a
loading zone which is a part of or adjacent to such highway and when
pedestrians are not permitted to cross the roadway.
(Prior Code, § 8-7-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
SPEED
§ 71.090 BASIC RULE; SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   No person shall drive a vehicle on a public thoroughfare at a speed
greater than is reasonable and prudent under the conditions and having regard
to the actual and potential hazards then existing. In every event, speed shall
be so controlled as may be necessary to avoid colliding with any person,
vehicle, or other conveyance on or entering the public thoroughfare in
compliance with the legal requirements and duty of all persons to use due care.
   (B)   Where no special hazard exists that requires lower speed for
compliance with division (A) above, the speed of any vehicle shall not exceed
25 mph.
   (C)   Upon proper action by the Council, the speed limits on any
thoroughfare within the municipality may be raised or lowered by posting signs
to that effect.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-1) (Ord. 335, passed 10-27-1997) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.091 MINIMUM SPEED LIMITS.
   No person shall drive a motor vehicle at such a slow speed as to impede or
block the normal and reasonable movement of traffic, except when reduced speed
is necessary for safe operation or in compliance with law.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
PEDESTRIANS
§ 71.105 PEDESTRIANS SUBJECT TO TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   Pedestrians shall be subject to traffic control signals at intersections as
provided in §§
70.15 through
70.25, but at all other places, pedestrians shall be accorded the privileges
and shall be subject to the restrictions stated in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-1)
§ 71.106 PEDESTRIANS’ RIGHT-OF-WAY IN CROSSWALK.
   (A)   When traffic control signals are not in place or not in operation, the
driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way, slowing down or stopping if
need be to so yield, to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within a crosswalk
when the pedestrian is upon the half of the roadway which the vehicle is
traveling upon, or when the pedestrian is approaching so closely from the
opposite half of the roadway as to be in danger, but no pedestrian shall
suddenly leave a curb or other place of safety and walk or run into the path of
a vehicle which is so close that it is impossible for the driver to yield. This
provision shall not apply under the conditions stated in §
71.107(B).
   (B)   Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any
unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the
roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not
overtake and pass such stopped vehicle.
(Prior code, § 8-6-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.107 CROSSING AT OTHER THAN CROSSWALK.
   (A)   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a
marked crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection shall yield
the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (B)   Any pedestrian crossing a roadway at a point where a pedestrian tunnel
or overhead pedestrian crossing has been provided shall yield the right-of-way
to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (C)   Between adjacent intersections at which traffic control signals are in
operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any place except in a marked
crosswalk.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.108 DRIVERS TO EXERCISE DUE CARE.
   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this subchapter, every driver of
a vehicle shall exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian upon
any roadway and shall give warning by sounding the horn when necessary and
shall exercise proper precaution upon observing any child or any confused or
incapacitated person upon any roadway.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.109 PEDESTRIANS TO USE RIGHT HALF OF CROSSWALK.
   Pedestrians shall move, whenever practicable, upon the right half of
crosswalks.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.110 PEDESTRIANS ON ROADWAYS.
   (A)   Where sidewalks are provided, it shall be unlawful for any pedestrian
to walk along and upon adjacent roadways.
   (B)   Where sidewalks are not provided, any pedestrian walking along and
upon a highway shall when practicable walk only on the left side of the roadway
or its shoulder facing traffic which may approach from the opposite direction.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.111 PEDESTRIANS SOLICITING RIDES OR BUSINESS.
   (A)   No person shall stand in a roadway for the purpose of soliciting a
ride, employment, or business from the occupant of any vehicle.
   (B)   No person shall stand on or in proximity to a street or highway for
the purpose of soliciting the watching or guarding of any vehicle while parked
or about to be parked on a street or highway.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
72.01   Stopping, standing, or parking outside of business or residence
districts
   
72.02   Removal of illegally stopped vehicles
   
72.03   Stopping, standing, or parking prohibited in specified places
   
72.04   Additional parking regulations
   
72.05   Unattended motor vehicle
   
72.06   Parking in alleys
   
72.07   Parking of trucks prohibited in Business District
   
72.08   Parking for certain purposes prohibited
   
72.09   Parking adjacent to schools
   
72.10   Parking on narrow streets
   
72.11   Stopping, standing, or parking near congested places
   
72.12   Designation of curb loading zones
   
72.13   Permits for curb loading zone
   
72.14   Standing in freight curb loading zone
   
72.15   Parking signs required
   
72.16   Abandonment of vehicles
   
72.17   Partially dismantled, nonoperating, wrecked, and junked vehicles
   
72.18   Seventy-two hour parking limitation
   
72.19   Private property
 
   
72.99   Penalty
§ 72.01 STOPPING, STANDING, OR PARKING OUTSIDE OF BUSINESS OR RESIDENCE
DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Upon any highway, no person shall stop, park, or leave standing any
vehicle, whether attended or unattended, upon the paved or main traveled part
of the highway when it is practical to stop, park, or so leave such vehicle off
such part of said highway, but in every event, an unobstructed width of the
highway opposite a standing vehicle shall be left for the free passage of other
vehicles and a clear view of such stopped vehicles shall be available from a
distance of 200 feet in each direction upon such highway.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to the driver of any vehicle which is
disabled while on the paved or main traveled portion of a highway in such
manner and to such extent that it is impossible to avoid stopping and
temporarily leaving such disabled vehicle in such position.
(Prior Code, § 8-7-7) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.02 REMOVAL OF ILLEGALLY STOPPED VEHICLES.
   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle standing upon a street in
violation of any of the provisions of this title, such officer is hereby
authorized to move such vehicle, or require the driver or other person in
charge of the vehicle to move the same, to a position off the paved or main
traveled part of such street.
(Prior Code, § 8-7-8)
§ 72.03 STOPPING, STANDING, OR PARKING PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIED PLACES.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle, except when necessary
to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with law or the
directions of a police officer or traffic control device, in any of the
following places:
      (1)   On a sidewalk;
      (2)   In front of a public or private driveway;
      (3)   Within an intersection;
      (4)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
      (5)   On a crosswalk;
      (6)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
      (7)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop sign,
or traffic control signal located at the side of a roadway;
      (8)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless the
traffic authority indicates a different length of signs or markings;
      (9)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
      (10)   Within 20 feet of a driveway entrance to any fire station, on the
side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75 feet of
said entrance when properly signposted;
      (11)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing, or parking would obstruct traffic;
      (12)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge
or curb of a street;
      (13)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway or
within a highway tunnel;
      (14)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping; or
      (15)   Parallel with and adjacent to any other vehicle (commonly known as
“double parking”).
   (B)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his or her control
into any such prohibited area or away from a curb such distance as is unlawful.
(Prior Code, § 8-7-9) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.04 ADDITIONAL PARKING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, every vehicle stopped or
parked upon a roadway where there are adjacent curbs shall be so stopped or
parked with the right hand wheels of such vehicle parallel to and within 18
inches of the right hand curb.
   (B)   The Council may permit parking of vehicles with the left hand wheels
adjacent to and within 18 inches of the left hand curb of a one-way roadway.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any vehicle, or to suffer
or permit any vehicle owned by such person, or under the control or in the
possession of such person, to be parked or left standing for longer than ten
minutes on Main Street within the Business District, between the hours of 2:00
a.m. and 7:00 a.m., excepting vehicles belonging to emergency personnel
responding to emergencies.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any vehicle, or to suffer
or permit any vehicle owned by such person, or under the control or in the
possession of such person, to be parked or left standing for more than a total
time of two hours within the Business District on Main Street, between the
hours of 7:00 a.m. and 2:00 a.m. of the following day, and there shall be no
overnight parking at any time, excepting emergency vehicles for cause.
(Prior Code, § 8-7-10) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.05 UNATTENDED MOTOR VEHICLE.
   No person driving or in charge of a motor vehicle shall permit it to stand
unattended without first stopping the engine, locking the ignition, removing
the key, and effectively setting the brake thereon, and when standing upon any
grade, turning the front wheels to the curb or side of the roadway.
(Prior Code, § 8-7-11) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.06 PARKING IN ALLEYS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park a vehicle within an alley in
such a manner or under such conditions as to leave available less than ten feet
of the width of the roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic, and it
shall be unlawful for a person to stop, stand, or park a vehicle within an
alley in such a position as to block the driveway entrance to any abutting
property.
(Prior Code, § 8-7-12) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.07 PARKING OF TRUCKS PROHIBITED IN BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   Parking of trucks and/or truck trailers is hereby prohibited within the
Business District.
(Prior Code, § 8-7-14) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.08 PARKING FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park a vehicle upon any roadway for
the principal use of:
   (A)   Displaying such vehicle for sale; or
   (B)   Washing, greasing, or repairing such vehicle except repairs
necessitated by an emergency.
(Prior Code, § 8-7-15) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.09 PARKING ADJACENT TO SCHOOLS.
   (A)   The City Council is hereby authorized to establish by resolution no
parking zones on either or both sides of any street adjacent to any school
property when such parking would interfere with traffic or create a hazardous
situation, and to direct the Maintenance Department to erect official signs
indicating the same.
   (B)   When official signs are erected indicating no parking upon either side
of a street adjacent to any school property as authorized herein, it shall be
unlawful for any person to park a vehicle in any such designated place.
(Prior Code, § 8-7-16) (Ord. 328, passed 3-10-1997) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.10 PARKING ON NARROW STREETS.
   (A)   The City Council is hereby authorized to establish by resolution no
parking zones on either side of any street when the width of the roadway does
not exceed 20 feet or upon one side of a street as indicated by such signs when
the width of the roadway does not exceed 30 feet, and to direct the Maintenance
Department to erect official signs indicating the same.
   (B)   When official signs are erected indicating no parking upon narrow
streets as authorized herein, it shall be unlawful for any person to park a
vehicle upon any such street in violation of any such sign.
(Prior Code, § 8-7-17) (Ord. 328, passed 3-10-1997) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.11 STOPPING, STANDING, OR PARKING NEAR CONGESTED PLACES.
   (A)   The Chief of Police is hereby authorized to determine and designate,
by proper signs, places not exceeding 100 feet in length in which the stopping,
standing, or parking of vehicles would create an especially hazardous condition
or would cause unusual delay in traffic.
   (B)   When official signs are erected at hazardous or congested places, as
authorized herein, it shall be unlawful for any person to stop, stand, or park
a vehicle in any such designated place.
(Prior Code, § 8-7-18) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.12 DESIGNATION OF CURB LOADING ZONES.
   The City Council is hereby authorized to establish by resolution passenger
and freight curb loading zones and shall direct the Maintenance Department to
place and maintain appropriate signs indicating the same and stating the hours
during which the provisions of this chapter are applicable.
(Prior Code, § 8-7-19) (Ord. 328, passed 3-10-1997)
§ 72.13 PERMITS FOR CURB LOADING ZONES.
   The Chief of Police shall not hereafter designate or sign any curb loading
zone upon special request of any person unless such person makes application to
the Council for a permit for such zone and for two signs to indicate the ends
of each such zone. Said permit and the permit fee shall be set and designated
by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 8-7-20)
§ 72.14 STANDING IN FREIGHT CURB LOADING ZONE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop, stand, or park a vehicle for
any purpose or length of time other than for the expeditious unloading and
delivery or pick up and loading of materials in any place marked as a freight
curb loading zone during hours when the provisions applicable to such zones are
in effect. In no case shall the stop for loading or unloading of materials
exceed 30 minutes.
(Prior Code, § 8-7-21) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.15 PARKING SIGNS REQUIRED.
   Whenever any parking time limit is imposed or parking is prohibited on
designated streets by the Council, it shall be the duty of the Chief of Police,
upon the direction of the City Council, to have appropriate signs erected
giving notice thereof and such regulations shall not be effective unless said
signs are erected and in place at the time of any alleged offense.
(Prior Code, § 8-7-22) (Ord. 328, passed 3-10-1997)
§ 72.16 ABANDONMENT OF VEHICLES.
   No person shall abandon any vehicle within the city, and no person shall
leave any vehicle at any place within the city for such time and under such
circumstances as to cause such vehicle reasonably to appear to have been
abandoned.
(Prior Code, § 8-7-23) (Ord. 192, passed 5-5-1970) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.17 PARTIALLY DISMANTLED, NONOPERATING, WRECKED, AND JUNKED VEHICLES.
   No person shall, at any time, leave any partially dismantled, nonoperating,
wrecked, or junked vehicle on any street or highway within the city.
(Prior Code, § 8-7-24) (Ord. 192, passed 5-5-1970) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.18 SEVENTY-TWO HOUR PARKING LIMITATION.
   No person shall leave any vehicle, in whatever condition, parked at any one
location on any street or highway within the city for any one continuous period
of more than 72 hours. The temporary removal of a vehicle for a period of less
than two hours, or a removal of a vehicle from any location to any nearby
location on any street or highway within the city, shall not be deemed to be a
removal of the vehicle for the purpose of breaking the continuity of the
parking of the vehicle at any one location. A NEARBY LOCATION shall mean a
location on a street or highway in the city within 100 feet of the location
from which the vehicle was previously parked. Section 72.15 shall not apply to
this section.
(Prior Code, § 8-7-25) (Ord. 192, passed 5-5-1970) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.19 PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   No person in charge or control of any property within the city, whether as
owner, tenant, occupant, lessee, or otherwise, shall allow any partially
dismantled, nonoperating, wrecked, junked, or discarded vehicle to remain on
such property longer than 72 hours, and no person shall leave any such vehicle
on any property within the city for a longer time than 72 hours, except that
this section shall not apply with regard to a vehicle in a fully enclosed
building.
(Prior Code, § 8-7-26) (Ord. 192, passed 5-5-1970) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Bond schedule. All parking violations within the city shall be deemed
infractions. For public convenience and to avoid burdening the judicial system,
any person receiving a parking violation notice for any violation of this
chapter may post a bond or make payment in satisfaction of such violation to
the city in accordance with the following schedule:
 
Nature of Violation              Bond if Paid Within 10 Days
In front of fire station         $20
Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant $15
All other parking violations     $10
 
   (B)   Nonpayment. There shall be an additional bond/fee of $10 for any
violation not paid within ten days.
   (C)   Citation. Should a driver or owner of a vehicle in violation of the
parking regulations wish to have a hearing for any parking violation or fail to
pay a fee/bond for the violation with the city within 20 days, the city shall
issue a uniform citation infraction against the driver, or owner if driver is
unknown. No bond or fee shall be paid to the city when a uniform citation
issues. Bonds on account with the city shall be forfeited to the General Fund.
No citation shall be issued to the driver or owner until at least 20 days after
the notice of violation unless requested by such defendant.
(Prior Code, § 8-7-27) (Ord. 99-02, passed 2-12-1999)
CHAPTER 73: MOTOR VEHICLE CRIMES
Section
General Provisions
   
73.01   Negligent homicide
   
73.02   Persons under the influence of intoxicating liquor or drugs
   
73.03   Reckless driving
   
73.04   Offenses by persons owning or controlling vehicles
Accidents
   
73.15   Accident involving death or personal injuries
   
73.16   Accidents involving damage to vehicle
   
73.17   Duty to give information and render aid
   
73.18   Duty upon striking unattended vehicle
   
73.19   Duty upon striking fixtures upon a public thoroughfare
   
73.20   Written reports of accidents
   
73.21   When driver unable to report
   
73.22   Accident report forms
   
73.23   Garages to report
   
73.24   Accident reports confidential
Removal of Vehicles
   
73.35   Removal of improperly parked vehicles
   
73.36   Removal of unidentified, stolen, wrecked, or abandoned motor vehicles
   
73.37   Removal of vehicle from private property
   
73.38   Enforcement of lien on properties impounded
   
73.39   Proof of ownership; appeal; redemption after sale
Arrests
   
73.50   Procedure upon arrest for felony
   
73.51   Arrests for serious offenses
   
73.52   When person must be taken before Magistrate
   
73.53   When officer has option to take person before a Magistrate
   
73.54   Arrest of nonresident
   
73.55   Notice to appear in court
   
73.56   Authority of officer at scene of accident
   
73.57   Appearance before Magistrate
   
73.58   Failure to obey citation
   
73.59   Procedure not exclusive
   
73.60   Evidence of conviction inadmissible in a civil action
   
73.61   Conviction not to affect credibility of witness
 
   
73.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 73.01 NEGLIGENT HOMICIDE.
   When the death of any person ensues within one year as a proximate result of
injury received by the driving of any vehicle in reckless disregard of the
safety of others, the person so operating such vehicle shall be deemed guilty
of negligent homicide.
(Prior Code, § 8-12-1) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.02 PERSONS UNDER THE INFLUENCE OF INTOXICATING LIQUOR OR DRUGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person who is under the influence of
intoxicating liquor to drive or be in actual physical control of any vehicle
within this city.
   (B)   (1)   In any criminal prosecution for a violation of division (A)
above relating to driving a vehicle while under the influence of intoxicating
liquor, the amount of alcohol in the defendant’s blood at the time alleged as
shown by chemical analysis of the defendant’s blood, urine, breath, or other
bodily substance shall give rise to the following presumptions:
         (a)   If there was, at that time, 0.05% or less by weight of alcohol
in the defendant’s blood, it shall be presumed that the defendant was not under
the influence of intoxicating liquor;
         (b)   If there was, at that time, in excess of 0.05% but less than
0.15% by weight of alcohol in the defendant’s blood, such fact shall not give
rise to any presumption that the defendant was or was not under the influence
of intoxicating liquor, but such fact may be considered with other competent
evidence in determining the guilt or innocence of the defendant;
         (c)   If there was, at the time, 0.15% or more by weight of alcohol in
the defendant’s blood, it shall be presumed that the defendant was under the
influence of intoxicating liquor; and
      (2)   The provisions of division (B)(1) above shall not be construed as
limiting the introduction of any other competent evidence bearing upon the
question whether or not the defendant was under the influence of intoxicating
liquor.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person who is a habitual user of, or
under the influence of any narcotic drug, or who is under the influence of any
other drug to a degree which renders him or her incapable of safely driving a
vehicle to drive a vehicle within this city. The fact that any person charged
with a violation of this division (C) is or has been entitled to use such drug
under the laws of this state shall not constitute a defense against any charge
of violating this division (C).
(Prior Code, § 8-12-2) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.03 RECKLESS DRIVING.
   (A)   Reckless driving. Any person who drives any vehicle upon a public
thoroughfare carelessly and heedlessly, or without due caution and
circumspection and at a speed or in a manner so as to endanger any person or
property, or who passes when there is a line in his or her lane indicating a
sight distance restriction, shall be guilty of reckless driving.
   (B)   Negligent driving.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle in a
negligent manner over and along the public thoroughfares of this city. For the
purpose of this section, to OPERATE IN A NEGLIGENT MANNER shall be construed to
mean the operation of a vehicle upon the public thoroughfares in such a manner
as to endanger or be likely to endanger any persons or property.
      (2)   The offense of operating a vehicle in a negligent manner shall be
considered to be a lesser offense than, but included in, the offense of
operating a vehicle in a reckless manner, and any person charged with operating
a vehicle in a reckless manner may be convicted of the lesser offense of
operating a vehicle in a negligent manner.
(Prior Code, § 8-12-3) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.04 OFFENSES BY PERSONS OWNING OR CONTROLLING VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner, or any other person, employing or
otherwise directing the driver of any vehicle, to require or knowingly permit
the operation of such vehicle upon a highway in any manner contrary to law.
(Prior Code, § 8-12-4) Penalty, see §
73.99
ACCIDENTS
§ 73.15 ACCIDENT INVOLVING DEATH OR PERSONAL INJURIES.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident resulting in injury
to or death of any person shall immediately stop such vehicle at the scene of
such accident, or as close thereto as possible, and shall then forthwith return
to, and in every event shall remain at, the scene of the accident until he has
fulfilled the requirement of §
73.17. Every such stop shall be made without obstructing traffic more than is
necessary.
   (B)   Any person failing to stop or to comply with said requirements under
such circumstances shall, upon conviction, be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (C)   The license of any person so convicted shall be revoked for a period
of one year.
(Prior Code, § 8-11-1) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.16 ACCIDENTS INVOLVING DAMAGE TO VEHICLE.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident resulting only in
damage to a vehicle which is driven or attended by any person shall immediately
stop such vehicle at the scene of such accident, or as close thereto as
possible but shall forthwith return to and in every event shall remain at the
scene of such accident until he or she has fulfilled the requirements of §
73.17. Every such stop shall be made without obstructing traffic more than is
necessary.
   (B)   Any person failing to stop or comply with said requirements under such
circumstances shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 8-11-2) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.17 DUTY TO GIVE INFORMATION AND RENDER AID.
   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident resulting in injury to or
death of any person or damage to any vehicle which is driven or attended by any
person shall give his or her name, address, and the registration number of the
vehicle he or she is driving and shall, upon request and if available, exhibit
his or her operator’s or chauffeur’s license to the person struck or the driver
or occupant of or person attending any vehicle collided with, and shall render
to any person injured in such accident reasonable assistance, including the
carrying, or the making of arrangements for the carrying, of such person to a
physician, surgeon, or hospital for medical or surgical treatment if it is
apparent that such treatment is necessary or if such carrying is requested by
the injured person.
(Prior Code, § 8-11-3) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.18 DUTY UPON STRIKING UNATTENDED VEHICLE.
   The driver of any vehicle which collides with any vehicle which is
unattended shall immediately stop and shall then and there either locate and
notify the operator or owner of such vehicle of the name and address of the
driver and owner of the vehicle striking the unattended vehicle, or shall leave
in a conspicuous place in the vehicle struck a written notice giving the name
and address of the driver and of the owner of the vehicle doing the striking
and a statement of the circumstances thereof.
(Prior Code, § 8-11-4) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.19 DUTY UPON STRIKING FIXTURES UPON A PUBLIC THOROUGHFARE.
   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident resulting only in damage
to fixtures or other property legally upon or adjacent to a public thoroughfare
shall take reasonable steps to locate and notify the owner or person in charge
of such property of such fact and of his or her name and address and of the
registration number of the vehicle he or she is driving and shall, upon request
and if available, exhibit his or her operator’s or chauffeur’s license and
shall make report of such accident when and as required in §
73.20.
(Prior Code, § 8-11-5) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.20 WRITTEN REPORTS OF ACCIDENTS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle involved in an accident resulting in bodily
injury to or death of any person or total property damage to an apparent extent
of $50 or more shall, within five days after such accident, forward a written
report of such accident to the Police Department.
   (B)   The Police Department may require any driver of a vehicle involved in
an accident of which report must be made as provided in this section to file
supplemental reports whenever the original report is insufficient in the
opinion of the Police Department, and may require witnesses of accidents to
render reports to the Police Department.
   (C)   Every police officer who, in the regular course of duty, investigates
a motor vehicle accident of which report must be made as required in this
section, either at the time of and at the scene of the accident or thereafter
by interviewing participants or witnesses shall, within 24 hours after
completing such investigation, forward a written report of such accident to the
State Department of Law Enforcement.
(Prior Code, § 8-11-6)
§ 73.21 WHEN DRIVER UNABLE TO REPORT.
   (A)   Whenever the driver of a vehicle is physically incapable of giving
immediate notice of an accident as required and there was another occupant in
the vehicle at the time of the accident capable of doing so, such occupant
shall give or cause to be given the notice not given by the driver.
   (B)   Whenever the driver is physically incapable of making a written report
of an accident as required and such driver is not the owner of the vehicle,
then the owner of the vehicle involved in such accident shall, within five days
after learning of the accident, make such report not made by the driver.
(Prior Code, § 8-11-7) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.22 ACCIDENT REPORT FORMS.
   (A)   The Police Department shall keep an adequate supply of forms for
accident reports required hereunder, appropriate with respect to the persons
required to make such reports and the purposes to be served. The written
reports to be made by persons involved in accidents and by investigating
officers shall call for sufficiently detailed information to disclose, with
reference to a traffic accident, the cause, conditions then existing, and the
persons and vehicles involved.
   (B)   Every accident report required to be made in writing shall be made on
the appropriate form approved by the Police Department and shall contain all of
the information required therein unless not available.
   (C)   Every such report shall also contain information sufficient to
determine whether the requirements for the deposit of security under any of the
laws of this state are inapplicable by reason of the existence of insurance or
other exceptions specified therein.
(Prior Code, § 8-11-8)
§ 73.23 GARAGES TO REPORT.
   The person in charge of any garage or repair shop to which is brought any
motor vehicle which shows evidence of having been involved in an accident of
which report must be made as provided in §
73.20, or struck by any bullet, shall report to the Police Report within 48
hours after such motor vehicle is received, giving the engine number,
registration number, and the name and address of the owner or operator of such
vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 8-11-9) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.24 ACCIDENT REPORTS CONFIDENTIAL.
   (A)   All accident reports made by persons involved in accidents or by
garages shall be without prejudice to the individual so reporting and shall be
for the confidential use of the Police Department or other governmental
agencies having use for the records for accident prevention purposes, or for
the administration of the laws relating to the deposit of security and proof of
financial responsibility by persons driving the vehicles or the owner of the
motor vehicles, except that the Department may disclose the identity of a
person involved in an accident when such identity is not otherwise known or
when such person denies his or her presence at the scene of such accident.
   (B)   No such report shall be used as evidence in any trial, civil or
criminal, arising out of an accident, except that the Police Department shall
furnish upon demand of any person who has, or claims to have, made such a
report or upon demand of any court, a certificate showing that a specified
accident report has or has not been made to the Police Department, solely to
prove a compliance, or a failure to comply, with the requirement that such a
report be made to the Police Department.
(Prior Code, § 8-11-10)
REMOVAL OF VEHICLES
§ 73.35 REMOVAL OF IMPROPERLY PARKED VEHICLES.
   Any vehicle parked in violation of traffic regulations or any vehicle parked
so as to obstruct the free movement of traffic or to cause a traffic hazard may
be immediately removed upon order of the Police Department. Any such vehicle
removed upon order of the Police Department shall be given into the control of
the tow company doing the removal. The owner of such vehicle shall be
responsible for all costs of removal and storage. Any such vehicle shall be
deemed to be improperly parked after a period of five minutes, unless said
vehicle is parked in a regularly marked parking area, when it shall be deemed
to be improperly parked after any period of time longer than that designated by
appropriate signing, excepting vehicles parked in violation of §
72.18, which does not require signing.
(Prior Code, § 8-8-1) (Ord. 328, passed 3-10-1997)
§ 73.36 REMOVAL OF UNIDENTIFIED, STOLEN, WRECKED, OR ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   The Police Department is hereby authorized, in addition to any penalty
that may be provided therefor, to remove any unidentified, stolen, wrecked, or
abandoned motor vehicle or other personal property, as defined in this division
(A), found upon any public thoroughfare or other property of the municipality.
Vehicles shall be removed by certified tow companies, and the owners of said
vehicles shall bear the costs of such removal and storage. Other personal
property removed by, or upon the order of the Police Department, shall be held
by the municipality until redeemed by the owner of said personal property at a
cost not to exceed $5 per day. PERSONAL PROPERTY could be clothing, tools,
toys, or other items of a personal nature. Personal property having little or
no value may be disposed of after having been held for ten days.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any owner or any person in charge of a motor
vehicle or other personal property to leave or abandon the same upon the
streets or public places within the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 8-8-2) (Ord. 328, passed 3-10-1997) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.37 REMOVAL OF VEHICLE FROM PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   If at any time, a vehicle is parked upon private property without the
consent of the owner of such property, the Police Department is hereby
authorized to have said vehicle removed and impounded by a certified tow
company, provided the owner of such private property has first signed a
complaint against the owner or operator of said vehicle, if known.
   (B)   The owner of the vehicle shall bear the costs of removal and storage.
(Prior Code, § 8-8-3) (Ord. 328, passed 3-10-1997)
§ 73.38 ENFORCEMENT OF LIEN ON PROPERTIES IMPOUNDED.
   All personal property other than motor vehicles impounded or heretofore
impounded by the Police Department and unredeemed by the owner thereof for a
period of 60 days shall thereafter be subject to sale by the Chief of Police to
the highest bidder for cash as hereinafter provided, and the proceeds of said
sale shall be applied to the removal and storage charges accumulated against
each article, which shall be deposited with the Treasurer and credited with him
or her and shall be kept in a separate fund for a period of one year from the
date of receipt. If at the end of said year the former owner of the property
has not made satisfactory proof of claim, then the balance of said proceeds of
sale shall be credited to the General Fund of the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 8-8-4) (Ord. 328, passed 3-10-1997)
§ 73.39 PROOF OF OWNERSHIP; APPEAL; REDEMPTION AFTER SALE.
   (A)   Any person claiming to be the owner of any impounded property other
than motor vehicles shall make written application therefor to the Police
Department and shall furnish such additional proof as may be required to
establish said ownership. If he or she shall present to said Department the
proof of his or her ownership of said impounded property prior to the date of
actual sale thereof, then the property itself shall be delivered to said owner
under these conditions; but if said property has been sold, then the Police
Department shall endorse its findings of ownership with a copy of the written
application, which application and findings shall be addressed to the Clerk,
and if presented within one year after said sale, then such balance of the
proceeds of the sale, after deductions, shall be paid to the owner.
   (B)   Any appeal from the removal, storage, and publication costs, if any,
assessed by the Police Department shall be in the same manner as provided by
law.
(Prior Code, § 8-8-5) (Ord. 328, passed 3-10-1997)
ARRESTS
§ 73.50 PROCEDURE UPON ARREST FOR FELONY.
   Whenever a person is arrested for any violation of this title declared
herein to be a felony, he or she shall be dealt with in like manner as upon
arrest for the commission of any other felony. For the purposes of this
section, any offense which may be punishable by imprisonment in a state
penitentiary is a FELONY.
(Prior Code, § 8-13-1)
§ 73.51 ARRESTS FOR SERIOUS OFFENSES.
   (A)   The authority to make an arrest is the same as upon an arrest for a
felony when any person is charged with any of the following offenses:
      (1)   Negligent homicide;
      (2)   Driving, or being in actual physical control, of a vehicle while
under the influence of intoxicating liquor;
      (3)   Driving a vehicle while under the influence of any narcotic drug,
or driving a vehicle while under the influence of any other drug to a degree
which renders the person incapable of safely driving a vehicle;
      (4)   Failure to stop, or failure to give information, or failure to
render reasonable assistance, in the event of an accident resulting in death or
personal injuries;
      (5)   Failure to stop, or failure to give information, in the event of an
accident resulting in damage to a vehicle or to fixtures or other property
legally upon or adjacent to a roadway; or
      (6)   Reckless driving.
   (B)   Whenever any person is arrested as authorized in this section, he or
she shall be taken without unnecessary delay before the proper Magistrate as
specified in §
73.57, except that in the case of either of the offenses designated in division
(A)(5) or (A)(6) above, a police officer shall have the same discretion as is
provided in other cases in §
73.53.
(Prior Code, § 8-13-2)
§ 73.52 WHEN PERSON MUST BE TAKEN BEFORE MAGISTRATE.
   Whenever any person is halted by a police officer for any violation of this
title not amounting to a felony, he or she shall be taken without unnecessary
delay before the proper magistrate in any of the following cases:
   (A)   When the person demands an immediate appearance before a magistrate;
or
   (B)   In any other event when the person is issued a traffic citation by an
authorized person and refuses to give his or her written promise to appear in
court as hereinafter provided.
(Prior Code, § 8-13-3)
§ 73.53 WHEN OFFICER HAS OPTION TO TAKE PERSON BEFORE A MAGISTRATE.
   Whenever any person is halted by a police officer for any violation of this
title and is not required to be taken before a Magistrate as herein provided,
the person shall, in the discretion of the officer, either be given a traffic
citation as herein provided, or be taken without unnecessary delay before the
proper Magistrate as specified in §
73.57 in any of the following cases:
   (A)   When the person does not furnish satisfactory evidence of identity or
when the officer has reasonable and probable grounds to believe the person will
disregard a written promise to appear in court;
   (B)   When the person is charged with a violation relating to vehicle
transporting explosives;
   (C)   When the person is charged with a violation of sections relating to
the refusal of a driver of a vehicle to submit such vehicle to an inspection
and test; or
   (D)   When the person is charged with a violation of sections relating to
the failure or refusal of a driver of a vehicle to submit the vehicle and load
to a weighing or to remove excess weight therefrom.
(Prior Code, § 8-13-4)
§ 73.54 ARREST OF NONRESIDENT.
   (A)   All of the provisions of this subchapter apply both to residents and
nonresidents of this municipality, except the special provisions in this
section which shall govern in respect to nonresidents under the circumstances
herein stated.
   (B)   A police officer at the scene of a traffic accident may arrest without
a warrant any driver of a vehicle who is a nonresident of this municipality and
who is involved in the accident when, based upon personal investigation, the
officer has reasonable and probable grounds to believe that the person has
committed any offense under the provisions of this title in connection with the
accident, and if the officer has reasonable and probable grounds to believe the
person will disregard a written promise to appear in court.
   (C)   Whenever any person is arrested under the provisions of this section,
he or she shall be taken without unnecessary delay before the proper Magistrate
as specified in §
73.57.
(Prior Code, § 8-13-5)
§ 73.55 NOTICE TO APPEAR IN COURT.
   (A)   Whenever a person is halted by a police officer for any violation of
this title punishable as a misdemeanor and is not taken before a Magistrate as
herein required or permitted, the officer shall prepare in quadruplicate a
written traffic citation containing a notice to appear in court, the name and
address of the person, the state registration number of his or her vehicle, if
any, the offense charged, the time and place when and where the person shall
appear in court, and such other pertinent information as may be necessary.
   (B)   The time specified in the notice to appear must be at least five days
after the alleged violation unless the person charged with violation shall
demand an earlier hearing.
   (C)   The place specified in the notice to appear must be before a
Magistrate as designated in §
73.57.
   (D)   The person charged with a violation may give his or her written
promise to appear in court by signing at least one copy of the written traffic
citation prepared by the officer, in which event the officer shall deliver a
copy of the citation to the person, and thereupon, the officer shall not take
the person into physical custody for the violation.
   (E)   Any officer violating any of the provisions of this section is guilty
of misconduct in office and shall be subject to removal from office.
(Prior Code, § 8-13-6)
§ 73.56 AUTHORITY OF OFFICER AT SCENE OF ACCIDENT.
   Except for felonies and those offenses enumerated in §
73.51(A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), and (A)(4), a police officer at the scene of a
traffic accident may issue a written traffic citation, as provided in §
73.55, to any driver of a vehicle involved in the accident when, based upon
personal investigation, the officer has reasonable and probable grounds to
believe that the person has committed any offense under the provisions of this
title in connection with the accident.
(Prior Code, § 8-13-7)
§ 73.57 APPEARANCE BEFORE MAGISTRATE.
   Whenever any person is given a written traffic citation containing a notice
to appear, he or she shall appear at the specified time and place before the
Municipal Police Judge.
(Prior Code, § 8-13-8)
§ 73.58 FAILURE TO OBEY CITATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate his or her written
promise to appear in court given to an officer upon the issuance of a traffic
citation regardless of the disposition of the charge upon which such citation
was originally issued.
   (B)   A written promise to appear in court may be complied with by an
appearance by counsel.
(Prior Code, § 8-13-9)
§ 73.59 PROCEDURE NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   The foregoing provisions of this subchapter shall govern all police officers
in making arrests without a warrant for violations of this title, but the
procedure prescribed herein shall not otherwise be exclusive of any other
method prescribed by law for the arrest and prosecution of a person for an
offense of like grade.
(Prior Code, § 8-13-10)
§ 73.60 EVIDENCE OF CONVICTION INADMISSIBLE IN A CIVIL ACTION.
   No evidence of the conviction of any person for any violation of this title
shall be admissible in any court in any civil action.
(Prior Code, § 8-13-11)
§ 73.61 CONVICTION NOT TO AFFECT CREDIBILITY OF WITNESS.
   The conviction of a person upon a charge of violating any provision of this
title less than a felony shall not affect or impair the credibility of such
person as a witness in any civil or criminal proceeding.
(Prior Code, § 8-13-12)
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person convicted of driving a motor vehicle while intoxicated, or
under the influence of intoxicating liquors or narcotic drugs, shall be
punished by imprisonment in the municipal or county jail for not less than 30
days, nor more than six months, or by a fine of not less than $100, nor more
than $300, or by both such fine and imprisonment. The Commissioner of Law
Enforcement shall revoke the license or permit to drive, and any nonresident
operating privileges of any person convicted under this division (B) for a
period of 12 months.
(Prior Code, § 1-3-3)
CHAPTER 74: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Bicycles
   
74.01   Effect of regulations
   
74.02   License required
   
74.03   License application
   
74.04   Issuance of license
   
74.05   Attachment of license plate
   
74.06   Inspection
   
74.07   Renewal of license
   
74.08   Transfer of ownership
   
74.09   Rental agencies
   
74.10   Bicycle dealers
   
74.11   Traffic laws apply
   
74.12   Obedience to traffic control devices
   
74.13   Riding on bicycles
   
74.14   Riding on roadways and bicycle paths
   
74.15   Speed
   
74.16   Emerging from alley or driveway
   
74.17   Clinging to vehicles
   
74.18   Carrying articles
   
74.19   Parking
   
74.20   Riding on sidewalks
   
74.21   Lamps and other equipment
BICYCLES
§ 74.01 EFFECT OF REGULATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to do any act forbidden or fail to
perform any act required herein.
   (B)   The parent of any child and guardian of any ward shall not authorize
or knowingly permit any such child or ward to violate any of the provisions of
this subchapter.
   (C)   The regulations applicable to bicycles shall apply whenever a bicycle
is operated upon any public thoroughfare or public path set aside for the
exclusive use of bicycles.
(Prior Code, § 8-15-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person residing in the city to ride or propel a
bicycle on any public thoroughfare unless such bicycle has been licensed and a
license plate is attached thereto.
(Prior Code, § 8-15-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.03 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   Application for a bicycle license and license plate shall be made to the
Clerk. A fee of $1 per annum shall be paid before such license is issued.
(Prior Code, § 8-15-3)
§ 74.04 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The Clerk, upon receiving proper application therefor, is authorized
to issue a bicycle license which shall be effective until the end of the
calendar year.
   (B)   The Clerk shall not issue a license for any bicycle when he or she
knows the applicant is not the owner of or entitled to the possession of such
bicycle.
   (C)   The Clerk shall keep a record of the number of each license, the date
issued, the name and address of the person to whom issued, the number on the
frame of the bicycle, and a record of all bicycle license fees collected.
(Prior Code, § 8-15-4)
§ 74.05 ATTACHMENT OF LICENSE PLATE.
   (A)   The Clerk, upon issuing a bicycle license, shall also issue a license
plate bearing the license number assigned to the bicycle, the name of the
municipality, and the calendar year for which issued.
   (B)   Each license plate shall be firmly attached to the bicycle in such a
position as to be plainly visible.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove a license plate from a
bicycle during the period for which issued, except upon a transfer of ownership
or in the event the bicycle is dismantled.
(Prior Code, § 8-15-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.06 INSPECTION.
   The Clerk shall inspect each bicycle before licensing the same and shall
refuse a license for any bicycle which he or she determines is in unsafe
mechanical condition.
(Prior Code, § 8-15-6)
§ 74.07 RENEWAL OF LICENSE.
   Upon the expiration of any bicycle license, the same may be renewed upon
application and payment of the same fees as upon the original application.
(Prior Code, § 8-15-7)
§ 74.08 TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP.
   Upon the sale or transfer of a licensed bicycle, the licensee shall remove
the plate and shall either surrender the same to the Clerk or may, upon
application but without payment of an additional fee, have said plate assigned
to another bicycle owned by the applicant.
(Prior Code, § 8-15-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.09 RENTAL AGENCIES.
   A rental agency shall not rent or offer any bicycle for rent unless the
bicycle is licensed and a license plate is attached thereto.
(Prior Code, § 8-15-9) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.10 BICYCLE DEALERS.
   Every person engaged in the business of buying or selling new or secondhand
bicycles shall make a report to the Clerk of every bicycle purchased or sold by
such dealer, giving the name and address of the person from whom purchased or
to whom sold, a description of such bicycle by name or make, the frame number
thereof, and the number of license plate, if any, found thereon.
(Prior Code, § 8-15-10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.11 TRAFFIC LAWS APPLY.
   Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all of the
rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a
vehicle, except as to special regulations in this subchapter and except as to
those provisions of this title which by their nature can have no application.
(Prior Code, § 8-15-11)
§ 74.12 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   Any person operating a bicycle shall obey the instructions of official
traffic control signs, signals, and other control devices applicable to
vehicles unless otherwise directed by a police officer.
   (B)   Wherever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right, left,
or U-turn is permitted, it shall be unlawful for any person operating a bicycle
to disobey the direction of any such sign, except where a person dismounts from
the bicycle to make such turn, in which event such person shall then obey the
regulations applicable to pedestrians.
(Prior Code, § 8-15-12) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.13 RIDING ON BICYCLES.
   (A)   A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than upon or
astride a permanent and regular seat attached thereto.
   (B)   No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at one time than the
number for which it is designed and equipped.
(Prior Code, § 8-15-13) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.14 RIDING ON ROADWAYS AND BICYCLE PATHS.
   (A)   Every person operating a bicycle upon a roadway shall ride as near to
the right side of the roadway as practicable, exercising due care when passing
a standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction.
   (B)   Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway shall not ride more than two
abreast, except on paths or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive use
of bicycles.
   (C)   Wherever a usable path for bicycles has been provided adjacent to a
roadway, bicycle riders shall use such path and shall not use the roadway.
(Prior Code, § 8-15-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.15 SPEED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a bicycle at a speed greater
than is reasonable and prudent under the conditions then existing.
(Prior Code, § 8-15-15) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.16 EMERGING FROM ALLEY OR DRIVEWAY.
   The operator of a bicycle emerging from an alley, driveway, or building
shall, upon approaching a sidewalk or the sidewalk area extending across any
alleyway, yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians approaching on said
sidewalk and, upon entering the roadway, shall yield the right-of-way to all
vehicles approaching on said roadway.
(Prior Code, § 8-15-16) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.17 CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person riding upon any bicycle to attach the
same or himself or herself to any vehicle upon any public thoroughfare.
(Prior Code, § 8-15-17) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.18 CARRYING ARTICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person operating a bicycle to carry a package,
bundle, or article which prevents the rider from keeping at least one hand upon
the handlebars.
(Prior Code, § 8-15-18) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.19 PARKING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park a bicycle in such a manner as to
interfere or obstruct pedestrian traffic.
(Prior Code, § 8-15-19) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.20 RIDING ON SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride a bicycle upon a sidewalk
within a business district.
   (B)   The Clerk is authorized to erect signs on any sidewalk or roadway
prohibiting the riding of bicycles thereon and, when such signs are in place,
it shall be unlawful for any person to disobey the same.
(Prior Code, § 8-15-20) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.21 LAMPS AND OTHER EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Every bicycle, when in use at nighttime, shall be equipped with a lamp
on the front, which shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at
least 500 feet to the front and with a red reflector on the rear of a type
which shall be visible from all distances from 50 feet to 300 feet to the rear
when directly in front of lawful upper beams of headlamps on a motor vehicle. A
lamp emitting a red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear may
be used in addition to the red reflector.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a bicycle unless it is
equipped with a bell or other device capable of giving a signal audible for a
distance of at least 100 feet, except that a bicycle shall not be equipped with
nor shall any person use upon a bicycle any siren or whistle.
   (C)   Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake which will enable the
operator to make the braked wheels skid on dry, level, clean pavement.
(Prior Code, § 8-15-21) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 75: TRAFFIC AND PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Speed restrictions
      
II.   Truck parking
SCHEDULE I. SPEED RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Speed limit on Highway 8. The speed limit on the section of highway
legally described as State Highway 8 within the city limits shall be 25 mph.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-3)
   (B)   School zones. The speed limit shall be 15 mph when children are
present on the section of Big Meadow Road that runs from the Monica Street
intersection to 100 yards north of the north entrance drive to the city schools
on Big Meadow Road; and one block of Mary Street approaching its intersection
with Big Meadow Road from a southerly direction; and one block of McKeehan Road
east of its intersection with Big Meadow Road.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-4)
   (C)   Fifteen mph zones. The speed limit shall be 15 mph on the following
streets:
      (1)   All of Mary Street and Scott Street;
      (2)   All of Monica Street;
      (3)   B Street from Randall Flat Road to North Front Street;
      (4)   North and South Pine Street from A Street to 6th Street;
      (5)   Rachel Street from Scott Street to Mountainview Avenue;
      (6)   South Front Street from Highway 99 to West 6th Street; and
      (7)   West A Street from Main Street to North Front Street.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-5)
   (D)   Ten mph zones. The speed limit shall be ten mph on Sundays on South
Front Street, 100 yards south of the Nazarene Church, at South Front and 4th
Street, and east on 4th Street to the intersection with Main Street
necessitated by heavy pedestrian traffic in the vicinity of the church at
various periods on Sundays.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-6)
(Ord. 99-10, passed 11-22-1999; Ord. 2004-01, passed 1-12-2004)
Penalty, see §
10.99
SCHEDULE II. TRUCK PARKING.
   There will be no overnight parking of trucks and/or truck trailers on South
Main Street (State Highway 8) between the hours of 10:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m.
Trucks and/or truck trailer parking shall be limited to two hours between the
hours of 7:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-7) (Ord. 2004-01, passed 1-12-2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   NUISANCES
      
92.   FIRE PREVENTION
      
93.   PARKS AND RECREATION
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
Animals
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Applicability of subchapter
   
90.03   Regulations for maintaining certain animals and fowl
   
90.04   Abuse, neglect, and cruelty
   
90.05   Grazing in streets and alleys prohibited
   
90.06   Permission required to move animals
   
90.07   Animals prohibited on sidewalk
   
90.08   Animals and fowl at large prohibited
   
90.09   Animals and fowl to be taken up
   
90.10   Notice of impoundment
   
90.11   Sale of impounded animals or fowl
   
90.12   Reclaiming animals or fowl before sale
   
90.13   Impounding fees
   
90.14   Custodian may receive proceeds of sale
   
90.15   Loading pens and sale yards
   
90.16   Pigs
   
90.17   Wild or undomesticated animals
   
90.18   Permits
   
90.19   Time allowed for compliance
   
90.20   Nuisance by animals
   
90.21   Other acts prohibited
Dogs
   
90.35   Definitions
   
90.36   Registration required; fees
   
90.37   Exceptions
   
90.38   Tag and collar
   
90.39   Running at large
   
90.40   Nuisance by dogs
   
90.41   Impound facilities
   
90.42   Impounding
   
90.43   Notice to owners
   
90.44   Disposition of unclaimed, vicious, or infected dogs
   
90.45   Confinement and signs for vicious dogs
   
90.46   Leash and muzzle
   
90.47   Rabies; notice
   
90.48   Vaccination
   
90.49   Insurance
   
90.50   Other acts prohibited
 
   
90.99   Penalty
ANIMALS
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Terms or words used herein shall be interpreted as follows.
      (1)   The present tense includes the past or future tense. The singular
includes the plural and the plural includes the singular.
      (2)   The word SHALL is mandatory; the word MAY is permissive; and the
word SHOULD is preferred.
      (3)   The masculine shall include the feminine.
   (B)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ANIMAL SHELTER. Any premises designated by the city for the purpose of
impounding and caring for animals held under authority of this subchapter.
      AT LARGE. Off the premises of the custodian and not under control of the
custodian or a member of his or her immediate family, or an agent or employee
of the custodian, by cord or chain sufficiently strong to prevent the animal
from escaping.
      CRUEL or CRUELTY. Any or all of the following:
         (a)   The intentional and malicious infliction of pain, physical
suffering, injury, or death upon an animal;
         (b)   To maliciously kill, maim, wound, overdrive, overload, drive
when overloaded, overwork, torture, torment, deprive of necessary sustenance,
drink, or shelter, cruelly beat, mutilate, or cruelly kill an animal;
         (c)   To subject an animal to needless suffering, inflict unnecessary
cruelty, drive, ride, or otherwise use an animal when the same is unfit;
         (d)   To abandon an animal; or
         (e)   To negligently confine an animal in unsanitary conditions, or to
negligently house an animal in inadequate facilities; to negligently fail to
provide sustenance, water, or shelter to an animal.
      CUSTODIAN. Any person, firm, corporation, organization, or department
owning, possessing, or harboring or having the care or custody of any
livestock, fowl, and rabbits.
      LIVESTOCK. Includes all animals that are considered to be domesticated
animals, excluding in-house pets.
      POUND. A place enclosed by public authority for the detention of stray
animals.
      TETHERED. To fasten or restrain an animal by any means to an object so
that it can range only within a set radius.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-1) (Ord. 2000-08, passed 10-9-2000)
§ 90.02 APPLICABILITY OF SUBCHAPTER.
   This subchapter shall not apply to the keeping and maintaining of dogs,
cats, exotic animals, and other in-house pets. This subchapter is intended to
regulate the keeping and maintaining of all livestock, fowl, and rabbits.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-2) (Ord. 2000-08, passed 10-9-2000)
§ 90.03 REGULATIONS FOR MAINTAINING CERTAIN ANIMALS AND FOWL.
   (A)   Fowl. It shall be unlawful to keep or maintain any fowl, rabbits, or
livestock, which includes, but is not limited to, horses, cows, sheep, goats,
or other domesticated animals, within the city limits, except as provided in
this subchapter. For the purposes of this division (A), FOWL shall mean
domesticated birds (galliformes and anseriformes), and shall include chickens,
ducks, and geese but shall not include peafowl, guinea fowl, ostriches, or
emus.
   (B)   Required area for fowl.
      (1)   To maintain and keep fowl, there must be at least 5,000 square feet
of open space of real property for each six fowl which are more than 12 weeks
from hatch and one additional fowl more than 12 weeks from hatch for each
additional 1,250 square feet of open space of real property and/or up to 25
fowl not more than 12 weeks from hatch, and in no event shall any person keep
or maintain more than 12 fowl more than 12 weeks from hatch, and in no event
shall the coop and/or run be less than 60 feet from a dwelling other than that
of the owner or person keeping or maintaining the fowl.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for a person to keep or maintain male fowl
within the city limits except for a time period not to exceed 12 weeks from
hatch, as demonstrated by the person keeping or maintaining such male fowl.
   (C)   Required area for rabbits. To maintain and keep rabbits, there must be
at least 5,000 square feet of open space of real property for each 25 rabbits,
and in no event shall any person keep or maintain more than 50 rabbits, and in
no event shall the rabbit hutch or rabbit run be less than 60 feet from a
dwelling other than that of the owner.
   (D)   Required area for livestock. To maintain or keep one cow, one horse,
one goat, one sheep, one llama, or one of any other domesticated animal, the
custodian must have at least one acre (43,560 square feet) of pasture of real
property available for one animal and one-half acre (21,780 square feet) for
each additional animal. The space occupied by any building and any area
excluded from access by the animals, except buildings to be occupied by the
animals, for which the calculation is being made, shall be excluded. The
required area for any animal or the animals shall be considered only one time.
For example, the one acre considered for one horse may not be considered as the
required area for one cow or one of any other domesticated animal.
   (E)   Property configuration. The property which may be considered in making
up the square footage must be ADJOINING or ADJACENT, which shall be deemed to
mean not separated by a distance greater than the width of a street. It shall
not be necessary that the animals have continual access to all of the property,
but all property being considered in making up the square footage shall be
devoted primarily to the use of the animals.
   (F)   Property ownership. The property making up the required area must be
owned or leased by the animal custodian or the custodian must have written
authorization from the property owner to use the property for the purpose of
grazing or maintaining animals
   (G)   Fences. Fences enclosing such animals must be so constructed as to
prevent the animals from going upon the property of adjoining property owners
in any manner whatsoever and must comply with fencing specifications of this
code.
   (H)   Enclosures and structures. Animal pens, corrals, or any other premises
or structure used for the keeping of or maintaining any animal or fowl, shall
be kept in a clean, sanitary, and humane condition. Said enclosure or structure
shall be kept in such a manner as to keep said animals or fowl confined at all
times.
   (I)   Nuisance control. All animals must be controlled and maintained by
their custodian so that they do not threaten the safety and/or disturb the
comfort and repose of any reasonable person.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-3) (Ord. 2000-08, passed 10-9-2000; Ord. 2021-001, passed 1-
27-2021) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 ABUSE, NEGLECT, AND CRUELTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to treat any animal in a harmful or
injurious way or to disregard or be remiss in the care or treatment of any
animal. Any person found abusing or neglecting any animal shall pay a fine
established by resolution adopted by the City Council from time to time. Any
person found guilty of cruelty shall be prosecuted under Idaho Code § 25-3520A.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-4) (Ord. 2000-08, passed 10-9-2000) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 GRAZING IN STREETS AND ALLEYS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to stake, by rope or otherwise, for the
purpose of feeding or grazing any animal on, in or about any street or alley
within the corporate limits of the city. If any animal be staked, roped or
fastened in any manner, in or upon any street or alley for the purpose above
mentioned, said animal shall be deemed at large and shall be impounded as
herein provided.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-5) (Ord. 2000-08, passed 10-9-2000) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 PERMISSION REQUIRED TO MOVE ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or cause to be driven any loose
animals or fowl whatsoever in, on, through, or across any street or alley
within the corporate limits of the city without first having obtained the
consent of either the Mayor, Chief of Police, or City Council. Any person may
drive one head of any such loose animal or fowl through or across any street or
alley without first having obtained such consent. In the event animals or fowl
shall have escaped from their enclosure, it shall not be necessary to obtain
permission to return the animals to an enclosure.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-6) (Ord. 2000-08, passed 10-9-2000) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.07 ANIMALS PROHIBITED ON SIDEWALK.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit or allow any animal or fowl,
while the same is being ridden or led, to travel upon any of the sidewalks
situated within the corporate limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-7) (Ord. 2000-08, passed 10-9-2000) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.08 ANIMALS AND FOWL AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
   Animals and fowl shall not be allowed to run at large or to be herded in any
of the streets, alleys, parks, or public places or upon private property,
except those being driven through for shipment or being moved from one property
to another. The custodian shall obtain permission from owner of said private
property.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-8) (Ord. 2000-08, passed 10-9-2000) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.09 ANIMALS AND FOWL TO BE TAKEN UP.
   Any animal or fowl found running at large within the corporate limits of the
city may be taken up by any officer or by any person and delivered to the Chief
of Police or person deemed his or her agent and placed in a pound. Such
impounded animal or fowl shall be provided with proper care, food, and water
while so confined. The custodian shall be responsible for all boarding fees.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-9) (Ord. 2000-08, passed 10-9-2000)
§ 90.10 NOTICE OF IMPOUNDMENT.
   The Chief of Police or City Clerk shall give immediate notice to the
custodian, if known, of the impoundment of such animal or fowl. If no action is
taken within 48 hours after notice, the Chief of Police or City Clerk shall
post two notices of sale, containing a description of the animal or fowl and
the time and place of sale. Such notice shall be posted in two public places
within the city, one of which shall be the front door of the City Hall.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-10) (Ord. 2000-08, passed 10-9-2000)
§ 90.11 SALE OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS OR FOWL.
   If any animal or fowl so impounded is unclaimed by its custodian after six
days from the date of posting of said notice, the Chief of Police or his or her
agent shall sell the same at public auction. The proceeds of such sale, after
deducting legal fees and all expenses, shall be paid into the City Treasury.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-11) (Ord. 2000-08, passed 10-9-2000)
§ 90.12 RECLAIMING ANIMALS OR FOWL BEFORE SALE.
   If at any time before such sale, the custodian of any impounded animal or
fowl shall claim the same, he or she shall be entitled to the possession
thereof only after payment of all legal charges and expenses incident to such
impounding.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-12) (Ord. 2000-08, passed 10-9-2000)
§ 90.13 IMPOUNDING FEES.
   The city shall be entitled to receive as administrative fees for taking up
and impounding any livestock, fowl, or rabbits, a sum set by resolution and
passed by the City Council from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-13) (Ord. 2000-08, passed 10-9-2000)
§ 90.14 CUSTODIAN MAY RECEIVE PROCEEDS OF SALE.
   If the custodian of any personal property sold under the provisions of this
subchapter shall, at any time within 14 days from the date of such sale, make
satisfactory proof to the Chief of Police or his or her agent of his or her
ownership, he or she shall be entitled to receive the net proceeds of such sale
on deposit in the City Treasury. The failure of the custodian to make such
proof within such period shall result in a waiver by the custodian of any claim
to said net proceeds which the custodian would otherwise have.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-14) (Ord. 2000-08, passed 10-9-2000)
§ 90.15 LOADING PENS AND SALE YARDS.
   It shall be unlawful to keep livestock, fowl, or rabbits in loading pens or
sale yards within the corporate limits of the city, except by written
permission of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-15) (Ord. 2000-08, passed 10-9-2000) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.16 PIGS.
   It shall be unlawful to maintain a pig within the corporate limits of the
city, except as specifically provided in §
90.18.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-16) (Ord. 2000-08, passed 10-9-2000) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.17 WILD OR UNDOMESTICATED ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful to keep or maintain any animal which is of a species
considered to be wild or undomesticated, including, but not limited to, the
following: cougar/mountain lion, bear, skunk, raccoon, bobcat, eagle, hawks,
alligators, python (six feet and larger), rattlesnakes, copperhead snake,
porcupine, elk, deer, wolverines, crocodile, panther, camel, ostrich, rhea,
emu, owls, weasels (excluding ferrets), mink, badger, lynx, all foxes, coyote,
wolf, water moccasin snake, coral snake, African lion, Bengal tiger,
coatimundi, primate, buffalo, or zebra, unless such animal is part of a bona
fide circus or animal show licensed to perform in the state, or is otherwise
licensed as provided in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-17) (Ord. 2000-08, passed 10-9-2000) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.18 PERMITS.
   Custodians of a pig or of a wild or undomesticated animal may apply for a
permit to keep such animal within the corporate limits of the city. A fee set
by resolution and passed by the City Council shall be paid with each
application. The permit may be revoked without refund if any custodian is found
to be in violation of any section of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-18) (Ord. 2000-08, passed 10-9-2000)
§ 90.19 TIME ALLOWED FOR COMPLIANCE.
   This subchapter shall apply to all animals and fowl now within the corporate
limits of the city and to those subsequently brought into the city. Any person
now keeping animals or fowl shall comply with all requirements of this
subchapter within 60 days from its effective date.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-19) (Ord. 2000-08, passed 10-9-2000)
§ 90.20 NUISANCE BY ANIMALS.
   (A)   The following acts are hereby declared to be public nuisances and
shall be considered an infraction, punishable by a fine as set by resolution
and passed by the City Council from time to time:
      (1)   Maintaining or keeping any animal or fowl in violation of any of
the requirements of this subchapter;
      (2)   Allowing dead fowl or animal bodies (or portions thereof) to remain
upon the ground or in stables or in the particular animal run longer than six
hours;
      (3)   Burning any manure, or animal or fowl droppings and feathers within
the city limits;
      (4)   Allowing obnoxious odors to emanate from barns, manure piles, or
animal enclosures;
      (5)   Keeping unsightly, smelly, dilapidated animal enclosures; and
      (6)   Leaving solid excrement on public areas or on private property. If
droppings are cleaned up immediately, the infraction shall not apply.
   (B)   Nothing contained in this subchapter shall be interpreted to constrain
the right of any person to proceed with a civil action for damages and/or to
abate any nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-20) (Ord. 2000-08, passed 10-9-2000) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.21 OTHER ACTS PROHIBITED.
   The following acts are prohibited and shall be considered an infraction,
punishable by a fine as set by resolution and passed by the City Council from
time to time.
   (A)   No person shall wilfully open any door or gate on any private premises
or untether or coax away an animal for the purpose of enticing or enabling any
animal to leave such private premises and be at large, as defined in this
subchapter.
   (B)   No person shall wilfully provoke, mistreat, or abuse any animal while
confined to its custodian’s premises.
   (C)   No person shall set a leg hold type of trapping device to catch an
animal.
   (D)   No person shall abandon any animal by dropping off or leaving such
animal on any public street, alley, sidewalk, or in any city park or playground
or other public place or building, or on the premises of another.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-21) (Ord. 2000-08, passed 10-9-2000) Penalty, see §
90.99
DOGS
§ 90.35 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. Any premises designated by the city for the purpose of
impounding and caring for animals held under authority of this subchapter.
   AT LARGE. Off the premises of the owner and not under control of the owner
or a member of his or her immediate family, or an agent or employee of the
owner, by leash, cord, or chain sufficiently strong to prevent the dog from
escaping.
   DOG. Both male and female of the family canis familiaris.
   LEASH. A cord, chain, or rope of the length to restrict the dog to the
owner’s property and, when the dog is off the owner’s property, the LEASH shall
be not more than eight feet in length.
   OWNER. Any person, firm, corporation, organization, or department possessing
or harboring or having the care or custody of a dog.
   TETHERED. To fasten or restrain a dog by any means to an object so that it
can range only within a set radius.
   UNCONFINED. Pertains to a vicious dog and shall mean not securely confined
indoors or confined in a securely enclosed and locked pen or structure upon the
premises of the owner of the dog. The pen or structure must have secure sides
and a secure top attached to the sides. If the pen or structure has no bottom
secured to the sides, the sides must be embedded into the ground no less than
one foot. All such pens or structures must be adequately lighted and kept in a
clean and sanitary condition.
   VICIOUS DOG. Any dog with a known propensity, tendency, or disposition to
attack unprovoked, to cause injury to, or otherwise threaten the safety of
human beings or domestic animals; or any dog which, because of its size,
physical nature, or vicious propensity, is capable of inflicting serious
physical harm or death to humans or which would constitute a danger to human
life or property if it were not kept in the manner required by this subchapter;
or any dog which, without provocation, attacks or bites, or has attacked or
bitten, a human being or domestic animal; or any dog owned or harbored
primarily or in part for the purpose of dogfighting, or any dog trained for
dogfighting.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-1) (Ord. 2000-05, passed 7-24-2000)
§ 90.36 REGISTRATION REQUIRED; FEES.
   All dogs kept, harbored, or maintained by their owners in the municipality
shall be registered with the city by the age of six months. Only after
compliance with the provisions of §
90.48 (proof of vaccination) shall dog identification tags be issued by the
City Clerk and/or designated agents upon payment of a registration fee for each
dog. The owner shall state at the time application is made for such
registration and upon printed forms provided for such purpose, his or her name
and address and description of the dog to be registered in such manner that the
dog may be identified with reasonable certainty, and the name to which the dog
answers. Each registration issued under the provisions of this subchapter shall
be valid for the lifetime of the animal. Animal identification tags may also be
issued for animals in the fringe areas outside the city. Fees for dog
registrations and other fees shall be set by the City Council from time to
time, by resolution.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-2) (Ord. 2000-05, passed 7-24-2000) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.37 EXCEPTIONS.
   The licensing provisions of §
90.36 shall not apply to dogs whose owners are nonresidents within the
municipality for less than 30 days. Seeing eye dogs properly trained to assist
blind persons, when such dogs are actually being used by blind persons for the
purpose of aiding them in going from place to place, shall be licensed without
charge. New owners and new residents may purchase licenses at the regular fees
if the license is purchased within 30 days of acquisition of dog or
establishing residence. It shall be the owner’s responsibility to show proof of
the date of ownership or establishment of residence.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-3) (Ord. 2000-05, passed 7-24-2000)
§ 90.38 TAG AND COLLAR.
   Upon payment of the registration fee, the Clerk and/or designated agent
shall issue to the owner a registration certificate and a metallic tag for each
dog so registered. The number shall correspond with the number on the
certificate. Each owner shall provide each dog with a collar to which the
identification tag must be affixed and shall see that the collar and tag are
constantly worn by the dog. In case a dog tag is lost or destroyed, a duplicate
tag will be issued by the Clerk upon presentation of receipt showing the
payment of the registration fee and the payment of a fee to be set by the City
Council, from time to time, by resolution, for each duplicate. Dog tags shall
not be transferable from one dog to another and no refunds shall be made on any
dog identification fee because of death of the dog or the owner leaving the
municipality.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-4) (Ord. 2000-05, passed 7-24-2000)
§ 90.39 RUNNING AT LARGE.
   No owner or keeper of any dog shall allow or let such dog to run at large
within the corporate limits of the municipality at any time of the year. No
owner or keeper of any dog shall leave such dog tethered on public property or
in such a manner as to be on public property for longer than 30 minutes while
owner is conducting business.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-5) (Ord. 2000-05, passed 7-24-2000) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.40 NUISANCE BY DOGS.
   (A)   It is hereby declared to be unlawful for any owner, keeper,
controller, or harborer of any animal to allow or let his or her animal to
discharge such animal’s solid excrement upon public property or private
property, other than the property of the owner, keeper, controller or harborer.
However if such owner, keeper, controller, or harborer does immediately
thereafter remove and clean up such animal’s solid excrement from the property,
the nuisance shall be deemed remedied.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause, permit, or allow any dog
or dogs owned, harbored, controlled, or kept by him or her in the municipality
to remain outside of the dwelling of such person while such animal is causing
excessive or frequent howling, yelping, barking, whining, or the making of any
other noise which disturbs or is likely to disturb the comfort and repose of
any reasonable person; provided, that no person shall be prosecuted under this
division (B) unless written notice of the noise has been issued by a police
officer to the property owner or person in possession of the property wherein
the animal is located, or the animal’s owner, keeper, controller, or harborer,
or is left at the premises where the animal is located, at least 24 hours but
not more than 30 days prior to the filing of a formal complaint.
   (C)   Any person convicted of a violation of this section shall be punished
by fine to be set by the City Council, from time to time, by resolution.
Nothing contained in this subchapter shall be interpreted to constrain the
right of any person to proceed with a civil action for damages and/or to abate
any noise nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-6) (Ord. 2000-05, passed 7-24-2000) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.41 IMPOUND FACILITIES.
   The Chief of Police is hereby authorized and empowered to secure and
maintain a suitable impound facility approved by the City Council for the
purpose of carrying out the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-7) (Ord. 2000-05, passed 7-24-2000)
§ 90.42 IMPOUNDING.
   (A)   It is the duty of every police officer or other designated official to
apprehend any dog found running at large, untethered, or unlicensed contrary to
the provisions of this subchapter, or any dog which has attacked or bitten any
person or other animal and to impound such dog in an animal shelter or other
suitable place; provided, that if any fierce, dangerous, or vicious dog found
running at large cannot be safely taken up and impounded, such dog may be slain
by any police officer or other designated official.
   (B)   Any police officer or other designated official, upon receiving any
dog, shall make a complete registry, entering the breed, color, and sex of such
dog and whether wearing a license tag. If licensed, the police officer or other
designated official shall enter the name and address of the owner and the
number of the license tag. Licensed dogs shall be separated from unlicensed
dogs. If the owner is known or may be determined, the police officer or other
designated official may issue to the owner or persons responsible a notice of
offense or violation and fine. Such notice shall not be issued for any offense
or violation, unless the offense or violation is committed in the presence of
the police officer or other designated official, or a citizen has signed a
complaint against the dog and/or owner.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-8) (Ord. 2000-05, passed 7-24-2000)
§ 90.43 NOTICE TO OWNERS.
   Not later than one day after the impoundment of any dog, the owner shall be
notified, or if the owner of the dog is unknown, written notice shall be posted
for three days at three or more conspicuous places, one of which shall be the
City Hall, describing the dog and the time of taking. The owner of any dog so
impounded may reclaim such dog upon payment of the license fee, if unpaid,
penalties, and all cost and charges incurred for impounding, keeping, and
maintenance of said dog, and for adoption or euthanasia. Said charges shall
include a minimum fee for the first day of impoundment and an additional charge
over the boarding fee for each following consecutive day of impoundment. The
impounding charge shall be doubled each time that said dog is impounded, but no
impounding charge for any dog shall be in excess of four times the initial
impound fee. All fees and charges shall be established by resolution adopted by
the City Council from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-9) (Ord. 2000-05, passed 7-24-2000)
§ 90.44 DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED, VICIOUS, OR INFECTED DOGS.
   It is the duty of any police officer, or other designated official, to keep
all dogs so impounded for a period of 24 hours. If at the expiration of six
days from the date of notice to the owner of the date of posting of such
notice, such dog shall not have been redeemed, it may be destroyed or sold for
a sum of money sufficient to discharge the cost and charges incurred by the
municipality for impounding and keeping the dog, together with the license fee
(if applicable) for the current year if unpaid. Any police officer or other
designated official has authority to submit terminally ill, injured, or unfit
dog, after a reasonable search has been made for the owner, to a licensed
veterinarian to determine whether the dog can recover. If not, he or she may
authorize euthanasia of the dog; provided, that no dog which appears to be
suffering from rabies nor any dog of fierce, dangerous, or vicious propensities
shall be released from the pound but shall be destroyed. The buyer of any dog
under the provisions of this section shall become the owner of the dog free
from any claimer title of the original owner or harborer.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-10) (Ord. 2000-05, passed 7-24-2000)
§ 90.45 CONFINEMENT AND SIGNS FOR VICIOUS DOGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of a vicious dog to permit the dog
to go unconfined.
   (B)   The owner of a vicious dog shall display, in a prominent place on his
or her premises, a clearly visible warning sign indicating that there is a
vicious dog on the premises. A similar sign is required to be posted on the pen
or kennel of the animal.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-11) (Ord. 2000-05, passed 7-24-2000) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.46 LEASH AND MUZZLE.
   The owner of a vicious dog shall not suffer or permit the dog to go beyond
the premises of the owner unless the dog is securely muzzled and restrained by
a chain or leash not to exceed a length of four feet, and under the physical
restraint of a person. The muzzle shall be made in a manner that will not cause
injury to the dog or interfere with the vision or respiration, but shall
prevent it from biting any human or animal.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-12) (Ord. 2000-05, passed 7-24-2000) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.47 RABIES; NOTICE.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person knowing or suspecting a dog to have
rabies to allow such dog to be taken off his or her premises or beyond the
limits of the municipality without the written permission of the Chief of
Police or other designated official. Every owner, or other person, upon
ascertaining a dog is rabid, shall immediately notify the Chief of Police, or
other designated official, who shall remove the dog to an animal shelter or a
veterinary hospital.
   (B)   Any dog that bites a person or animal shall be quarantined for 15
days. If a police officer or other designated official determines that the risk
of the biting animal being infected with rabies is possible but not probable,
the quarantine may be on the premises of the keeper. A dog quarantined on the
premises of the keeper shall be securely confined in an enclosure which is at
least fenced on all sides and from which the dog cannot escape, and which is
not accessible to the public.
   (C)   If a police officer or other designated official determines that it is
probable that the biting dog is infected with rabies the police officer or
other designated official may require the keeper to surrender the dog for the
quarantine period to an animal shelter or place the dog in a veterinary
hospital. The keeper shall pay all cost incurred during a period of quarantine.
   (D)   Any dog for which probable cause exists to cause a police officer or
other designated official to believe that it may be rabid may be quarantined by
such police officer or other designated official under the terms and conditions
for biting dogs set forth in division (C) above.
   (E)   No person shall kill or cause to be killed any dog which has bitten a
person or other animal, or any dog suspected of being rabid, except as needed
to prevent immediate injury or death to another animal or to a person until
after the animal has been placed in quarantine and a diagnosis of suspected
rabies is made by a licensed veterinarian.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-13) (Ord. 2000-05, passed 7-24-2000) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.48 VACCINATION.
   It shall be required that each owner or keeper of each and every dog within
the corporate limits of the city shall present a certificate of rabies
vaccination immunization signed by a practicing veterinarian in order to obtain
a city dog license. Said certificate must indicate the date of vaccination and
the length of time immunization is effective.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-14) (Ord. 2000-05, passed 7-24-2000) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.49 INSURANCE.
   Owners of vicious dogs must, within 15 days of the effective date hereof,
provide proof to the City Clerk of public liability insurance in the amount of
at least $100,000, insuring the owner for any personal injuries inflicted by
his or her vicious dog.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-15) (Ord. 2000-05, passed 7-24-2000) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.50 OTHER ACTS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall willfully open any door or gate on any private
premises or unleash or coax any dog for the purpose of enticing or enabling any
dog to leave such private premises and be at large, as defined in this
subchapter.
   (B)   No person shall willfully provoke, mistreat, or abuse any dog while
confined to its keeper’s premises.
   (C)   No person shall set a leg hold type trapping device to catch a dog.
   (D)   No person shall abandon any dog by dropping off or leaving such animal
on any public street, alley, sidewalk, or in any city park or playground, or
other public place or building, or on the premises of another.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-16) (Ord. 2000-05, passed 7-24-2000) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
90.35 through
90.50 shall be deemed guilty of an infraction and may be fined in an amount set
by the City Council, from time to time, by resolution.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-17) (Ord. 2000-05, passed 7-24-2000)
CHAPTER 91: NUISANCES
Section
   
91.01   Rubbish in alleys
   
91.02   Abandoned containers
   
91.03   Refuse in buildings; stagnant water
   
91.04   Weeds
   
91.05   Plastic bags or coverings
   
91.06   Nuisances defined
   
91.07   Keeping of junk restricted
   
91.08   Windowsill to be kept clear
§ 91.01 RUBBISH IN ALLEYS.
   If rubbish or other impediment is allowed to accumulate or remain in the
alley, the Council, or the Fire Chief, Chief of Police, or other officer
designated by the Council, may notify the property owner or tenant, or both, of
the property next on which such accumulation or obstruction remains, to remove
the same within one week, or less time if consonant with public safety, and if
the same is not so removed within the time allowed, then the city may remove
the same and tax the costs of such removal against the said property as taxes,
together with reasonable fees and interest thereon.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-1) (Ord. 94, passed 6-4-1929; Ord. 2016-02, passed 12-14-
2015) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.02 ABANDONED CONTAINERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave or permit to remain outside of
any dwelling, building, or other structure, or within any unoccupied or
abandoned building, structure, or dwelling under his or her control, in a place
accessible to children, any abandoned, unattended, or discarded icebox,
refrigerator, or other container which has a door of lid, snap lock, or other
locking device which may not be released from the inside, without first
removing said door or lid, snap lock, or other locking device.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.03 REFUSE IN BUILDINGS; STAGNANT WATER.
   (A)   Prohibited. No person shall permit or suffer to be in or accumulate in
or upon any yard, lot, place, or premises or upon any street or sidewalk
adjacent to or abutting upon any lot, block, place, or premises, or in any
building or shed owned or occupied by him or her within the corporate limits,
any stagnant water or impure water, refuse, vegetable decay, or decaying
substance, garbage, or filth of any kind, nor suffer such yard, lot, place,
building, or premises to be or to remain in such condition as to cause or
create a nuisance or offensive smell or to pollute or render unhealthful the
atmosphere or the premises or thereby to be, become, cause, or create a public
nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-1)
   (B)   Time limit. Any person shall clean up said premises and abate such
nuisance within 48 hours after having received notice of the condition from the
Mayor or Council.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-2)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.04 WEEDS.
   (A)   Defined. The word WEEDS shall include all vegetable growth that is
troublesome, useless, or noxious.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-1)
   (B)   Removal of weeds required. All occupants or owners are hereby required
to destroy all weeds upon their premises to the center of the street or alley.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-2)
   (C)   Failure to comply. Whenever the growth of weeds advances to a
condition prohibited by this section, the municipality or its designated
official shall notify such occupant or owner to remove same. In default of this
being done, the municipality shall remove the same and the cost thereof shall
become a lien upon the property. Said lien shall be collected as provided by
statute.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-3)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.05 PLASTIC BAGS OR COVERINGS.
   (A)   Definition. The words PLASTIC COVERINGS, PLASTIC BAG, and PLASTIC
PACKAGE, when used in this section, shall mean any covering, package, or bag
made of any material sufficiently thin and pliable to respond to static
electricity created by contact with the human body to the extent that it clings
to the human skin or body.
(Prior Code, § 6-7-1)
   (B)   Warning required. It shall be unlawful for any person to have in his
or her possession, or to deliver as a cover or wrapper, any plastic bag that is
of sufficient size to fit over a child’s head, or any bag which, when open, has
an opening larger than 25 square inches or a capacity of more than 125 cubic
inches, unless there is, at all times, clearly printed on such bag or covering,
or a paper attached to such bag or covering, words in letters at least one-
fourth inch high as follows:
 
WARNING: To avoid danger of suffocation keep this bag (or covering) away from
babies and children. Do not use in cribs, beds, carriages, or play pens. This
is not a toy.
 
(Prior Code, § 6-7-2)
   (C)   Certain bags a nuisance. Any plastic bag, covering, or package not
carrying or accompanied by the printed warning as provided in division (B)
above is hereby declared a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 6-7-3)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.06 NUISANCES DEFINED.
   Anything which is injurious to the health or morals, or indecent or
offensive to the sense or an obstruction to the free use of property so as to
interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property, is declared a
nuisance and as such, shall be abated.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-34)
§ 91.07 KEEPING OF JUNK RESTRICTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to store or keep any old articles or
materials which may be classified as junk adjacent to or in close proximity to
any school house, church, public park, public ground, business buildings, or
residences without first providing proper and tight buildings for the storage
of the same.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-27) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.08 WINDOWSILL TO BE KEPT CLEAR.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or keep on any windowsill,
porch, or other projection above the first story of any building abutting on
any sidewalk any article which might do injury by falling upon any person on
the sidewalk in front of such building, unless said article be securely
fastened or protected by screens.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-47) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 92: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Adoption of Fire Prevention Code
   
92.02   Explosives
   
92.03   Fireworks
Fire Department
   
92.15   Establishment
   
92.16   Duties
   
92.17   Chief; election
   
92.18   Practices
   
92.19   Association
Burning Regulations
   
92.30   Definitions
   
92.31   Burning of rubbish in business districts
   
92.32   Burning of rubbish in residential districts
   
92.33   Burning by permit
   
92.34   Exceptions
   
92.35   Open burning
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 ADOPTION OF FIRE PREVENTION CODE.
   For the purpose of regulating and governing conditions hazardous to life and
property from fire, the Fire Prevention Code, current edition, as recommended
by the National Board of Fire Underwriters, is hereby adopted. Said Fire
Prevention Code, three copies of which shall be on file at all times in the
office of the Clerk, shall be made a part of this code as if set out at length
herein.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-1)
§ 92.02 EXPLOSIVES.
   (A)   Explosives prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person to make,
keep, or transport any gunpowder, nitroglycerin, or other highly explosive
substance.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-1)
   (B)   Exception permitted. A vehicle carrying explosives may be permitted on
the streets only if a special written permit has first been obtained from the
Chief of Police. The permit shall specify the exact route to be used by said
vehicle and may permit the vehicle to be parked at a certain specified place
for a certain specified amount of time. Each such permit shall be valid only
for the one specified use.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-2)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.03 FIREWORKS.
   (A)   Fireworks prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person to have in
his or her possession, either for sale or for use by himself or herself, any
pyrotechnic device commonly known as fireworks, except as hereinafter set
forth.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-1)
   (B)   Exceptions. Any recognized civic or local organization may make
application to the Council for a special permit for a fireworks display to be
held in connection with a national holiday or any special local event. Such
application shall be made in writing to the Clerk, who shall present said
application to the Council for its action. The Mayor and Council shall make
such investigation as deemed necessary and may issue a permit subject to any
special provisions deemed necessary. Such permit shall not be of a continuing
nature but shall be exclusive to the one time only for which it is issued.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-2)
   (C)   Safe and sane fireworks. Sale at retail and the use of safe and sane
fireworks, as herein described, shall be lawful from June 20 through July 6 of
each year. SAFE AND SANE FIREWORKS includes any of the following:
      (1)   Cone fountains with pyrotechnic composition not exceeding 50 grams
each;
      (2)   Cylindrical fountains, whether base, spike, or handle, with
pyrotechnic composition not exceeding 75 grams each and inside tube diameter
not exceeding three-fourths inch;
      (3)   Sparklers and dipped sticks not more than ten inches in length or
one-fourth inch in diameter made on steel or iron wire and Suzuki and morning
glories with pyrotechnic composition not exceeding four grams each;
      (4)   Snakes which do not contain bichloride of mercury and pyrotechnic
composition exceeding two grams each;
      (5)   Wheels with pyrotechnic composition not exceeding 60 grains for
each driver unit or 240 grains for each complete wheel. The inside tube
diameter of driver unit shall not exceed one-half inch; and
      (6)   Whistles, without report and which do not dart or travel about the
ground during discharge, with pyrotechnic composition not exceeding six grams
and containing no picric or gallic acid.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-3)
Penalty, see §
10.99
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 92.15 ESTABLISHMENT.
   Any number of residents of the city, not less than ten in number and not
more than 20, may form a volunteer fire company for the protection or guarding
against fires, protecting property from fire, and extinguishing fire.
(Prior Code, § 3-6-1) (Ord. 78, passed 4-9-1912)
§ 92.16 DUTIES.
   It shall be the duty fo each member of said fire company to become
thoroughly acquainted with the firefighting apparatus in the city, and to
perform all the duties required or him or her by the Council and by the
officers of the said fire company.
(Prior Code, § 3-6-2) (Ord. 78, passed 4-9-1912)
§ 92.17 CHIEF; ELECTION.
   Said fire company shall elect from their own number a Chief, whose authority
in case of fire or in case of practice shall be supreme, and it shall be the
duty of the Fire Chief to place all members of the fire company in such
positions as he or she may deem fit for the effectual workings of said fire
company.
(Prior Code, § 3-6-3) (Ord. 78, passed 4-9-1912)
§ 92.18 PRACTICES.
   The fire company shall hold practice at least six times a year for not less
than one-half hour at each practice, and the failure of any member of the fire
company to attend five practice meetings of the fire company during any one
year shall forfeit his or her membership in the fire company.
(Prior Code, § 3-6-4) (Ord. 78, passed 4-9-1912)
§ 92.19 ASSOCIATION.
   The fire organization shall form a volunteer association with a constitution
and bylaws to be approved by the Council before such organization shall be
recognized as the fire company of the city.
(Prior Code, § 3-6-5) (Ord. 78, passed 4-9-1912)
BURNING REGULATIONS
§ 92.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HEATING APPLIANCE/INCINERATOR. A burn barrel would be considered an
INCINERATOR so long as the burn barrel and surrounding area comply with the
following minimum standards: the burn barrel is no larger than a 55-gallon
barrel in good condition; has proper ventilation in the lower portion of the
barrel with each hole for ventilation that is larger in area than one square
inch being backed by metal screen; has an expanded metal screen with holes not
larger than five-eighths inch covering the top; and the area around the burn
barrel is cleared down to mineral soil or gravel at least ten feet on each side
of the INCINERATOR.
   OPEN BURNING or OPEN BURN. The igniting or combustion of any material not
contained in a heating appliance or incinerator, including, but not limited to,
campfires, cook fires, and the burning of water, refuse, or other materials.
   REFUSE. All solid wastes, garbage, and rubbish, including, but not limited
to, cardboard, plastic, rubber, Styrofoam, petroleum products, furniture,
foodstuff, or chemically treated wood.
   SOLID FUEL. Nonliquid combustible material including wood, coal, pressed
logs, pellet fuel, but excluding items defined herein as “refuse.”
   YARD WASTE. Natural yard debris, including Christmas trees, leaves, pine
needles, and tree branches.
(Prior Code, § 3-5-1) (Ord. 2021-003, passed 12-8-2021)
§ 92.31 BURNING OF RUBBISH IN BUSINESS DISTRICTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to burn or cause to be burned any trash,
lumber, yard waste, straw, papers, or any other combustible material outside of
any building in any street, alley, vacant lot, or vacant portion of any lot
located within the business district of the city.
(Prior Code, § 3-5-2) (Ord. 2021-003, passed 12-8-2021) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.32 BURNING OF RUBBISH IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to burn or cause to be burned any trash,
lumber, yard waste, straw, papers, or any other combustible material outside of
any building district of the city from the period of May 10 of each year to
October 20 of each year, without first obtaining a permit from the Clerk
stating when such burning shall be done and under such proper safeguards as the
Council may direct.
(Prior Code, § 3-5-3) (Ord. 2021-003, passed 12-8-2021) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.33 BURNING BY PERMIT.
   (A)   Permits issued. Burn permits may be issued between May 10 to October
20 of each year by the City Clerk, an individual designated by the City Clerk,
or City Council upon such terms and conditions as follows.
      (1)   There shall be no fee for a burn permit.
      (2)   Applicants shall make an application to the City Clerk, an
individual designated by the City Clerk, or City Council, on such forms as
provided by the city.
      (3)   In addition to other requirements or conditions as may be
established, the applicant may be required, in the Fire Chief’s, City Clerk’s,
or City Council’s discretion, to provide the following as a condition for
granting a permit.
         (a)   Proof of sufficient insurance or other means of financial
responsibility; and
         (b)   A plan describing the applicant’s proposed means of
extinguishment and suppression as a condition for granting a permit.
      (4)   Permits may only be issued for a maximum of five consecutive days.
      (5)   The City Council, at its discretion or upon recommendation by the
Fire Chief, may put a moratorium on the issuance of any burn permits. The City
Council may also extend the duration and modify the conditions of any burn
permit upon request of the Fire Chief, City Clerk, or applicant.
   (B)   Application denial.
      (1)   The City Clerk, or an individual designated by the City Clerk, may
deny an application if:
         (a)   The applicant fails to provide any information requested;
         (b)   Granting the permit would pose an undue risk to the safety of
persons or property;
         (c)   The applicant has been cited for violating this subchapter on
more than three occasions in one calendar year; or
         (d)   Any other reason permitted by law.
      (2)   A denial of an application shall be served in writing by certified
mail or by personal delivery to the applicant.
   (C)   Appeals. If the City Clerk denies an application, the applicant may
appeal the denial to the City Council by filing a written request for an appeal
hearing within 28 days after the date the denial was mailed.
   (D)   Variances. The City Council may grant variances to the condition
contained herein upon application from any interested party if the Council
finds that the variance would not adversely impact the health, safety, and
welfare of the citizens and if any requested variance meets the standards and
approval of the Fire Department.
(Prior Code, § 3-5-4) (Ord. 2021-003, passed 12-8-2021)
§ 92.34 EXCEPTIONS.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall prohibit the burning of combustible
materials in the Residential District in covered barrels or containers so
constructed as to prevent the escape of any burning material, and such
containers shall be subject to the approval of the Fire Chief.
(Prior Code, § 3-5-5) (Ord. 2021-003, passed 12-8-2021)
§ 92.35 OPEN BURNING.
   (A)   Open burning is allowed for garden waste, tree trimmings, and brush
only.
   (B)   The following conditions are requested for open burning.
      (1)   Burning shall be at a distance of at least 25 feet from any
building, structure, or other combustible material when the pile size is three
feet or less in diameter and two feet or less in height. Anything larger shall
be 50 feet or more from any structure or other combustible material.
      (2)   A garden hose with water supply or other fire extinguishing
equipment shall be on hand and a competent person will be at the burn site at
all times until the fire has been totally extinguished. Persons who are burning
debris must be in legal control of the lot or parcel of land on which the
burning is to take place.
      (3)   There will be no open burning on public land.
      (4)   No waste matter shall be burned which will, in the burning process,
produce toxic, dense or offensive odors.
      (5)   No burning will be allowed after dark, and persons who are burning
debris will make sure that all fires are totally extinguished before leaving
the site.
      (6)   No demolition or construction site burning is permitted burning
this burning period.
      (7)   This burning period shall not include lot burning, yard waste,
grass trimmings, or any rubbish containing paper products.
      (8)   A permit is not required for this type of burning; however, persons
who do not meet all of the above requirements may be subject to the permit
requirements of this subchapter and/or fines as per this code.
      (9)   Burning will be ordered to immediately discontinue if the Fire
Chief or his or her designee on duty determines that smoke emissions are
offensive to occupants of surrounding property, or if open burning is
determined by the City Code Officer or Fire Duty Officer to constitute a
hazardous condition, or the Department of Environmental Quality issues an air
quality forecast and caution with a mandatory burn ban.
(Prior Code, § 3-5-6) (Ord. 2021-003, passed 12-8-2021) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 93: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
Latah Trail
   
93.01   Horses and unauthorized motor vehicles prohibited
   
93.02   Camping allowed in designated areas only
 
   
93.99   Penalty
LATAH TRAIL
§ 93.01 HORSES AND UNAUTHORIZED MOTOR VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall ride or allow to be ridden horses or drive or allow to be
driven any unauthorized motor vehicle on the portion of the Latah Trail located
within the city limits, which is also known as the Clint Illi Walkway.
(Prior Code, § 7-10-1) (Ord. 2012-01, passed 6-13-2012) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.02 CAMPING ALLOWED IN DESIGNATED AREAS ONLY.
   Camping shall be allowed, by permit only, in designated areas along the
Latah Trail located within the city limits. The City Council shall adopt by
resolution the fees, rules, and regulations for applications for camping
permits, as well as the boundaries of the designated areas, provided that said
camping permits shall be valid for no more than three consecutive days without
prior approval from the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 7-10-2) (Ord. 2012-01, passed 6-13-2012) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   A violation of §§
93.01 or
93.02 shall be an infraction as defined in Idaho Code § 18-111, punishable by a
penalty not to exceed $100, and for which no period of incarceration may be
imposed. The City Council shall set the penalty for this violation by
resolution of the Council.
(Prior Code, § 7-10-3) (Ord. 2012-01, passed 6-13-2012)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      
111.   SOLICITORS
      
112.   ALCOHOL
      
113.   TRANSIENT LODGING
      
114.   AMUSEMENTS
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL BUSINESS REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
110.01   Billposting and handbills
   
110.02   Adoption of U.S. Public Health Service ordinance
   
110.03   Milk
Licenses
   
110.15   Application
   
110.16   Person subject to license
   
110.17   Forms
   
110.18   Signatures
   
110.19   Investigations
   
110.20   Termination of license
   
110.21   Building and premises
   
110.22   Change of location
   
110.23   Frontage consents
   
110.24   Nuisances
   
110.25   Inspections
   
110.26   Revocation
   
110.27   Posting of license
   
110.28   Fees
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 110.01 BILLPOSTING AND HANDBILLS.
   (A)   License required. It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the
distribution or attaching of any signs, bills, pictures, or advertising matter
unless the person shall first have obtained a license therefor.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-1)
   (B)   Application. Application for a license shall be made to the Clerk,
together with all necessary information, including, but not limited to, the
names of all owners and the business addresses of the same. Upon approval of
said application by the Council, the Clerk shall issue a license for which a
fee of $25 per annum shall be paid.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-2)
   (C)   Littering public thoroughfares. It shall be unlawful for any person to
scatter or throw upon the public thoroughfares any handbills, posters,
advertisements, or papers. Nothing herein shall be construed to authorize any
person to obstruct the public thoroughfares or prevent the posting of notices
required by law to be posted.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-3)
   (D)   No posting on fences; telegraph poles. It shall be unlawful for any
person to post, paint, tack, or otherwise attach any notice or other
advertising matter to any fence, wall, or building or other property until
first obtaining the consent of the owner of such property. It shall be unlawful
for any person to post, paint, tack, or otherwise attach any notices or
advertising matter to any telegraph, telephone, electric, or other such poles.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-4)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.02 ADOPTION OF U.S. PUBLIC HEALTH SERVICE ORDINANCE.
   (A)   The inspection, grading, regrading, and placarding of eating and
drinking establishments within the municipality, or its police jurisdiction,
the issuing, suspension, and revocation of permits for the operation of such
establishments, the sale of adulterated, misbranded, or unwholesome food and
drink, and the enforcement of this section shall be regulated in accordance
with the terms of the unabridged form of the 1943 Edition of the U.S. Public
Health Service ordinance regulating eating and drinking establishments, three
certified copies of which shall be on file in the office of the Clerk;
provided, however, that in § 2 of said U.S. Public Health Service ordinance,
itinerant restaurants shall be required to secure a permit.
   (B)   Provided further that when any restaurant fails to qualify for any of
the grades specified in the U.S. Public Health Service ordinance, the health
officer or other designated official is authorized to suspend the permit, or in
lieu thereof, to degrade the restaurant and permit its operation during a
temporary period not exceeding 30 days.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-1)
§ 110.03 MILK.
   (A)   Adoption of Public Health Service Milk Code. The production and
handling of milk and milk products sold for ultimate consumption within the
municipality, or its jurisdiction, all inspections, the issuing and revoking of
permits, and the serving of milk to the public shall be regulated by the
adoption of the U.S. Public Health Service Milk Code, published by the U.S.
Department of Health, Education, and Welfare (1953), being 21 C.F.R. part 131,
three copies of which are now on file in the office of the Clerk, and said code
is hereby adopted and incorporated as if fully set out at length herein.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-1)
   (B)   Permits. Under § 3 of the code adopted in division (A) above, permits
issued shall be in the sum of $25 per year, payable in advance.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-2)
LICENSES
§ 110.15 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Applications for all licenses and permits required by this code shall
be made in writing to the Clerk, unless otherwise specifically provided by law.
   (B)   Each application shall state the name of the applicant, the permit or
license desired, the location to be used, if any, the time covered, and the fee
to be paid. Each application shall contain such additional information as may
be required by the issuing official.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-1)
§ 110.16 PERSON SUBJECT TO LICENSE.
   Whenever in this code a license is required for the maintenance, operation,
or conduct of any business or establishment, or for doing business or engaging
in any activity or occupation, any person or corporation shall be subject to
the requirement if by himself or herself or through an agent, employee, or
partner, he or she holds himself forth as being engaged in the business or
occupation; or solicits patronage therefor, actively or passively; or performs
or attempts to perform any part of such business or occupation.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-2)
§ 110.17 FORMS.
   Forms of all licenses and permits, and applications therefor, shall be
prepared and kept on file by the Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-3)
§ 110.18 SIGNATURES.
   Each license or permit issued, in the absence of any provision to the
contrary, shall bear the signatures of the Mayor and the Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-4)
§ 110.19 INVESTIGATIONS.
   Upon the receipt of an application for a license or permit where laws of the
city necessitate an inspection or investigation before the issuance of such
permit or license, the Clerk shall refer such application to the proper officer
for making such investigation within 48 hours of the time of such receipt. The
officer charged with the duty of making the investigation or inspection shall
make a report thereon, favorable or otherwise, within ten days after receiving
the application or a copy thereof. The health officer or other designated
official shall make or cause to be made an inspection in regard to such
licenses in the connection of the care and handling of food and the preventing
of nuisances and the spread of disease. For the protection of health, the
Building Inspector shall make or cause to be made any such inspection relative
to the construction of buildings or other structures. All other investigations,
except where otherwise provided, shall be made by the Chief of Police or by
some other officer designated by the Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-5)
§ 110.20 TERMINATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   All annual licenses shall terminate on the last day of the fiscal year
of the municipality where no provision to the contrary is made.
   (B)   The Clerk shall mail to all licensees of the municipality a statement
of the time of expiration of the license held by the licensee, if an annual,
three weeks prior to the date of such expiration; provided, that failure to
send out such notice, or failure of the licencee to receive it, shall not
excuse the licensee from failure to obtain a new license, or a renewal thereof,
nor shall it be a defense in an action for operation without a license.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-6)
§ 110.21 BUILDING AND PREMISES.
   No license shall be issued for the conduct of any business, and no permit
shall be issued for any thing, or act, if the premises and building to be used
for the purpose does not fully comply with the requirements of this code. No
such license or permit shall be issued for the conduct of any business or
performance of any act which would involve a violation of the zoning act of the
municipality.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-7)
§ 110.22 CHANGE OF LOCATION.
   In the absence of any provision to the contrary, the location of any
licensed business or occupation, or of any permitted act, may be changed;
provided, that application for such change is made to the Council and the
Council, by majority vote, approves such change; provided, the building,
zoning, and frontage consent requirements of this code are complied with.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-8)
§ 110.23 FRONTAGE CONSENTS.
   (A)   Whenever the consent of the adjoining or neighboring owners is
required as a prerequisite to the conduct of any business or occupation, or the
location of any establishment, such consent must be obtained by securing the
necessary signatures to a written consent petition. Such petition shall be
filed with the Clerk when signed.
   (B)   Consents, once given and filed, shall not be withdrawn, and such
petitions need not be renewed for the continuous conduct of the same business,
whether by the same proprietor or not.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to forge any name to such a petition or to
represent falsely that the names thereon have been properly placed thereon if
such is not the fact.
   (D)   Each consent, when filed, shall be accompanied by the affidavit of the
person securing the signatures that each signature appearing therein was
properly secured and written on, and that the petition contains the necessary
number of signatures required by this code.
   (E)   The frontage consent requirements contained in this code shall not be
construed to amend or change any zoning provision of the municipality, and no
such provision shall be construed as permitting the erection of a structure or
building, or the conduct of a business or the commission of any act in any
location where such structure, building, business, or act is or are prohibited
by any zoning law of the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-9) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.24 NUISANCES.
   No business, licensed or not, shall be so conducted or operated as to amount
to a nuisance in fact.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.25 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Whenever inspections of the premises used for or in connection with
the operation of a licensed business or occupation are provided for or required
by this code, or are reasonably necessary to secure compliance with any code
provision or to detect violations thereof, it shall be the duty of the
licensee, or the person in charge of the premises to be inspected, to admit
thereto for the purpose of making the inspection any officer or employee of the
city who is authorized or directed to make such inspection at any reasonable
time that admission is requested. Whenever an analysis of any commodity or
material is reasonably necessary to secure conformance with any code provision
or to detect violations thereof, it shall be the duty of the licensee whose
business is governed by such provision to give to any authorized officer or
employee of the city requesting the same sufficient samples of such material or
commodity for such analysis upon request.
   (B)   In addition to any other penalty which may be provided, the Council
may revoke the license of any licensed business in the city whose proprietor or
owner refuses to permit any such officer or employee who is authorized to make
such inspection or take such sample to make the inspection, or take an adequate
sample of the said commodity, or who interferes with such officer or employee
while in the performance of his or her duty in making such inspection;
provided, that no license shall be revoked for such cause unless written demand
is made upon the licensee or person in charge of the premises, in the name of
the city, stating that such inspection or sample is desired at the time it is
sought to make the inspection or obtain the sample.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-11)
§ 110.26 REVOCATION.
   Any license or permit issued for a limited time may be revoked by the Mayor
at any time for any violation, the subject matter of the license or permit, or
to the premises occupied. Such revocation may be in addition to any fine
imposed.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-12)
§ 110.27 POSTING OF LICENSE.
   It shall be the duty of any person conducting a licensed business in the
city to keep his or her license posted at all times in a prominent place on the
premises used for such business.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-13) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.28 FEES.
   (A)   In the absence of specific provisions to the contrary, all fees and
charges for licenses or permits shall be paid to the Clerk, in advance at the
time application therefor is made. When an applicant has not engaged in the
business until after the expiration of more than six months of the current
license year, the license fee shall be in the sum of one-half of the fee
specified for the entire year. All license fees shall be deposited in the
General Fund.
   (B)   Licenses shall be required for the following activities and businesses
upon payment of the fee indicated for the specified time:
      (1)   Amusements:
         (a)   Carnivals: $100 per week;
         (b)   Exhibitions of inanimate objects: $5 per day;
         (c)   Menageries: $5 per day; and
         (d)   Other amusements: $10 per day.
      (2)   Auctioneers: $5 per day;
      (3)   Music boxes: $10 annually; and
      (4)   Public dances: $15 per day or $100 annually.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-14)
CHAPTER 111: SOLICITORS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   License application
   
111.03   Fee
   
111.04   Bond required
   
111.05   Display of license
   
111.06   Revocation of license
   
111.07   Peddlers a nuisance
   
111.08   Duty of police to enforce
   
111.09   Agricultural sales excepted
   
111.10   Reduction of fees
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HAWKER. Any person who offers goods, wares, or merchandise of any kind at
outcry upon any street or vacant lot in the city, whether by auction of
otherwise.
   PEDDLER. Any person who goes from house to house and offers for sales goods,
wares, or merchandise of any kind or description carried with him or her taking
orders for future delivery of goods, wares, or merchandise of any kind or
description.
(Prior Code, § 5-6-1)
§ 111.02 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   Application for a license to be issued under the provisions of this chapter
shall be made to the Clerk and shall contain a statement containing the type of
business contemplated.
(Prior Code, § 5-6-2)
§ 111.03 FEE.
   A license fee shall be paid by hawkers and peddlers of $10 per day, $100 per
month, or $500 per year, unless otherwise provided in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-6-3)
§ 111.04 BOND REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every applicant shall file with the Clerk a surety bond running to the
municipality in the amount of $1,000, with the surety acceptable to and
approved by the Mayor, conditioned that the said applicant shall comply fully
with all the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Action on such bond may be brought in the name of the municipality to
the use and benefit of the aggrieved person.
(Prior Code, § 5-6-4) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.05 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   Any hawker or peddler is required to exhibit his or her license upon the
request of any citizen or police officer.
(Prior Code, § 5-6-5) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.06 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   Licenses issued under the provisions of this chapter may be revoked by the
Mayor for any of the following causes:
   (A)   Fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement contained in the
application for license;
   (B)   Fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement made in the course of
carrying on a business;
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter; or
   (D)   Conducting the business in an unlawful manner or in such a manner as
to constitute a breach of the peace or to constitute a menace to the health,
safety, or general welfare of the public.
(Prior Code, § 5-6-6)
§ 111.07 PEDDLERS A NUISANCE.
   The practice of going in and upon private residences in the city by
unlicensed solicitors, unlicensed peddlers, unlicensed hawkers, unlicensed
transient merchants, and unlicensed transient vendors of merchandise, not
having been requested or invited so to do by the owner of said private
residence, for the purpose of soliciting orders for the sale or future delivery
of goods, wares, and merchandise of any kind or description, and/or for the
purpose of disposing and/or peddling or hawking the same, is hereby declared to
be a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 5-6-7) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.08 DUTY OF POLICE TO ENFORCE.
   It shall be the duty of any police officer to enforce the provisions of this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-6-8)
§ 111.09 AGRICULTURAL SALES EXCEPTED.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to require a license or prohibit
the door to door selling of agricultural products grown or produced within the
state.
(Prior Code, § 5-6-10)
§ 111.10 REDUCTION OF FEES.
   (A)   The Mayor and/or Council shall have authority to reduce the license
fee for hawkers, peddlers, or salespersons to $3 per three-month period in any
of the following instances:
      (1)   When the applicant is a resident of the city;
      (2)   When the applicant owns and/or operates a business in the city;
      (3)   When the applicant represents a civic organization and the funds
derived from such hawking or peddling are used for charitable purposes; or
      (4)   When the applicant is engaged in selling books, encyclopedias,
bibles, or religious materials and the sale of such materials is deemed by the
Mayor and/or Council to be in the public interest.
   (B)   In all cases, the decision of the Mayor and/or Council in the amount
of the fee shall be final.
(Prior Code, § 5-6-11)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Any apparent violation of this chapter shall be punishable by the provisions
of this code.
(Prior Code, § 5-6-9)
CHAPTER 112: ALCOHOL
Section
Liquor by the Drink
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   License to retail liquor
   
112.03   License fee
   
112.04   Application for license
   
112.05   Form of licenses; authority; expiration
   
112.06   Hours of sale of liquor
   
112.07   Days for sale of liquor extended
   
112.08   Termination of licenses; revocation
   
112.09   Suspension of license
   
112.10   Minors
   
112.11   Employees
   
112.12   Inspection
   
112.13   Restaurant restriction
   
112.14   Compliance during license period
   
112.15   Revocation or suspension
   
112.16   Records
Wine
   
112.30   Definitions
   
112.31   License required
   
112.32   Application for license
   
112.33   Qualifications
   
112.34   License fees
   
112.35   Issuance of license
   
112.36   License nontransferable
   
112.37   Consumption on premises
   
112.38   Possession
   
112.39   Misrepresentation of age
   
112.40   Revocation of license
Beer
   
112.55   Short title
   
112.56   Definitions
   
112.57   License required; display
   
112.58   Number of beer parlors allowed
   
112.59   License fees
   
112.60   Qualifications for license
   
112.61   Application
   
112.62   Regulations
   
112.63   License transfer
   
112.64   Hours
   
112.65   Property right
   
112.66   Revocation; refusal to issue
   
112.67   License validation
   
112.68   Inspection
   
112.69   Violation
LIQUOR BY THE DRINK
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LICENSE. Unless the context shows otherwise, a license issued by the city to
a qualified person or corporation under which it shall be lawful for the
licensee to sell and dispense liquor by the drink at retail, as provided by the
laws of the state.
   LICENSED PREMISES. A qualified premises for which a license has been issued
by the city.
   QUALIFIED APPLICANT. A person or corporation having a currently valid
license from the Commission of Law Enforcement of the state to sell liquor by
the drink at a location in the city in accordance with the provisions of laws
of the state.
   QUALIFIED PREMISES. A restaurant as defined and by this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-8-1) (Ord. passed 1- -1968)
§ 112.02 LICENSE TO RETAIL LIQUOR.
   (A)   The Clerk is hereby empowered, authorized, and directed to issue
licenses to qualified applicants, as herein provided, for qualified premises
whereby the licensee shall be authorized and permitted to sell liquor by the
drink at retail at such qualified premises in the city. Upon the issue of such
license, the licensee therein named shall be authorized to sell liquor by the
drink at the qualified premises, but only in accordance with the provisions of
laws of the state and the rules and regulations promulgated by the Commissioner
of Law Enforcement of the state in regard thereto and the provisions of this
subchapter.
   (B)   No person or corporation shall sell or dispense liquor by the drink at
any location within the corporate limits of the city without first having
obtained a license therefor from the city in accordance with the terms of this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-8-2) (Ord. passed 1- -1968) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.03 LICENSE FEE.
   Each licensee before being licensed by the city under the provisions of this
subchapter shall pay an annual license fee to the Clerk in the sum of $225 per
annum; and it is expressly provided that such license fee shall not be prorated
for any portion of a year less than an entire year. The license fee herein
provided for is exclusive and in addition to other license fees chargeable by
the city.
(Prior Code, § 5-8-3) (Ord. passed 1- -1968)
§ 112.04 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Prior to the issuance of a license as herein provided, the applicant
shall file with the Clerk an application in writing, signed by the applicant
or, if the applicant be a corporation, by one of its officers, containing such
information and statements relative to the applicant and the premises where
liquor by the drink is to be sold as may be required by the Clerk, and
accompanied by the license issued to the applicant by the Department of Law
Enforcement of the state to sell liquor by the drink in the city.
   (B)   The application shall be verified by the affidavit of the person or
corporation making the same before a person authorized to administer oaths, and
shall be accompanied with the license fee herein required.
   (C)   If any false statement is made in such application, the applicant
shall be deemed to have violated the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-8-4) (Ord. passed 1- -1968)
§ 112.05 FORM OF LICENSES; AUTHORITY; EXPIRATION.
   (A)   Every license issued under the provisions of this subchapter shall set
forth the name of the person or corporation to whom issued, the location by
street and number or other definite designation, of the qualified premises to
be licensed, and such other reasonable information as the Clerk shall deem
necessary. If issued to a partnership, the names and addresses of the persons
constituting such partnership shall be set forth. If issued to a corporation or
association, the names and addresses of the principal officers shall be set
forth. Such license shall be signed by the licensee and shall not be
transferable except upon the express consent of the Mayor and Council.
   (B)   Every license issued under this provision of this subchapter is
separate and distinct, and no person except the licensee therein named shall
exercise any of the privileges granted thereunder, and all licenses are
applicable only to the qualified premises in respect to which they are issued.
Unless sooner revoked or suspended, all licenses shall expire at 1:00 a.m. on
January 1 of the year following the date of issue. No person or corporation
shall be granted more than one license in the city for any one year.
   (C)   The Clerk shall issue no license within the meaning of this chapter to
any applicant without the formal approval of the Mayor and Council, and the
Mayor and Council shall approve no licenses, or the issuance thereof, to more
than two licensees so long as the population of the city is less than 1,500.
(Prior Code, § 5-8-5) (Ord. passed 1- -1968)
§ 112.06 HOURS OF SALE OF LIQUOR.
   No liquor by the drink shall be sold, offered for sale, given away, or
consumed upon any licensed premises during the following hours:
   (A)   Christmas from 1:00 a.m. to 10:00 a.m. the following day;
   (B)   On any other day between 1:00 a.m. and 10:00 a.m.; or
   (C)    On the day of a general or primary election until after the time when
the polls are closed.
(Prior Code, § 5-8-6) (Ord. passed 1- -1968; Ord. 255, passed - -1986) Penalty,
see §
10.99
§ 112.07 DAYS FOR SALE OF LIQUOR EXTENDED.
   Under the authority to extend the hours when liquor may be sold and to
increase the days on which liquor may be sold as expressed in Idaho Code § 23-
927(2), as presently in effect or as may hereafter be amended, and under the
same authority expressed in County Ordinance 84, the city hereby declares that
the hours during which liquor may be sold are not extended and Idaho Code § 23-
927(1)(a) shall remain in effect as to the hours when liquor may be sold and
that the days on which liquor may be sold are hereby increased to include
Sundays, Memorial Day, and Thanksgiving Day.
(Prior Code, § 5-8-6-1) (Ord. 255, passed - -1986)
§ 112.08 TERMINATION OF LICENSES; REVOCATION.
   Revocation of the license issued to any licensee by the state shall
automatically be and become a revocation of the license of such licensee issued
by the city.
(Prior Code, § 5-8-7) (Ord. passed 1- -1968)
§ 112.09 SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
   Suspension of the license issued to any licensee by the state shall
automatically be and become a suspension of the license of the licensee issued
by the city for the period of suspension of the license issued by the state.
(Prior Code, § 5-8-8) (Ord. passed 1- -1968)
§ 112.10 MINORS.
   No person shall sell, serve, or dispense liquor by the drink to any person
under the age of 21 years.
(Prior Code, § 5-8-9) (Ord. passed 1- -1968) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.11 EMPLOYEES.
   Any violation of any of the provisions of this subchapter by any agent,
employee, servant, or other person acting in behalf of the licensee, shall be
presumed to be a violation by the licensee.
(Prior Code, § 5-8-10) (Ord. passed 1- -1968)
§ 112.12 INSPECTION.
   Any police officer of the city, or of the county or the state, shall have
the right at any time to make inspections and examinations of any premises
licensed under this subchapter to sell liquor by the drink as to whether the
provisions of this code and the laws of the state are being complied with, and
any applicant for a license under this subchapter shall be deemed to have
consented to such inspection and examination.
(Prior Code, § 5-8-11) (Ord. passed 1- -1968)
§ 112.13 RESTAURANT RESTRICTION.
   (A)   (1)   Notwithstanding anything herein contained to the contrary, no
license for the sale of liquor by the drink in the city shall be issued under
this subchapter, or otherwise, to any applicant for any premises unless the
premises shall qualify as a restaurant, as defined in this section. A
RESTAURANT, within the meaning of this subchapter, shall mean, and is hereby
defined to be, an establishment having a kitchen and kitchen facilities for the
preparation of hot meals, and where, in consideration for payment, hot meals
are regularly prepared and served to the public on the premises for consumption
on the premises. Fry orders, short orders, sandwiches, salads, hamburgers, and
hot dogs shall not be deemed MEALS within the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   Any establishment for which a license is issued under this chapter
shall remain qualified as a restaurant, as defined in this section, at all
times during the period for which the license is issued. If at any time during
any period for which a license is issued under this subchapter, the premises
for which the license is issued fails to meet the qualifications of a
restaurant, as defined in this section, the license issued for such premises
shall be revoked by order of the Council or suspended until such premises again
meets the qualifications of a restaurant, as defined in this section.
      (3)   In order for any establishment to remain qualified as a restaurant,
as defined in this section, during a license period, the gross receipts of such
establishment from the sale and service of food for consumption on the premises
shall, from calendar month to calendar month, exceed 50% of the total gross
receipts of such establishment. If during any consecutive two calendar month
period the gross receipts of such establishment from the sale and service of
food on the premises does not exceed 50% of the gross receipts of such
establishment for such two calendar month period, such establishment shall not
be deemed a qualified premises for a license.
   (B)   The provisions of this section may be waived by a majority vote of the
full City Council upon a showing that there is no restaurant in the city which
desires to, and is capable of, assuming said license.
(Prior Code, § 5-8-12) (Ord. 265, passed 9-6-1988) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.14 COMPLIANCE DURING LICENSE PERIOD.
   A licensee and the licensed premises must continue throughout the license
period to have all of the foregoing qualifications. If the licensee or licensed
premises should fail to have all of the foregoing qualifications at any time
during the license period, the Council shall revoke the license of the
licensee, or shall suspend the license of the licensee until the licenses and
licensed premises shall again meet the qualifications of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-8-13) (Ord. passed 1- -1968)
§ 112.15 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   The Council may revoke, or suspend, any license issued under this subchapter
if, upon a hearing thereof after at least ten days’ notice given to the
licensee by personal service on the licensee, or by mail addressed to the
licensee at the address shown on the licensee’s application for a license, or
left with an adult employee of the licensee on the licensed premises, the
Council finds that the licensee, or his or her agent or employee, has violated
or neglected to comply with any of the provisions of this subchapter, or has on
the licensed premises violated any of the laws of the state pertaining to the
sale of beer or intoxicating beverages or prohibiting gambling, or has made any
false statement in the application for such license or transfer thereof, or did
not have, or has not maintained the qualifications of a licensee, or had, or
has acquired, a disqualification of a licensee, or whose licensed premises is
not qualified as a restaurant within the definition contained in this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-8-14) (Ord. passed 1- -1968)
§ 112.16 RECORDS.
   (A)   (1)   The city shall have the right at all times to inspect and
examine the books and records of any applicant for a license or licensee under
this subchapter.
      (2)   Any licensee shall, upon request of the city, forthwith submit and
file with the city financial statements setting forth and showing thereon the
percentage of the licensee’s gross receipts from the sale and service of food
for consumption on the licensed premises and from other sources. Such financial
statements shall cover the period of time requested by the city; provided, that
such period shall not be more than six consecutive calendar months immediately
preceding the request made by the city.
   (B)   If any false statement or entry is contained in any such financial
statement, or in the books or records of the licensee, the licensee shall be
deemed to have violated the provisions of this subchapter.
   (C)   An application for, and acceptance by a licensee of, a license under
this chapter shall constitute consent to and authority for the city to enter
upon the licensed premises and to inspect the licensee’s books and records. The
licensee’s records and books shall be kept at and on the licensed premises. A
licensee shall, if requested by the city, cause its books and records to be
audited by a certified public accountant and to cause the financial statements
mentioned in division (A)(2) above to be prepared and certified by a certified
public accountant.
(Prior Code, § 5-8-15) (Ord. passed 1- -1968) Penalty, see §
10.99
WINE
§ 112.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMISSIONER. The Commissioner of Law Enforcement of the state.
   PERSON. Includes an individual, firm, copartnership, association,
corporation, or any group or combination acting as a unit, and includes the
plural as well as the singular, unless the intent to give a more limited
meaning is disclosed by the context in which it is used.
   RETAIL WINE LICENSE. A license issued by the Commissioner, authorizing a
person to sell wine at retail.
   RETAILER. A person to whom a retail wine license or a wine by the drink
license has been issued.
   WINE. Any alcoholic beverage containing not more than 14% alcohol by volume
obtained by the fermentation of the natural sugar content of fruits or other
agricultural products containing sugar.
   WINE BY THE DRINK LICENSE. A license to sell wine by the individual glass or
opened bottle at retail, for consumption on the premises only.
(Prior Code, § 5-10-1) (Ord. 199, passed 7-6-1971; Ord. 212, passed 9-4-1973)
§ 112.31 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be lawful for any person to sell wine at retail within the
corporate limits of the city after having first procured the proper license
therefor.
(Prior Code, § 5-10-2) (Ord. 212, passed 9-4-1973)
§ 112.32 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   Application for license shall be in writing, signed and sworn to by the
applicant upon application forms furnished by the Clerk. Such application shall
be filed by the Clerk and presented to the Mayor and Council at the next
meeting of the Council for their approval, rejection, or further consideration.
(Prior Code, § 5-10-3) (Ord. 199, passed 7-6-1971)
§ 112.33 QUALIFICATIONS.
   The applicant for a license shall possess all of the qualifications
necessary to obtain a license from the Commissioner of Law Enforcement of the
state, as prescribed by the laws of the state, and maintain such qualifications
throughout the period for which such license is issued. The possession of
licenses regularly issued by the Department of Law Enforcement and the county,
in addition to a city beer license, as provided in §§
112.55 through
112.69, shall be prima facie evidence of the applicant’s qualifications to
receive a license hereunder.
(Prior Code, § 5-10-4) (Ord. 199, passed 7-6-1971)
§ 112.34 LICENSE FEES.
   The license fee imposed and collected for the retail wine license shall be
the sum of $25 per year. The license fee imposed and collected for the wine by
the drink license shall be the sum of $25 per year. Such license year shall be
from 12:01 a.m. January 1 through December 31.
(Prior Code, § 5-10-5) (Ord. 212, passed 9-4-1973)
§ 112.35 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   Upon filing the application for a license and production of evidence as
required by §
112.33 as to the qualifications of the applicant and by the payment of the
required license fee, the Clerk shall, upon approval of the Council, issue to
the applicant, depending upon the license requested, a license to sell wine at
retail and/or a license to sell wine by the drink at retail within the
municipality for such calendar year.
(Prior Code, § 5-10-6) (Ord. 212, passed 9-4-1973)
§ 112.36 LICENSE NONTRANSFERABLE.
   No license issued hereunder may be transferred from one person to another,
either by contract or operation of law, or from one location to another,
without the consent of the Council, in writing, spread on the minutes of a
regular or special meeting of the Council.
(Prior Code, § 5-10-7) (Ord. 199, passed 7-6-1971)
§ 112.37 CONSUMPTION ON PREMISES.
   Retailers who do not possess a valid license for the retail sale of liquor
by the drink or a valid wine by the drink license shall not permit consumption
of wine on the licensed premises and may sell the wine only in its original
unbroken, sealed container. Wine sold for consumption on the retailer’s
premises may be sold only during hours that beer may be sold for consumption on
the premises pursuant to the official code.
(Prior Code, § 5-10-8) (Ord. 212, passed 9-4-1973) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.38 POSSESSION.
   No person may, while operating or riding in or upon a motor vehicle upon a
public highway or street of this state, have in his or her possession any wine
in an open or unsealed container of any kind.
(Prior Code, § 5-10-9) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.39 MISREPRESENTATION OF AGE.
   (A)   No person under the age of 19 years may purchase, consume, or possess
wine.
   (B)   No person shall give, sell, or deliver wine to any person under the
age of 19 years.
   (C)   No person under the age of 19 years shall by any means represent to
any retailer or distributor that he or she is 19 years or more of age for the
purpose of inducing such retailer or distributor, or his or her agent or
employee, to sell, serve, or dispense wine to such other person.
   (D)   No person shall, by any means, represent to any retailer or
distributor or the agent or employee of such retailer or distributor, that any
other person is 19 years or more of age, when in fact such other person is
under the age of 19 years, for the purpose of inducing such retailer or
distributor, or the agent or employee of such retailer or distributor, to sell,
serve, or dispense wine to such other person.
(Prior Code, § 5-10-10) (Ord. 212, passed 9-4-1973) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.40 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   The right shall be and remain at all times vested in the Mayor and Council,
and the Mayor and Council may, as hereinafter provided, revoke or cancel any
license for fraud or misrepresentation in its procurement, or for a violation
of any of the provisions of this chapter, or for any conduct or act of the
licensee or his or her employees or any conduct or act permitted by him, her,
or them on the premises where such business is conducted, or in connection
therewith or adjacent thereto, tending to render such business on such premises
where the same is conducted as a public nuisance or a menace to the health,
peace, safety, or general welfare of the city; provided, that revocation or
suspension of the state license by the Commission of Law Enforcement shall be
deemed prima facie evidence for revocation or suspension of the license issued
herein.
(Prior Code, § 5-10-11) (Ord. 199, passed 7-6-1971)
BEER
§ 112.55 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and designated as the “Beer Ordinance.”
(Prior Code, § 5-7-1) (Ord. 162, passed 7-1-1958)
§ 112.56 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BEER. Any beverage obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or
decoction of barley, malt, and/or other ingredients in water.
   BEER PARLOR. Any retail establishment, other than a bona fide restaurant, as
defined in this section, where, beer is sold or served for consumption on the
licensed premises.
   LICENSEE. The person or persons to whom any license is issued under the
provisions of this subchapter.
   PERSON. Includes any individual, copartnership, association, corporation, or
any group acting as a unit, and the plural as well as the singular number,
unless the intent to give a more limited meaning is disclosed by the context.
   PLACE. Any room or any premises licensed for the sale of beer for
consumption on the premises wherein there is a bar, and bar supplies and
equipment are kept, and where beer is drawn, or poured, or served for
consumption therein.
   RESTAURANT. An eating establishment having a kitchen with kitchen and
cooking facilities for the cooking and preparation of hot meals and where
complete hot meals are regularly and habitually sold and served to the public
on the premises at all times and hours during which beer is sold or served for
consumption on the premises and whose principal business is the selling and
serving of meals rather than the selling and serving of beer. Fry orders, short
orders, eggs, sandwiches and salads, and victuals of like nature, shall not be
considered MEALS with the provisions of this subchapter.
   RETAILER. Any person engaged in the sale or distribution of beer to the
consumer.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-2) (Ord. 162, passed 7-1-1958)
§ 112.57 LICENSE REQUIRED; DISPLAY.
   (A)   No person shall sell or distribute beer at any location within the
corporate limits of the city without first having obtained a license therefor
for each such location, in accordance with the terms of this subchapter.
   (B)   Such license to sell beer shall at all times be prominently displayed
in a conspicuous place in the place of business of the licensee.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-3) (Ord. 162, passed 7-1-1958) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.58 NUMBER OF BEER PARLORS ALLOWED.
   The number of beer parlors in the city shall be invited to one beer parlor
for each 250 valid and bona fide residents of the city, and the basis for
calculation therefor shall be the last census of the United States government.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-4) (Ord. 162, passed 7-1-1958)
§ 112.59 LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   The license fee for any retailer selling bottled or canned beer only
not for consumption on the premises where sold, shall be $25 per year.
   (B)   The license fee for any retailer selling bottled or canned beer only
for consumption on the premises where sold shall be $50 per year.
   (C)   The license fee for any retailer selling draft beer only, or draft,
bottled, and/or canned beer, shall be $100 per year.
   (D)   All beer licenses issued hereunder shall expire on December 31 of the
year in which they are issued. All license fees shall be paid in advance prior
to the issuance of the license.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-5) (Ord. 162, passed 7-1-1958)
§ 112.60 QUALIFICATIONS FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   No license to sell beer shall be issued to any applicant for such
license, or for a transfer of such license, or for the transfer thereof to any
transferee, who, or the executor, administrator, or trustee in bankruptcy of
the estate of whom:
      (1)   Is not the bona fide owner of such business, or is not a citizen of
the United States, or has not been a bona fide resident of the state for a
period of one year prior to the date of application; provided, that if the
applicant is a partnership, all partners shall be such citizens, and at least
one thereof, or the actual active manager therefor, shall have been such
resident, and if the applicant is a corporation, such corporation shall be
qualified to do business within the state, and the manager of such business
place shall be such citizen and shall have been such resident;
      (2)   Has, or any partner or actual manager or officer or employee or
spouse of which has, within three years immediately preceding such application,
been convicted of a violation of any law of the state or of the United States
of America, or of any other state regulating, governing, or prohibiting the
sale of alcoholic beverages or intoxicating liquor, or has within three years
forfeited, or suffered the forfeiture of, a bond for his or her appearance to
answer charges of any such violation;
      (3)   Has, or any partner or actual active manager or officer of which
has been convicted of any felony within five years or has paid any fine or
completed any sentence of confinement therefor within five years; or
      (4)   Has, or any partner or actual active manager or officer of which
has, within three years been convicted of any law of the state, or of the
United States, or of any other state, prohibiting gambling.
   (B)   A licensee must continue throughout the license period to have all of
the foregoing qualifications and none of the foregoing disqualifications, and
for failure therein, upon proof thereof to the Council, such Council shall
revoke the license issued.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-6) (Ord. 162, passed 7-1-1958)
§ 112.61 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Licenses required under this subchapter shall be issued by the Clerk,
who shall issue such licenses only with the approval and under the direction of
the Council. No license shall be issued except by resolution of the Council
spread upon its minutes.
   (B)   Applications for such licenses shall be made in writing, verified
under oath, and shall contain the following:
      (1)   The name, age, and residence of the applicant, and whether the
applicant is a citizen of the United States;
      (2)   A statement that the applicant has been a bona fide resident of the
state for a period of one year prior to the date of application;
      (3)   The legal description and street address of the premises on which
beer is to be sold;
      (4)   A statement showing each and every criminal offense of which the
applicant has been convicted within the ten-year period immediately preceding
the date of the application, and the time and place of such conviction or
convictions;
      (5)   The name and address of the owner and lessee of the business and of
the real property on which beer is to be sold, the manager in charge of such
business, and of each and every person employed in said business;
      (6)   The name and address of each and every person who has any monetary
or financial interest in the said business, and any mortgagee, pledgee, or
other person having any encumbrance thereon;
      (7)   The applicant consents that the police officers of the state, the
county, and of the city may inspect the premises on which such beer is to be
sold, and any portion thereof, at any time;
      (8)   The applicant agrees, during the term of his or her license, to
inform the city in writing of any change in the circumstances surrounding said
business which would in any way modify his or her representations contained in
his or her application for license, it being the intention of the city to at
all times be informed in writing as to the matters set forth in said
application; and if the place for which the license is requested is a
restaurant, a statement that such place has a kitchen and kitchen and cooking
facilities for the preparation of hot meals and that complete hot meals will
therein be regularly and habitually sold and served to the public at all times
and hours during which beer is sold or served for consumption on the premises,
and that the principal business of such place will be the selling and serving
of meals rather than the selling and serving of beer; and
      (9)   Anything else which may be required by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-7) (Ord. 162, passed 7-1-1958)
§ 112.62 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or serve beer to any
habitual drunkard or to any intoxicated person.
   (B)   The advertising of beer by any sign, placard, or notice on the outside
of any building within the corporate limits of the city is hereby prohibited.
   (C)   No beer parlor shall sell or serve beer to any woman unless separate
sanitary restrooms are provided for women on the premises.
   (D)   No licensee shall conduct or permit to be conducted, played, or
carried on any game of faro, monte, roulette, lansquenet, rouge et noir, rondo,
Indian stick game, poker, or any game played with cards, dice, or any other
device for money, checks, credit, or any other representative of value upon any
licensed premises.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any licensee to sell or serve beer except
upon the licensed premises.
   (F)   No licensee of any place, as defined in §
112.56, licensed for the sale of beer for consumption on the premises, or any
person in charge thereof, or on duty while employed by the licensee therein,
shall permit, suffer, or allow any person under the age of 21 years to enter,
remain in, or loiter in any such place; provided, that this division (F) shall
not apply to bona fide restaurants, as defined in §
112.56.
   (G)   No person shall sell, serve, or dispense beer to any person under the
age of 21 years.
   (H)   No licensee of any place, as defined in §
112.56, licensed to sell beer, or any employee thereof while on duty, shall
bring any intoxicating beverage other than beer on the licensed premises, or
knowingly suffer or permit any intoxicating beverage other than beer to be
brought or consumed on the licensed premises.
   (I)   Whenever any beer parlor is open for business, the interior of the
same shall be kept brightly lighted to the extent that each and every portion
of the interior thereof is clearly visible to any person entering the same.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-8) (Ord. 162, passed 7-1-1958; Ord. 282, passed 12-17-1990)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.63 LICENSE TRANSFER.
   (A)   No license transferred by operation of law or otherwise shall
authorize the transferee, including any executor, administrator, or trustee in
bankruptcy of the estate of the licensee, to sell beer thereunder until the
transferee shall have filed under oath with the Clerk an application therefor
containing the same information required of an applicant for a license, and
until the Clerk, with the approval and under the direction of the Council, has
authorized the transfer.
   (B)   If the transferee possesses all the qualifications and none of the
disqualifications for a license as herein provided, the Council shall authorize
the transfer. The transferee shall accompany each such application for transfer
with and shall pay the sum of $10 as a license transfer fee.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-9) (Ord. 162, passed 7-1-1958)
§ 112.64 HOURS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person in any place licensed to sell
beer, wine, and liquor under this subchapter or where beer, wine, and liquor is
sold or dispensed to be consumed on the premises to sell, serve, or permit
beer, wine, or liquor to be consumed on the premises between the hours of 2:00
a.m. and 6:00 a.m.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person in any place licensed under this
subchapter to sell beer, wine, and liquor to be consumed on the premises to
play or permit to be played any radio, phonograph, television, jukebox, or
other musical instrument between the aforementioned hours.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-10) (Ord. 2004-07, passed 9-27-2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.65 PROPERTY RIGHT.
   There shall be no vested or property right in any license, or transfer
thereof, issued under this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-11) (Ord. 162, passed 7-1-1958)
§ 112.66 REVOCATION; REFUSAL TO ISSUE.
   (A)   The Council may revoke or suspend, for a period not exceeding six
months, any license issued under this subchapter, if, upon a hearing thereon
after five days’ notice to the licensee served personally or by mail upon the
licensee or left with an adult person employed or apparently employed in the
licensed premises, such Council finds that the licensee, or his or her agent,
employee, servant, or other person acting in his or her behalf, has violated
any of the provisions of this subchapter, or has on the licensed premises
violated any of the laws of the state pertaining to the sale of intoxicating
beverages or intoxicating liquor or prohibiting gambling, or has made any false
statement in the application for such license or transfer thereof, or did not
have, or has not retained, the qualifications of a licensee, or had, or has
acquired, a disqualification of a licensee.
   (B)   The Council may refuse to issue a license to sell beer, or revoke any
license therefor already issued, to any person who employs any person whose
license to sell beer has been revoked by the city or the state, or who enters
into a partnership with any such person, or who undertakes with any such person
whose license has been revoked to sell beer as a joint venture, or who leases
the place of business from which such license has been revoked from the person
whose license has been revoked, or who becomes the successor in interest of any
such person with reference to any such place of business.
   (C)   The Council may, on its own motion, institute proceedings for the
revocation or suspension of any license issued under this subchapter, or may
take such action whenever a complaint, in writing and under oath, has been
filed with said Council by any person setting forth facts showing grounds for
revocation or suspension of any such license.
   (D)   Whenever any person shall make complaint, in writing and under oath,
to the Council setting forth facts showing that any license issued under this
chapter is subject to suspension or revocation, the Council shall fix a time
and place for the hearing of the complaint and shall order the licensee to
appear at a time and place specified in the order for hearing. A true and
correct copy of the order, together with a true and correct copy of the
complaint, shall be served personally, by mail upon the licensee or left with
an adult person employed or apparently employed in the licensed premises, at
least five days prior to the hearing. No further pleadings shall be necessary.
If, upon such hearing, the Council finds that cause exists therefor, it may
suspend or revoke the license of the licensee.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-12) (Ord. 162, passed 7-1-1958)
§ 112.67 LICENSE VALIDATION.
   All beer licenses heretofore issued by the city are hereby validated subject
to the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-13) (Ord. 162, passed 7-1-1958)
§ 112.68 INSPECTION.
   Any police officer of the city, the county, or the state shall have the
right at any time to make an inspection and examination of any premises
licensed under this subchapter to sell beer as to whether the provisions of
this code and the laws of the state are being complied with, and any person
making application under this subchapter for a license to sell beer shall be
deemed to have consented to such inspection and examination.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-14) (Ord. 162, passed 7-1-1958)
§ 112.69 VIOLATION.
   A violation of any of the provisions of this subchapter by any agent,
employee, servant, or other person in any way acting in behalf of the licensee
shall be presumed to be a violation by the licensee.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-15) (Ord. 162, passed 7-1-1958)
CHAPTER 113: TRANSIENT LODGING
Section
Hotels
   
113.01   Defined
   
113.02   Fire protection equipment
   
113.03   Maintenance of equipment
   
113.04   Inspection
   
113.05   Hotel register
Motels
   
113.20   Building permit required
   
113.21   Service station restrictions
   
113.22   Parking space on premises
   
113.23   Minimum requirements
   
113.24   Existing standards
   
113.25   Application to include plan
   
113.26   Guests required to register
HOTELS
§ 113.01 DEFINED.
   Every building maintained or advertised as a public lodging house or where
more than six rooms are provided for sleeping accommodations shall be known as
a HOTEL.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-1)
§ 113.02 FIRE PROTECTION EQUIPMENT.
   The Fire Chief, or other officer designated by the Council, shall survey
each hotel and specify suitable fire detecting devices or extinguishing
appliances which shall be provided.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-2)
§ 113.03 MAINTENANCE OF EQUIPMENT.
   Fire protective or extinguishing systems or appliances which have been
installed in compliance with any permit or order, or according to any
provisions of this code, shall be maintained in operative condition at all
times and it shall be unlawful for any owner or occupant to reduce the
effectiveness of the protection so required.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.04 INSPECTION.
   It shall be the duty of the Fire Chief and the health officer, or other
officers so designated by the Council, to make periodic and regular inspections
of every hotel and to make regular reports to the governing body of such hotel
or hotels concerning regulations imposed by this code.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-4)
§ 113.05 HOTEL REGISTER.
   A register shall be maintained at every hotel, and each guest shall be
required to register his or her name and home address. The date of arrival and
departure shall be clearly indicated, and the register shall be maintained for
a period of at least one year following registration. The register shall be
open for inspection to any authorized person.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
MOTELS
§ 113.20 BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Before construction of a motel is started, an application for a permit for
such construction shall be submitted to the Clerk. The Clerk shall present such
application to the Council for its approval. Only after approval of the Council
shall a permit for construction of a motel be issued.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.21 SERVICE STATION RESTRICTIONS.
   Automobile service stations shall be located no closer than 50 feet to any
motel.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.22 PARKING SPACE ON PREMISES.
   Each unit of a hotel or tourist court shall be provided with an assigned
parking space entirely on the premises.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.23 MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.
   The minimum space for each unit shall be 12 feet by 20 feet and shall
contain one full bath, toilet facilities, dressing compartment, and sleeping
room.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.24 EXISTING STANDARDS.
   The plumbing, heating, and ventilation components shall meet all local fire,
plumbing, and building code requirements.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.25 APPLICATION TO INCLUDE PLAN.
   Each application for a motel or tourist court shall be submitted with a
complete plan, including the plot plan and adjacent buildings, parking
arrangement and driveways, unit sizes, plumbing and heating layout, accessory
uses, materials to be used, front and rear elevations, and architectural
design.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.26 GUESTS REQUIRED TO REGISTER.
   Every operator of a motel shall maintain a register in which each guest
shall register his or her name, home address, and license number of the vehicle
in which he or she is traveling. The date of his or her arrival and departure
shall also be recorded. Such register shall be available to any authorized
person inspecting the motel and shall be preserved for a period of not less
than one year.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 114: AMUSEMENTS
Section
Pool, Billiard Halls, and Card Rooms
   
114.01   License required
   
114.02   Fees
   
114.03   Minors
Parades
   
114.15   Permit
   
114.16   Exceptions
   
114.17   Application
   
114.18   Fee
   
114.19   Standards for issuance
   
114.20   Notice of rejection
   
114.21   Driving through parades
POOL, BILLIARD HALLS, AND CARD ROOMS
§ 114.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate, maintain, or conduct a
billiard, pool, or bagatelle or pigeonhole table open to the public without
having first obtained a license therefor as is herein required.
   (B)   All applications for such licenses shall state thereon the intended
location of the place of business and the number of tables to be used therein.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.02 FEES.
   Before a license shall be issued to any person to operate or open a
billiard, pool, or card hall or room, said person shall pay to the Clerk a
license fee of $25 per quarter for one card table and $5 per quarter for each
additional card table; and $5 per quarter for each pool or billiard table. Said
license shall expire on the last day of each quarter. The license issued under
the provisions of this subchapter shall be nontransferable.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-2)
§ 114.03 MINORS.
   Minors under the age of 16 years shall under no circumstances frequent,
loiter, go, or remain in any hall licensed hereunder at any time, and it shall
be unlawful for the proprietor of any hall so licensed to allow or permit any
such minor to frequent, loiter, or remain within the hall in violation of the
provisions of this section.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
PARADES
§ 114.15 PERMIT.
   No person shall engage in, participate in, aid, form, or start any parade,
unless a parade permit shall have been obtained from the Chief of Police.
(Prior Code, § 6-8-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.16 EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to the following:
   (A)   Funeral processions;
   (B)   Students going to and from school classes or participating in
educational activities, providing such conduct is under the immediate direction
and supervision of the proper school authorities; or
   (C)   A governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions.
(Prior Code, § 6-8-2)
§ 114.17 APPLICATION.
   A person seeking issuance of a parade permit shall file an application with
the Chief of Police on forms provided by such officer. Such application shall
be filed not less than three days nor more than 30 days before the date on
which it is proposed to conduct the parade. The application for said permit
shall set forth the following information:
   (A)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person seeking to
conduct such parade;
   (B)   The name and address of the organization for whom the parade is to be
conducted;
   (C)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person who will be the
parade chairperson and who will be responsible for its conduct;
   (D)   The date when the parade is to be conducted;
   (E)   The route to be traveled, the starting point, and the termination
point;
   (F)   The approximate number of persons who, and animals and vehicles which,
will constitute such parade, the types of animals and description of the
vehicles;
   (G)   The hours when such parade will start and terminate;
   (H)   The location by streets of any assembly areas for such parade; and
   (I)   Any other information which the Chief of Police shall find reasonably
necessary to a fair determination as to whether a permit should issue.
(Prior Code, § 6-8-3)
§ 114.18 FEE.
   There shall be paid at the time of filing the application for a parade
permit a fee of $50. Said fee may be reduced or waived at the discretion of the
Mayor for school or public service organizations.
(Prior Code, § 6-8-4) (Ord. 328, passed 3-10-1997)
§ 114.19 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   The Chief of Police shall issue a permit as provided for hereunder when,
from a consideration of the application and from such other information as may
otherwise be obtained, he or she finds that:
   (A)   The conduct of the parade will not substantially interrupt the safe
and orderly movement of other traffic contiguous to its route;
   (B)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of police officers of the city to properly police the line of movement
and the areas contiguous thereto as to prevent normal police protection to the
city;
   (C)   The conduct of such parade will not require the diversion of so great
a number of ambulances as to prevent normal ambulance service to portions of
the city other than that to be occupied by the proposed line of march and areas
contiguous thereto;
   (D)   The concentration of persons, animals, and vehicles at assembly points
of the parade will not unduly interfere with proper fire and police protection
of, or ambulance service to, areas contiguous to such assembly areas;
   (E)   The conduct of such parade will not interfere with the movement of
firefighting equipment en route to a fire;
   (F)   The conduct of the parade is not reasonably likely to cause injury to
persons or property, to provoke disorderly conduct, or create a disturbance;
   (G)   The parade is scheduled to move from its point of origin to its point
of termination expeditiously and without unreasonable delays en route; and
   (H)   The parade is not to be held for the sole purpose of advertising any
product, goods, or event and is not designed to be held purely for private
profit.
(Prior Code, § 6-8-5)
§ 114.20 NOTICE OF REJECTION.
   The Chief of Police shall act upon the application for a parade permit
within three days after the filing thereof. If the Chief of Police disapproves
the application, he or she shall mail to the applicant within three days after
the date upon which the application was filed, a notice of his or her action,
stating the reasons for his or her denial of the permit.
(Prior Code, § 6-8-6)
§ 114.21 DRIVING THROUGH PARADES.
   No driver of any vehicle of any type shall drive between the vehicles or
persons comprising a parade when such vehicles or persons are in motion and are
conspicuously designated as a parade.
(Prior Code, § 6-8-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
   Troy - General Offenses
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE
      
133.   OFFENSES AGAINST JUSTICE AND ADMINISTRATION
      
134.   SEX OFFENSES
      
135.   WEAPONS OFFENSES
      
136.   DRUG OFFENSES
      
137.   OFFENSES BY MINORS
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Aid to an offense
   
130.02   Cruelty to animals
   
130.03   False pretenses
   
130.04   Gambling
   
130.05   General offense
   
130.06   Hypnotists prohibited
   
130.07   Assault and battery
   
130.08   Swindling
   
130.09   Vagrancy
§ 130.01 AID TO AN OFFENSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, in any way or manner, to aid, abet,
counsel, advise, or encourage any other person in the commission of any of the
acts mentioned herein or in any manner encourage the commission of such offense
hereby defined.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.02 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to torture or beat cruelly, starve, or
otherwise ill treat any animal in his or her care or charge, whether belonging
to himself or herself or any other person.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.03 FALSE PRETENSES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to obtain any food, drink, goods, wares,
or merchandise under false pretenses, or to enter any public place and call for
refreshments or other articles and receive and refuse to pay for same, or
depart without paying for or satisfying the person from whom he or she received
the food, goods, wares, and merchandise.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-17) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.04 GAMBLING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to deal, play, or conduct, either as
owner, employee, or lessee, whether or not for hire, any game played with
cards, dice, or any other device for money, checks, credit, or other
representation of value.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-21) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.05 GENERAL OFFENSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to commit any act or fail to perform any
requirement which is prohibited or required by state law, insofar as such laws
are applicable to municipal government.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-22) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.06 HYPNOTISTS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to practice hypnotism or for any person
to be a subject for such hypnotist; provided, that this shall not apply to
hypnotism as used in the treatment of patients by an accredited doctor of
medicine or doctor of dentistry, nor shall it prohibit the teaching of
hypnotism in any state accredited educational institution which maintains an
academic standard of the college level.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-25) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.07 ASSAULT AND BATTERY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to commit ASSAULT or BATTERY, which is
hereby defined as any wilful and unlawful use of force or violence upon the
person of another.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.08 SWINDLING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, who by color, or aid of any trick or
sleight of hand performance, or by fraud or by fraudulent scheme, cards, dice,
or device, to win for himself or herself or for another any money or property,
or a representative of either.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-42) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.09 VAGRANCY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person without visible means of support and the
physical ability to work not to seek employment or labor, or to refuse to work
when employment is offered him or her; for any person to seek alms as a
business; for any person to roam about from place to place without any lawful
business; for any idle or dissolute person or associate of known thieves to
wander about the streets at a late and unusual hour of the night, or to lodge
in any other place than is kept for lodging purposes without the permission of
the owner of the property or the person in possession thereof; or for any
person to consort habitually with common prostitutes, habitual drunkards, or
any user of narcotics.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-45) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
Section
   
131.01   Arson
   
131.02   Barbed wire and electric fences
   
131.03   Deposits of injurious material on thoroughfares
   
131.04   Expectorating on sidewalks or in public buildings
   
131.05   Lug wheels prohibited
   
131.06   Malicious injury to property
   
131.07   Petit larceny
   
131.08   Trespassing
   
131.09   Water flowing upon streets
§ 131.01 ARSON.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to commit ARSON, which is hereby defined
as to maliciously and deliberately set fire to or burn or cause to be burned,
or aid, counsel, or procure the burning of any dwelling or other valuable
property either by himself or herself or with others.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.02 BARBED WIRE AND ELECTRIC FENCES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect or maintain any electric
fence or any fence constructed in whole or in part of barbed wire, or to use
barbed wire as a guard to any parking lot or parcel of land.
   (B)   This provision shall not apply to property which had such fencing when
this provision was originally passed, nor to properties having such fencing
when annexed into the city.
   (C)   Permits to erect such fencing may be granted by the City Council upon
a showing that:
      (1)   The applicant has an important purpose in seeking the permit;
      (2)   Issuing the permit will not adversely affect adjoining property or
the residents thereof;
      (3)   If needed by grazing, that the applicant has the appropriate amount
of land to make it suitable for grazing;
      (4)   The fence will be as attractive as possible; and
      (5)   The fence will not create an unsafe condition.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-6) (Ord. 334, passed 9-22-1997) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.03 DEPOSITS OF INJURIOUS MATERIAL ON THOROUGHFARES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit, place, or allow to remain in
or upon any public thoroughfare any material or substance injurious to person
or property.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-9) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.04 EXPECTORATING ON SIDEWALKS OR IN PUBLIC BUILDINGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to expectorate or spit upon any sidewalk
or upon the floor of any public building or room used for public assemblies.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-16) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.05 LUG WHEELS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for tractors with wheels injurious to pavement to be
permitted upon the public thoroughfares unless the operator of such vehicle
shall first plank such streets.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-30) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.06 MALICIOUS INJURY TO PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person wilfully and maliciously to injure,
deface, mutilate, remove, pull down, break, or in any manner interfere with or
molest or secrete or destroy any real or personal property belonging to or
under the control of any person.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-31) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.07 PETIT LARCENY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to commit PETIT LARCENY, which is hereby
defined as a larceny when the property taken is of a value of less than $60.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-36) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.08 TRESPASSING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to take down any fence or to let down
any bars or to open any gate in or on the property of another without the
consent of the owner, occupant, or person in charge thereof.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-43) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.09 WATER FLOWING UPON STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow any water to flow into or upon
any public thoroughfare.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-46) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE
Section
   
132.01   Disorderly conduct
   
132.02   Disturbing the peace
   
132.03   Loudspeakers or sound trucks
   
132.04   Mufflers; unnecessary noise
   
132.05   Playing ball on streets prohibited
   
132.06   Riot
   
132.07   Unlawful assembly
§ 132.01 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in any illegal or improper
diversion or to use insulting, indecent, or immoral language, or to be guilty
of any indecent, insulting, or immoral conduct or behavior.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.02 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, wilfully, maliciously, intentionally,
or unnecessarily, to disturb the peace and quiet of another or of any
neighborhood or family or religious congregation or other assembly by loud or
unusual noises or indecent behavior, or by offensive or unbecoming conduct, or
for any person to threaten, quarrel, fight, or provoke an assault or battery or
curse or swear or utter any obscene or vulgar or indecent language in the
presence of another.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-12) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.03 LOUDSPEAKERS OR SOUND TRUCKS.
   It shall be unlawful to play, operate, or use any device known as a sound
truck, loudspeaker, or sound amplifier, radio, or phonograph, with loudspeaker
or sound amplifier or any instrument of any kind or character which emits loud
and raucous noises and is attached to and upon any vehicle unless such person
in charge of such vehicle shall have first applied to and received permission
from the Chief of Police to operate any such vehicle so equipped.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-29) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.04 MUFFLERS; UNNECESSARY NOISE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle, including,
but not limited to, a motorcycle, which shall not at all times be equipped with
a muffler upon the exhaust thereof in good working order and in constant
operation to prevent excessive or unusual noise, and it shall be unlawful for
any person operating any motor vehicle to use a cutout, bypass, or similar
muffler elimination appliance.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-33) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.05 PLAYING BALL ON STREETS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to play ball or throw any ball to and
fro upon any public thoroughfare in the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-37) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.06 RIOT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail or refuse immediately to
disperse upon an order to do so by a police officer, when two or more persons
are assembled for the purpose of disturbing the peace or for the purpose of
committing any unlawful act.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-40) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.07 UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLY.
   It shall be unlawful for two or more persons to assemble together for the
purpose of disturbing the peace or for the purpose of committing an unlawful
act and not to disperse upon the command of an officer so to do.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-44) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 133: OFFENSES AGAINST JUSTICE AND ADMINISTRATION
Section
   
133.01   Aid in escape
   
133.02   Escapes
   
133.03   False representation
   
133.04   Fraudulently avoiding payment of admission fees
   
133.05   Furnishing weapons and other articles to prisoners
   
133.06   Giving assistance to police officers
   
133.07   Resisting an officer
§ 133.01 AID IN ESCAPE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to aid or assist any person to escape
from lawful confinement or to assist any person to escape from the custody of
any peace officer.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.02 ESCAPES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person convicted of any offense or in lawful
custody to escape or attempt to escape.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-15) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.03 FALSE REPRESENTATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to represent falsely himself or herself
to be an officer of the municipality or who shall attempt to impersonate any
such officer or who shall, without authority, perform any official act therein
on behalf of an officer.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-18) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.04 FRAUDULENTLY AVOIDING PAYMENT OF ADMISSION FEES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person fraudulently to enter, without payment
of the proper admission fee, any theater, ballroom, lecture, concert, or other
place where admission fees are charged; provided, however, that nothing herein
contained shall be deemed to prohibit or restrict the free admission of police
officers engaged in the performance of police duties to any place of public
entertainment or amusement.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-19) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.05 FURNISHING WEAPONS AND OTHER ARTICLES TO PRISONERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to furnish or attempt to furnish or take
into jail or to deliver or attempt to deliver to any prisoner therein confined,
or in the custody of any officer, any weapon, tool, intoxicating liquors, drug,
or other article without the consent of the officer in charge.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-20) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.06 GIVING ASSISTANCE TO POLICE OFFICERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any citizen over the age of 18 years to refuse or
neglect to render assistance to any police officer when called upon for such
assistance or aid in the suppression of riot or other unlawful assemblage or in
the arrest of any person who has committed an offense.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-23) (Ord. 328, passed 3-10-1997) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.07 RESISTING AN OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere willfully with, resist,
delay, obstruct, molest, or threaten to molest any officer of the municipality
in the exercise of his or her official duties.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-39) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 134: SEX OFFENSES
Section
   
134.01   Distribution of obscene literature
   
134.02   House of prostitution
   
134.03   Indecent exposure
   
134.04   Obscene conduct
   
134.05   Prostitution
§ 134.01 DISTRIBUTION OF OBSCENE LITERATURE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to exhibit, pass, or deliver to another
any obscene, lewd, or indecent book, pamphlet, picture, card, print, paper,
writing, mold, cast, or figure, or to have same in his or her possession.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.02 HOUSE OF PROSTITUTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or assist in the keeping of a
house of ill fame or prostitution, or knowingly to reside therein or knowingly
to rent, lease, or permit any person to occupy any house or room owned, leased,
or controlled by him or her for this purpose.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-24) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.03 INDECENT EXPOSURE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to appear in a state of nudity, or in
any indecent or lewd dress or condition in any public place, or in any such
place to make any indecent exposure of his or her person or private parts
thereof or the private parts of another, or to conduct himself or herself in a
lewd or lascivious manner or to appear in any such place in dress not belonging
to his or her sex.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-26) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.04 OBSCENE CONDUCT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to urinate or stool in any place open to
the public view, or to be guilty of any lewd, lascivious, or obscene conduct,
or to sing any lewd or obscene song, ballad, or other words in any public place
or any other place where other persons are present or indecently to exhibit any
animal.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-35) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.05 PROSTITUTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to pursue or advertise in any manner his
or her vocation as a prostitute or for any person to advertise the profession
of a prostitute or solicit for a prostitute.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-36) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 135: WEAPONS OFFENSES
Section
Air Guns, Firearms
   
135.01   Definitions
   
135.02   Discharge of firearms prohibited
   
135.03   Exceptions; permits
AIR GUNS, FIREARMS
§ 135.01 DEFINITIONS.
   Wherever the term FIREARMS is used in this subchapter, the term shall mean
any instrument used in the propulsion of shot, shell, or bullets or other
harmful objects by the action of gunpowder exploded within it, or by the action
of compressed air, propane, acetylene, or other explosive gas or similar
substance within it, or by the power of springs and including what are commonly
known as air rifles, BB guns, and potato guns.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-1) (Ord. 315, passed 1-20-1996)
§ 135.02 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge a firearm within the limits
of the municipality; provided, however, that this shall not apply to:
   (A)   A person discharging a firearm in the lawful defense of person or
persons or property; or
   (B)   A person lawfully discharging a firearm on a sport shooting range as
defined in Idaho Code § 55-2604.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-3) (Ord. 2015-03, passed 6-24-2015) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 135.03 EXCEPTIONS; PERMITS.
   The Council may, at any time, upon receipt of proper application, grant
permits to shooting galleries, gun clubs, and others for shooting in fixed
localities and under specified rules. Such permits shall be in writing attested
by the Clerk conforming to such requirements as the Council shall demand, and
the permit thus issued shall be subject to revocation at any time by action of
the Council.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-4)
CHAPTER 136: DRUG OFFENSES
Section
   
136.01   Beer; procuring or selling to minors
   
136.02   Drunkenness
   
136.03   Sale of cigarettes or tobacco to minors
§ 136.01 BEER; PROCURING OR SELLING TO MINORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to procure, sell, or give away any beer
to any person under the age of 21 years, or for any person under the age of 21
years to purchase, attempt to purchase, or otherwise procure, consume, or have
in his or her possession any beer.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-7) (Ord. 282, passed 12-17-1990) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 136.02 DRUNKENNESS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to be found drunk, intoxicated, or under
the influence of intoxicating liquor upon any public thoroughfare or other
public place.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-13) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 136.03 SALE OF CIGARETTES OR TOBACCO TO MINORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or give away, directly or
indirectly, to any person under the age of 18 years, any cigarettes, tobacco,
or any compounds of tobacco used in filling up or making up of a cigarette, or
to give or sell any cigarette papers to minors.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-41) (Ord. 328, passed 3-10-1997) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 137: OFFENSES BY MINORS
Section
General Provisions
   
137.01   Encouraging delinquency
Curfew
   
137.15   Prohibited hours for minors on streets
   
137.16   Responsibility of parents and guardians
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 137.01 ENCOURAGING DELINQUENCY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, by any act or neglect, to encourage,
aid, or cause a child to come within the purview of the juvenile authorities;
and it shall likewise be unlawful for any person, after notice that a driver’s
license of any child has been suspended or revoked, to permit such child to
operate a motor vehicle during the period that such driver’s license is
suspended.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
CURFEW
§ 137.15 PROHIBITED HOURS FOR MINORS ON STREETS.
   It is hereby declared to be a misdemeanor for any boy or girl under 16 years
of age to visit any public place or be on the streets, alleys, or public
grounds of the city between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m., unless such
minor be accompanied by a parent or guardian, or have written permission in his
or her possession from such parent or guardian to be abroad at such time;
provided, that any such written permission shall be only for a specific time
and date.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 137.16 RESPONSIBILITY OF PARENTS AND GUARDIANS.
   Any person having the custody of any MINOR, as defined in §
137.15, permitting, allowing, or abetting said minor to violate the provisions
of §
137.15, shall be deemed guilty of contributing to the delinquency of said
minor. The finding that said minor has violated said section shall be
presumptive proof of the contributing to the delinquency of said minor by said
person having the control of such minor.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   PUBLIC WAYS
      
151.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
152.   FLOOD CONTROL
      
153.   SIGNS
      
154.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
155.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: PUBLIC WAYS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Mailboxes
   
150.02   Public improvements standards
Sidewalks
   
150.15   Specifications
   
150.16   Property owner must construct sidewalks
   
150.17   Failure to comply
Snow Removal
   
150.30   Duty of owner or tenant
   
150.31   Notice to be given
   
150.32   Municipality removal
Trees and Shrubbery
   
150.45   Trees to be trimmed
   
150.46   Hedges and shrubbery
   
150.47   Injury to trees and/or shrubbery
   
150.48   Trees outside of property line
 
   
150.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 MAILBOXES.
   No person shall install or cause to be installed a mailbox on the State
Highway 8 right-of-way portion of Main Street located within the city limits.
(Prior Code, § 7-11-1) (Ord. 2012-02, passed 6-13-2012) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.02 PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS STANDARDS.
   The “City Of Troy Standard Construction Specifications For Public
Improvements, 1999,” published by the city, providing standards for
construction of streets, curbs, sidewalks, water and sewer systems, and storm
drainage systems, and providing for repair/replacement of unsafe public
walkways, is hereby adopted. Three copies of these standards shall be on file
with the City Clerk for public use. Future versions of these standards may be
adopted by resolution.
(Prior Code, § 7-8-1) (Ord. 99-1, passed 1-11-1999) Penalty, see §
150.99
SIDEWALKS
§ 150.15 SPECIFICATIONS.
   The material and method of constructing sidewalks shall conform in all
respects to the specifications adopted by the Council. These specifications
shall be on file in the Clerk’s office at all times.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-1) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.16 PROPERTY OWNER MUST CONSTRUCT SIDEWALKS.
   It shall be the duty of every property owner, upon notification by the
Council, to construct or repair sidewalks as such is prescribed in said notice.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-2) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.17 FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   If such property owner shall fail, after notification, to construct or
repair any sidewalk, the Council may order same constructed or repaired. The
costs of said work shall be assessed against the property owner for which said
sidewalk was constructed or repaired, and said cost shall become a lien upon
the property.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-3)
SNOW REMOVAL
§ 150.30 DUTY OF OWNER OR TENANT.
   It shall be the duty of the owner or tenant of any premises abutting or
adjoining any public sidewalk to remove all snow and/or ice from such sidewalk.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-1) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.31 NOTICE TO BE GIVEN.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the municipality to give notice to any owner
or tenant of any property to remove snow and/or ice, which notice shall be sent
by registered mail to the last known address of such owner, tenant, or
occupant.
   (B)   The owner or occupant shall have not more than 24 hours from and after
receipt of such notice, within which to remove the snow and/or ice as set forth
in said notice.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-2) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.32 MUNICIPALITY REMOVAL.
   (A)   Upon failure of an owner or tenant to comply with the provisions of
this subchapter, the municipality shall have the right to remove such snow and/
or ice and assess the cost thereof against the premises abutting the sidewalk.
   (B)   Such assessment to be certified to the County Assessor or other proper
county official having charge of the making of the assessment roll and such
charge shall be placed on the assessment roll and collected in the same manner
as other municipal taxes are collected.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-3)
TREES AND SHRUBBERY
§ 150.45 TREES TO BE TRIMMED.
   Any owner or occupant of any real property shall trim all trees on property
owned or occupied by him or her, overhanging any public thoroughfare, so that
the branches thereon will not interfere with pedestrians or public travel.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-1) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.46 HEDGES AND SHRUBBERY.
   Any owner or occupant of any real property shall maintain all hedges and
shrubbery adjacent to public sidewalks so that no part of said hedges and/or
shrubbery shall extend over any part of a public sidewalk in the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-2) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.47 INJURY TO TREES AND/OR SHRUBBERY.
   It is hereby declared unlawful for any person, not the owner thereof, or
without lawful authority so to do, wilfully to injure, deface, disfigure, or
destroy any tree or shrub, or to injure, destroy, cut, or pick any flower or
plant, located either on private ground or on any public place or thoroughfare.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-3) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.48 TREES OUTSIDE OF PROPERTY LINE.
   The Council is hereby provided full and complete control over all trees
which are outside of the property lines of privately owned real property.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-4)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person installing or causing to be installed a mailbox on the
State Highway 8 portion of Main Street located within the city limits in
violation of §
150.01 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine
not to exceed $300, or by imprisonment not to exceed six months, or by both
such a fine and imprisonment. The City Council shall set the fine for this
violation by resolution of the Council. Further, the city shall have the
authority to remove any mailbox installed in violation of §
150.01.
(Prior Code, § 7-11-2)
   (C)   Violation of the standards adopted in §
150.02 shall be a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of up to $300, or by
incarceration in the county jail for a period not to exceed 30 days, or by both
such fine and imprisonment.
(Prior Code, § 7-8-2)
(Ord. 99-1, passed 1-11-1999; Ord. 2012-02, passed 6-13-2012)
CHAPTER 151: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
151.001   Adoption of Plumbing Code
   
151.002   Adoption of National Electric Code
Building Codes and Regulations
   
151.015   Codes adopted
   
151.016   Filing of codes
   
151.017   Amendments to adopted codes
   
151.018   Manufactured housing and buildings
   
151.019   Permits contrary to law
   
151.020   Enforcement
Building Relocation
   
151.035   Purpose and scope
   
151.036   Definitions
   
151.037   Relocation permit
   
151.038   Requirements for relocation
   
151.039   Plans required
   
151.040   Conditions of permit
   
151.041   Proposed route
   
151.042   Public utilities affected
   
151.043   Relocation bond
   
151.044   Conditions of bond
   
151.045   Default in performance of conditions; notice
   
151.046   Duty of surety and principal
   
151.047   Authority of the Building Official in the event of default
   
151.048   When building or structure may be demolished
   
151.049   Termination of bond
   
151.050   Right to enter premises
Trailer Houses
   
151.065   Definition
   
151.066   Prohibited within fire limits
   
151.067   Permit required
   
151.068   Application for permit
   
151.069   Clerk to issue permit; time limit
   
151.070   Permit not renewable
   
151.071   Toilet facilities; requirements
   
151.072   Creating fire hazard prohibited
   
151.073   Revocation of permits
   
151.074   Application for revocation of permits
   
151.075   Duties of police
   
151.076   Commercial parks excepted
Manufactured Housing and Mobile Homes
   
151.090   Application of regulations
   
151.091   Placement on individual residential lots
   
151.092   Single-wide mobile and manufactured homes
   
151.093   Mobile home parks
   
151.094   Permits, fees required
   
151.095   Repair and remodeling
   
151.096   Appeals
 
   
151.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.001 ADOPTION OF PLUMBING CODE.
   There is hereby adopted for the purpose of establishing minimum standards of
design, materials, and workmanship for all plumbing hereafter installed,
altered, or repaired and to establish methods of procedure within the limits of
this municipality that certain plumbing code known as the National Plumbing
Code, published by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, being
particularly the 1967 Copyright Edition thereof, and the whole thereof of which
not less than three copies have been and now are filed in the office of the
City Clerk, and the same is hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as if set
out at length herein, and from the date on which this section shall take
effect, the provision thereof shall be controlling in the installation,
alteration, or repairing of plumbing.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-1)
§ 151.002 ADOPTION OF NATIONAL ELECTRIC CODE.
   All electric wiring, installation of electrical fixtures, apparatus, or
electrical appliances for furnishing light, heat, or power, or other electrical
work introduced into or placed in or upon, or in any way connected on, any
building or structure within the limits of this municipality shall be in
conformity with the provisions set forth in the 1967 National Electric Code,
standard of the National Board of Fire Underwriters for Electrical Wiring and
Apparatus, as recommended by the National Fire Protection Association, which is
hereby adopted as the electrical code of this municipality, three copies of the
above adopted code being on file in the office of the City Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-1)
BUILDING CODES AND REGULATIONS
§ 151.015 CODES ADOPTED.
   (A)   The International Building Code, 2015 Edition; the International
Residential Code, 2012 edition, parts I through VI and IX; the American
National Standard Accessible and Usable Buildings and Facilities, ICC/ANSI
A117.1, 2003 Edition; the International Mechanical Code, 2012 Edition; the
International Fuel Gas Code, 2012 Edition; the International Energy
Conservation Code, 2015 Edition; the International Existing Building Code, 2015
Edition; the International Property Maintenance Code, 2012 Edition; IDAPA
07.03.01 and 07.07.01; excluding all appendices thereto except as herein
enumerated, are hereby adopted by the city for the regulation of the erection,
construction, enlargement, alteration, repair, moving, conversion, occupancy,
use, height, area, and maintenance of all buildings and structures in the city,
including installation of manufactured homes in accordance with the provisions
of Idaho Code Title 44, Chapter 22. These codes and regulations are hereby
adopted by reference and shall be the City Building Code.
   (B)   The following appendices to the International Building Code, 2015
Edition, are specifically adopted: Appendix C, Agricultural Buildings; Appendix
E, Supplementary Accessibility Requirements; Appendix F, Rodent Proofing;
Appendix G, Flood Resistant Construction; Appendix H, Signs; Appendix I, Patio
Covers; and Appendix J, Grading.
   (C)   The following appendices to the International Residential Code, 2012
Edition, are specifically adopted: Appendix A, Sizing and Capacities of Fuel
Gas Piping; Appendix B, Sizing of Venting Systems Serving Appliances With Draft
Hoods, Category I Appliances, and Appliances Listed for Use and Type B Vents;
Appendix C, Exit Terminals of Mechanical Draft and Direct-Vent Venting Systems;
Appendix D, Recommended Procedure for Safety Inspection of an Existing
Appliance Installation; Appendix G, Swimming Pools, Spas and Hot Tubs; Appendix
J, Existing Buildings and Structures; Appendix M, Home Day Care - R-
3 Occupancy.
   (D)   The following appendices to the International Existing Building Code,
2015 Edition, are specifically adopted: Appendix A-1, Seismic Strengthening
Provisions for Unreinforced Masonry Bearing Wall Buildings; Appendix A-2,
Earthquake Hazard Reduction in Existing Reinforced Concrete and Reinforced
Masonry Wall Buildings With Flexible Diaphragms; Appendix B, Supplementary
Accessibility Requirements for Existing Buildings and Facilities; and Resource
A, Guideline On Fire Ratings of Archaic Materials and Assemblies.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1) (Ord. 2019-01, passed 11-14-2018)
§ 151.016 FILING OF CODES.
   The codes, as adopted in this subchapter, shall be designated as the City
Building Code. One copy of each code shall be available for inspection at the
County Building Department, at the Latah County Courthouse, Moscow, Idaho.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-2) (Ord. 2019-01, passed 11-14-2018)
§ 151.017 AMENDMENTS TO ADOPTED CODES.
   (A)   International Building, Residential, Existing Building, Energy
Conservation, and Property Maintenance Codes:
      (1)   Section [A]105.2 of the International Building Code, 2015 Edition,
§ R105.2 of the International Residential Code, 2012 Edition, and § 105.2 of
the International Existing Building Code, 2015 Edition, are hereby amended as
follows:
 
105.2 [R105.2] [105.2] Work exempt from permit
15. [12.] [8.] Freestanding solar collectors not greater than 200 square feet
and no higher than ten feet above grade.
16. [13.] [9.] Commercially available membrane structures erected according to
the manufacturer’s instructions intended to provide weather protection for
automobiles and recreational vehicles.
 
      (2)   Section 105.3 of the International Building Code, 2015 Edition, and
§ R105.3 of the International Residential Code, 2012 Edition, are hereby
amended as follows:
 
105.3 [R105.3] Application for permit. To obtain a permit, the applicant shall
first file an application therefor in writing on a form furnished by the
Department of Building for what purpose. Such application shall:
6. Be signed by the applicant/owner. When allowed by office policy, the
applicant’s authorized agent or contractor may sign the application with
permission of the property owner.
8. For structures that have electrical, the electrical permit number. For
structures that have plumbing, the plumbing permit number, when available. If
not available at the time of application, these numbers shall be provided to
the city as soon as they are acquired.
 
      (3)   Section 105.5 of the International Building Code, 2015 Edition, and
§ R105.5 of the International Residential Code, 2012 Edition, are hereby
amended as follows:
 
105.5 [R105.5] Expiration. Every permit issued shall become invalid unless the
work authorized by such permit is commenced within 180 days after its issuance,
or if the work authorized by such permit is suspended or abandoned for a period
of 180 days after the time the work is commenced. The Building Official is
authorized to grant, in writing, not more than four extensions of time, for
periods not more than 180 days each. The extension shall be requested in
writing and justifiable cause demonstrated. Each subsequent extension after the
first shall not be issued until the fee as shown in Appendix A on file in the
city has been paid.
Renewal. When a permit has expired or is going to expire, a renewal permit must
be obtained. No work can be recommenced on an expired project until the time a
renewal permit has been issued. The fees for such renewal permits are specified
in Appendix A on file in the city. All subsequent work, which was not
previously approved, shall adhere to the most current adopted code.
 
      (4)   Section 109 of the International Building Code, 2015 Edition, and §
R108 of the International Residential Code, 2012 Edition, are hereby amended as
follows:
 
109.3 [R108.3] Building permit valuations. Valuations are set in Appendix A on
file in the city. When valuation data for certain projects is not available in
Appendix A, the Building Official shall determine a valuation in accordance with
the policy established in Appendix A. The corresponding fee shall be paid.
109.6.1 [R108.5.1] Plan Review Fees. When submittal documents are required by §
107 [R106], a plan review fee shall be paid. Said plan review fee shall be as
shown in Appendix A, on file in the city. A non-refundable fee deposit, in an
amount set forth in Appendix A, for commencement of the plan review, shall be
paid for projects exceeding $30,000 in valuation.
The plan review fees specified in this section are separate fees from the permit
fees specified in § 109 [R108] and are in addition to the permit fees. Any
balance after deducting the plan review fee from the deposit shall be credited
to the amount due for the permit fee, or any amount owing after the deduction of
the deposit from the full plan review fee shall be added to the amount due for
the permit fee. Regardless of circumstance, plan review fees shall not be
reduced or waived.
109.4 [R108.6] Work commencing before permit issuance. Any person who commences
work requiring a permit on a building, structure, gas, or mechanical system
before obtaining the necessary permits, where any enforcement action has begun,
shall be subject to a fee, as set forth in Appendix A on file in the city, that
shall be in addition to the required permit fees.
109.6 [R108.5] Refunds. Prior to plan review and permit issuance, 80% of any
fees paid shall be refunded if the application is withdrawn prior to
commencement of the project. Plan review fees are not refundable after the plan
review has been performed, however, 80% of any permit fees paid shall be
refunded if the application is withdrawn prior to commencement of the project.
No refunds shall be made after commencement of any work on the project.
 
      (5)   Section 113 of the International Building Code, 2015 Edition, and §
R112 of the International Residential Code, 2012 Edition, and § 112 of the
International Existing Building Code, 2015 Edition, and § C109 of the
International Energy Conservation Code, 2015 Edition, are hereby amended as
follows; and that all of the subsections of § 111, Means of Appeal, in the
International Property Maintenance Code, 2012 Edition, are hereby deleted and
replaced as follows:
 
113.1 [R112.1] [112.1] [111.1] [C109.1] General. In order to hear and decide
appeals of orders, decisions, or determinations made by the Building Official
relative to the application and interpretation of this code, there shall be and
is hereby created a Board of Appeals. The Building Official shall be an ex
officio member of said Board but shall have no vote on any matter before the
Board. This Board shall have three members, not including the Building
Official. The Board of Appeals shall be appointed by the City Council and shall
hold office at its pleasure. A member of the Board of Appeals shall act as
Secretary and shall take minutes of the proceedings. The Board of Appeals shall
conform to the City Hearing Procedures Ordinance, and shall render all
decisions and findings in writing to the appellant with a duplicate copy to the
Building Official.
113.2 [R112.2] [112.2] [111.2] [C109.2] Limitations on authority. An
application for appeal shall be based on a claim that the true intent of this
code or the rules legally adopted thereunder have been incorrectly interpreted,
the provisions of this code do not fully apply, or an equally good or better
form of construction is proposed.
Any affected person may file an appeal from any notice or action of the
Building Official. A fee, as specified in Appendix A on file in the city, and
written appeal describing the specific issues being appealed must be submitted
to the City Clerk, within 15 days of the date of the notice or action of the
Building Official. After receiving the written appeal, the Board of Appeals
shall be appointed within 30 days and shall fix a date, time, and place for
hearing the appeal. The Board of Appeals shall hear the appeal within 45 days
after the appointment by the City Council. Written notice of the time and place
of the hearing shall be given at least 15 days prior to the date of the hearing
to each appellant and to the Building Official. The Board of Appeals must
render a decision within 30 days of the hearing of such appeal. Every decision
of the Board of Appeals must be based upon findings of fact, and every finding
must be supported in the record of the proceedings of the Board of Appeals.
The Board of Appeals shall have no authority to waive any requirement of this
code.
111.3 [C109.3] Qualifications. The Board of Appeals shall consist of members
who are qualified by experience and training to pass on matters pertaining to
building construction and property maintenance and are not employees of the
jurisdiction.
R112.2.1 Determination of substantial improvement in areas prone to flooding.
DELETED.
R112.2.2 Criteria for issuance of a variance for areas prone to flooding.
DELETED.
 
      (6)   Section 112.4 Failure to comply, of the International Property
Maintenance Code, 2012 Edition, shall be amended as follows:
 
112.4 Failure to comply. Any person who shall continue any work after having
been served with a stop work order, except such work as that person is directed
to perform to remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall be liable to a fine
of not less than $300 for each day the work continues.
 
   (B)   International Residential Code:
      (1)   Section R202 Definitions, of the International Residential Code,
2012 Edition, shall be amended as follows:
 
Structure. That which is built or constructed, including roll-off containers,
shipping containers, or similar items.
 
      (2)   Table R301.2(1), Climatic and Geographic Design Criteria, of the
International Residential Code, 2012 Edition, shall be completed as follows:
Ground snow load: 86 PSF
Roof snow load: 60 PSF
Wind speed: 90 mph IRC; IBC 115 mph or design using 1609 IBC or Chapter 26-30
ASCE 7
Seismic Design Category: B
Subject to damage from weathering: Severe
Subject to damage from frost line depth: Frost depth 30 inches
Subject to damage from termite: Slight to moderate
Subject to damage from decay: None to slight
Winter design temp: 10°F
Ice shield underlayment required: Yes
Flood hazards: Date of entry into the National Flood Insurance Program, 12-1979
Date of current Flood Insurance Rate Map Index: 12/18/1979, Panel #1600910001B
Air freezing index: 1500 or less
Mean annual temperature: 47.3°F
 
      (3)   Section R302 of the International Residential Code, 2012 Edition,
shall be amended as follows:
 
R302.6 Separation required. The garage shall be separated from the residence
and its attic area by not less than five-eighths of an inch (15.9 mm) Type X
gypsum board or equivalent applied to the garage side. Where the separation is
a floor-ceiling assembly, the structure supporting the separation shall also be
protected by not less than five-eighths of an inch (15.9 mm) Type X gypsum
board or equivalent. Garages located less than three feet (914 mm) from a
dwelling unit shall be protected with not less than five-eighths of an inch
(15.9 mm) Type X gypsum board applied to the interior side of exterior walls
and ceilings. Openings in these walls shall be regulated by § R302.5.1.
R302.7 Under-stair protection. Enclosed accessible space under stairs shall
have walls, under-stair surface, and any soffits protected on the enclosed side
with five-eighths of an inch Type X gypsum board.
 
      (4)   Section R303.3 of the International Residential Code, 2012 Edition,
shall be amended as follows:
 
R303.3 Bathrooms and kitchens. Bathrooms and kitchens shall be provided with
mechanical exhaust and shall be designed to exhaust the minimum air flow rate
as set forth in Table M1507.4
 
      (5)   Section R304 of the International Residential Code, 2012 Edition,
shall be amended as follows:
 
R304.5 Minimum area of a dwelling unit. A dwelling unit shall have a living
room area of not less than 220 square feet of floor area. An additional 100
square feet shall be provided for each occupant of such unit in excess of two.
The units shall be provided with a separate bathroom containing a water closet,
lavatory, and bathtub or shower with a minimum floor area of 35 square feet.
Regardless of square footage, all dwelling units less than 400 square feet
shall be placed on a permanent foundation and meet the requirements of the
relevant code standards to be considered permanent. If small dwellings are not
considered permanent, they are considered temporary and are subject to §
151.018(D) of the City Code.
 
      (6)   Section R403 of the International Residential Code, 2012 Edition,
shall be amended as follows:
 
R403.1.1 Minimum size. Minimum sizes for concrete and masonry footings shall be
as set forth in Table R403.1 and Figure R403.1(1). The footing width, W, for
light frame construction shall be 16-foot for one- and two-story with soil
bearing value of 1,500 PSF, and 23-foot for three-story with soil bearing value
of 1,500 PSF. Spread footings shall be a minimum of eight inches (200 mm) in
thickness, or thicker where required by design loads. Footing projections, P,
shall be at least two inches (51 mm), and shall not exceed the thickness of the
footing.
The size of footings supporting piers and columns shall be based on the
tributary load and allowable soil pressure in accordance with Table R401.4.1.
Footings for wood foundations shall be in accordance with the details set forth
in § R403.2, and Figures R403.1(2) and 403.1(3).
All footings shall have a minimum of two No. 4 (one-half inch) or larger
reinforcement rods laid continuously in the footing. Lap splices shall be a
minimum of 40 bar diameters.
 
      (7)   Section R404.1.1 of the International Residential Code, 2012
Edition, shall be amended as follows:
 
R404.1.1 Masonry foundation walls. Minimum width shall be eight inches. Masonry
basement walls shall be grouted solid below grade and at rebar above grade.
Masonry foundation walls shall be constructed as follows: walls up to 48 inches
in height from the top of the footing shall have a horizontal bond beam of #4
rebar placed at the top course of block. A vertical #4 rebar shall be required
at each corner and a minimum of four-foot intervals. Walls over 48 inches in
height shall have one horizontal #4 rebar placed at top course. A vertical #4
rebar shall be required at each corner and a maximum of 32-inch intervals. A
horizontal #4 rebar shall also be required at any course securing anchor bolts
which fasten rim joists or beams to wall. Masonry over openings shall be
supported in accordance with the details set forth in § R606.10. Foundation
walls in excess of ten feet in height or retaining walls in excess of eight
feet of unbalanced backfill shall be engineered.
 
      (8)   Section R404.1.2 of the International Residential Code, 2012
Edition, shall be amended as follows:
 
R404.1.2 Concrete foundation walls. Concrete foundation walls shall be
constructed as follows: for walls less than 48 inches in height from the top of
the footing, horizontal rebar, #4, shall be spaced at intervals of a maximum of
18 inches and vertical rebar, #4, shall be spaced at intervals of a maximum of
48 inches. For walls more than 48 inches in height from the top of the footing,
horizontal and vertical rebar, #4, shall be spaced at intervals of a maximum of
18 inches. The horizontal rebar shall be placed not greater than nine inches
from the top of the wall. Openings up to six feet in concrete walls shall have
a lintel above with two #5 rebar or equivalent on the top and bottom, extending
two feet past the opening on either side and within one and one-half to three
inches of the opening. Openings greater than six feet shall be engineered. The
minimum thickness shall be eight inches for walls which support two or three
stories above grade and all basement walls. Foundation walls in excess of ten
feet in height or retaining walls in excess of eight feet of unbalanced
backfill shall be engineered.
 
      (9)   Section R405.1 of the International Residential Code, 2012 Edition,
shall be amended as follows:
 
R405.1 Concrete or masonry foundations. Drains shall be provided around all
concrete or masonry foundations that retain earth and enclose habitable or
accessible spaces located below grade.
 
      (10)   Section G2401(201) of the International Residential Code, 2012
Edition, is hereby amended as follows:
 
G2402(201.4) Alternate allowable installation. Property owners shall be allowed
to install gas piping provided the gas piping design and sizing is provided by
a licensed plumbing or electrical contractor or a licensed plumbing or
mechanical journeyman prior to permit issuance.
 
      (11)   Section G2427.4.1 of the International Residential Code, 2012
Edition, shall be amended as follows:
 
G2427.4.1.1(1). All plastic pipe located within a structure used for venting
flue gases shall be tested at five psi for 15 minutes’ duration.
 
   (C)   International Mechanical and Fuel Gas Codes:
      (1)   Section 106.5.2 of the International Mechanical Code, 2012 Edition,
and 106.6.2 of the International Fuel Gas Code, 2012 Edition, are hereby
amended as follows:
 
106.5.2 [106.6.2 IFGC] Permit fees. The fees for each permit shall be as set
forth in Appendix A on file in the city. Mechanical fees for new residences
shall be considered to be included in the building permit fee for the new
residence, and no separate mechanical permit shall be issued. All other
mechanical installations shall require a separate permit with attendant fees to
be issued.
106.5.3 [106.6.3 IFGC] Fee refunds.
2. Not more than 80% of the permit fee paid shall be refunded when no work has
been done under a permit issued in accordance with this code.
3. Not more than 80% of the plan review fee paid shall be refunded when an
application for a permit for which a plan review fee has been paid is withdrawn
or canceled before any plan review effort has been expended.
 
      (2)   Section 108 of the International Mechanical Code, 2012 Edition, and
the International Fuel Gas Code, 2012 Edition, are hereby amended as follows:
 
108.4 Violation penalties. Any person who wilfully violates any provision of
this chapter or who wilfully violates any provisions of the codes enumerated in
this chapter or rules promulgated by the Administrator or the Board pursuant to
this chapter or erect, install, alter, or repair work in violation of the
approved construction documents or directive of the Code Official, or of a
permit or certificate issued under the provision of this code, is guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be fined not more than $300, or
imprisoned for not more than 90 days or by both fine and imprisonment.
Violations of this chapter shall be tried in any court of competent
jurisdiction within the state. A separate violation is deemed to have occurred
with respect to each item not in compliance with this chapter. Each day such
violation continues constitutes a separate offense.
 
      (3)   Section 109 of the International Mechanical Code, 2012 Edition, and
the International Fuel Gas Code, 2012 Edition, are hereby amended as follows:
109.1 Application for appeal. An application for appeal shall be based on a
claim that the true intent of this code or the rules legally adopted thereunder
have been incorrectly interpreted, the provisions of this code do not fully
apply, or an equally good or better form of construction is proposed.
Any affected person may file an appeal from any notice or action of the
Building Official. A fee as specified in Appendix A on file in the city and
written appeal describing the specific issues being appealed must be submitted
to the City Clerk within 15 days of the date of the notice or action of the
Building Official. After receiving the written appeal, the Board of Appeals
shall be appointed within 30 days and shall fix a date, time, and place for
hearing the appeal. The Board of Appeals shall hear the appeal within 45 days
after the appointment by the City Council. Written notice of the time and place
of the hearing shall be given at least 15 days prior to the date of the hearing
to each appellant and to the Building Official.
The Board of Appeals must render a decision within 30 days of the hearing of
such appeal. Every decision of the Board of Appeals must be based upon findings
of fact and every finding must be supported in the record of the proceedings of
the Board of Appeals.
The Board of Appeals shall have no authority to waive requirement of this code.
109.2 Membership of Board. DELETED.
109.2.1 Qualifications. In order to hear and decide appeals of orders,
decisions, or determinations made by the Building Official relative to the
application and interpretation of this code, there shall be and is hereby
created a Board of Appeals. The Building Official shall be an ex officio member
of said Board but shall have no vote on any matter before the Board. This Board
shall have no vote on any matter before the Board. This Board shall have three
members, not including the Building Official. The Board of Appeals shall be
appointed by the City Council and shall hold office at its pleasure. A member
of the Board of Appeals shall act as Secretary and shall take minutes of the
proceedings.
The Board of Appeals shall conform to the city hearing procedures ordinance,
and shall render all decisions and findings in writing to the appellant with a
duplicate copy to the Building Official. The Board of Appeals shall consist of
members who are qualified by experience and training to pass on matters
pertaining to building construction and are not employees of the jurisdiction.
109.2.2 Alternate members. DELETED.
109.2.3 Chairman. DELETED.
109.2.5 Secretary. DELETED.
109.3 Notice of meeting. DELETED.
109.4.1 Procedure. DELETED.
109.5 Postponed hearing. DELETED.
109.6 Board decision. DELETED.
109.6.1 Resolution. DELETED.
 
(Prior Code, § 2-1-3) (Ord. 2019-01, passed 11-14-2018)
§ 151.018 MANUFACTURED HOUSING AND BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Installation permits.
      (1)   In order for any manufactured building as defined by Idaho Code to
be installed, (including manufactured housing, as regulated by this section)
within the incorporated areas of the city, a valid installation permit must be
issued by the city for the specific building and site. All applications for
installation permits shall be issued by the Building Official upon compliance
by the applicant with the provisions of this subchapter and any regulation
adopted pursuant thereto, any other state or local regulation pursuant thereto,
and any other applicable legal requirements.
      (2)   To qualify for an installation permit, all manufactured buildings
must comply with the requirements of Idaho Code Title 39, Chapters 40 and 41,
Title 44, Chapter 21, 22, and 25, and any rules and regulations promulgated
thereunder.
      (3)   Permits for manufactured buildings not in compliance with Idaho
Code Title 39, Chapter 40 and 41, Title 44, Chapters 21, 22, and 25, and any
rules and regulations promulgated thereunder shall not be valid.
      (4)   Manufactured homes placed in the city limits shall meet the same
requirements as other structures with regards to snow loads and are not exempt
from these requirements.
   (B)   Site and unit requirements. When applying for a manufactured housing
installation permit, the following conditions must be met before an
installation permit will be issued.
      (1)   A building site which meets all applicable requirements of this
subchapter and the criteria set forth in all city ordinances shall be
designated.
      (2)   All setback, height, and lot size requirements of the zone and all
criteria set forth in all city ordinances shall be met. If the building site is
an approved space within a manufactured housing development, the manufactured
home park development plans for setbacks shall prevail along with the setback
and separation distances for structures contained in the building codes
referenced in this subchapter.
      (3)   Permits shall be issued only for those manufactured housing units
meeting all of the specifications and minimum health and safety standards for
plumbing, heating, electrical, and frame and body design established pursuant
to Idaho Code Title 39, Chapter 40 and 41. Furthermore, all manufactured
housing units shall meet state installation standards in Idaho Code Title 44,
Chapter 22. All manufactured housing units shall bear an insignia of approval
of the state in which the manufactured home was built.
      (4)   Exterior electrical and plumbing connections shall be approved by
the agency having jurisdiction.
   (C)   Application. Applications for installation permits shall be in
writing, signed by the applicant, and shall contain the following:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant, and the name, address,
license number, and signature of the contractor and licensed installer;
      (2)   The signature of the owner, when the applicant is not the land
owner, and the location of the proposed installation site by lot, block, tract,
street address, or similar description that will readily identify and
specifically located the proposed installation;
      (3)   The proposed use of the building;
      (4)   A site plan or plot plan showing:
         (a)   The area and dimensions of the building site and proposed
location of the building;
         (b)   The number, location, and size of any and all existing buildings
and structures, and the distance from those buildings; and
         (c)   Two sets of plans and specifications of all buildings, and other
improvements, if required by the Building Official.
      (5)   The zoning designation; and
      (6)   Additional information as may be requested by the Building Official
to determine whether the proposed installation will comply with legal
requirements.
   (D)   Permanent living quarters. Nothing within this section shall be
construed to allow a camping trailer, licensed vehicle, or trailer, tent, yurt,
recreational vehicle (including park models), or any other vehicle, accessory
structure, or item as a permanent dwelling.
   (E)   Fee. The installation permit application shall be accompanied by such
fee as indicated in Appendix A, on file in the city.
   (F)   General installation provisions.
      (1)   Building inspection requirements. Prior to the occupancy of any
manufactured housing unit in the city, the Building Official shall inspect such
manufactured housing unit and certify that its occupancy for permanent living
quarters will not violate any laws, provisions, ordinance, or regulation of the
city or the state, and a certificate of occupancy must be issued by the city.
Each manufactured housing unit shall be installed in such a manner as to
provide a safe, secure, well drained, and substantially level building, that
complies with the requirements for personal or real property for the support of
the maximum anticipated load during all seasons. Provision shall be made for
proper connection of utilities, including sewer drains. In addition, all
installations shall meet the minimum requirements as set forth in the state
approved installation instruction for the specific unit or model, or in the
current State Manufactured Home Installation Standard.
      (2)   Validity of permit. An installation permit shall be valid for 180
days. The certificate of occupancy shall be valid until removal of such
manufactured building from said property (see division (F)(4) below).
      (3)   Transfer of permit. An installation permit shall not be
transferable from one location to another. The certificate of occupancy shall
be transferable from one person to another so long as the manufactured building
is not moved or structurally altered without a permit.
      (4)   Replacement. When any manufactured housing unit for which an
installation permit or a certificate of occupancy has or has not been issued is
replaced at the same site, a new installation permit and certificate of
occupancy must be obtained.
   (G)   After installation of manufactured buildings. Following installation
of a manufactured building, building permits shall be required for all further
building improvements. In addition, any further improvements shall meet the
requirements set forth in this subchapter.
   (H)   Remodels or changes to interior of manufactured buildings. A building
permit is required and must be obtained for any remodel or change to the
interior of a manufactured building before any changes can be made.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-4) (Ord. 2019-01, passed 11-14-2018) Penalty, see
151.999
§ 151.019 PERMITS CONTRARY TO LAW.
   Any permit issued under authority of this subchapter for construction or any
use contrary to law or any other ordinance of the city shall be void.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-5) (Ord. 2019-01, passed 11-14-2018)
§ 151.020 ENFORCEMENT.
   The following are available to enforce compliance with the provisions of
this subchapter. Nothing herein shall prevent the City Council or any other
public official or private citizen from taking such other lawful action as is
necessary to prevent or correct any violation of this subchapter or of the
Idaho Code.
   (A)   Injunction. The city may obtain from a District Court having
jurisdiction an injunction enjoining the construction or installation of
buildings or structures on any building site upon affidavit of the city that
such building or structure does not conform to the requirements of this
subchapter. The affidavit must set forth such violations in detail. The
injunction may be made permanent, at the discretion of the court.
   (B)   Civil action. Notwithstanding any other remedies available, any
person, damaged as a result of a violation of this subchapter or the codes
enumerated herein or promulgated pursuant to this subchapter has a cause of
action in any court of competent jurisdiction against the person who committed
the violation, and if such damaged person prevails, they shall be entitled to
reasonable attorney’s fees to be determined by the court, together with court
costs.
   (C)   Withholding of permits. The city may withhold permits, including
building permits and certificates of occupancy, on lots or parcels of land
where a violation of any provision of this subchapter or other city regulation
exists, unless the permit being requested is to resolve the violation(s). The
city may also suspend issuance of permits, including building permits and
certificates of occupancy to applicants who have demonstrated a record of
unresolved noncompliance with provisions of this code. If a permit is withheld,
the city shall refer to the notice and order that details the violations or any
letter sent regarding the land use ordinance. If a notice and order or letter
of violation has not been issued, the Building Official, within 30 days of the
denial of a permit, shall issue a notice and order in accordance with division
(E) below; or in the case of a violation of a different city code, the city
shall issue a letter detailing the violations in accordance with the procedures
set out in said code.
   (D)   Recordation of noncompliance. Notwithstanding any other remedies
available, the city, through the Building Official, may, to ensure that future
owners of properties are put on notice of noncompliance, record with the County
Auditor any letter, document, or item that describes the matter of
noncompliance on a property. This may be done anytime after the issue of
noncompliance is discovered.
   (E)   Notice of noncompliant building or structure or other code violation.
      (1)   Commencement of proceedings. When the Building Official has
inspected or caused to be inspected any building or structure or property and
has found that such building or structure or property is noncompliant, or the
Building Official is unable to verify compliance because the required
inspections have not been requested and performed, the Building Official shall
commence proceedings to cause the repair or inspection of the building or
structure.
      (2)   Notice and order, and appeal process. The Building Official shall
issue a notice and order directed to the record owner of the building or
structure. The notice and order shall contain:
         (a)   The street address, if issued, and/or a legal description or
assessor’s parcel number sufficient for identification of the premises upon
which the building or structure is located;
         (b)   A statement that the Building Official has found the building or
structure to be noncompliant with a brief and concise description of the
conditions found to render the building or structure noncompliant under the
applicable provisions of the applicable code; and
         (c)   A statement of the action required to be taken as determined by
the Building Official and that any person having any record title or legal
interest in the building or structure may appeal from the notice and order or
any action of the Building Official to the Board of Appeals, in accordance with
§ 113 of the International Building Code, 2015 Edition, and § R112 of the
International Residential Code, 2012 Edition; and that failure to appeal will
constitute a waiver of all right to an administrative hearing and determination
of the matter.
      (3)   Service of notice and order. The notice and order shall be mailed
by regular mail, or by any other method of service or delivery at the
discretion of the Building Official, to the owner of the property as shown on
the tax record of the property. The failure of the Building Official to serve
any person having an interest in the property that is not shown on the tax
records of the county shall not invalidate any proceedings hereunder as to any
other person duly served or relieve any such person from any duty or obligation
imposed by the provisions of this section. The failure of any person to receive
notice as set out in this division (E)(3) shall not affect the validity of any
proceedings taken under this section. The failure of any such person to receive
such notice shall not affect the validity of any proceedings taken under this
section.
      (4)   Proof of service. The city and the Building Official shall keep a
copy of the notice and order sent with the records of the noncompliance for the
property.
      (5)   Recordation of noncompliance.
         (a)   If compliance is not had with the order within the time
specified therein, and no appeal has been properly and timely filed, the
Building Official shall file in the office of the County Recorder a certificate
describing the property and certifying:
            1.   The building or structure is noncompliant; and
            2.   The owner has been so notified.
         (b)   Whenever the corrections ordered shall thereafter have been
completed or the building demolished so that it no longer exists on the
property described in the certificate, the Building Official shall file a new
certificate with the County Recorder certifying that the building has been
demolished or all required corrections have been made so that the building is
no longer noncompliant, whichever is appropriate.
   (F)   Referral for further action. The Building Official shall notify the
City Attorney’s office of completion of any of the above divisions and, when
the City Attorney has not already taken action, refer the matter to the City
Attorney’s office for a determination of any further action.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-6) (Ord. 2019-01, passed 11-14-2018)
BUILDING RELOCATION
§ 151.035 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide minimum standards and
provisions for the safe relocation of buildings and structures within or to the
city, and to provide for performance bonding of said structures.
(Prior Code, § 2-7-1) (Ord. 251, passed 11-5-1984)
§ 151.036 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPROVED MOVING CONTRACTOR. A person, firm, or corporation which, upon
satisfactory proof of liability insurance coverage and qualifications, is
approved as a mover by the Building Official.
   MOVING PERMIT. An official document issued to an approved moving contractor
authorizing a structure to be relocated within, to or from the city.
   RELOCATION PERMIT. An official document issued to the owner of the structure
and/or his or her agent, authorizing certain work to be completed to the
structure and property, as determined by the Building Official.
(Prior Code, § 2-7-2) (Ord. 251, passed 11-5-1984)
§ 151.037 RELOCATION PERMIT.
   No person shall relocate any building or structure within the city from any
location inside or outside the city without first obtaining a permit to do so
from the Building Official. The procedure established by this subchapter shall
be observed except where it is clearly not applicable.
(Prior Code, § 2-7-3) (Ord. 251, passed 11-5-1984) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.038 REQUIREMENTS FOR RELOCATION.
   (A)   Any building relocated within the city limits shall have a final
appraised evaluation of not less than the average appraised evaluation of the
surrounding buildings, said appraised evaluation to be determined by the County
Assessor, or certified land appraiser.
   (B)   No permit shall be issued to relocate any building or structure which
is so constructed, or in such condition as to be dangerous or unsafe or which
if it is to be a dwelling, is unfit for human habitation, or which is
dilapidated or defective or in such a state of deterioration that its
relocation at the proposed site would create a safety or health hazard or other
condition prohibited by the ordinances of the city or laws of the state.
(Prior Code, § 2-7-4) (Ord. 251, passed 11-5-1984)
§ 151.039 PLANS REQUIRED.
   No such permit shall be issued until plans and specifications as required by
this code for all alterations, additions, changes, and repairs proposed to be
made to the building or structure when completed at its proposed location have
been filed with and approved by the Building Official. Nor shall such permit be
issued if the building or structure, when completed in accordance with such
plans, would violate any applicable ordinance or state statute.
(Prior Code, § 2-7-5) (Ord. 251, passed 11-5-1984)
§ 151.040 CONDITIONS OF PERMIT.
   Every relocation permit shall be conditioned upon the relocation of the
building or structure in accordance with the plans and specifications filed and
approved by the Building Official and compliance within such reasonable time
limits as the building official may specify for the several parts of the work
involved in the relocation.
(Prior Code, § 2-7-6) (Ord. 251, passed 11-5-1984)
§ 151.041 PROPOSED ROUTE.
   (A)   Before a moving permit is granted, the mover shall deliver to the city
proof of liability insurance in an amount sufficient to cover the cost of
actual moving and related expenses occurred, said amount to be determined and
approved by the Building Official, and to save and protect the city against any
loss or damages it may sustain arising out of or incident to the moving of the
building or structure.
   (B)   The applicant for a relocation permit shall, in all cases in which any
part of a public street is to be used in relocating a building or structure,
apply to the City Engineer for a separate permit for this use of the public
street, stating in writing the streets proposed to be used and the approximate
time schedule of the move along the proposed route. The City Engineer shall
have the proposed route examined and shall approve the same if he or she finds
that the proposed use of the streets can be made without causing permanent
damage to the pavements, fixtures, or street trees along the route and will not
unduly disrupt pedestrian and vehicular traffic.
   (C)   If required by the City Engineer, the applicant shall furnish a
guarantee bond on any workmanship or materials involved in removal and
replacement activities.
(Prior Code, § 2-7-7) (Ord. 251, passed 11-5-1984) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.042 PUBLIC UTILITIES AFFECTED.
   (A)   No moving permit shall be issued until the applicant shall present
written evidence from the city and each public utility whose property fixtures
or equipment will be affected, endangered, or disturbed by the proposed move
establishing that the applicant has made a sufficient deposit to pay or has
otherwise secured the payment of the estimated cost of the temporary removal
and replacement, restoration, or protection of such property, fixtures, and
equipment and the estimated expense of the Police Department and Public Works
Department of the city in connection with such move. Said notice shall be
served at least 24 hours before the proposed time of commencing the moving.
   (B)   Upon receipt of such notice, it shall be the duty of such public
service corporation to move, raise, or otherwise dispose of its wires or other
instrumentalities in such time and manner as will not cause delay to the holder
of the permit, all of which shall be done at the expense of the applicant.
   (C)   Before any building is moved over or on any public street, the Police
Department and the City Engineer shall be notified and they shall direct the
moving at a time and route designated by each Department.
(Prior Code, § 2-7-8) (Ord. 251, passed 11-5-1984) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.043 RELOCATION BOND.
   No relocation permit shall be issued except for private garages and other
minor accessory buildings unless the applicant therefor shall first post with
the Building Official a bond executed by the owner of the premises where the
building or structure is to be relocated as principal and by a surety company
authorized to do business in this state as surety. Such bond shall name the
city as obligee and shall be in an amount equal to the cost, plus 25% of the
work required to be done in order to remove the building or structure from its
present location and to relocate the same in its proposed location, together
with all proposed alteration, additions, changes, and repairs proposed to be
made, as indicated by the plans therefor, said cost to be estimated by the
Building Official. In lieu of a surety bond, the applicant may deposit a cash
bond in a similar amount and conditioned as required in the case of a surety
bond.
(Prior Code, § 2-7-9) (Ord. 251, passed 11-5-1984)
§ 151.044 CONDITIONS OF BOND.
   Every relocation bond shall be conditioned as follows.
   (A)   The building or structure shall be relocated in compliance with the
applicable ordinances of the city, in accordance with the plans and
specifications for such relocation, alterations, additions, changes, and
repairs as filed with the Building Official and in compliance with the
conditions of the relocation permit.
   (B)   All of the work required to be done pursuant to the conditions of the
relocation permit shall be fully performed and completed within the time limits
specified in the relocation permit. Any of said time limits may be extended for
good and sufficient cause by the Building Official, but no such extension shall
be valid unless in writing and such extension shall not release the surety of
the relocation bond.
(Prior Code, § 2-7-10) (Ord. 251, passed 11-5-1984)
§ 151.045 DEFAULT IN PERFORMANCE OF CONDITIONS; NOTICE.
   Whenever the Building Official shall find that a default has occurred in the
performance of any of the undertakings of the applicant for a relocation permit
in connection with the work contemplated thereby, or of the conditions of the
permit therefor, written notice thereof contemplated thereby, or of the
conditions of the permit therefor, written notice thereof shall be given to the
principal and to the surety of the bond. Such notice shall state the nature of
the default, and in case of work to be done, shall specify the work to be done,
and the period of time within which work must be completed. Failure to comply
with the notice of the Building Official shall constitute a default of the
undertaking of said cash or surety bond.
(Prior Code, § 2-7-11) (Ord. 251, passed 11-5-1984)
§ 151.046 DUTY OF SURETY AND PRINCIPAL.
   Upon receipt of such notice of default from the Building Official, the
surety must, within the time specified therein, correct such default and in the
case of work required to be performed, cause said work to be done within the
time specified in said notice and upon its failure to do so, must forthwith pay
to the city the face amount of its bond or $350.
(Prior Code, § 2-7-12) (Ord. 251, passed 11-5-1984)
§ 151.047 AUTHORITY OF THE BUILDING OFFICIAL IN THE EVENT OF DEFAULT.
   (A)   The Building Official shall, upon receipt by the city of the face
amount of said bond from said surety, or upon authorization by the Council,
proceed by such mode as he or she deems expedient to cause the required work to
be performed and completed by contract or otherwise. Upon the completion of
such work, the balance, if any, of the money shall be paid to the city by said
surety, after deducting the cost of the work, plus the city’s cost of overhead
and supervision. Neither the city nor the Building Official shall incur
liability other than for the expenditure of funds delivered to the city for
completion of the work.
   (B)   In case a cash bond has been filed and said notice has not been
complied with, the Building Official is authorized to use the cash deposit to
cause the required work to be done by contract or otherwise. The balance, if
any, of such cash deposit shall, upon completion of the work, be returned to
the permittee after deducting the cost of the work plus all costs incurred by
the city in connection therewith.
(Prior Code, § 2-7-13) (Ord. 251, passed 11-5-1984)
§ 151.048 WHEN BUILDING OR STRUCTURE MAY BE DEMOLISHED.
   When notice has been given and a default has occurred either on the part of
the principal or the surety, the Building Official shall have the option, in
lieu of completing the work required, to cause the building or structure to be
demolished and the site cleared, cleaned, and restored, the cost thereof to be
defrayed in the same manner as cost of completion of the building structure.
(Prior Code, § 2-7-14) (Ord. 251, passed 11-5-1984)
§ 151.049 TERMINATION OF BOND.
   (A)   The term of each relocation bond pursuant to the ordinance shall begin
upon the date of execution thereof and shall terminate upon the completion to
the satisfaction of the Building Official of the performance of all terms and
conditions of the relocation permit.
   (B)   Such completion shall be evidenced by a statement thereof signed by
the Building Official.
   (C)   When a cash bond has been posted, the amount thereof shall be returned
to the permittee upon termination of the bond.
(Prior Code, § 2-7-15) (Ord. 251, passed 11-5-1984)
§ 151.050 RIGHT TO ENTER PREMISES.
   (A)   In the event of any default in the performance of any term or
condition of the relocation permit or of the undertaking of the permittee in
connection with the relocation of the building structure, the surety or any
person employed or engaged in its behalf and the Building Official or any
person employed or engaged in his or her behalf or on behalf of the city, shall
have the right to go upon the premises to complete the required work or to
remove or demolish the building or structure, as the case may be.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the owner, his or her agents or any other
person, after default has occurred in the performance of the terms, conditions,
or undertaking of the permittee in connection with the relocation permit, to
interfere with or obstruct the ingress or egress to or from any such premises
of any authorized representative or agent of the surety or of the city engaged
in the work of completing, demolishing, or removing any building or structure
for which relocation permit has been issued.
(Prior Code, § 2-7-16) (Ord. 251, passed 11-5-1984) Penalty, see §
151.999
TRAILER HOUSES
§ 151.065 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition applies unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   TRAILER. Includes:
      (1)   All motor or other vehicles designed or adapted for use as
dwellings;
      (2)   All portable dwelling houses, whether the same be at any given time
mounted on wheels or not; and
      (3)   Any dwelling house, any single inside dimension of which is less
than eight feet.
(Prior Code, § 5-9-1)
§ 151.066 PROHIBITED WITHIN FIRE LIMITS.
   No person shall use any trailer as a dwelling house or for dwelling house
purposes, while such trailer is parked at any place on any street or alley of
the city or at any place within the fire limits of the city as the same may be
defined from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 5-9-2) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.067 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall use any trailer for dwelling purposes at any place within
the city unless such person has a permit therefor issued as provided
hereinafter.
(Prior Code, § 5-9-3) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.068 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   Any person desiring to live in a trailer within the city shall make
application to the Clerk for a permit so to do, setting forth in said
application his or her name, the names of all persons who will reside in such
trailer, a general description of the trailer sufficient to permit
identification of the same, the applicant’s automobile license number, the
location at which the applicant proposes to live in said trailer, the name of
the person owning, leasing, or managing such ground who gave permission to
applicant to park his or her trailer upon the proposed location, a description
of the toilet and sanitary facilities which will be available to applicant, and
such information as the Clerk may require. There shall be no fee for such
permit.
(Prior Code, § 5-9-4)
§ 151.069 CLERK TO ISSUE PERMIT; TIME LIMIT.
   Upon such application, the Clerk may, in his or her discretion, issue a
permit allowing such applicant and the persons named in the application to
reside in the trailer described in said application for a period not to exceed
60 days. Such permit shall be nontransferable.
(Prior Code, § 5-9-5)
§ 151.070 PERMIT NOT RENEWABLE.
   (A)   Such permits shall be nonrenewable, and no second permit may be issued
during any one calendar year to the same person, and no second permit may be
issued to any person during one calendar year for the use of the same trailer,
except that the Council may grant on special application in writing a permit
for an indefinite period if unusual hardship is shown by the issuance of an
ordinary permit, but a permit for an indefinite period shall only be issued
upon a showing that the trailer is used to house an aged, infirm, or ill member
of the immediate family of the owner of the parcel of land upon which said
trailer is situated and upon which the owner of said parcel of land himself or
herself resides; and such permit shall only remain in existence until the
termination of the condition which required the application for a special
permit due to hardship.
   (B)   It is further provided that in such event, the owner of the ground
upon which said trailer is situated shall not charge any rent for the space
occupied by said trailer, and shall only be permitted to keep said trailer on
said grounds during the time that said trailer is occupied by an aged, infirm,
or ill member of the immediate family of the owner of said land. It is further
provided that the Council shall have full discretionary powers concerning
requirements relative to location of a trailer on such premises and the
sanitation facilities. It is further provided, that the Council shall have the
power of revocation of said indefinite permit if upon proper investigation it
is determined that any of such requirements are not complied with, or if
conditions are found to be other than represented in the application for said
indefinite permit.
(Prior Code, § 5-9-6)
§ 151.071 TOILET FACILITIES; REQUIREMENTS.
   No permit shall be issued unless the applicant will, at his or her proposed
location, be provided with toilet facilities connected with the municipal sewer
system, if there is a sewer line within 300 feet of the proposed location of
the trailer and sewer connection is practicable, and if there is no sewer line
within 300 feet or such connection is impracticable on account of elevation or
other reason then the applicant must, at the proposed location of the trailer,
be provided with a sanitary privy conforming to the specifications set forth
elsewhere.
(Prior Code, § 5-9-7)
§ 151.072 CREATING FIRE HAZARD PROHIBITED.
   Any license or permit granted hereunder may be revoked by reason of
misrepresentation in the application whereby the use of a trailer at any given
location may or is likely to increase substantially the fire risk or create a
sanitary nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 5-9-8)
§ 151.073 REVOCATION OF PERMITS.
   Any permit granted hereunder may be revoked by reason of misrepresentation
in the application, violation of the terms of the permit, the creation of a
fire hazard or a sanitary nuisance, or the violation of this subchapter or the
violation of any law relating to sanitary matters, building construction,
zoning, fire hazards, vagrancy, and the preservation of peace and order.
(Prior Code, § 5-9-9)
§ 151.074 APPLICATION FOR REVOCATION OF PERMITS.
   Any person may file application in duplicate with the Police Judge asking
for revocation of any trailer license. A copy of said application, together
with a notice setting a time and place for the hearing of said application at
least three days hence shall be issued by the Police Judge and served by the
Chief of Police upon the holder of such permit or license. The hearing shall be
held at the time stated before the Police Judge. The proceedings shall be
informal. The Police Judge may, after hearing the evidence offered on both
sides, revoke or suspend such license or dismiss the complaint, or make such
other order as he or she deems appropriate.
(Prior Code, § 5-9-10)
§ 151.075 DUTIES OF POLICE.
   When any person shall live in a trailer within the corporate limits in
violation of the terms of this subchapter, the Chief of Police may cause said
trailer to be taken into his or her custody and towed away and stored and
ultimately sold in the same manner as provided for illegally parked cars.
(Prior Code, § 5-9-11)
§ 151.076 COMMERCIAL PARKS EXCEPTED.
   The terms of this subchapter shall be inapplicable to commercial tourist
parks conducted or operated within the city. A commercial tourist park shall be
one which has been recognized as such by unrepealed motion or resolution
regularly adopted by the Council and of record in the minutes of the Council.
The Council may refuse to give such recognition if the owner or applicant
therefor is not equipped with adequate sanitary or other facilities necessary
to the operation of such tourist park.
(Prior Code, § 5-9-12)
MANUFACTURED HOUSING AND MOBILE HOMES
§ 151.090 APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS.
   (A)   This subchapter shall apply to any manufactured home or mobile home
placed in the city after the effective date hereof.
   (B)   Habitable homes which are located within the city and connected to
water and sewer services prior to the effective date hereof are not regulated,
however, any such home which is destroyed or more than 50% damaged shall be
replaced or repaired in accordance with these regulations.
(Prior Code, § 2-9-1) (Ord. 320, passed 10-14-1996) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.091 PLACEMENT ON INDIVIDUAL RESIDENTIAL LOTS.
   Manufactured housing and mobile homes which are multisectional and at least
1,000 square feet in size may be placed on individual residential lots if the
following:
   (A)   Must be placed on an excavated and backfilled foundation, and enclosed
at the perimeter such that the home is located not more than 12 inches above
grade;
   (B)   Must have certification by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development;
   (C)   Must comply with the manufacturer set up specifications, and all laws
applicable to setup (the most stringent requirement will apply);
   (D)   Must have a pitched roof of at least nominal three feet in height to
each 12 feet of width, which is an integral part of the home;
   (E)   If more than five years old, must have a special use permit issued by
the City Council prior to placement. To obtain such permit, applicant must
demonstrate that the home to be placed meets current life safety and fire code
standards, is in good condition, and has not been altered in a fashion which
would compromise its safety. The City Council may attach reasonable conditions
to ensure that such home is safe and compatible with housing in the
neighborhood; and
   (F)   Must meet all other site requirements applicable to constructed
housing.
(Prior Code, § 2-9-2) (Ord. 320, passed 10-14-1996) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.092 SINGLE-WIDE MOBILE AND MANUFACTURED HOMES.
   Single-wide mobile homes and manufactured homes less than 22 feet wide may
be placed on individual residential lots upon a showing that the owner will
comply with the standards set forth in §
151.091, and upon the issuance of a special use permit by the City Council
prior to placement. To obtain such permit, the applicant must show that such
placement will conform to the character of the surrounding neighborhood, and
will not have a negative impact on property values. The City Council may attach
reasonable conditions to ensure that such home is safe and compatible with
housing in the neighborhood.
(Prior Code, § 2-9-3) (Ord. 320, passed 10-14-1996)
§ 151.093 MOBILE HOME PARKS.
   Manufactured housing and mobile homes may be placed within mobile home parks
which conform to city ordinances, providing such homes meet the following
standards:
   (A)   Must be skirted with masonry, wood, metal, or plastic skirting;
   (B)   Must have landscaping on all unimproved lot areas (LANDSCAPING is
defined to include grass, shrubs, trees, and gardens);
   (C)   Must have certification by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development; and
   (D)   Setup must comply with the manufacturer specifications, and all other
laws applicable to setup.
(Prior Code, § 2-9-4) (Ord. 320, passed 10-14-1996) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.094 PERMITS, FEES REQUIRED.
   Any person placing a mobile home or manufactured home must first obtain a
placement permit from the City Clerk and pay all applicable fees, including
sewer and water connection fees, if applicable. No used mobile home shall be
occupied until a life safety inspection has been conducted and modifications
may be required to bring the home up to current life safety standards and to
ensure that the electrical system is adequate and safe. Permits for electrical
and plumbing connections must be obtained from the state. When all fees have
been paid, inspections completed, and necessary corrections made, an occupancy
certificate will be issued. It shall be unlawful to occupy a home without an
occupancy certificate. Fees may be adopted by the City Council from time to
time by resolution.
(Prior Code, § 2-9-5) (Ord. 320, passed 10-14-1996)
§ 151.095 REPAIR AND REMODELING.
   Any repair or remodeling of any mobile home within the city shall be done
only after a permit is obtained from the city. Such repair or construction
shall conform to the current edition of the Uniform Building Code where
applicable or to the latest accepted standards for mobile home construction
where the UBC is not applicable. Applicable electrical and plumbing permits
must be obtained from the state.
(Prior Code, § 2-9-6) (Ord. 320, passed 10-14-1996) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.096 APPEALS.
   Any decision of an inspector may be appealed by an aggrieved party to the
City Building Code Advisory Board.
(Prior Code, § 2-9-7) (Ord. 320, passed 10-14-1996)
§ 151.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who willfully violates or fails to comply with any
provisions of §§
151.015 through
151.020 or any provisions of the codes enumerated therein, or rules promulgated
by the Administrator of §§
151.015 through
151.020 or the Board pursuant to §§
151.015 through
151.020 or the codes enumerated therein, or who, having obtained a permit
thereunder, shall wilfully fail to continue to comply with the conditions as
set forth herein, is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be
fined not more than $300, or imprisoned for not more than 90 days, or by both
fine and imprisonment. A separate violation is deemed to have occurred with
respect to each building or structure not in compliance with §§
151.015 through
151.020. Further, each day such violation continues constitutes a separate
offense.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-6)
   (C)   Violation of §§
151.090 through
151.096 is a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine not to exceed $300, imprisonment
in the county jail for a period not to exceed 30 days, or by both such fine and
imprisonment. The city may also enforce §§
151.090 through
151.096 through civil suit.
(Prior Code, § 2-9-8)
(Ord. 320, passed 10-14-1996; Ord. 2019-01, passed 11-14-2018)
CHAPTER 152: FLOOD CONTROL
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Statutory authorization
   
152.02   Findings of fact
   
152.03   Statement of purpose
   
152.04   Methods of reducing flood losses
   
152.05   Interpretation of terms
   
152.06   Definitions
   
152.07   Lands applicable
   
152.08   Basis for establishing areas of special flood hazard
   
152.09   Compliance required
   
152.10   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
152.11   Interpretation
   
152.12   Warning and disclaimer of liability
Administration and Permit Requirements
   
152.25   Development permit
   
152.26   Administrative official designated
   
152.27   Powers and duties
   
152.28   Variance and appeals procedure
Flood Hazard Reduction
   
152.40   General standards
   
152.41   Specific standards
   
152.42   Floodways
   
152.43   Encroachments
   
152.44   Critical facilities
 
   
152.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The legislature of the state has, in Idaho Code § 67-6503, delegated the
responsibility to local governmental units to adopt regulations designed to
promote the public health, safety, and general welfare of its citizenry.
(Prior Code, § 9-16A-1) (Ord. 2000-06, passed 8-28-2000)
§ 152.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the city are subject to periodic inundation
which may result in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety, and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in areas of special flood hazard that increase flood heights and velocities,
and when inadequately anchored, damage uses in other areas. Uses that are
inadequately floodproofed, elevated, or otherwise protected from flood damage
also contribute to the flood loss.
(Prior Code, § 9-16A-2) (Ord. 2000-06, passed 8-28-2000)
§ 152.03 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare, and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed:
   (A)   To protect human life and health;
   (B)   To minimize expenditure of public money and costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   To minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water
and gas mains, electric, telephone, and sewer lines, streets, and bridges
located in areas of special flood hazard;
   (F)   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of areas of special flood hazard so as to minimize future flood
blight areas;
   (G)   To ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in an
area of special flood hazard; and
   (H)   To ensure that those who occupy the areas of special flood hazard
assume responsibility for their actions.
(Prior Code, § 9-16A-3) (Ord. 2000-06, passed 8-28-2000)
§ 152.04 METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES.
   In order to accomplish its purposes, this chapter includes methods and
provisions for:
   (A)   Restricting or prohibiting uses which are dangerous to health, safety,
and property due to water or erosion hazards, or which result in damaging
increases in erosion or in flood heights or velocities;
   (B)   Requiring that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Controlling the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels and
natural protective barriers, which help accommodate or channel floodwaters;
   (D)   Controlling filling, grading, dredging, and other development which
may increase flood damage; and
   (E)   Preventing or regulating the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or may increase flood hazards in other areas.
(Prior Code, § 9-16A-4) (Ord. 2000-06, passed 8-28-2000)
§ 152.05 INTERPRETATION OF TERMS.
   Terms or words used herein shall be interpreted as follows.
   (A)   The present tense includes the past or future tense, the singular
includes the plural, and the plural includes the singular.
   (B)   The word SHALL is mandatory, the word MAY is permissive, and the word
SHOULD is preferred.
   (C)   The masculine shall include the feminine.
(Prior Code, § 9-16B-1) (Ord. 2000-06, passed 8-28-2000)
§ 152.06 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATOR. An official who is appointed by the City Council to
administer this chapter.
   APPEAL. A request for review of the interpretation of any provision of this
chapter, or a request for a variance.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year. Designation on
maps always includes the letters A or V.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year. Also referred to as the 100-YEAR FLOOD. Designation on maps always
include the letters A or V.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   CITY. The City of Troy, Idaho.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. A facility for which even a slight chance of flooding
might be too great. CRITICAL FACILITIES include, but are not limited to,
schools, nursing homes, hospitals, police, fire, and emergency response
installations, installations that produce, use, or store hazardous materials or
hazardous waste.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation, or drilling operations located within the
area of special flood hazard.
   ELEVATED BUILDING. For insurance purposes, a nonbasement building that has
its lowest elevated floor raised above ground level by foundation walls, shear
walls, post, piers, pilings, or columns.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME OR MOBILE HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A
manufactured or mobile home park subdivision for which the construction of
facilities for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be
affixed (including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the
construction of streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of
concrete pads) is completed before the effective date of the adopted floodplain
management regulations.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME OR MOBILE HOME PARK OR
SUBDIVISION. The preparation of additional sites by the construction of
facilities for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes or mobile
homes are to be affixed (including the installation of utilities, the
construction of streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of
concrete pads).
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). The official map on which the federal
insurance administration has delineated both the areas of special flood hazard
and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The official report provided by the federal insurance
administration that includes flood profiles, the flood boundary floodway map,
and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and/or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access, or storage, in an area other than a
basement area, is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR; provided, that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable nonelevation design requirements found at §
152.41(A)(2).
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A single-family dwelling unit of at least 1,000 square
feet in size with all of the following characteristics:
      (1)   Designed for long-term occupancy, certified by the U.S. Department
of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) and containing complete bath and kitchen
facilities with plumbing and electrical connections provided for attachment to
outside systems;
      (2)   Designed to be transported after fabrication according to
manufacturer’s specifications and all regulating agencies; and
      (3)   Delivered to the site where it is to be occupied as a complete
dwelling unit and ready for occupancy, except for minor and incidental
unpacking and assembly operations, location on foundation, connection to
utilities, and the like.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for sale.
   MOBILE HOME. A detached single-family unit fabricated prior to 1976, with
all of the following characteristics:
      (1)   Designed for long-term occupancy containing sleeping
accommodations, a flush toilet, a tub or shower, batch and kitchen facilities
with plumbing and electrical connections provided for attachment to outside
systems;
      (2)   Designed to be transported after fabrication on its own wheels, or
on flatbed or other trailers, or detached wheels according to requirements of
all regulating agencies; and
      (3)   Delivered to the site where it is to be occupied as a complete
dwelling unit, including major appliances and furniture, and ready for
occupancy, except for minor and incidental unpacking and assembly operations,
location on foundation supports, a connection to utilities, and the like.
   MOBILE HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land
divided into two or more mobile home lots for rent or sale.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the “start of construction” commenced
on or after the effective date hereof.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME OR MOBILE HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured or
mobile home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for
servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including
at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and
either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or
after the effective date of adopted floodplain management regulations.
   PERSON. Any and every individual, partnership, corporation, organization, or
association, whether acting singularly or collectively.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle that is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement, and means the date
the building permit was issued, provided the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION,
repair, reconstruction, placement, or other improvement was within 180 days of
the permit date. The ACTUAL START means either the first placement of permanent
construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings,
the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the
stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
PERMANENT CONSTRUCTION does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading, and filling; nor does it include the installation on the property of
accessory buildings, such as garage or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or
not part of the main structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual START
OF CONSTRUCTION means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or
other structural part of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the
external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building (including a gas or liquid storage
tank) that is principally above ground.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
      (1)   Any repair, reconstruction, or improvement of a structure, the cost
of which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure either:
         (a)   Before the improvement or repair is started; or
         (b)   If the structure has been damaged and is being restored, before
the damage occurred. For the purposes of this definition, SUBSTANTIAL
IMPROVEMENT is considered to occur when the first alteration of any wall,
ceiling, floor, or other structural part of the building commences, whether or
not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the structure.
      (2)   The term does not, however, include either:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of a historic structure; provided, that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter that
permits construction in a manner that would otherwise be prohibited by this
chapter.
   WATER DEPENDENT. A structure for commerce or industry that cannot exist in
any other location and is dependent on the water by reason of the intrinsic
nature of its operations.
(Prior Code, § 9-16B-2) (Ord. 2000-06, passed 8-28-2000)
§ 152.07 LANDS APPLICABLE.
   This chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard within the
jurisdiction of the city.
(Prior Code, § 9-16C-1) (Ord. 2000-06, passed 8-28-2000)
§ 152.08 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   The areas of special flood hazard identified by the federal insurance
administration in a scientific and engineering report entitled “Flood Insurance
Study For The City Of Troy, Idaho, Latah County,” dated June 1979, with
accompanying flood insurance maps, is hereby adopted by reference and declared
to be a part of this chapter. The flood insurance study is on file at the
office of the City Clerk, located at the City Hall on Main Street.
(Prior Code, § 9-16C-2) (Ord. 2000-06, passed 8-28-2000)
§ 152.09 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended,
converted, or altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter
and other applicable regulations.
(Prior Code, § 9-16C-3) (Ord. 2000-06, passed 8-28-2000) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.10 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another ordinance, easement, covenant, or deed restriction conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
(Prior Code, § 9-16C-4) (Ord. 2000-06, passed 8-28-2000)
§ 152.11 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit or repeal any other powers granted under state
statutes.
(Prior Code, § 9-16C-5) (Ord. 2000-06, passed 8-28-2000)
§ 152.12 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood
heights may be increased by human-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazard or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter
shall not create liability on the part of the city, any officer or employee
thereof, or the federal insurance administration, for any flood damages that
result from reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully
made hereunder.
(Prior Code, § 9-16C-6) (Ord. 2000-06, passed 8-28-2000)
ADMINISTRATION AND PERMIT REQUIREMENTS
§ 152.25 DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   (A)   Development permit required. A development permit shall be obtained
before construction or development begins within any area of special flood
hazard established in §
152.08. The permit shall be for all structures, including manufactured homes
and mobile homes, as set forth in §
152.06, and for all development, including fill and other activities, also set
forth in §
152.06.
   (B)   Application for development permit. Application for a development
permit shall be made on forms furnished by the Administrator and may include,
but not be limited to, plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the nature,
location, dimensions, and elevations of the area in question; existing or
proposed structures, fill, storage of materials, drainage facilities, and the
location of the foregoing. Specifically, the following information is required:
      (1)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level, of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all structures;
      (2)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any structure has
been floodproofed;
      (3)   Certification by a registered professional engineer or architect
that the floodproofing methods for any nonresidential structure meet the
floodproofing criteria in §
152.41(B); and
      (4)   Description of the extent to which a watercourse will be altered or
relocated as a result of proposed development.
(Prior Code, § 9-16D-1) (Ord. 2000-06, passed 8-28-2000)
§ 152.26 ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICIAL DESIGNATED.
   The appointed Administrator shall administer and implement this chapter by
granting or denying development permit applications in accordance with its
provisions.
(Prior Code, § 9-16D-2) (Ord. 2000-06, passed 8-28-2000)
§ 152.27 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   Duties of the Administrator shall include, but not be limited to:
   (A)   Permit review.
      (1)   Review all development permits to determine that the permit
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
      (2)   Review all development permits to determine that all necessary
permits have been obtained from those federal, state, or local governmental
agencies from which prior approval is required; and
      (3)   Review all development permits to determine if the proposed
development is located in the floodway. If located in the floodway, assure that
the encroachment provisions of this division (A) are met.
   (B)   Use of other base flood data. When base flood elevation data has not
been provided in accordance with §
152.08, the Administrator shall obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any base
flood elevation and floodway data available from a federal, state, or other
source, in order to administer §§
152.41 and
152.42.
   (C)   Information to be obtained and maintained.
      (1)   Where base flood elevation data is provided through the flood
insurance study or as required in §
152.06, obtain and record the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level)
of the lowest floor (including basement) of all new or substantially improved
structures, and whether or not the structure contains a basement.
      (2)   For all new or substantially improved floodproofed structures:
         (a)   Verify and record the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea
level); and
         (b)   Maintain the floodproofing certifications required in §
152.25(B)(3).
      (3)   Maintain for public inspection all records pertaining to the
provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   Alteration of watercourse.
      (1)   Notify adjacent communities and the appropriate state agency prior
to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of such
notification to the federal insurance administration; and
      (2)   Require that maintenance is provided within the altered or
relocated portion of said watercourse so that the flood carrying capacity is
not diminished.
   (E)   Interpretation of FIRM boundaries. Make interpretations where needed,
as to exact location of the boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard
(for example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary
and actual field conditions). The person contesting the location of the
boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the interpretation
as provided in §
152.28.
(Prior Code, § 9-16D-3) (Ord. 2000-06, passed 8-28-2000)
§ 152.28 VARIANCE AND APPEALS PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Appeal Board.
      (1)   The Appeal Board, as established by the City Council, shall hear
and decide appeals and requests for variances from the requirements of this
chapter.
      (2)   The Appeal Board shall hear and decide appeals when it is alleged
there is an error in any requirement, decision, or determination made by the
Administrator in the enforcement or administration of this chapter.
      (3)   Those aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal Board, or any
taxpayer, may appeal such decision to the appropriate court as provided in
Idaho Code Title 67, Chapter 52.
      (4)   In passing upon such applications, the Appeal Board shall consider
all technical evaluations, all relevant factors, standards specified in other
sections of this chapter, and:
         (a)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
         (b)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion
damage;
         (c)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
         (d)   The importance of the services provided by the community;
         (e)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
         (f)   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use
which are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
         (g)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and
anticipated development;
         (h)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan
and floodplain management program for that area;
         (i)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles;
         (j)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
         (k)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
      (5)   Upon consideration of the factors of division (A)(4) above, and the
purposes of this chapter, the Appeal Board may attach such conditions to the
granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes of this
chapter.
      (6)   The Administrator shall maintain the records of all appeal actions
and report any variances to the federal insurance administration upon request.
   (B)   Conditions for variances.
      (1)   Generally, the only condition under which a variance from the
elevation standard may be issued is for new construction and substantial
improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in size contiguous
to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below the base
flood level, providing items in division (A)(4) above have been fully
considered. As the lot size increases, the technical justification required for
issuing the variance increases.
      (2)   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation or
restoration of structures listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
the State Inventory of Historic Places, without regard to the procedures set
forth in this section.
      (3)   Variances shall not be issued within a designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
      (4)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      (5)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the
public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
      (6)   Variances, as interpreted in the national flood insurance program,
are based on the general zoning law principle that they pertain to a physical
piece of property; they are not personal in nature and do not pertain to the
structure, its inhabitants, economic or financial circumstances. They primarily
address small lots in densely populated residential neighborhoods. As such,
variances from the flood elevations should be quite rare.
      (7)   Variances may be issued for nonresidential buildings in very
limited circumstances to allow a lesser degree of floodproofing than watertight
or dry floodproofing, where it can be determined that such action will have low
damage potential, complies with all other variance criteria, except division
(B)(1) above, and otherwise complies with §
152.40(A) and (B).
      (8)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with a lowest floor
elevation below the base flood elevation and that the cost of flood insurance
will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the reduced lowest
floor elevation.
(Prior Code, § 9-16D-4) (Ord. 2000-06, passed 8-28-2000)
FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 152.40 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazard, the following standards are required.
   (A)   Anchoring.
      (1)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored
to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure.
      (2)   All manufactured homes and mobile homes must likewise be anchored
to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement, and shall be installed
using methods and practices that minimize flood damage. Anchoring methods may
include, but are not limited to, use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground
anchors (reference FEMA’s “Manufactured Home Installation in Flood Hazard
Areas” guidebook for additional techniques).
   (B)   Construction materials and methods.
      (1)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
      (2)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed using methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
      (3)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning
equipment and other service facilities shall be designed and/or otherwise
elevated or located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within
the components during conditions of flooding.
   (C)   Utilities.
      (1)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
      (2)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems and
discharge from the systems into floodwaters.
      (3)   Onsite waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment
to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (D)   Subdivision proposals.
      (1)   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage.
      (2)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems located and
constructed to minimize flood damage.
      (3)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood damage.
      (4)   Where base flood elevation data has not been provided or is not
available from another authoritative source, it shall be generated for
subdivision proposals and other proposed developments which contain at least 50
lots or five acres (whichever is less).
   (E)   Review of building permits. Where elevation data is not available
either through the flood insurance study or from another authoritative source,
§
152.27(B), applications for building permits shall be reviewed to assure that
proposed construction will be reasonably safe from flooding. The test of
reasonableness is a local judgment and includes use of historical data, high
water marks and photographs of past flooding, and the like, where available.
Failure to elevate at least two feet above grade in these zones may result in
higher insurance rates.
(Prior Code, § 9-16E-1) (Ord. 2000-06, passed 8-28-2000) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.41 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazard where base flood elevation data has
been provided as set forth in §§
152.08 or
152.26(B), the following provisions are required.
   (A)   Residential construction.
      (1)   New construction and substantial improvement of any residential
structure shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated one foot
above the base flood elevation.
      (2)   Fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are subject to
flooding are prohibited, or shall be designed to automatically equalize
hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit
of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified
by a registered professional engineer or must meet or exceed the following
minimum criteria.
         (a)   A minimum of two openings having a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided.
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above grade.
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, or other
coverings or devices; provided, that they permit the automatic entry and exit
of floodwaters.
   (B)   Nonresidential construction. New construction and substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial, or other nonresidential structure
shall either have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated one foot above
the base flood elevation or, together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, shall:
      (1)   Be floodproofed so that below one foot above the base flood level
the structure is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage
of water;
      (2)   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy;
      (3)   Be certified by a registered professional engineer that the design
and methods of construction are in accordance with accepted standards of
practice for meeting provisions of this division (B) based on their development
and/or review of the structural design, specifications and plans. Such
certifications shall be provided to the official as set in §
152.27(C)(2);
      (4)   Nonresidential structures that are elevated, not floodproofed, must
meet the same standards for space below the lowest floor as described in
division (A)(2) above; and
      (5)   Applicants floodproofing nonresidential buildings shall be notified
that flood insurance premiums will be based on rates that are one foot below
the floodproofed level (e.g., a building floodproofed to the base flood level
will be rated as one foot below).
   (C)   Manufactured homes and mobile homes.
      (1)   All manufactured homes and mobile homes to be placed or
substantially improved within zones A1-A30, AH, and AE on the community FIRM on
sites meeting any of the following provisions shall be elevated on a permanent
foundation such that the lowest floor to the manufactured home or mobile home
is elevated one foot above the base flood elevation and shall be securely
anchored to an adequately designed foundation system to resist flotation,
collapse, or lateral movement:
         (a)   Outside of a manufactured home or mobile home park or
subdivision;
         (b)   In a new manufactured home or mobile home park or subdivision;
         (c)   In an expansion to an existing manufactured home or mobile home
park or subdivision; or
         (d)   In an existing manufactured home or mobile home park or
subdivision on which a manufactured home or mobile home has incurred
substantial damage as the result of a flood.
      (2)   Manufactured homes or mobile homes to be placed or substantially
improved on sites in an existing manufactured home or mobile home park or
subdivision within zones A1-30, AH, and AE on the community FIRM that are not
subject to the above manufactured home and mobile home provisions shall be
elevated so that either:
         (a)   The lowest floor of the manufactured home or mobile home is
elevated one foot above the base flood elevation; or
         (b)   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers
or other foundation elements of at least equivalent strength that are no less
than 36 inches in height above grade and shall be securely anchored to an
adequately designed foundation system to resist flotation, collapse, and
lateral movement.
   (D)   Recreational vehicles. Recreational vehicles placed on sites within
zones A1-30, AH, and AE on the community FIRM must either:
      (1)   Be onsite for fewer than 180 consecutive days;
      (2)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use, be on its wheels or
jacking system, be attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities
and security devices, and have no permanently attached additions; or
      (3)   Meet the requirements of division (C) above and the elevation and
anchoring requirements for manufactured homes.
(Prior Code, § 9-16E-2) (Ord. 2000-06, passed 8-28-2000) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.42 FLOODWAYS.
   Located within areas of special flood hazard established in §
152.08 are areas designated as floodways. Since the floodway is an extremely
hazardous area due to the velocity of floodwaters that carry debris, potential
projectiles, and erosion potential, the following provisions apply.
   (A)   Prohibit encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements, and other development unless certification by a registered
professional civil engineer is provided demonstrating that encroachments shall
not result in any increase in flood levels during the occurrence of the base
flood discharge.
   (B)   If division (A) above is satisfied, all new construction and
substantial improvements shall comply with all applicable flood hazard
reduction provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 9-16E-3) (Ord. 2000-06, passed 8-28-2000) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.43 ENCROACHMENTS.
   The cumulative effect of any proposed development, where combined with all
other existing and anticipated development, shall not increase the water
surface elevation of the base flood more than one foot at any point.
(Prior Code, § 9-16E-4) (Ord. 2000-06, passed 8-28-2000) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.44 CRITICAL FACILITIES.
   Construction of new critical facilities shall be, to the extent possible,
located outside the limits of the special flood hazard area (SFHA) (100-year
floodplain). Construction of new critical facilities shall be permissible
within the SFHA if no feasible alternative site is available. Critical
facilities constructed within the SFHA shall have the lowest floor elevated
three feet or more above the level of the base flood elevation (100-year) at
the site. Floodproofing and sealing measures must be taken to ensure that toxic
substances will not be displaced by or released into floodwaters. Ingress and
egress routes elevated to or above the base flood elevation shall be provided
to all critical facilities to the extent possible.
(Prior Code, § 9-16E-5) (Ord. 2000-06, passed 8-28-2000) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   Violations of the provisions of this chapter by failure to comply with any
of its requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards
established in connection with conditions), shall constitute a misdemeanor. Any
person who violates this chapter or fails to comply with any of its
requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than $300 or be
imprisoned for not more than six months, or by both such fine and imprisonment
for each violation. Each and every day during which any such violation exists
shall constitute a separate offense and be punishable as such under this
chapter. Any person who violates this chapter, in addition to fine and/or
imprisonment, shall pay all costs and expenses involved in each case.
(Prior Code, § 9-16C-3) (Ord. 2000-06, passed 8-28-2000)
CHAPTER 153: SIGNS
Section
   
153.01   Title
   
153.02   Purpose; conditions of approval
   
153.03   Definitions
   
153.04   Administration and enforcement
   
153.05   Permits; fees; time limits
   
153.06   Installation requirements
   
153.07   Inspections
   
153.08   Maintenance of signs
   
153.09   Unlawful signs
   
153.10   Prohibited signs
   
153.11   Nonconforming signs
   
153.12   Safety specifications
   
153.13   Wind pressure
   
153.14   Construction specifications
   
153.15   Zoning and other regulations
   
153.16   Exceptions and exempt signs
   
153.17   Billboards and off-premises signs
   
153.18   Removal and disposal of signs
   
153.19   Violations deemed nuisance
   
153.20   Appeal
   
153.21   Conflicting provisions
 
   
153.99   Penalty
§ 153.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Sign Code of the City of Troy,” or may
be so cited and pleaded and shall be referred to herein as “this chapter.”
(Prior Code, § 9-15-1) (Ord. 98-05, passed 10-12-1998)
§ 153.02 PURPOSE; CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL.
   (A)   Statement of purpose. The purpose of this chapter is to establish
standards for the fabrication, erection, and use of signs, symbols, markings,
and advertising devices within the city. These standards are designed to
protect and promote the public welfare, health, and safety of persons within
the community, and to aid in the development and promotion of business and
industry by providing sign regulations which encourage aesthetic creativity,
effectiveness, and flexibility in the design and use of such devices without
creating detriment to the general public.
   (B)   Conditions of approval. This chapter authorizes the use of signs,
provided they are:
      (1)   Compatible with their surroundings, pursuant to the objectives of
proper design and zoning amenities;
      (2)   Designed, installed, and maintained to meet the sign user needs
while at the same time promoting the amenable environment desired by the
general public as described in the city comprehensive plan (i.e., should
conform to the “turn of the century” character of Main Street);
      (3)   Designed, constructed, installed, and maintained in such a manner
that they do not endanger public safety or traffic safety;
      (4)   Legible, readable, and visible in the circumstances in which they
are used; and
      (5)   Respectful of the reasonable rights of other advertisers whose
messages are displayed.
(Prior Code, § 9-15-2) (Ord. 98-05, passed 10-12-1998)
§ 153.03 DEFINITIONS.
   Terms or words used in this chapter shall be interpreted as follows: the
present tense includes the past or future tense, the singular includes the
plural and the plural includes the singular; the word SHALL is mandatory; the
word MAY is permissive; and the word SHOULD is preferred. The masculine shall
include the feminine. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
   ABANDONED SIGN, OFF-PREMISES. A sign which advertises goods, products,
services, or facilities which are no longer available to the public or which
directs persons to a former location where such goods, products, services, or
facilities are no longer available.
   ABANDONED SIGN, ON-PREMISES. A sign which no longer advertises a bona fide
business, lessor, owner, product, or activity conducted or product available on
the premises where such sign is displayed.
   ACCESSORY SIGN. See definition of ON-PREMISES SIGN or ONSITE SIGN.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The person appointed by the Mayor, with consent of the City
Council, to administer this chapter.
   ADVERTISING MESSAGE. The copy on a sign describing products or services
being offered to the public.
   ANIMATED SIGN. Any sign which includes action or motion. For purposes of
this chapter, this term does not refer to flashing, changing, or indexing, all
of which are separately defined.
   ARCHITECTURAL BLADE. A roof sign or projecting sign with no visible legs or
braces designed to look as though it could have been part of the building
structure, rather than something suspended from or standing on the building.
   ARCHITECTURAL PROJECTION. Any projection not intended for occupancy which
extends beyond the property line, not including signs, canopies, or marquees.
   AREA IDENTIFICATION SIGN. A sign, freestanding or affixed to a wall or
fence, which identifies a neighborhood, a residential subdivision, a multiple
residential complex, or a commercial or industrial complex.
   AREA OF SIGN. The area of the largest single face of the sign within a
perimeter which forms the outside shape, including any frame, forms, and
integral part of the display, but excluding the necessary supports or uprights
on which the sign may be placed. If the sign consists of more than one section
or module, all AREAS will be totaled. Where poster panels or bulletins are
installed back to back, one face only is considered as AREA. If there is a
difference, the larger face will be counted.
   AWNING. A movable or fixed shelter supported entirely from the exterior wall
of a building and composed of rigid or nonrigid materials, except for the
supporting framework.
   BACKGROUND AREA. The entire area of a sign on which copy could be placed, as
opposed to the copy area, where copy is in fact posted or painted.
   BANNER. A long, narrow flag hung over a street or entrance.
   BANNER SIGN. A temporary sign composed of lightweight material secured or
mounted so as to allow movement caused by wind.
   BILLBOARD. See definition of OFF-PREMISES SIGN or OFFSITE SIGN or OUTDOOR
ADVERTISING SIGN (posters and bulletins).
   BLANKETING or BLANKET. When applied to signs or other structures projecting
over the sidewalk, shall be deemed to mean the complete shutting off of the
face of a sign from a viewer whose eye level is six feet above the sidewalk,
and who is at a distance of 25 feet from a point on the sidewalk, said point
being established by drawing a perpendicular line from the center of the sign
BLANKETED to the sidewalk.
   BUILDING FACE OR WALL. All window and wall area of a building in one place
or elevation.
   BUILDING FRONTAGE. The linear width of a building facing the right-of-way or
the linear length of the right-of-way facing the building, whichever is
smaller.
   BUILDING INSPECTOR. A building inspector appointed by the Mayor, with
consent of the City Council.
   BUILDING SIGN. A sign lettered to give the name of a building itself, as
opposed to the name of occupants or services.
   BULLETIN. See definition of OFF-PREMISES SIGN or OFFSITE SIGN or OUTDOOR
ADVERTISING SIGN.
   CANOPY or MARQUEE. A permanent rooflike shelter extending from part or all
of a building face over a public right-of-way and constructed of some durable
material such as metal, glass, or plastic.
   CHANGEABLE COPY SIGN (MANUAL). A sign on which copy or sign panels may be
changed manually in the field, such as boards with changeable letters or
changeable pictorial panels.
   CHANGING SIGN (AUTOMATIC). An electronically or electrically controlled
time, temperature, and date sign, message center, or reader board, where
different copy changes are shown on the same location.
   CITY. The City of Troy, Idaho.
   COMPREHENSIVE DESIGN PLAN. Building design and signs integrated into one
architectural plan, the comprehensive plan being complete in all other
building, structural, and electrical requirements.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The comprehensive plan of the city.
   CONSTRUCTION SIGN. A temporary sign identifying a building or construction
site and the architects, engineers, financial institutions, contractors, and
suppliers involved.
   COPY. The wording on a sign surface.
   COPY AREA. The area in square feet of the smallest geometric figure which
describes the area enclosed by the actual copy of a sign. For fascia signs, the
COPY AREA limits refer to the message, not to the illuminated background.
   COUNCIL. The City Council of Troy, Idaho.
   DETACHED SIGN. See definition of FREESTANDING SIGN.
   DIRECTIONAL SIGN. Any sign which serves solely to designate the location of
any place or area.
   DIRECTLY ILLUMINATED SIGN. Any sign designed to provide artificial light
either through exposed lighting in front of the face or through transparent or
translucent material from a light source within the sign.
   ELECTRICAL SIGN. Any sign containing electrical wiring which is attached or
intended to be attached to an electrical energy source.
   EMBELLISHMENT. Letters, figures, characters, or representations in cutouts
or irregular forms or similar ornaments attached to or superimposed upon the
sign.
   EMBELLISHMENT, DECORATIVE ONLY. A purely decorative embellishment on a
freestanding sign.
   ERECTED. Attached, altered, built, constructed, reconstructed, enlarged, or
moved, and shall include the painting of wall signs, but does not include copy
changes on any sign.
   FACE OF SIGN. The entire area of sign on which copy could be placed.
   FACELIFT. The remodeling of a building’s frontage which is visible from a
public right-of-way, so that the building material, door frames, window frames,
and signs are designed in harmony with each other.
   FASCIA SIGN or WALL SIGN. A sign attached to or erected against the wall of
a building, with the face parallel to the building wall and extending no more
than one foot therefrom.
   FIELD FABRICATED SIGN. A sign constructed in the field instead of being
completed at the factory.
   FLAG. A piece of cloth or other flexible material varying in size, shape,
color, and design, usually attached at one edge to a staff or cord and used as
the symbol of a nation, state, or organization. May also be imprinted with an
advertising message or design, or be of bright colors to attract attention.
   FLASHING SIGN. Any sign which contains an intermittent or flashing light
source, or which includes the illusion of intermittent or flashing light by
means of animation, or an externally mounted intermittent light source.
Automatic changing signs such as public service time, temperature and date
signs, or electronically controlled message centers are classed as CHANGING
SIGNS, not FLASHING SIGNS.
   FREESTANDING SIGN. A sign erected on a freestanding frame, mast, or pole and
not attached to any building.
   FREEWAY ORIENTED SIGN or CONTROLLED ACCESS HIGHWAY SIGN. Any sign
identifying premises where food, lodging, or place of business is located that
engages in supplying goods and services essential to normal operation of motor
vehicles, and where such businesses are directly dependent upon the adjacent
freeway or controlled access highway for business.
   FRONTAGE. The length of the property line of any one premises parallel to
and along each public right-of-way it borders.
   FUTURE DEVELOPMENT SIGN. A temporary sign indicating the future construction
or development of a building or area but not a construction sign.
   GROUND LEVEL. Street grade.
   GROUND SIGN. A freestanding sign installed directly on the ground.
   HEIGHT OF SIGN. The vertical distance measured from the adjacent street
grade or upper surface of the street curb to the highest point of said sign.
   IDENTIFICATION FASCIA SIGN. A fascia sign which is limited to the name of
the building or institution on which the sign is erected.
   IDENTIFICATION SIGN. A sign which is limited to the name, address, and
number of a building, institution, or person and to the activity carried on in
the building or institution or the occupancy.
   ILLUMINATED SIGN. Any sign which is lighted from within or without.
   INCIDENTAL SIGN. A secondary sign not directly describing goods, products,
services, or facilities which are available on the premises where the sign is
located; i.e., credit cards accepted, official notices required by law, trade
affiliations.
   INDEXING. Turning and stopping action of the sections of a multiprism sign
designed to show several messages in the same area.
   INDIRECTLY ILLUMINATED SIGN. Any sign which reflects light from a source
intentionally directed upon it for example, by means of floodlights, gooseneck
reflectors, or externally mounted fluorescent light fixtures.
   INDIVIDUAL LETTER SIGN. Any sign made of self-contained letters that are
mounted on the face of a building, top of a parapet roof edge of a building, or
on top of or below a marquee.
   INSTITUTIONAL BULLETIN BOARD. A sign which primarily displays the name of
the organization or upcoming events of that organization.
   INTERIOR PROPERTY LINE. Property lines other than those fronting on street,
road, or highway.
   LINTEL. In this context, the line above the display on a store (usually
approximately nine feet zero inches from grade).
   LOT. A parcel of land of sufficient size to meet minimum zoning requirements
for use, coverage, and area, and to provide such yards and other open spaces
required. Such LOTS shall have frontage on an improved public street, or on an
approved private street, and may consist of:
      (1)   A single lot of record;
      (2)   A portion of a lot of record; or
      (3)   A combination of single lots or portions of lots of record.
   LOW PROFILE SIGN. A freestanding sign erected near ground level and limited
to identifying the name of the building or institution on the premises.
   MAINTAIN. To permit a sign, structure, or any part of each to continue, or
to repair or refurbish a sign, structure, or any part of either.
   MANSARD ROOF. A sloping roof where the angle of the roof is no more than 30
degrees from perpendicular. Signs on these ROOFS shall considered fascia signs.
(See also definition of SLOPING ROOF.)
   MARQUEE or CANOPY. A permanent rooflike shelter extending from part or all
of the building face over a public right-of-way and constructed of durable
material such as metal, glass, or plastic.
   MARQUEE SIGN or CANOPY SIGN. Any sign attached to or constructed in or on a
canopy or marquee.
   MESSAGE. The wording or copy on a sign.
   MULTIPRISM SIGN. Sign made with a series of sections that turn and stop, or
flip to show several pictures or messages in the same area.
   NAMEPLATE. A nonelectric sign identifying only the name and occupation or
profession of the occupant of premises on which the sign is located. If any
premises includes more than one occupant, NAMEPLATE refers to all names and
occupations or professions, as well as the name of the building and directional
information.
   NATIONAL ELECTRIC CODE. The code prepared by the National Board of Fire
Underwriters known as the NATIONAL ELECTRICAL CODE, in the last edition
published and adopted by the city or the state.
   NONACCESSORY SIGN. See definition of OFF-PREMISES SIGN or OFFSITE SIGN.
   NONCONFORMING SIGN. Any advertising structure or sign which was lawfully
erected and maintained prior to such time as it came within the preview of this
chapter, and any amendments thereto, and which fails to conform to all
applicable regulations and restrictions of this chapter, or a NONCONFORMING
SIGN for which a special permit has been issued.
   NONELECTRICAL SIGN. Any sign that does not contain electrical wiring or is
not attached to or intended to be attached to an electrical energy source.
   OFF-PREMISES SIGN or OFFSITE SIGN. A sign that directs persons to a
different location from where the sign is installed.
   ON-PREMISES SIGN or ONSITE SIGN. Any sign identifying or advertising a
business, person, activity, goods, products, or services located on the
premises where the sign is installed and maintained.
   OUTDOOR ADVERTISING SIGN. Outdoor advertising signs which advertise goods,
products, or services not necessarily on the premises on which the sign is
located, are of three main types:
      (1)   Poster panels or bulletins normally mounted on a building wall,
roof, or freestanding structure with advertising copy in the form of pasted
paper;
      (2)   Multiprism signs alternating advertising messages on one displayed
area; or
      (3)   Painted bulletins, where the advertiser’s message is painted
directly on the background of a wall-mounted, roof, or freestanding display
area.
   OWNER. The title owner and his or her agents and assignees.
   PAINTED WALL SIGN. A sign painted directly on the exterior wall of a
building.
   PARAPET or PARAPET WALL. The portion of a building wall that rises above the
roof level.
   PENNANT. A tapering flag.
   PENTHOUSE. A structure on top of a building roof.
   PERSON. Any individual, corporation, association, firm, or partnership.
   PLASTICS. Only those combustible plastic materials which, when tested in
accordance with American Society for Testing Materials standard method for test
for flammability of PLASTICS over five one-thousandths of an inch in thickness
(D635-44), burn no faster than two and one-half inches per minute in sheets of
six one-thousandths of an inch thickness.
   POLE SIGN. A freestanding sign.
   PORTABLE SIGN. Any sign not permanently attached to the ground or a
building.
   PREMISES. An area of land with its appurtenances and buildings which,
because of its unity of use is one unit of real estate.
   PROJECTING SIGNS. A sign, other than a wall sign, which is attached to and
projects from a structure or building face. The area of double faced PROJECTING
SIGNS is calculated on one face of the sign only.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY WIDTH. The distance across a public street, measured
from property line to property line.
   PUBLIC SERVICE INFORMATION SIGN. Any sign intended primarily to promote
items of general interest to the community, such as time, temperature, date,
atmospheric conditions, news, or traffic control, and the like.
   REAL ESTATE OR PROPERTY FOR SALE, RENT, OR LEASE SIGN. Any sign to sell,
lease, or rent land or buildings (but not a sign identifying or advertising a
real estate broker’s office or other office devoted to the sale of real
estate).
   ROOF SIGN. Any sign erected upon, against, or directly above a roof, or on
top or above the parapet of a building.
   ROOFLINE. The top edge of the roof or the top of the parapet, whichever
forms the top line of the building silhouette.
   ROTATING SIGN. Any sign or portion of a sign which moves in a revolving or
similar manner, but not including multiprism indexing signs.
   SEASONAL OR HOLIDAY SIGNS. Signs such as Christmas decorations, or those
used for a historic display and installed for a limited period of time.
   SIGN. Any identification, description, illustration, symbol, statue, or
device, illuminated or nonilluminated, which is visible from any public place
designed to advertise, identify, or convey information, including any
landscaping where letters or numbers are used for the purpose of directing the
public’s attention to a product or location, with the exception of window
displays and state or national flags. For the purpose of removal, SIGN shall
also include all sign structures.
   SIGN FACE. The entire area of a sign on which copy could be placed.
   SIGN LEGEND. Copy.
   SIGN STICKER. A sticker affixed either to the face or the channel of a sign
visible from the street denoting the name of the manufacturer or designated
servicing company for purpose of identification by city officials or others.
   SIGN STRUCTURE. Any structure which supports, has supported or is designed
to support a sign. A decorative cover is part of a SIGN STRUCTURE.
   SLOPING ROOF. A roof that slopes up to 60 degrees from the horizontal. For
greater slopes, see definition of MANSARD ROOF.
   SPECIAL PURPOSE SIGN. Any sign other than a business, nonaccessory,
identification sign, including, but not limited to, traffic signs.
   STREET. A public highway, road, or thoroughfare which affords the principal
means of access to adjacent lots, measured from property line to property line.
   STREET SIGN. Signs having official designation which are used to identify
street names, traffic signs, railroad crossings, or which attempt to direct
traffic.
   SWINGING SIGN. A hinged sign installed on an arm or spar, which sign is not,
in addition, permanently fastened to an adjacent wall or upright pole.
   TEMPORARY SIGN. A sign which is not permanently affixed. All devices such as
banners, pennants, flags (not intended to include flags of any nation),
searchlights, twirling or sandwich type signs, sidewalk or curb signs, and
balloons or other air or gas filled figures.
   TEMPORARY WINDOW OR BUILDING SIGN. A sign painted on the interior of a
window or constructed of paper, cloth, or other like material and attached to
the interior side of a window or displayed on the exterior of a building wall
in order to direct attention of persons outside the building to a sale of
merchandise or a change in the status of the business.
   UNDER CANOPY OR MARQUEE SIGN. A sign suspended below the ceiling or roof of
a canopy or marquee.
   UNDERWRITERS LABORATORIES. A nonprofit organization which establishes
standards for electrical and mechanical equipment and materials and is commonly
referred to as UL. The electrical section dealing with signs is known as
UNDERWRITERS LABORATORIES (48).
   UNLAWFUL SIGN. A sign which contravenes this chapter or which the
Administrator may declare as unlawful if it becomes dangerous to public safety
by reason of dilapidation or abandonment, or a nonconforming sign for which a
permit required under a previous code was not obtained.
   USE. The purpose for which a building, lot, sign, or other structure is
arranged, intended, designed, occupied, or maintained.
   WALL SIGN. See definition of FASCIA SIGN or WALL SIGN.
   WINDOW SIGN. A sign installed inside a window for purposes of viewing from
outside the premises. This term does not include merchandise located in a
window.
(Prior Code, § 9-15-3) (Ord. 98-05, passed 10-12-1998)
§ 153.04 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   General. The Administrator and/or Building Inspector, or any designee
appointed by the Mayor in his or her absence, is hereby authorized and directed
to enforce all the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Stop orders. Whenever any sign work is being done contrary to the
provisions of this chapter, the Building Inspector may order the work stopped
by notice in writing served on any person engaged in the doing or causing such
work to be done, and any such person shall forthwith stop such work until
authorized by the Building Inspector to proceed with the work.
   (C)   Reports and records. It shall be the duty of the Building Inspector to
keep a full and complete record of all work done, permits issued, examinations
made, or other official work performed as required by this chapter, and shall
make a report thereof to the Council.
(Prior Code, § 9-15-4) (Ord. 98-05, passed 10-12-1998)
§ 153.05 PERMITS; FEES; TIME LIMITS.
   (A)   Application for permit. Any person who desires to erect any sign or
signpost of any design or description on any lot or parcel of ground, or over
any sidewalk, street, or alley in the city, or which may project from, be
installed upon, or be painted on any building within the city, except
temporary, small ground, and/or portable signs, shall first secure a permit
therefor, and shall first make application to the city upon an application form
furnished by the City Clerk. The application shall include:
      (1)   Two sets of plans and specifications for said sign, signed and
stamped by a registered structural engineer (RSE):
         (a)   One set of plans will be kept on file at City Hall and one set
will be maintained at the construction site until final inspection and approval
by the Administrator; and
         (b)   Signs painted directly on the side or roof of the building need
not be approved by a RSE.
      (2)   Name and address of property owner;
      (3)   Name and address of sign owner;
      (4)   Name and address of contractor installing sign;
      (5)   Location of sign;
      (6)   Class, area, and weight of sign;
      (7)   Value of installation; and
      (8)   Any such other information as City Hall or the Building Inspector
shall require.
   (B)   Issuance; denial.
      (1)   The City Clerk shall issue a permit for the erection, alteration,
or relocation of a sign within the city when an application therefor has been
properly made and the sign complies with all appropriate laws and ordinances.
      (2)   The Administrator may, in writing, suspend or revoke a permit
issued under provisions of this section whenever the permit is issued on the
basis of a misstatement of material fact or fraud. When a sign permit is denied
by the Administrator, he or she shall give written notice of the denial to the
applicant, together with a brief written statement of the reasons for the
denial.
   (C)   Effect of issuance. No permit for a sign issued hereunder shall be
deemed to constitute permission or authorization to maintain an unlawful sign,
nor shall any permit issued hereunder constitute a defense in an action to
abate an unlawful sign.
   (D)   Fees. Fees for the issuance of sign permits shall be established by a
duly adopted resolution enacted by the City Council. All fees herein required
shall be paid to the City Clerk at the time permits are issued under this
chapter.
   (E)   Time limits.
      (1)   Any sign permit issued by the Administrator shall become null and
void if manufacture is not commenced within 180 days from the date of such
permit. If work authorized by such permit is suspended or abandoned for 120
days any time after work is commenced, a new permit shall be first obtained to
do so, and the fee will be one-half the amount required for a new permit for
such work; provided, that no changes have been made in the original plans. Such
permit may not be unreasonably withheld, providing that proper application and
payment of permit fees is complied with.
      (2)   In emergency situations, where there is imminent danger of personal
injury or harm to property, work may be initiated and completed without first
applying for a permit. However, a permit shall be applied for within 48 hours
after the first working day when work was commenced on the sign.
(Prior Code, § 9-15-5) (Ord. 98-05, passed 10-12-1998) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.06 INSTALLATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Qualified installer. No person shall install or attempt to install any
sign except a qualified building contractor or sign contractor.
   (B)   Permission to install. No person shall erect, construct, or maintain
any sign upon any property or building without the consent of the owner or
person entitled to possession of the property or building if any, or their
authorized representatives.
(Prior Code, § 9-15-6) (Ord. 98-05, passed 10-12-1998) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.07 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Any person erecting, altering, or relocating a sign shall notify the
Administrator upon start of construction and upon completion of the work for
which permits are required, as follows:
      (1)   All freestanding signs may be subject to a footing inspection. All
electrical signs may be subjected to a final electrical inspection by a state
electrical inspector; and
      (2)   Sign permit renewal and certification.
   (B)   All electric signs and all signs on sign structures over five feet
high from grade to top of sign shall be inspected every five years by a sign
company to determine that the sign has been maintained in such a manner as to
ensure that the sign is in a safely maintained condition as to the electrical,
structural, and material specification of this chapter, and shall be tagged to
so signify.
   (C)   Any sign which has not been inspected and tagged within five years
shall be removed at the owner’s expense unless said permit is obtained and the
sign duly tagged within 30 days after written notification by the
Administrator.
   (D)   All signs shall bear a label provided by the Administrator which
identifies the permit number under which the sign was constructed. These labels
shall be a different color for each year and shall indicate the year of issue.
   (E)   The five-year tag for the certification that the sign is in a safe
condition as to its material, electrical, and structural application shall be
issued when a sign company licensed by the city has duly certified and filed
with the city that the sign meets the structural, electrical, and material
specifications set out in this chapter and all applicable laws and ordinances.
   (F)   Signs not covered by division (A)(2) above shall be inspected by the
Building Inspector every five years. The Building Inspector shall charge a fee
in accordance with the city fee schedule.
(Prior Code, § 9-15-7) (Ord. 98-05, passed 10-12-1998) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.08 MAINTENANCE OF SIGNS.
   (A)   Signs within the city limits shall be maintained and kept in good
structural condition at all times by the owner in possession. The city shall in
no way be liable for neglect or failure to maintain signs in good condition or
be responsible for any damage caused by defective conditions.
   (B)   When any sign requires maintenance or becomes unsafe, the owner shall
be notified to either remove, restore, or repair and make the same safe without
delay.
   (C)   When any sign becomes dirty or dingy, or needs to be repainted, the
owner shall, upon notification from the Building Inspector, clean or paint the
same, whichever the occasion demands.
   (D)   Any person owning and/or causing maintenance of a sign in connection
with its occupancy of a building or portion of a building shall, upon vacating
the premises, remove the same. When the aforementioned person cannot be found
after reasonable efforts have been made, it shall be the duty of the building
owner to remove the sign within ten days after receipt of a notice from the
Building Inspector.
(Prior Code, § 9-15-8) (Ord. 98-05, passed 10-12-1998) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.09 UNLAWFUL SIGNS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to post, paint, or attach in any
way any sign, as defined in §
153.03, on any curb, telephone pole, telegraph pole, electric light or power
pole, traffic signal, light pole, wall, fence, hydrant, bridge, or tree that is
located on a public street, on a public right-of-way or on public property,
except as herein provided. It shall be unlawful for any person to paint, paste,
or attach any sign, whether or not defined in this chapter, onto or across any
building, structure, sidewalk, curbing, street, property, or public right-of-
way of the city, except as provided herein. It shall be unlawful to fail to
obtain any required permit.
   (B)   All signs, except real estate signs, identification signs, and
subdivision signs are prohibited in areas zoned residential, except that signs
for nonconforming uses may be allowed by special use permit (SUP) from the
Council. The application for the SUP must be accompanied by:
      (1)   A pictorial sketch of the proposed installation showing all
necessary information such as type of sign, material, lighting, setback,
clearance, and overhang; and
      (2)   Evidence which, in the opinion of the Council, is sufficient to
ascertain that the proposed sign will not detract from the general area within
where it is located.
   (C)   Any sign on private property that, in the opinion of the Building
Inspector, creates a hazard to vehicular or pedestrian traffic, or a hazard to
the public in general, must be removed, remodeled, or repaired to a condition
that will abate or eliminate the said hazardous condition.
   (D)   No sign in a residential area may be illuminated.
(Prior Code, § 9-15-9) (Ord. 98-05, passed 10-12-1998) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.10 PROHIBITED SIGNS.
   The following types of signs are expressly prohibited in all districts,
except as otherwise provided by this chapter.
   (A)   Animated and intensely lighted sign. No sign shall be permitted which
is animated by means of flashing, scintillating, blinking, or traveling lights
or any other means not providing constant illumination. Changing signs, as
defined in this chapter, are permitted.
   (B)   Miscellaneous signs and posters. The tacking, pasting, or otherwise
affixing of signs of a miscellaneous character, visible from a public way,
located on the walls of buildings, barns, sheds, on trees, poles, posts,
fences, or other structures is prohibited, unless specifically permitted by
this chapter.
   (C)   Moving signs. Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, no sign or
any portion thereof shall be permitted which moves or assumes any motion
constituting a nonstationary or nonfixed condition, except for the rotation of
barber poles, changing signs, or multiprism units. Indexing multiprism units
must not exceed a speed of two complete revolutions every 20 seconds. This
division (C) is not meant to prohibit any form of vehicular sign, such as a
sign attached to a bus or lettered on a motor vehicle.
   (D)   Abandoned signs. No person, firm, or corporation shall abandon any
sign anywhere in the city.
   (E)   Signs on moving vehicles. No person shall drive on the public streets
any vehicle with a sign that interferes with the vision of the driver of that
vehicle or of any other vehicle. No person shall drive on the public streets
any vehicle with any moving sign.
   (F)   Public areas. No sign shall be placed on any curb, sidewalk, post,
pole, hydrant, bridge, tree, or other surface located on public property or
over or across any street or public thoroughfare, except as expressly
authorized by this chapter.
   (G)   Banners.
      (1)   Banners, flags, pennants, searchlights, twirling signs, sandwich
board signs, sidewalk or curb signs, balloons, or other gas filled figures
shall not be used except as described in division (G)(2) below.
      (2)   Signs described in division (G)(1) above will be permitted in a
commercial or industrial district for a total period not to exceed 15 days in
any six-month period at any business location. Banners, flags, and pennants
will be allowed in residential districts in conjunction with a demonstration of
model homes in a new subdivision for two days before the opening of such
demonstration to two days after and not to exceed a total period of 15 days in
any calendar year.
   (H)   A-frame signs. A-frame or sandwich board, sidewalk, or curb signs are
prohibited.
   (I)   Portable signs. Portable or wheeled signs are prohibited except for
new business openings for not over 15 days. This shall not be interpreted to
prohibit identification lettering on motor vehicles or advertising on buses.
   (J)   Other prohibited signs. The following signs are also prohibited:
      (1)   Signs which bear or contain statements, words, or pictures of an
obscene or pornographic character, as interpreted under current court rulings;
      (2)   Signs which are painted on or attached to any fence (except
temporary fences around construction sites), or on any wall or structure (other
than structures for permitted signs) which is not structurally a part of a
building, except to identify a residence or residence structure by means of
posting the name of the occupant or structure, and the street address;
      (3)   Signs which operate or employ any stereopticon or motion picture
projection or media, or have visible moving parts or give the illusion of
motion, except as expressly permitted in this chapter;
      (4)   Signs which emit audible sound, odor, or visible matter;
      (5)   Signs which purport to be, or are an imitation of, or resemble, an
official traffic sign or signal; and
      (6)   Signs which, by reason of their size, location, movement, content,
coloring, or manner of illumination, may be confused with or constructed as a
traffic control sign, signal, or device, or the light of an emergency or road
equipment vehicle, or which hide from view any traffic or street sign or
device.
(Prior Code, § 9-15-10) (Ord. 98-05, passed 10-12-1998) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.11 NONCONFORMING SIGNS.
   (A)   Notification; nonconforming status.
      (1)   Notification of nonconformity. After the enactment of this chapter,
the Administrator shall, as soon as practical, survey the city for signs which
do not conform to the requirements of this chapter. Upon determination that a
sign is nonconforming, the Administrator shall use reasonable efforts to so
notify, either personally or in writing, the user or owner of the property on
which the sign is located of the following:
         (a)   The sign’s nonconformity; and
         (b)   Whether the sign is eligible for characterization either as
legal nonconforming or unlawful. If the sign owner, user or owner of the
property cannot be located, the notice may be affixed in a conspicuous place to
the sign or to the business premises with which the sign is associated.
      (2)   Legal nonconforming. Signs eligible for characterization as LEGAL
NONCONFORMING are any signs located within the city limits on the date of
adoption of this chapter, or located in an area annexed to the city thereafter,
which does not conform with the provisions of this chapter, if the sign was in
compliance with applicable law on the date of adoption of this chapter.
      (3)   Loss of nonconforming status.
         (a)   A nonconforming sign shall immediately lose its nonconforming
designation if:
            1.   The sign is altered in any way in structure, which tends to or
makes the sign less in compliance with the requirements of this chapter than it
was before the alteration;
            2.   The sign structure is relocated to a position making it less
in compliance with the requirements of this chapter; or
            3.   The sign (except for copy on a changeable copy sign) is
replaced.
         (b)   On the happening of any one of the provisions of division (A)(3)
(a) above, the sign shall be immediately brought into compliance with this
chapter with a new permit secured therefor, or shall be removed.
   (B)   Nonconforming sign maintenance and repair. Nothing in this section
shall relieve the owner or user of a legal nonconforming sign or owner of the
property on which the legal nonconforming sign is located from the provisions
of this chapter regarding safety, maintenance, and repair of signs contained in
this chapter; provided, however, that any repainting, cleaning, and other
normal maintenance or repair of the sign or sign structure shall not modify the
sign structure in any way which makes it more nonconforming.
   (C)   Expiration. The right to have a nonconforming sign shall expire 15
years after passage date hereof.
(Prior Code, § 9-15-11) (Ord. 98-05, passed 10-12-1998) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.12 SAFETY SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Clearance from high voltage power lines. Signs shall be located not
less than eight feet horizontally or 13 feet vertically from overhead
electrical conductors which are energized in excess of 750 volts. Signs located
in the vicinity of electrical conductors energized with less than 750 volts
shall maintain horizontal or vertical clearances from all overhead electrical
conductors in accordance with the specifications of the National Electrical
Safety Code, published by the American National Standards Institute. A copy of
said code is on file with the City Clerk. However, in no case shall a sign be
installed closer than 36 inches horizontally or vertically from any electrical
conductor or public utility guywire.
   (B)   Windows; doorways; exits. No sign shall cover up a window, doorway, or
other opening providing light, ventilation, or exit facilities which are
required by the regulation of the building code or the fire prevention code.
   (C)   Fire escapes. No sign, brace, or guywire shall be attached to any fire
escape, standpipe, or fire escape support. Signs shall not be placed nearer
than two feet from the ends of a fire escape platform. No sign, brace, or
guywire shall obstruct access to a fire escape or other means of egress from a
building.
(Prior Code, § 9-15-12) (Ord. 98-05, passed 10-12-1998) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.13 WIND PRESSURE.
   (A)   Classification. For the purpose of determining wind pressure, all
signs shall be classified as either solid or open.
      (1)   SOLID. Signs in which the projected area exposed to wind consists
of 70% or more of the gross area as determined by the overall dimensions.
      (2)   OPEN. Signs in which the projected exposed area is derived from
open letters, figures, strips, and structural framing members, the aggregate
total area of which is less than 70% of the gross area.
   (B)   Design, construction. All signs shall be designed and constructed to
withstand wind pressure of not less than the following intensities applied to
the projected exposed area:
 
Height in Feet Solid Signs Open Signs
Ground to Top  All Types   All Types
Less than 30   15          25
31 to 49       25          35
50 to 99       30          42
100 to 199     35          49
200 and over   50          70
 
   (C)   Exposed area. The EXPOSED AREA SUBJECTED TO WIND PRESSURE shall be the
total area of all parts of the sign, including structural framing projected on
a plane perpendicular to the direction of the wind. In determining the stress
in any member, the wind shall be assumed to blow from the horizontal direction
and from that inclination from the vertical (but not to exceed 20 degrees above
or below the horizontal) which produces the maximum stress in that member. No
shielding effect of one element by another shall be considered where the
distance between them exceeds four times the smaller projected dimension of the
windward element.
(Prior Code, § 9-15-13) (Ord. 98-05, passed 10-12-1998) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.14 CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Compliance with Building Code. All signs shall comply with the
appropriate detailed provisions of the City Building Code relating to design,
structural members, and connections. Signs shall also comply with the
provisions of the latest edition of the National Electrical Code and the
additional construction standards set forth in this chapter.
   (B)   Size of sign. No sign shall exceed one-half square foot per one foot
of frontage on the street side. A corner building may have a sign on one street
side only.
   (C)   Height of sign. No sign shall exceed the height of the building to
which it is affixed. Freestanding signs shall not exceed a height of 25 feet.
   (D)   Construction of signs, auxiliary specifications.
      (1)   Identification and marking. Each sign hereafter erected or
remodeled shall bear, in a permanent position thereon, a clearly legible
identification plate stating the name and address of the owner of the sign, and
person, firm, or corporation responsible for its construction, erection, and
the date of erection. Electrical signs shall be marked with input amperages at
the full load input.
      (2)   Sign identification tag. Each sign shall have a two-inch by four-
inch sticker placed on the sign that identifies the permit number that was
originally issued by the Administrator. This sticker shall be renewed on a
five-year basis as provided for in this chapter.
   (E)   Freestanding signs; materials. All freestanding sign structures or
poles shall be self-supporting structures erected on and permanently attached
to concrete foundations, and shall not exceed a height of 25 feet. Foundations
shall be designed to carry the weight and wind load of the sign in soil in
which it is placed. Such structures or poles shall be fabricated only from
painted or galvanized steel, or such other materials as may provide equal
strength.
   (F)   Electric signs. All electric signs shall conform to the standards of
the City Electrical Code. The full number of illuminating elements thereof
shall be kept in safe and working condition or immediately repaired or
replaced, if faulty. Signs that are only partially illuminated shall meet all
electrical requirements for that portion directly illuminated. All electric
signs shall have a disconnect switch located in accordance with the provisions
of the City Building Code.
   (G)   Glass. When glass is used for sign letters or transparent or
translucent panels, it shall be at least double strength thickness for sign
areas up to and including 300 square inches. When glass is used for sign
letters or transparent or translucent panels for sign areas in excess of 300
square inches, at least one-fourth inch wire glass shall be used and the
maximum span between supports shall be four feet.
   (H)   Plastic. Plastic shall be of thickness and shape necessary to
withstand wind loadings specified in §
153.13. Proper allowance or provision shall be made in connections to provide
for thermal contraction and expansion.
   (I)   Strength of parapet wall or roof. A parapet wall or roof must be
designed for and have sufficient strength to support any sign which is attached
thereto.
   (J)   Supports and braces. Metal supports or braces shall be adequate for
wind loads specified in §
153.13. Wire or cable supports shall have a safety factor of four. All metal,
wire cable supports, and braces, and all bolts used to attach the sign to a
bracket or brackets, and signs to the supporting building or structure, shall
be of galvanized steel or of an equivalent material. All sign supports shall be
an integral part of the sign design.
   (K)   Sign anchoring. Signs shall be anchored to prevent any lateral
movement that would cause wear on supporting members or connections. No sign
shall be suspended by chains or other devices that will allow the sign to swing
due to wind action, unless specifically designed by means of bearings or other
methods approved to allow for movement.
(Prior Code, § 9-15-14) (Ord. 98-05, passed 10-12-1998) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.15 ZONING AND OTHER REGULATIONS.
   No sign shall be placed or erected in violation of any zoning or other
regulations of the city.
(Prior Code, § 9-15-15) (Ord. 98-05, passed 10-12-1998) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.16 EXCEPTIONS AND EXEMPT SIGNS.
   (A)   Permit exception. The following operations shall not be considered as
creating a sign, insofar as requiring the issuance of a sign permit, but the
signs must be in conformance with the comprehensive plan, and all other
building, structural, and electrical laws and regulations of the city:
      (1)   Changing of the advertising copy of the message on an existing
approved painted or printed sign, marquee, changeable copy sign, or a similar
approved sign, whether electrical, illuminated, electronic changing message
center, or nonilluminated painted message, which are all specifically designed
for the use of replaceable copy;
      (2)   Painting, repainting, cleaning, or other normal maintenance and
repair of a sign not involving structural changes. Replacement of the plastic
face will be included as an exempt operation; provided, that it is due to a
change caused by breakage or deterioration of the face, but not for the
substitution of a new or different advertiser; and
      (3)   Changes in the content of show window displays and permitted
temporary signs.
   (B)   Exempt signs. The following types of signs are excepted and may be
erected without a permit, but must comply with the safety and maintenance
requirements in this chapter:
      (1)   Construction signs. One construction sign per construction project
not exceeding the size permitted by the zoning ordinance; provided, that such
signs shall be erected no more than five days prior to the beginning of
construction for which a valid building permit has been issued, shall be
confined to the site of construction, and shall be removed five days after
completion and prior to occupancy;
      (2)   Directional or instructional signs. Signs which provide direction
or instruction and are located entirely on the property to which they pertain
and do not in any way advertise a business and do not exceed four square feet
in area. Signs identifying restrooms, public telephones, walkways, or signs
providing directions such as parking lot entrance and exit signs, and those of
similar nature;
      (3)   Flags. The flags, emblems, or insignia of any nation or political
subdivision, or corporate flags;
      (4)   Governmental signs. Governmental signs for control of traffic and
other regulatory purposes, street signs, danger signs, railroad crossing signs,
and signs of public service companies indicating danger and aids to service or
safety which are erected by, or on the order of, a public officer in the
performance of his or her public duty;
      (5)   Holiday signs. Signs of a primarily decorative nature, clearly
incidental and customary and commonly associated with any national, local, or
religious holiday; provided, that such signs shall be displayed for a period of
not more than 30 consecutive days nor more than 60 days in any one year. Such
signs may be of any type, number, area, height, illumination, or animation; and
shall be set back not less than ten feet from all boundary lines of the lot;
provided, that a clear area be maintained to a height of 72 inches, within 55
feet of the centerline of the intersection of two streets, a railroad and a
street, and a street and driveway. Subject to the foregoing, any type of
holiday decorations that partially camouflage or divert attention from traffic
signals or directional signals are specifically prohibited;
      (6)   House numbers and nameplates. House numbers and nameplates not
exceeding two square feet in area for each residential building;
      (7)   Incidental signs. Up to two incidental signs, as defined in this
chapter, may be attached to a freestanding sign structure or to a building
wall. Area of each sign may not exceed five square feet. The total area of all
such signs may not exceed ten square feet;
      (8)   Interior signs. Signs located within the interior of any building
or stadium, shopping center, or within an enclosed lobby or court of any
building, and signs for and located within the inner or outer lobby, court, or
entrance of any theater that are not visible from the public right-of-way. This
does not, however, exempt such signs from the structural, electrical, or
material specifications as set out in this chapter;
      (9)   Memorial signs. Memorial signs or tablets, names of buildings, and
date of erection when cut into any masonry surface or inlaid so as to be part
of the building, or when constructed of bronze or other incombustible material;
      (10)   Notice bulletin boards. Notice bulletin boards not over 24 square
feet in area for medical, public, charitable, or religious institutions where
the same are located on the premises of said institution;
      (11)   No trespassing or no dumping signs. No trespassing or no dumping
signs not to exceed one and one-half square feet in area per sign and not to
exceed four in number per lot, except that special permission may be obtained
from the Administrator for additional signs under proven special circumstances;
      (12)   Occupant signs. One sign for each dwelling unit not to exceed two
square feet in area indicating the name of the occupant, or identification of a
home professional office;
      (13)   Plaques. Plaques or nameplate signs not more than two and one-half
square feet in area which are fastened directly to the building;
      (14)   Political and campaign signs. Political or campaign signs on
behalf of candidates for public office or measures on election ballots;
provided, that said signs are subject to the following regulations:
         (a)   Said signs may be erected not earlier than 45 days prior to said
election and shall be removed within 15 days following said election; and
         (b)   No sign shall be located within or over the public right-of-way.
      (15)   Public notices. Official notices posted by public officers or
employees in the performance of their duties;
      (16)   Public signs. Signs required or specifically authorized for a
public purpose by any law, statute, or ordinance, which may be of any type,
number, area, height above grade, location, illumination, or animation required
by the law, statute, or ordinance under which the signs are erected;
      (17)   Real estate signs. One real estate for sale sign (single or double
face) on any lot or parcel, provided such sign is located entirely within the
property to which the sign applies, is not illuminated, does not exceed the
area permitted by the zoning ordinance, and is removed within seven days after
the sale, rental, or lease has been consummated. One additional sign, as
described in this division (B)(17), is permitted where a parcel has in excess
of 300 feet of frontage or fronts on two streets;
      (18)   Permanent window signs. Except where prohibited by the zoning
ordinance, for each ground floor occupancy of a building, not more than two
permanent signs may be painted on or otherwise displayed from the inside
surface of any window, showcase, or other similar facility. Said signs shall be
in addition to those signs permitted under the other provisions of this
chapter. The total copy area of such signs, however, shall not exceed a maximum
of 25% of the total window area, or one square foot per linear front foot of
the premises occupied, whichever is the lesser;
      (19)   Signs in display window. Signs in the display window of a business
use which are incorporated with a display relating to services offered;
      (20)   Symbols or insignia. Religious symbols, commemorative plaques of
historical agencies, or identification emblems of religious orders or
historical agencies; provided, that no such symbol, plaque, or identification
emblem shall exceed four square feet in area; and provided further, that all
such symbols, plaques, and identification emblems shall be placed flat against
a building;
      (21)   Temporary signs. Temporary signs not exceeding four square feet in
area pertaining to drives or events of civic, philanthropic, educational, or
religious organizations; provided, that said signs are posted only during said
drive or no more than 30 days before said event and are removed no more than
seven days after an event. The City Council may grant a temporary permit for
signs or banners over a street or public way. A temporary banner may exceed
four square feet in area; and
      (22)   Warning signs. Signs warning the public of the existence of
danger, but containing no advertising material, of a size as may be necessary,
to be removed upon subsidence of danger.
(Prior Code, § 9-15-16) (Ord. 98-05, passed 10-12-1998) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.17 BILLBOARDS AND OFF-PREMISES SIGNS.
   Billboards and off-premises signs will be permitted in commercial and
industrial zones by special use permit (SUP) only.
(Prior Code, § 9-15-17) (Ord. 98-05, passed 10-12-1998) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.18 REMOVAL AND DISPOSAL OF SIGNS.
   (A)   Maintenance and repair.
      (1)   Every sign, including, but not limited to, those signs for which
permits are required or for which no permits or permit fees are required, shall
be maintained in a safe, presentable, and good structural material condition at
all times, including the repair or replacement of defective parts, painting,
repainting, cleaning, and other acts required for the maintenance of said sign.
      (2)   The Administrator shall require compliance with all standards of
this chapter. If the sign is not made to comply with adequate safety and
maintenance standards, the Administrator shall require its removal in
accordance with this section.
   (B)   Abandoned signs. Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, any on-
premises sign which is located on property which becomes vacant and unoccupied
for a period of three months or more, or any sign which pertains to a time,
event, or purpose which no longer applies, shall be deemed to have been
ABANDONED. Permanent signs applicable to a business temporarily suspended
because of a change of ownership or management of such business shall not be
deemed abandoned unless the property remains vacant for a period of six months
or more. Any off-premises sign which no longer, and for a period of three
consecutive months, advertises goods, products, services, or facilities
available to the public or which directs persons to a different location where
such goods, products, services, or facilities are not, for a period of three
consecutive months, available, shall be deemed to have been abandoned.
Abandoned signs shall be removed by the owner of the premises on which the sign
is located.
   (C)   Dangerous or defective signs. No person shall maintain or permit to be
maintained on any premises owned or controlled by him or her any sign which is
in a dangerous or defective condition. Any such sign shall be removed or
repaired by the owner of the premises or the owner of the sign. Upon failure of
the owner to remove or repair a dangerous or defective sign, the Administrator
shall proceed as described in division (F) below.
   (D)   Unlawful signs. No person shall erect or permit to be erected any sign
which does not comply with the provisions of this chapter.
   (E)   Sign in right-of-way. Any sign located in or projecting over a public
right-of-way at the time of the effective date hereof, which was subject to
removal or relocation at the owner’s expense, pursuant to a permit or other
ordinance of the city, shall be removed by the owner or altered at the owner’s
expense to comply with the regulations of this chapter.
   (F)   Removal of signs by Administrator.
      (1)   The Administrator shall cause to be removed any sign that endangers
the public safety such as an abandoned, dangerous, or materially, electrically,
or structurally defective sign, or a sign for which no permit has been issued.
The Administrator shall prepare a notice which shall describe the sign and
specify the violation involved and which shall state that if the sign is not
removed or the violation is not corrected within ten days, the sign shall be
removed in accordance with the provisions of this section.
      (2)   All notices required by this chapter may be mailed to the property
owner at the address shown on county records, or delivered to the owner or
posted on the property. Any time periods provided in this section shall be
deemed to commence on the date of mailing or delivery.
      (3)   Notwithstanding divisions (F)(1) and (F)(2) above, in cases of
emergency, the Administrator may cause the immediate removal of a dangerous or
defective sign without notice.
   (G)   Disposal of signs; costs.
      (1)   Any sign removed by the Administrator pursuant to the provisions of
this section shall become the property of the city and may be disposed of in
any manner deemed appropriate by the city. The cost of removal of the sign by
the city shall be considered a debt owed to the city by the owner of the sign
and the owner of the property, and may be recovered in an appropriate court
action by the city. The cost of removal shall include any and all incidental
expenses incurred by the city in connection with the sign removal.
      (2)   When it is determined by the Administrator that said sign would
cause an imminent danger to the public safety, and contact cannot be made with
a sign owner or building owner, no written notice shall have to be served. In
this emergency situation, the Administrator may correct the danger, all costs
being charged to the sign owner and property owner.
      (3)   If it shall be necessary for the Administrator to remove a sign
pursuant to the provisions hereof, and it should be practicable to sell or
salvage any material derived in the aforesaid removal, he or she may sell the
same at private or public sale at the best price obtainable, and shall keep an
account of the proceeds thereof. Such proceeds, if any, shall be used to offset
the costs of removal to be charged to the sign owner or property owner. The
city may file a suit in court to collect any excess over such cost, and the
cost of the removal shall be levied as an assessment against the property on
which the sign is located.
(Prior Code, § 9-15-18) (Ord. 98-05, passed 10-12-1998)
§ 153.19 VIOLATIONS DEEMED NUISANCE.
   Any sign existing in violation of the provisions of this chapter is declared
a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 9-15-19) (Ord. 98-05, passed 10-12-1998) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.20 APPEAL.
   Any person who has been ordered by the Building Inspector to alter, repair,
construct, or remove any sign coming under the jurisdiction of the Building
Inspector, or any person whose application for a permit for a sign has been
refused, may appeal the determination in writing to the City Building Board of
Appeals through the City Clerk within ten days after receipt of the notice.
(Prior Code, § 9-15-20) (Ord. 98-05, passed 10-12-1998)
§ 153.21 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If any portion of this chapter is found to be in conflict with any other
provision of any zoning, building, fire safety, or health ordinance of the
city, the provision which establishes the higher standard shall prevail.
(Prior Code, § 9-15-21) (Ord. 98-05, passed 10-12-1998)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of this chapter
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and fined not more than $300 for each offense.
A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues.
(Prior Code, § 9-15-22) (Ord. 98-05, passed 10-12-1998)
CHAPTER 154: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
154.001   Short title
   
154.002   Authority
   
154.003   Purpose
   
154.004   Jurisdiction
   
154.005   Interpretation
   
154.006   Definitions
Plats and Procedures
   
154.020   Application required
   
154.021   Fee
   
154.022   Pre-application procedure
   
154.023   Preliminary plat application
   
154.024   Final plat
   
154.025   Plat approval and filing
   
154.026   Lot splits
   
154.027   Time limits
Design Standards
   
154.040   Minimum standards required
   
154.041   Location of streets and roads
   
154.042   Street widths
   
154.043   Intersections
   
154.044   Street names
   
154.045   Pedestrian walkways
   
154.046   Blocks
   
154.047   Lots
   
154.048   Easements
   
154.049   Planting strips and reserve strips
   
154.050   Public sites and open spaces
Improvements Required
   
154.065   Installation required
   
154.066   Monuments
   
154.067   Streets and alleys
   
154.068   Curbs and gutters
   
154.069   Street signs
   
154.070   Streetlights
   
154.071   Sidewalks and pedestrian walkways
   
154.072   Underground utilities
   
154.073   Water supply and sewer systems
   
154.074   Storm drainage; flood controls
   
154.075   Fire hydrants and water mains
   
154.076   Greenbelt areas; landscape screening
   
154.077   Construction of improvements
   
154.078   Construction plans
   
154.079   Guarantee of improvements
   
154.080   Inspections
   
154.081   Inspector on development site
   
154.082   Inspection prior to acceptance
   
154.083   Failure to complete public improvement construction
   
154.084   Warranty requirement
   
154.085   As built plans
Special Development Subdivisions
   
154.100   Purpose and summary of provisions
   
154.101   Supplementary provisions
   
154.102   Preservation of natural features
   
154.103   Development evaluation
   
154.104   Engineering plans
   
154.105   Grading plans
   
154.106   Development standards
   
154.107   Vegetation and revegetation
   
154.108   Maintenance required
   
154.109   Underground utilities
   
154.110   Application of provisions
   
154.111   Site development plan
   
154.112   Site and structure requirements
   
154.113   Control during development; time limit
   
154.114   Large scale development subdivisions; required information
   
154.115   Cemetery subdivisions
   
154.116   Subdivision within floodplain
   
154.117   Subdivision within area of critical concern
Administration and Enforcement
   
154.130   Administration
   
154.131   Vacations and dedications
   
154.132   Variances
   
154.133   Amendments
   
154.134   Enforcement
 
   
154.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.001 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Subdivision Ordinance
of the City of Troy.”
(Prior Code, § 10-1-1) (Ord. 98-4, passed 10-12-1998)
§ 154.002 AUTHORITY.
   These regulations are authorized by Idaho Code Title 50, Chapter 13 and
Title 67, Chapter 65; and Article 12, § 2 of the State Constitution, as amended
or subsequently codified.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-2) (Ord. 98-4, passed 10-12-1998)
§ 154.003 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of these regulations is to promote the public health, safety,
and general welfare, and to provide for:
   (A)   The harmonious development of the city and its area of impact;
   (B)   The coordination of streets and roads within a subdivision with other
existing planned streets and roads;
   (C)   Adequate open space for travel, light, air, and recreation;
   (D)   Adequate transportation, water drainage, and sanitary facilities;
   (E)   The avoidance of the scattered subdivision of land that would result
in either of the following:
      (1)   The lack of water supply, sewer service, drainage, transportation,
or other public services; or
      (2)   The unnecessary imposition of an excessive expenditure of public
funds for the supply of such services.
   (F)   Requirements as to the extent and the manner in which:
      (1)   Roads and pedestrianways shall be created, improved, and
maintained;
      (2)   Water and sewer and other utility mains, piping connections, or
other facilities shall be installed; and
      (3)   Impact on public facilities may be mitigated.
   (G)   The manner and form of making and filing of any plats;
   (H)   The administration of these regulations by defining the powers and
duties of approving authorities; and
   (I)   Public participation in the subdivision process.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-3) (Ord. 98-4, passed 10-12-1998)
§ 154.004 JURISDICTION.
   These regulations shall apply to the subdivision of land within the
corporate limits of the city, including the property outside the corporate
limits of the city as defined by the city and the county under the requirements
of Idaho Code §§ 50-1306 and 67-6526, as amended.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-4) (Ord. 98-4, passed 10-12-1998)
§ 154.005 INTERPRETATION.
   All subdivisions, as herein defined, shall be submitted for approval by the
City Council and shall comply with the provisions of these regulations. These
regulations shall supplement all other regulations, and where at variance with
other laws, regulations, ordinances or resolutions, the more restrictive
requirements shall apply.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-5) (Ord. 98-4, passed 10-12-1998)
§ 154.006 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Terms or words used herein shall be interpreted as follows.
      (1)   The present tense includes the past or future tense, the singular
includes the plural, and the plural includes the singular.
      (2)   The word SHALL is mandatory; the word MAY is permissive; and the
world SHOULD is preferred.
      (3)   The masculine shall include the feminine.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ADMINISTRATOR. An official having knowledge in the principles and
practices of subdividing, who is appointed by the City Council to administer
this chapter.
      ALLEY. A minor street providing secondary access at the back or side of a
property otherwise abutting a street.
      ARTERIAL STREET. A street designated for the purpose of carrying fast
and/or heavy traffic.
      BLOCK. A group of lots, tracts, or parcels within will defined
boundaries, usually streets.
      BUILDING. A structure designed or used as the living quarters for one or
more families, or a structure designed for use as an accessory to a structure
used for living quarters, or a structure designed for commercial or industrial
uses.
      BUILDING SETBACK. An imaginary line established by a zoning ordinance
that requires all buildings to be set back a certain distance from lot lines.
      BUILDING SITE. An area proposed or provided and improved by grading,
filling, excavation, or other means for erecting pads for buildings and bounded
on at least one side by a dedicated and developed street.
      CEMETERY. A lot that has been platted for the selling of sites for the
burial of animal or human remains.
      CITY. City of Troy, Idaho.
      CITY COUNCIL. The City Council of Troy, Idaho.
      COLLECTOR STREET. A street designated for the purpose of carrying traffic
from minor streets to other collector streets and/or arterial streets.
      COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. An adopted document that herein may be referred to as
a comprehensive plan or comprehensive development plan as provided for in Idaho
Code Title 67, Chapter 65.
      CONDOMINIUM. An estate consisting of an undivided interest in common in
real property, in an interest or interests in real property, or in any
combination thereof, together with a separate interest in real property, in an
interest or interests in real property, or in any combination thereof.
      COUNTY RECORDER. The office of the County Recorder.
      COVENANT. A written promise or pledge.
      CUL-DE-SAC. A street connected to another street at one end only and
provided with a turnaround space at its terminus.
      CULVERT. A drain that channels water under a bridge, street, road, or
driveway.
      DEAD END STREET. A street connecting to another street at one end only
and not having provision for vehicular turnaround at its terminus.
      DEDICATION. The setting apart of land or interests in land for use by the
public by ordinance, resolution, or entry in the official minutes as by the
recording of a plat. Dedicated land becomes public upon the acceptance by the
city.
      DEVELOPER. Authorized agent of a subdivider or the subdivider himself or
herself.
      DWELLING UNIT. Any building or other structure proposed or built for
occupancy by people.
      EASEMENT. A grant by a property owner to specific persons or to the
public to use land for specific purposes. Also, a right acquired by
prescription.
      ENGINEER. Any person who is registered in the state to practice civil
engineering.
      EXCAVATION. Any digging, breaching, or disruption of vegetation, soil, or
other protective barriers which is likely to expose soil and/or contaminants to
the environment.
      FLOODPLAIN. The relatively flat area or lowland adjoining the channel of
a river, stream, lake, or other body of water which has been or may be covered
by water of a flood of 100-year frequency. The FLOODPLAIN includes the channel,
floodway, or floodway fringe, as established pursuant to engineering practices
of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, as follows.
         (a)   CHANNEL. A natural or artificial watercourse of perceptible
extent, with definite bed and banks to confine and conduct continuously or
periodically flowing water.
         (b)   FLOOD. The temporary inundation of land adjacent to and
inundated by overflow from a river, stream, lake, or other body of water.
         (c)   FLOOD, 100-YEAR FREQUENCY. A flood magnitude which has a 1%
chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year.
         (d)   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood
without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
         (e)   FLOODWAY FRINGE. The part of the floodplain which is beyond the
floodway. Such areas include those portions of the floodplain which will be
inundated by flood of 100-year frequency.
      FRONTAGE STREET. A minor street, parallel to and/or adjacent to an
arterial street, to provide access to abutting properties.
      GOVERNING BODY. The City Council of the City of Troy, Idaho.
      HIGHWAY. A street designated as a highway by an appropriate state or
federal agency.
      HILLSIDE SUBDIVISION. Any subdivision, or portion thereof, having an
average slope not to exceed 15%.
      IMPROVEMENT. Any alteration to the land or other physical construction
associated with subdivision and building site development.
      LARGE SCALE DEVELOPMENT. A subdivision, the size of which consists of 50
or more lots or dwellings.
      LOOP STREET. A minor street in which both terminal points are on the same
street of origin.
      LOT. A parcel, plot, tract, or other land area of suitable size as
required in these regulations and any existing zoning ordinance, and created by
subdivision for sale, transfer, or lease.
      LOT AREA. The area of any lot shall be determined exclusive of street,
highway, alley, road, or rights-of-way of record.
      LOT DIVISION. A division of an existing parcel of land which creates one
additional building lot in conformance with standards contained in this
chapter.
      LOT TYPES. As used in these regulations, LOT TYPES are as follows.
         (a)   CORNER LOT. A lot located at the intersection of two or more
streets.
         (b)   FLAG POLE LOT. A lot divided to create separate lots, which must
have an access road at least 20 feet wide to the street.
         (c)   INTERIOR LOT. A lot other than a corner lot with frontage on
only one street other than a corner lot.
         (d)   THROUGH LOT. A lot with frontage on more than one street other
than a corner lot.
      MAJOR SUBDIVISION. Any subdivision not able to qualify as a minor
subdivision, including, but not limited to, a subdivision of more than four
lots, or any size subdivisions requiring any new street or extension of the
local government facilities, or the creation of any public improvements.
      MANUFACTURED HOME. A single-family dwelling unit of at least 1,000 square
feet in size with all of the following characteristics:
         (a)   Designed for long-term occupancy, certified by the U.S.
Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) and containing complete bath
and kitchen facilities with plumbing and electrical connections provided for
attachment to outside systems;
         (b)   Designed to be transported after fabrication according to
manufacturer’s specifications and all regulating agencies; and
         (c)   Delivered to the site where it is to be occupied as a complete
dwelling unit and ready for occupancy, except for minor and incidental
unpacking and assembly operations, location on foundation, connection to
utilities, and the like.
      MINOR STREET. A street which has the primary purpose of providing access
to abutting properties.
      MINOR SUBDIVISION. Any subdivision containing not more than four lots
fronting on an existing street, not involving any new street or road, or the
extension of municipal city facilities, or the creation of any public
improvements, and not adversely affecting the remainder of the parcel or
adjoining property, and not in conflict with any provision or portion of any
city comprehensive plan, zoning ordinance, or this chapter.
      MOBILE HOME. A detached single-family unit fabricated prior to 1976 with
all of the following characteristics:
         (a)   Designed for long-term occupancy, containing sleeping
accommodations, a flush toilet, a tub or shower, bath and kitchen facilities
with plumbing and electrical connections provided for attachment to outside
systems;
         (b)   Designed to be transported after fabrication on its own wheels,
or on flatbed or other trailers, or detached wheels according to requirements
of all regulating agencies; and
         (c)   Delivered to the site where it is to be occupied as a complete
dwelling unit, including major appliances and furniture, and ready for
occupancy, except for minor and incidental unpacking and assembly operations,
location on foundation supports, and connection to utilities, and the like.
      MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION. A subdivision designed and intended for
exclusive mobile home residential use.
      MONUMENT. Any permanent marker either of concrete, galvanized iron pipe,
or iron or steel rods, used to identify any tract, parcel, lot, or street
lines, as specified in Idaho Code § 50-1303.
      OPEN SPACE. An area open to the sky for outdoor recreation activity or
kept open for aesthetic purposes, exclusive of streets, buildings, or other
covered structures.
      ORIGINAL PARCEL. An original lot or tract as recorded on any plat of
record on file in the office of the County Recorder, or any unplatted
contiguous parcel of land held in one ownership as of the date of adoption
hereof.
      OWNER. An individual, firm, association, syndicate, partnership, or
corporation having any interest, legal or equitable, in the land to be
subdivided.
      PARTIAL RIGHT-OF-WAY. A dedicated right-of-way providing only a portion
of the required street width, usually along the edge of a subdivision or tract
of land.
      PERFORMANCE BOND. An amount of money, bond, or other negotiable security,
paid by the subdivider/developer or his or her surety to the City Clerk, which
guarantees that the subdivider will perform all actions required by the
governing body regarding an approved plat, and provides that if the subdivider
defaults and fails to comply with the provisions of an approved plat, the
subdivider or his or her surety will pay damages up to the limit of the BOND,
or the surety will itself complete the requirements of the approved plat. No
building permit shall be issued for a new subdivision until a BOND is secured
and approved by the City Council.
      PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD). A development that has one or more of the
following characteristics:
         (a)   Is designed as a combination of residential, commercial, and
industrial uses on one or more parcels;
         (b)   Has both open space and clustered higher density use on parts of
the parcel;
         (c)   Is either developed as project which will operate under single
ownership or control, or is developed for the purpose of selling individual
lots or estates which will be sold; and/or
         (d)   Lots may utilize either dedicated streets or, at the discretion
of the City Council, private streets.
      PLAT. The drawing, mapping, or planning of a subdivision, cemetery, town
site, or other tract of land or a replatting of such, including certifications,
descriptions, and approvals, including the following.
         (a)   FINAL PLAT. The final and formal presentation by drawing of an
approved subdivision development, the original and one copy of which is filed
with the County Clerk and Recorder and containing the elements and requirements
set forth in Idaho Code Title 50, Chapter 13, and in this chapter.
         (b)   PRELIMINARY PLAT. The first formal presentation by drawings of a
proposed subdivision.
         (c)   REPLAT. A change of a recorded subdivision if such change
affects any road, lane, or street layout shown on such plat map, any area
reserved thereon for public use, any change of a lot line, any change of
dedicatory statements, or any such change if it affects any plat or subdivision
legally recorded.
      PRIVATE STREET. A street that is not accepted for public use or
maintenance which provides vehicular and pedestrian access and utility
easements.
      RESERVE STRIP. A strip of land between a partial street and adjacent
property which is reserved or held in public ownership for future street
extension or widening, or for public utilities.
      RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land dedicated or reserved for use as a public
way which normally includes streets, sidewalks, and other public utilities or
service areas.
      STANDARD SPECIFICATIONS. The standards as specified in this chapter, or
as officially adopted by the city, including, but not limited to, the Uniform
Building Code, National Electrical Code, Uniform Plumbing Code, Uniform
Mechanical Code, Uniform Housing Code, and National Fire Safety Code. Any
exceptions to these codes are listed in §§
154.020 through
154.027.
      STATE. The State of Idaho.
      STREET. A right-of-way which provides access to adjacent properties, the
dedication of which has been officially accepted. The term STREET also includes
the terms highway, thoroughfare, parkway, road, avenue, boulevard, lane, place,
and other such terms.
      SUBDIVIDER. The individual, firm, corporation, partnership, association,
syndicate, trust, or other legal entity that executes the application and
initiates proceedings for the subdivision of land in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter. The SUBDIVIDER need not be the owner of the
property; however, he or she shall be the agent of the owner or have sufficient
proprietary rights in the property to represent the owner.
      SUBDIVISION. The result of an act of dividing an original lot, tract, or
parcel of land into more than two parts for the purpose of transfer of
ownership or development, which shall also include the dedications of a public
street and the addition to, or creation of, a cemetery. SUBDIVISIONS shall be
divided into minor subdivisions, major subdivisions, and large scale
developments, as those terms are defined in this section. However, this
definition shall not apply to any of the following:
         (a)   An adjustment of lot lines as shown on a recorded plat which
does not reduce the area, frontage, width, depth of building setback lines of
each building site below the minimum zoning requirements, and does not change
the original number of lots in any block of the recorded plat;
         (b)   An allocation of land in the settlement of an estate of a
decedent or a court decree for the distribution of property;
         (c)   The unwilling sale of land as a result of legal condemnation as
defined and allowed in the Idaho Code;
         (d)   Widening of existing streets to conform to the comprehensive
plan;
         (e)   Acquisition of street rights-of-way by a public agency in
conformance with the comprehensive plan; and
         (f)   The exchange of land for the purpose of straightening property
boundaries which does not result in the change of present land usage.
      SURVEYOR. Any person who is licensed in the state as a professional land
surveyor to do surveying.
      UTILITIES. Installations for conducting water, sewage, gas, electricity,
television, telephone, stormwater, and similar facilities providing service to
and used by the public.
      VARIANCE. A modification of the requirements of this chapter as to lot
size, lot coverage, width, depth, front yard, side yard, or rear yard setbacks,
parking space, height of buildings, or other ordinance provisions affecting the
size or shape of a structure or the placement of the structure upon lots, or
the size of lots.
      VICINITY MAP. A small scale map showing the location of a tract of land
in relation to a larger area.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-6) (Ord. 98-4, passed 10-12-1998; Ord. 2003-04, passed 10-
27-2003)
PLATS AND PROCEDURES
§ 154.020 APPLICATION REQUIRED.
Any person desiring to create a subdivision, as defined in §
154.006, shall submit all necessary applications to the Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-1) (Ord. 98-4, passed 10-12-1998)
§ 154.021 FEE.
   At the time of submission of an application for a preliminary plat and
application for a final plat, a fee, as established in the official fee
schedule of the city, shall be paid. The fee schedule shall be adopted by the
City Council by resolution. There shall be no additional fee for the combining
of the preliminary and final plats.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-2) (Ord. 98-4, passed 10-12-1998)
§ 154.022 PRE-APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Submission of pre-application. The subdivider shall submit a pre-
application to enable the Council to review and comment on the proposed
subdivision. Comments made at this stage are advisory only.
   (B)   Sketch plan. The pre-application shall include at least one copy of a
sketch plan. The sketch plan shall include the entire developmental scheme of
the proposed subdivision, in schematic form, and including the following:
      (1)   The general layout and approximate dimensions of streets, blocks,
and lots in sketch form;
      (2)   The existing conditions and characteristics of the land on and
adjacent to the proposed subdivision site; and
      (3)   The areas set aside for schools, parks, and other public
facilities.
   (C)   Action by Council. The Council shall notify the subdivider within 65
days from the date of receipt of an acceptable pre-application as to the
general conformance or nonconformance of the proposal with this chapter, shall
provide the necessary forms and checklists, and shall comment on the following:
      (1)   Compliance of the proposed development with existing local or state
governmental goals and objectives of comprehensive plans;
      (2)   Determination if additional special permits such as rezone, special
development permit, or variance, are needed and the manner of coordinating such
permits, and if conflicts with this chapter exist;
      (3)   Consideration of any unique environmental features or hazardous
concerns that may be directly or indirectly associated with the subject
property, such as areas that have been designated by the state as areas of
critical concern, unique plant or animal life, floodplain, airport flight
pattern, and the like;
      (4)   Consideration of other local and state governmental agencies that
the subdivider should contact before preparing a preliminary plat; and
      (5)   Such action shall not vest any right to the subdivider.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-3) (Ord. 98-4, passed 10-12-1998)
§ 154.023 PRELIMINARY PLAT APPLICATION.
   (A)   Filing of preliminary plat application and data. The subdivider shall
file with the Administrator a complete subdivision application form and
preliminary plat data as required in this section.
   (B)   Combining preliminary and final plat in minor subdivisions.
      (1)   The applicant may request that the subdivision be processed as both
a preliminary and final plat if all the following exist.
         (a)   The proposed subdivision does not exceed four lots.
         (b)   No new street dedication of street widening is involved.
         (c)   No major special development considerations are involved, such
as development in a floodplain, hillside development, and the like.
         (d)   All required information for both preliminary and final plat is
complete and in an acceptable form.
         (e)   The proposed subdivision is not in conflict with any
comprehensive plan or zoning ordinance of the city.
      (2)   A request to combine both preliminary plat and final plat into one
application shall be acted upon by the Council upon recommendation of the
Administrator.
   (C)   Required information and data.
      (1)   The contents of the preliminary plat and related information shall
be in such a form as stipulated by the City Council; however, any additional
maps or data deemed necessary by the Council may also be required.
      (2)   The subdivider shall submit to the Administrator at least the
following:
         (a)   Six copies of the preliminary plat of the proposed subdivision,
drawn in accordance with the requirements hereinafter stated. Each copy of the
preliminary plat shall be on good quality paper, shall have the dimensions of
not less than 18 inches by 27 inches, shall be drawn to a scale of one inch to
100 feet or larger, shall show the drafting date, and shall indicate thereon,
by arrow, the generally northerly direction;
         (b)   Six sets of preliminary engineering plans (not meant to be
cross-sections or detailed designs) for streets, water, sewers, sidewalks, and
other required public improvements; however, such engineering plans shall
contain sufficient information and detail to make a determination as to
conformance of the proposed improvements to applicable regulations, ordinances,
and standards;
         (c)   A written application with authorized signatures of the owners
requesting approval of the preliminary plan; and
         (d)   Appropriate information that sufficiently details the proposed
development within any special development area, such as hillside, planned unit
development, floodplain, cemetery, mobile home, manufactured home, large scale
development, hazardous and unique areas of development.
      (3)   The following shall be submitted separately:
         (a)   The name of the proposed subdivision;
         (b)   The name, address, and telephone numbers of the subdivider or
subdividers and the engineer or surveyor who prepared the plat;
         (c)   The name and address of all adjoining owners of property and
residents within 300 feet of the external boundaries of the land being
considered, whether or not bisected by a public right-of-way, as shown on
record in the County Assessor’s office;
         (d)   The legal description of the subdivision;
         (e)   The statement of the intended use of the proposed subdivision,
such as residential single-family, two-family, and multiple housing,
commercial, industrial, recreational, or agricultural, and a designation of any
sites proposed for parks, playgrounds, schools, churches, or other public uses;
         (f)   A map of the entire area scheduled for development if the
proposed subdivision is a portion of a larger holding intended for subsequent
development. A map shall be submitted showing the location of existing
buildings, water bodies or courses, and the location of currently dedicated
streets at the point where they adjoin and/or are immediately adjacent;
provided, that actual measured distances shall not be required;
         (g)   A vicinity map showing the relationship of the proposed plat to
the surrounding area (one-half mile, scale option);
         (h)   The land use and existing zoning of the proposed subdivision and
the adjacent land;
         (i)   Streets, street names, rights-of-way and roadway widths,
including adjoining streets or roadways;
         (j)   Lot lines and blocks showing the dimensions and numbers of each;
         (k)   Contour lines, shown at 20-foot intervals where land slope is
greater than 8% and at five-foot where land slope is 8% or less, referenced to
an established bench mark, including location and elevation;
         (l)   A site report as required by the appropriate health district
where individual wells or septic tanks are proposed;
         (m)   Any proposed or existing utilities, including, but not limited
to, storm and sanitary sewers, irrigation laterals, ditches, drainages,
bridges, culverts, water mains, fire hydrants, and their respective profiles;
         (n)   Any dedications to the public and/or easements, together with a
statement of location, dimensions, and purpose of such;
         (o)   Any additional required information for special developments as
specified in §§
154.100 through
154.117; and
         (p)   A statement as to whether or not a variance, as specified in §
154.132, will be requested with respect to any provision of this chapter,
describing the particular provision, the variance requested and the reasons
therefor.
      (4)   The preliminary plat shall clearly show the following:
         (a)   Primary control points, approved by an engineer/surveyor
designated by the city, or a description and ties to such control points, to
which all dimensions, angles, bearings, and similar data on the plat shall be
referenced. Such primary control points must include either a section corner or
quarter section corner, according to government survey;
         (b)   Location and description of monuments;
         (c)   Tract boundary line, property lines, lot lines, and right-of-way
lines of streets, easements, and other rights-of-way, with accurate dimensions,
bearings, or deflection angles and radii, arcs, and center angles of all
curves;
         (d)   Names and locations of adjoining subdivisions;
         (e)   The length of all lot lines dimensioned in feet and decimals
thereof, and the value of all required true bearings and angles dimensioned in
degrees, minutes, and seconds;
         (f)   The blocks numbered consecutively throughout the entire
subdivision and lots numbered consecutively throughout each block, with areas
to be excluded from platting marked “reserved” or “not a part;”
         (g)   The outline of any property, other than streets or alleys, by
lengths and bearings, with the area marked “public” and showing the proposed
use;
         (h)   A title which shall include the name of the subdivision, name of
the city, county, and state, and the location and description of the
subdivision referenced to section, township, and range;
         (i)   Scale, north arrow, and date; and
         (j)   Plats must be prepared and signed by a professional land
surveyor. A civil engineer must prepare and sign the improvement plans for the
development and any other required offsite improvements.
   (D)   Procedure for approval of preliminary plat.
      (1)   Administrative review.
         (a)   Certification by Council, public hearing. Upon receipt of the
preliminary plat and all other required data as provided for herein, the
Administrator shall certify the application as complete and shall affix the
date of application acceptance thereon. The Council shall schedule a public
hearing, which hearing shall be held within 45 days of the date of
certification of a complete application.
         (b)   Review by other agencies. The Administrator shall refer the
preliminary plat and application to as many governmental agencies as required
by law or as deemed necessary. Such agencies may include the following:
            1.   Other governing bodies having joint jurisdiction;
            2.   The appropriate utility companies, irrigation companies, or
districts and drainage districts;
            3.   The Superintendent/School Board of the school district; and
            4.   Other agencies having an interest in the proposed subdivision,
including, but not limited to, fire/safety, police, emergency, transportation,
and commerce.
         (c)   Recommendation by Administrator. The Administrator shall provide
that any transmittal as provided in division (D)(1)(b) above will be returned
within 20 days. At the end of the 20-day period, the Administrator shall supply
all agency responses to the Council.
      (2)   Public notification.
         (a)   At least 15 days prior to the date set for preliminary
subdivision hearing, the Administrator shall cause to be published in the legal
city newspaper, a notice of the public hearing. Such notice shall give the
date, time, place, and purpose of the hearing and a description of the location
in clear and concise language.
         (b)   The city shall inform all property owners within a 300-foot
radius of the subject site by mail by a prepared notice of public hearing
identifying the date, time, place, and purpose of the hearing. All property
owners shall be deemed notified by mail when the notice directed to the
property owners’ attention is deposited in the U.S. mail at least ten days
prior to the hearing. Said property owners are those shown on the most current
assessor’s records obtained by the subdivider and from a title company no more
than 30 days prior to the hearing.
         (c)   One or more signs no smaller than 11 inches by 17 inches shall
be supplied and erected by the city in a conspicuous place as determined by the
Administrator at least seven days prior to the hearing. Said sign will be
supplied by the city. Legible block lettering shall state: subdivision name;
number of acres; number of lots; proposed zoning; proposed use; subdivider’s
name, address and telephone number; and date, time, and place of hearing.
         (d)   All costs related to public notification shall be borne by the
developer.
      (3)   Public hearing. A public hearing shall be held on the subdivision
in accordance with the city hearing procedures ordinance. If a quorum is not
present at the Council meeting, the public hearing will be continued to the
next regular Council meeting and dealt with by the Council at that time.
      (4)   Action by Council.
         (a)   Council findings. In determining the acceptance of a proposed
subdivision, the Council shall consider the objectives of this chapter and at
least the following:
            1.   The conformance of the subdivision with the comprehensive
development plan;
            2.   The availability of public services to accommodate the
proposed development;
            3.   The continuity of the proposed development with any capital
improvement program;
            4.   The public financial capability of supporting services for the
proposed development; and
            5.   Conditions necessary to mitigate the impact the development
will have on public facilities and other health, safety, and environmental
problems that may be brought to the Council’s attention.
         (b)   Action on preliminary plat. The Council may approve,
conditionally approve, disapprove, or table for a period not to exceed 60 days.
Such action shall occur within 60 days of the date of the regular meeting at
which the plat is first considered by the Council. The action, and the reasons
for such action, shall be stated in writing by the Council and forwarded to the
applicant. Upon granting or denying a preliminary plat, the Council shall
specify:
            1.   The ordinances and standards used in evaluating the
application;
            2.   The reasons for recommending approval or denial; and
            3.   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain
approval of the preliminary plat.
         (c)   Action on combined preliminary and final plat. If the Council
conclusion is favorable to the subdivider’s request for the subdivision to be
considered as both a preliminary plat and final plat, then action shall be
taken in the same manner as herein specified for a final plat. The Council may
approve, approve conditionally, or disapprove the combined application.
   (E)   Approval period.
      (1)   Failure to file with and obtain the certification of the acceptance
of the final plat application by the Council within one year after action by
the City Council shall cause all approvals of said preliminary plat to be null
and void, unless the subdivider, prior to said expiration date, applies for an
extension of time and such extension is granted by the City Council.
      (2)   In the event that the development of the preliminary plat is made
in successive, contiguous segments in an orderly and reasonable manner, such
phasing would be allowed if submitted within successive intervals approved by
the City Council at the time the preliminary plat is approved. Final plats
would be submitted for each successive phase as needed.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-4) (Ord. 98-4, passed 10-12-1998)
§ 154.024 FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   Filing of final plat. After the approval or conditional approval of
the preliminary plat, the subdivider may cause the total parcel or any part
thereof to be surveyed and a final plat prepared in accordance with the
approved preliminary plat. The subdivider shall submit to the Administrator the
following:
      (1)   Six paper copies of the final plat prepared in accordance with
Idaho Code Title 50, Chapter 13; and
      (2)   Six paper copies of the final engineering construction drawings for
streets, water, sewers, sidewalks, and other public improvements.
   (B)   Contents. The final plat shall include and be in compliance with all
items required under Idaho Code Title 50, Chapter 13, and shall be prepared in
accordance with the specifications set forth in Idaho Code § 50-1304. The final
plat shall include at least the following:
      (1)   A written application for approval of such final plat as stipulated
by the City Council;
      (2)   Proof of current ownership of the real property included in the
proposed final plat;
      (3)   Such other information as the Council may deem necessary to
establish whether or not all proper parties have signed and/or approved said
final plat;
      (4)   Conformance with the approved preliminary plat and meeting all
requirements of conditions thereof;
      (5)   Conformance with all requirements and provisions of this chapter;
and
      (6)   Conformance with acceptable engineering practices and local
standards.
   (C)   Procedure for approval of final plat.
      (1)   Review by Council.
         (a)   Acceptance. Upon receipt of the final plat, and compliance with
all other requirements as provided for herein, the Administrator shall certify
the application as complete and shall affix the date of acceptance thereon.
         (b)   Submission of final plat. The Council shall review the final
plat for compliance with the approved or conditionally approved preliminary
plat. If the Council determines that there is substantial difference in the
final plat than that which was approved as a preliminary plat or conditions
which have not been met, the Council may require that the final plat be
submitted in the same manner as required in the preliminary plat process. Upon
the determination that the final plat is in compliance with the preliminary
plat and all conditional requirements have been met, the Council shall place
the final plat on the City Council agenda within 45 days from the date that an
acceptable final plat application was received and acknowledged.
      (2)   Agency review. The Administrator may transmit one copy of the final
plat, or other documents submitted, for review and recommendation to the
departments and agencies as he or she deems necessary to ensure compliance with
the preliminary approval and/or conditions of preliminary approval. Such agency
review shall also include the construction standards of improvements, including
soil compaction where applicable, compliance with health standards, compliance
with environmental standards, the cost estimate for all improvements, and the
legal review of the performance bond.
      (3)   City Council action. The City Council, at its next meeting
following receipt of any agency report, shall consider any comments from
concerned persons and agencies to arrive at a decision on the final plat. The
City Council shall approve, conditionally approve, disapprove, or table the
final plat for additional information within 30 days of the date of the first
regular meeting at which the plat is considered. Upon granting or denying the
final plat, the City Council shall specify:
         (a)   The ordinance and standards used in evaluating the application;
         (b)   The reasons for approval or denial; and
         (c)   The actions, if any, that the applicant must take to obtain
final approval.
   (D)   Conditional approval of final plat. With respect to financial
guarantees, the approval of all final subdivision plats shall be conditioned on
the accomplishment of one of the following:
      (1)   Subdivision where subdivision approval is conditioned upon
construction of public improvements or mitigation of impacts, developer will be
required to enter into a subdivision development agreement prior to filing of
the plat with the Recorder;
      (2)   The construction of improvements required by this chapter shall
have been completed by the subdivider and approved by the City Council; or
      (3)   Surety acceptable to the City Council shall have been filed in the
form of a cash deposit, certified check, negotiable bond, irrevocable bank
letter of credit, or surety bond.
   (E)   Approval period. The final plat shall be filed with the County
Recorder within one year after written approval by the City Council. Otherwise,
such approval shall become null and void unless the subdivider, prior to said
expiration date, applies for an extension of time and such extension is granted
by the City Council. No more than three extension requests shall be considered.
   (F)   Required certificates. The following certifications and signatures
shall be included on the final plat prior to recording by the County Recorder:
      (1)   Certification and signature of the City Clerk and the City Engineer
verifying the subdivision meets the requirements of the city and has been
approved by the City Council; and
      (2)   Certification of the sanitation restriction on the face of the plat
in accordance with the provisions of Idaho Code § 50-1326.
   (G)   Record of final plat. Upon approval of the final plat by the City
Council, the subdivider prepayment of recording fees, posting of surety bond or
other acceptable guarantee, and the inclusion of those certifications and
signatures on the final plat as set forth in division (F) above, the subdivider
shall furnish proof to the Administrator that the final plat has been recorded.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-5) (Ord. 98-4, passed 10-12-1998)
§ 154.025 PLAT APPROVAL AND FILING.
   (A)   No final plat shall be filed with the County Recorder until the plat
has been approved by the City Council.
   (B)   No lots shall be sold, building permits issued, or dwelling units
constructed on the property until the plat has been recorded in the office of
the County Recorder.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-6) (Ord. 98-4, passed 10-12-1998) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.026 LOT SPLITS.
   Any time that an original tract of land, a lot of a recorded plat, or any
other parcel of land is divided or partitioned into not more than two lots,
parcels, or sites for the purpose of transfer of ownership or development, the
following application process and procedures shall be followed.
   (A)   Application. An application for lot split on a form provided by the
administrative authority shall be made and shall contain, at a minimum, the
following information:
      (1)   Name, address, telephone number of the applicant;
      (2)   Legal description of property and proof of ownership or agency;
      (3)   Description of existing use;
      (4)   Zoning district. The resultant lots must meet the requirements of
the zoning ordinance;
      (5)   Description of the resultant lots and a record of survey, when
required, submitted by a professional surveyor;
      (6)   Description of proposed use. Resulting lots must be developed to
city standards; and
      (7)   Documentation of the permission of the owner of the parcel to be
split.
   (B)   Procedure. Prior to approving an application under this section, the
City Council shall make the following findings:
      (1)   The minimum requirements under this code for acreage, density, lot
area, and setback have been complied with;
      (2)   The proposed lot split is in conformity with the comprehensive
plan; and
      (3)   The proposed lot split is in the public interest and will not
adversely impact adjoining property interests.
   (C)   Notice. Within 15 days after a decision has been rendered, the Council
shall provide the applicant with written notice of the action on the request.
   (D)   Ineligible parcels. Parcels which have already been divided without
going through the subdivision process are not eligible for lot splits and must
go through the subdivision process.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-7) (Ord. 98-4, passed 10-12-1998) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.027 TIME LIMITS.
   Failure of the city to comply with the time limits in this subchapter will
not result in either de facto approval of a request or a claim for monetary
damages; however, the Mayor shall consider disciplinary action for the
Administrator if good cause does not exist for the delay.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-8) (Ord. 98-4, passed 10-12-1998)
DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 154.040 MINIMUM STANDARDS REQUIRED.
   All plats submitted pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, and all
subdivisions, improvements, and facilities done, constructed, or made in
accordance with said provisions, shall comply with minimum design standards set
forth in this subchapter. Higher standards adopted by any other agency may be
considered in addition to those set forth herein.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-1) (Ord. 98-4, passed 10-12-1998) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.041 LOCATION OF STREETS AND ROADS.
   Street and road location shall conform to the following standards.
   (A)   Street location and arrangements. When an official street plan or
comprehensive development plan has been adopted, subdivision streets shall
conform to such plans.
   (B)   Minor streets. Minor streets shall be so arranged as to discourage
their use by through traffic.
   (C)   Stub streets. Where adjoining areas are not subdivided, the
arrangement of streets in new subdivisions shall be such that said streets
extend to the boundary line of the tract to make provisions for the future
extension of said streets into adjacent areas, and shall have a cul-de-sac or
temporary cul-de-sac. A reserve street may be required and held in public
ownership.
   (D)   Relation to topography. Streets shall be arranged in proper relation
to topography so as to result in usable lots, safe streets, and gradients of 8%
or less. (See § 154.132 for variance provisions.)
   (E)   Alleys. Alleys shall be provided in multiple dwelling or commercial
subdivisions unless other provisions are made for service access and off-street
loading and parking. Dead end alleys shall be prohibited in all cases.
   (F)   Frontage roads. Where a subdivision abuts or contains an arterial
street, it shall be required that there be frontage roads approximately
parallel to and on each side of such arterial street, or such other treatment
as is necessary for the adequate protection of residential properties and to
separate through traffic from local traffic.
   (G)   Cul-de-sac streets. Cul-de-sac streets shall not be more than 500 feet
in length and shall terminate with an adequate turnaround having a minimum
radius of 50 feet for paved portion of right-of-way.
   (H)   Half streets. Half streets shall be prohibited except where unusual
circumstances make such necessary to the reasonable development of a tract in
conformance with this chapter, and where satisfactory assurance for dedication
of the remaining part of the street is provided. Whenever a tract to be
subdivided borders on an existing half or partial street, the other part of the
street shall be dedicated within such tract.
   (I)   Private streets. Private streets and roads shall be discouraged.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-2) (Ord. 98-4, passed 10-12-1998) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.042 STREET WIDTHS.
   (A)   Street and road right-of-way widths, grade, alignment, and so forth,
shall conform to the adopted major street plan or comprehensive plan, zoning
ordinance, and the rules of the State Transportation Department and/or other
agency having jurisdiction.
   (B)   Notwithstanding division (A) above, access from a frontage road onto
an arterial street shall be limited to 1,500 between points.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-3) (Ord. 98-4, passed 10-12-1998) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.043 INTERSECTIONS.
   Intersections shall conform to the following standards.
   (A)   Angle of intersection. Streets shall intersect at 90 degrees or as
closely thereto as possible, and in no case shall streets intersect at less
than 70 degrees.
   (B)   Sight triangles. Minimum clear sight distance at all minor street
intersections shall permit a vehicle to be visible to the driver of another
vehicle when each is 100 feet from the center of the intersection.
   (C)   Number of streets. No more than two streets shall cross at any one
intersection.
   (D)   “T” intersections. “T” intersections may be used wherever such design
will not restrict the free movement of traffic.
   (E)   Centerline offsets. Street centerline shall be offset by a distance of
at least 125 feet.
   (F)   Vertical alignment of intersection. A nearly flat grade with
appropriate drainage slopes is desirable within intersections. This flat
section shall be extended a minimum of 100 feet each way from the intersection.
An allowance of 2% maximum intersection grade in rolling terrain, and 4% in
hilly terrain, will be permitted.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-4) (Ord. 98-4, passed 10-12-1998) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.044 STREET NAMES.
   The city reserves the right to name all streets. The City Council shall name
or approve names of streets at the time of platting or dedication. The naming
of streets shall conform to the following standards.
   (A)   A street name shall not duplicate any existing street name within the
county, except where a new street is a continuation of an existing street.
Street names that may be spelled differently but sound the same as existing
street names shall not be used.
   (B)   All new streets shall be named as follows.
      (1)   Streets having a predominately north-south direction shall be named
“street.”
      (2)   Streets having a predominately east-west direction shall be named
“avenue.”
      (3)   Meandering streets shall be named “drive,” “lane,” “road,” “way,”
or “loop.”
      (4)   Cul-de-sacs shall be named “circle,” “court,” or “place.”
(Prior Code, § 10-3-5) (Ord. 98-4, passed 10-12-1998) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.045 PEDESTRIAN WALKWAYS.
   Right-of-way for pedestrian walkways in the middle of long blocks may be
required where necessary to obtain convenient pedestrian circulation to
schools, parks, or shopping areas. The pedestrian easement shall be at least
ten feet wide.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-6) (Ord. 98-4, passed 10-12-1998) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.046 BLOCKS.
   Every block shall be so designed as to provide two tiers of lots, except
where lots back onto an arterial street, natural feature, or subdivision
boundary. Blocks shall not be less than 500 feet long in all cases.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-7) (Ord. 98-4, passed 10-12-1998) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.047 LOTS.
   Lots shall conform to the following standards.
   (A)   Zoning. Lots within any subdivision shall comply in all respects with
the official area regulations set forth in the zoning ordinance.
   (B)   Future arrangements. Where parcels of land are subdivided into
unusually large lots (such as when large lots are approved for septic tanks),
the parcels shall be divided, where feasible, so as to allow for future
resubdividing into smaller parcels. Lot arrangements shall allow for the
ultimate extension of adjacent streets through the middle of wide blocks.
Whenever such future subdividing or lot splitting is contemplated, the plan
thereof shall be approved by the City Council prior to the taking of such
action.
   (C)   Sufficient area for septic tank. Where individual septic tanks have
been authorized, sufficient area shall be provided for a replacement sewage
disposal system in compliance with all applicable health standards.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-8) (Ord. 98-4, passed 10-12-1998) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.048 EASEMENTS.
   (A)   Unobstructed utility easements shall be provided along front lot
lines, rear lot lines, and side lot lines when deemed necessary. Total easement
corridor width shall not be greater than 12 feet. (See § 154.132 for variance
provisions.)
   (B)   Adequate and unobstructed drainageway easements shall be provided as
required by the City Council.
   (C)   All natural drainage courses shall be left undisturbed or be improved
in a manner which will improve the hydraulics and ease of maintenance of the
channel.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-9) (Ord. 98-4, passed 10-12-1998) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.049 PLANTING STRIPS AND RESERVE STRIPS.
   Planting strips and reserve strips shall conform to the following standards.
   (A)   Planting strips. Planting strips shall be required to be placed next
to the incompatible features such as highways, railroads, commercial or
industrial uses to screen the view from residential properties. Such screening
shall be a minimum of 20 feet wide, and shall not be a part of the normal
street right-of-way or utility easement.
   (B)   Reserve strips.
      (1)   Private reserve strips. Privately held reserve strips controlling
access to streets shall be prohibited.
      (2)   Public reserve strips. A one-foot reserve may be required to be
placed along half streets which are within the subdivision boundaries and shall
be deeded in fee simple to the city for future street widening.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-10) (Ord. 98-4, passed 10-12-1998) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.050 PUBLIC SITES AND OPEN SPACES.
   Public sites and open spaces shall conform to the following standards.
   (A)   Public uses. Where it is determined that a proposed park, playground,
school, or other public use as shown on the future acquisition map, as
authorized in Idaho Code § 67-6517, is located in whole or in part within a
proposed subdivision, the City Council shall notify the appropriate public
agency concerning the land proposed to be acquired. Within 30 days of the date
of notice, the public agency may request the governing body to suspend
consideration on the subdivision for 60 days. If an agreement is not reached
within 60 days, the City Council shall resume consideration of the subdivision.
   (B)   Natural features. Existing natural features which add value to
residential development and enhance the attractiveness of the community (such
as trees, watercourses, historic spots, and similar irreplaceable assets) shall
be preserved in the design of the subdivision.
   (C)   Special development. In the case of planned unit developments and
large scale developments, the City Council may require sufficient public and/or
private park or open space facilities of acceptable size and location, and site
characteristics that may be suitable for the proposed development.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-11) (Ord. 98-4, passed 10-12-1998) Penalty, see §
154.999
IMPROVEMENTS REQUIRED
§ 154.065 INSTALLATION REQUIRED.
   Every subdivider shall be required to install the following public and other
improvements in accordance with the conditions and specifications provided in
this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 10-4-1) (Ord. 98-4, passed 10-12-1998) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.066 MONUMENTS.
   Monuments shall be set in accordance with Idaho Code § 50-1303.
(Prior Code, § 10-4-2) (Ord. 98-4, passed 10-12-1998) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.067 STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   All streets and alleys shall be paved in accordance with the standards and
specifications adopted by the city.
(Prior Code, § 10-4-3) (Ord. 98-4, passed 10-12-1998) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.068 CURBS AND GUTTERS.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   Vertical curbs and gutters shall be constructed on collector and
arterial streets.
      (2)   Rolled or vertical curbs and gutters shall be required on minor
streets.
      (3)   All construction shall be in accordance with the standards and
specifications adopted by the city.
   (B)   Driveways, curb cuts. All driveways, openings, and curbs shall be as
specified by the city.
(Prior Code, § 10-4-4) (Ord. 98-4, passed 10-12-1998) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.069 STREET SIGNS.
   Street name signs shall be installed in the appropriate locations at each
street intersection in accordance with the local standards. A per street sign
fee shall be paid by the subdivider.
(Prior Code, § 10-4-5) (Ord. 98-4, passed 10-12-1998) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.070 STREETLIGHTS.
   All subdividers within the city limits and within the area of city impact
shall be required to install, at the subdivider’s expense, streetlights in
accordance with city specifications and standards at locations designated by
the Council. After installation and acceptance by the city, the city shall have
the right to pay the cost of maintenance and power, and assume ownership of the
streetlights.
(Prior Code, § 10-4-6) (Ord. 98-4, passed 10-12-1998) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.071 SIDEWALKS AND PEDESTRIAN WALKWAYS.
   (A)   Sidewalks shall be required on both sides of the street; except, that
where the average width of lots, as measured at the street frontage line or at
the building setback line, is over 100 feet, sidewalks on only one side of the
street may be allowed.
   (B)   Pedestrian walkways, when required, shall have easements at least ten
feet in width and include a paved walk at least five feet in width.
   (C)   Sidewalks and crosswalks shall be constructed in accordance with the
standards and specifications of the city.
(Prior Code, § 10-4-7) (Ord. 98-4, passed 10-12-1998) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.072 UNDERGROUND UTILITIES.
   Underground utilities are required and shall be installed according to
standards and specifications adopted by the city.
(Prior Code, § 10-4-8) (Ord. 98-4, passed 10-12-1998) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.073 WATER SUPPLY AND SEWER SYSTEMS.
   (A)   All public water supply or sewer systems (serving two or more separate
premises or households) shall be constructed in accordance with any adopted
local plans and specifications. All new public water supply or sewer systems
shall be an extension of an existing public system whenever possible. In the
event that the proposed public water supply or sewer system is not an extension
of an existing public system, there shall be a showing by the subdivider that
the extension is not feasible and not in the best interest of the public.
   (B)   All water and sewer plans shall be submitted to the State Department
of Health and Welfare or its authorized agent for approval in accordance with
the provisions of Idaho Code § 50-1326.
   (C)   All water mains, valves, hydrants, and connections to the city water
distribution system shall be provided and installed by the subdivider in
accordance with the standards and specifications of the city and the Department
of Environmental Quality (DEQ), and in conformance with existing laws. Fire
hydrants shall be no farther apart than 400 feet in commercial areas and 300
feet in residential areas.
   (D)   Irrigation lines and distribution lines shall be provided in
accordance with standard city specifications.
   (E)   A public sanitary sewer system (not to be construed as a privately
sponsored cooperative, mutual use, or other system developed and controlled by
private individuals or groups) shall be installed in all subdivisions where
they are within the service area of an existing public system and can be
reached by a reasonable extension of said public system. Construction plans,
specifications, and maintenance programs for sanitary sewer systems shall be
approved by the agency controlling the system prior to recording of the final
plat. The Council shall review a sanitary sewer system proposed to be developed
as a privately sponsored and controlled facility in relationship to proposed or
adopted urbanizing or growth area comprehensive plans and sewerage plans or
programs and shall base its subdivision approval on treatment capabilities,
such as dry lines, density requirements, the need for entirely new systems, and
other treatment possibilities that are in harmony with officially recognized
practices of the city. Sewer lines shall be extended at the expense of the
developer.
   (F)   A public water system (not to be construed as a privately sponsored
cooperative, mutual use, or other system developed and controlled by private
individuals or groups) shall be installed where they are within the service
area of an existing public system and can be reached by a reasonable extension
of said public system. Construction plans shall be approved by the agency
controlling the system prior to recording of the final plat. The Council shall
review a water system proposed to be developed as a privately sponsored and
controlled facility in relationship to proposed or adopted urbanizing or growth
area water plans or programs and relationship to proposed or adopted urbanizing
or growth area water plans or programs and shall base its subdivision approval
in harmony with the officially recognized practices of the city. Water lines
shall be extended at the expense of the developer.
(Prior Code, § 10-4-9) (Ord. 98-4, passed 10-12-1998) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.074 STORM DRAINAGE; FLOOD CONTROLS.
   (A)   An adequate storm drainage system shall be required in all
subdivisions. The requirements for each particular subdivision shall be
established by the city, and construction shall follow the specifications and
procedures established by the same.
   (B)   Steps shall be taken during construction to control drainage and
prevent damage to adjacent properties.
   (C)   Interceptor ditches shall be established above all cut/fill slopes,
and the intercepted water conveyed to a stable channel or natural drainageway
with adequate capacity.
   (D)   Curb, gutter, and pavement design shall be such that water on roadways
is prevented from flowing off the roadway.
   (E)   Natural drainageways shall be riprapped or otherwise stabilized below
drainage and culvert discharge points for a distance sufficient to convey the
discharge without channel erosion. Developers must obtain and record easements
as are necessary to accommodate runoff.
   (F)   Runoff from areas of concentrated impervious cover (for example,
roofs, driveways, and roads) shall be collected and transported to a natural
drainage with sufficient capacity to accept the discharge without undue
erosion.
   (G)   Waste material from construction, including soil and other solid
materials, shall not be deposited within the 100-year floodplain.
   (H)   Drainageways or hydraulic structures in MAJOR WATERWAYS (defined as
draining a basin area of ten acres or more) shall be designed for the 100-year
flood or to accommodate the runoff projected in any applicable soil
conservation service hydrology guide for residential development, whichever is
greater. In MINOR WATERWAYS (defined as draining a basic area of less than ten
acres), such structures shall be designed for the 50-year flood or to
accommodate the runoff projected in any applicable natural resources
conservation service hydrology guide for residential development, whichever is
greater.
   (I)   With the exception of road crossings, approved drainage structures,
and recreation and open space uses which do not involve the destruction of
vegetative cover, development shall be prohibited within the 100-year
floodplain for major waterways, and the 50-year floodplain for minor waterways.
   (J)   Sediment catchment ponds shall be constructed and maintained
downstream from each development, unless sediment retention facilities are
otherwise provided. Any facility used shall provide for the removal of surface
debris and contaminants, as well as sediment retention. Such facility shall
comply with the design standards specified by the city.
   (K)   The overall drainage system shall be completed and made operational at
the earliest possible time during construction.
   (L)   Alterations of major drainageways shall be prohibited except for
approved road crossings and drainage structures.
   (M)   Natural or improved open channel drainageways shall be preserved or
provided for in major waterways; except, that at road crossings, conduits may
be permitted. Minor waterways shall be permitted to be enclosed in conduits.
   (N)   The city reserves the right to require installation of hydrologic
measuring devices in drainageways within any development at public expense.
(Prior Code, § 10-4-10) (Ord. 98-4, passed 10-12-1998) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.075 FIRE HYDRANTS AND WATER MAINS.
   Adequate fire protection shall be required in accordance with city
standards.
(Prior Code, § 10-4-11) (Ord. 98-4, passed 10-12-1998) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.076 GREENBELT AREAS; LANDSCAPE SCREENING.
   Greenbelts or landscape screening may be required for the protection of
residential properties from adjacent major arterial streets, waterways,
railroad rights-of-way, or other features. Subdivision plats shall show the
location of any greenbelt areas.
(Prior Code, § 10-4-12) (Ord. 98-4, passed 10-12-1998)
§ 154.077 CONSTRUCTION OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   Required improvements must comply with all city standards.
(Prior Code, § 10-4-13) (Ord. 98-4, passed 10-12-1998) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.078 CONSTRUCTION PLANS.
   It shall be the responsibility of the subdivider of every proposed
subdivision to have prepared by a registered engineer a complete set of
construction plans, including profiles, cross section, specifications, and
other supporting data, for all required public streets, utilities, and other
facilities. Such construction plans shall be based on preliminary plans which
have been approved with the preliminary plat, and shall be prepared in
conjunction with the final plat. Construction plans are subject to approval by
the responsible public agencies and all construction plans shall be prepared in
accordance with the public agencies’ standards or specifications.
(Prior Code, § 10-4-14) (Ord. 98-4, passed 10-12-1998) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.079 GUARANTEE OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   In lieu of the actual installation of required public improvements before
filing of the final plat, the City Council may permit the subdivider to provide
a financial guarantee of performance in one or a combination of the following
arrangements for those requirements which are over and beyond the requirements
of any other agency responsible for the administration, operation, and
maintenance of the applicable public improvement.
   (A)   Performance bond.
      (1)   The bond shall be in amount equal to 125% of the total estimated
cost for completing construction of the specific public improvements as
estimated by the Administrator and approved by the City Council, and shall be
with a surety company authorized to do business in the state, acceptable to the
City Council.
      (2)   The term/length in which the bond is in force shall be for a period
to be specified by the City Council for the specific public improvement. Said
bond shall accrue to the city covering construction, operation, and maintenance
of the specific public improvement.
   (B)   Cash deposit, certified check, negotiable bond, or irrevocable bank
letter of credit.
      (1)   A cash deposit, certified check, negotiable bond, or an irrevocable
bank letter of credit, acceptable by the City Council, shall be deposited with
an escrow agent or trust company with a dollar value equal to 125% of the
estimated cost of construction for the specific public improvement, as
estimated by the Administrator and approved by the City Council.
      (2)   The escrow time for the cash deposit, certified check, negotiable
bond, or irrevocable bank letter of credit shall be for a period to be
specified by the City Council.
      (3)   In the case of cash deposits or certified checks, an agreement
between the City Council and the subdivider may provide for progressive payment
out of the cash deposit or reduction of the certified check, to the extent of
the cost of the completed portion of the public improvement.
   (C)   Time limit for installation of improvements. Improvements must be
installed and accepted at least 60 days prior to the expiration of the
guarantee or the city may attach the guarantee.
(Prior Code, § 10-4-15) (Ord. 98-4, passed 10-12-1998) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.080 INSPECTIONS.
   Before approving a final plat and construction plan and specifications for
public improvements, an agreement between the subdivider and the City Council
shall be made to provide for checking or inspecting the construction and its
conformity to the submitted plans.
(Prior Code, § 10-4-16) (Ord. 98-4, passed 10-12-1998)
§ 154.081 INSPECTOR ON DEVELOPMENT SITE.
   The city shall have the right to place an inspector of its own choosing on
the development site. No water line, sewer line, stormwater pipe, or other
underground utility shall be covered until it has been inspected and approved
by the city. The developer or contractor shall provide at least 24 hours’
notice to the city of need for inspection (weekends and legal holidays
excepted). Inspection services, including the onsite inspector, shall be
provided by the city at the developer’s expense.
(Prior Code, § 10-4-17) (Ord. 98-4, passed 10-12-1998) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.082 INSPECTION PRIOR TO ACCEPTANCE.
   Prior to acceptance by the city and release of the performance bond, cash
deposit, certified check, irrevocable bank letter of credit, or negotiable
bond, which the subdivider may have deposited in lieu of a surety bond, the
city may order a video camera inspection of all sewer mains. Inspection
services shall be provided by the city at the developer’s expense.
(Prior Code, § 10-4-18) (Ord. 98-4, passed 10-12-1998)
§ 154.083 FAILURE TO COMPLETE PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT CONSTRUCTION.
   In the event the subdivider shall, in any case, fail to complete such work
within the period of time as required by the conditions of the guarantee for
the completion of public improvements, it shall be the responsibility of the
City Council to proceed to have such work completed. In order to accomplish
this, the City Council shall reimburse itself for the cost and expense thereof
by appropriating the cash deposit, certified check, irrevocable bank letter of
credit, or negotiable bond which the subdivider may have deposited in lieu of a
surety bond, or may take such steps as may be necessary to require performance
by the bonding or surety company.
(Prior Code, § 10-4-19) (Ord. 98-4, passed 10-12-1998)
§ 154.084 WARRANTY REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Developers and engineers shall warrant workmanship, materials, and
engineering design for one full year from the time of acceptance by the city.
Developers or engineers, at their own expense, can be required to correct any
defects which may exist, for which they are notified, within one year. Whenever
a developer or engineer is required to make corrections or repairs to any
defect, the warranty period shall be extended for one full year after said
repairs or corrections are completed.
   (B)   The city may require a video camera inspection of sewers at the
developer’s expense prior to the end of the warranty period. Any defects
discovered by such video inspection shall be promptly repaired by the
developer.
(Prior Code, § 10-4-20) (Ord. 98-4, passed 10-12-1998) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.085 AS BUILT PLANS.
   As built plans shall be submitted to the Administrator within 30 days after
completion of the project and prior to the issuance of building permits.
(Prior Code, § 10-4-21) (Ord. 98-4, passed 10-12-1998)
SPECIAL DEVELOPMENT SUBDIVISIONS
§ 154.100 PURPOSE AND SUMMARY OF PROVISIONS.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to identify various types of
developments that normally pose special concerns to the elected officials when
reviewing and acting upon subdivision requests.
   (B)   This subchapter outlines the plan submittal requirements and design
standards that shall be taken into consideration when acting on special
developments.
(Prior Code, § 10-5-1) (Ord. 98-4, passed 10-12-1998)
§ 154.101 SUPPLEMENTARY PROVISIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter are in addition to the plan requirements,
design standards, and improvement standards that are required by §§
154.020 through
154.027, 154.040 through 154.050, and 154.065 through 154.085.
(Prior Code, § 10-5-2) (Ord. 98-4, passed 10-12-1998)
§ 154.102 PRESERVATION OF NATURAL FEATURES.
   In order to preserve, retain, enhance, and promote the existing and future
appearance, natural topographic features, qualities, and resources of
hillsides, special consideration shall be given to the following:
   (A)   Skyline and ridge tops;
   (B)   Rolling grassy landforms, including knolls, ridges, and meadows;
   (C)   Tree and shrub masses, grass, wildflowers, and topsoil;
   (D)   Rock outcroppings;
   (E)   Streambeds, draws, and drainage swales and floodplains, especially
where tree and plant formations occur; and
   (F)   Characteristic vistas and scenic panoramas.
(Prior Code, § 10-5-3) (Ord. 98-4, passed 10-12-1998) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.103 DEVELOPMENT EVALUATION.
   (A)   All development proposals shall take into account and shall be judged
by the way in which land use planning, soil mechanics, engineering geology,
hydrology, civil engineering, environmental and civil design, and architectural
and landscape design are applied in hillside areas, including, but not limited
to:
      (1)   Planning and development to fit the topography, soils, geology,
hydrology, and other conditions existing on the proposed site;
      (2)   Orientation of development on the site so that grading and other
site preparation is kept to an absolute minimum;
      (3)   Shaping of essential grading to blend with natural landforms and to
minimize the necessity of padding and/or terracing of building sites;
      (4)   Division of large tracts into smaller workable units on which
construction can be completed within one construction season so that large
areas are not left bare and exposed during the Winter–Spring runoff period;
      (5)   Completion of paving as rapidly as possible after grading;
      (6)   Allocation of areas not well suited for development because of soil
geology or hydrology limitations for open space and recreation uses;
      (7)   Minimizing disruption of existing plant and animal life; and
      (8)   Consideration of the view from and of the hills.
   (B)   Areas having soil, geology, or hydrology hazards shall not be
developed unless it is shown that:
      (1)   Their limitations can be overcome;
      (2)   Hazards to life or property will not exist;
      (3)   The safety, use, or stability of a public way or drainage channel
is not jeopardized; and
      (4)   The natural environment is not subjected to undue impact.
(Prior Code, § 10-5-4) (Ord. 98-4, passed 10-12-1998)
§ 154.104 ENGINEERING PLANS.
   (A)   The developer shall retain a registered engineer to obtain the
following information: soils/geology/hydrology report. For any proposed
hillside development, a soils engineering report shall be submitted with the
preliminary plat.
   (B)   This report shall include data regarding the nature, distribution, and
strength of existing soils, conclusions, and recommendations for grading
procedures, design criteria for corrective measures, and opinions and
recommendations covering the adequacy of sites to be developed.
(Prior Code, § 10-5-5) (Ord. 98-4, passed 10-12-1998)
§ 154.105 GRADING PLANS.
   (A)   Preliminary grading plan. A preliminary grading plan shall be
submitted with each hillside preliminary plat proposal and shall include the
following information:
      (1)   Approximate limiting dimensions, evaluations, or finish contours to
be achieved by the grading, including all cut and fill slopes, proposed
drainage channels, and related construction;
      (2)   Preliminary plans and approximate locations of all surface and
subsurface drainage devices, walls, dams, sediment basins, storage reservoirs,
and other protective devices to be constructed; and
      (3)   A description of methods to be employed in disposing of soil and
other material that is removed from the grading site, including the location of
the disposal site.
   (B)   Final grading plan. A final grading plan shall be submitted with each
final plat and shall include the following information:
      (1)   Limiting dimensions, evaluations, or finish contours to be achieved
by the grading, including all proposed cut and fill slopes, and proposed
drainage channels and related construction;
      (2)   Detailed plans and locations of all surface and subsurface drainage
devices, walls, dams, sediment basins, storage reservoirs, and other protective
devices to be constructed; and
      (3)   A schedule showing when each stage of the project will be
completed, including the total area of soil surface which is to be disturbed
during each stage, together with estimated starting and completion dates. In no
event shall the existing natural vegetative ground cover be destroyed, removed,
or disturbed more than 15 days prior to grading.
(Prior Code, § 10-5-6) (Ord. 98-4, passed 10-12-1998) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.106 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Soils. All compactions, fills, cut and fill slopes, and the like,
shall be prepared as recommended in the soils report.
   (B)   Roadways.
      (1)   Road alignments should follow natural terrain, and no unnecessary
cuts or fills shall be allowed in order to create additional lots or building
sites.
      (2)   One-way streets shall be permitted and encouraged where appropriate
for the terrain and where public safety would not be jeopardized. Minimum width
shall be 17 feet between the back of curbs.
      (3)   The width of the graded section shall extend three feet beyond the
curb back or edge of pavement on both the cut and fill sides of the roadway. If
a sidewalk is to be installed parallel to the roadway, the graded section shall
be increased by the width of the sidewalk, plus one foot beyond the curb back.
      (4)   Standard six-inch vertical curb, or rolled curb where permitted,
and gutter shall be installed along both sides of all paved roadways.
   (C)   Driveways and parking areas. Combinations of collective private
driveways, cluster parking areas, and on-street parallel parking bays shall be
used to attempt to optimize the objectives of minimum soil disturbance, minimum
impervious cover, excellence of design, and aesthetic sensitivity.
(Prior Code, § 10-5-7) (Ord. 98-4, passed 10-12-1998) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.107 VEGETATION AND REVEGETATION.
   (A)   The developer shall submit a slope stabilization and revegetation plan
which shall include a complete description of the existing vegetation, the
vegetation to be removed, and the method of disposal, the vegetation to be
planted, and slope stabilization measures to be installed. The plan shall
include an analysis of the environmental effects of such operations, including
the effects on slope stability, soil erosion, water quality, and fish and
wildlife.
   (B)   Vegetation sufficient to stabilize the soil shall be established on
all disturbed areas as each stage of grading is completed. Areas not contained
within lot boundaries shall be protected with perennial vegetative cover after
all construction is completed. Efforts shall be made to plant those species
that tend to recover from fire damage and do not contribute to a rapid rate of
fire spread.
   (C)   The developer shall be fully responsible for any destruction of native
vegetation proposed for retention. He or she shall carry the responsibility
both for his or her own employees and for all subcontractors from the first day
of construction until the notice of completion is filed. The developer shall be
responsible for replacing such destroyed vegetation.
(Prior Code, § 10-5-8) (Ord. 98-4, passed 10-12-1998) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.108 MAINTENANCE REQUIRED.
   The owner of any private property on which grading or other work has been
performed pursuant to a grading plan approved or a building permit granted
under the provisions of this chapter shall continuously maintain and repair all
graded surfaces and erosion prevention devices, retaining walls, drainage
structures or means, and other protective devices, plantings, and ground cover
installed or completed.
(Prior Code, § 10-5-9) (Ord. 98-4, passed 10-12-1998) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.109 UNDERGROUND UTILITIES.
   All new service utilities shall be placed underground.
(Prior Code, § 10-5-10) (Ord. 98-4, passed 10-12-1998) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.110 APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS.
   In addition to the requirements of this subchapter, other city ordinances
regulating development may be applicable.
(Prior Code, § 10-5-11) (Ord. 98-4, passed 10-12-1998)
§ 154.111 SITE DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   The developer of any planned unit or condominium subdivision shall provide a
colored rendering to adequate scale to show the completed development that will
include at least the following:
   (A)   Architectural style and building design;
   (B)   Building materials and color;
   (C)   Landscaping;
   (D)   Screening;
   (E)   Garbage container areas;
   (F)   Parking; and
   (G)   Open space or park and recreational areas.
(Prior Code, § 10-5-12) (Ord. 98-4, passed 10-12-1998) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.112 SITE AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS.
   The following provisions shall apply to all planned unit or condominium
subdivisions.
   (A)   Minimum area. A planned unit development shall contain an area as
specified in the city zoning ordinance.
   (B)   Private streets. Private streets may be prohibited in any planned unit
or condominium subdivision, subject to the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Storage areas. Storage areas shall be provided for the anticipated
needs of boats, campers, and trailers. For typical residential development, one
adequate space shall be provided for every two living units. This may be
reduced by the City Council if there is a showing that the needs of a
particular development are less.
   (D)   Parking spaces. One additional parking space beyond that which is
required by the city zoning ordinance may be required for every three dwelling
units to accommodate visitor parking.
   (E)   Maintenance building. A maintenance building shall be provided of such
size and in such location as is suitable for the service needs that are
necessary for the repair and maintenance of all common areas.
   (F)   Open space. The location of open space shall be appropriate to the
development and shall be of such shape and area to be usable and convenient to
the residents of the development.
(Prior Code, § 10-5-13) (Ord. 98-4, passed 10-12-1998) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.113 CONTROL DURING DEVELOPMENT; TIME LIMIT.
   Single ownership or control during development of a planned unit or
condominium subdivision shall be required, and a time limit may be imposed to
guarantee the development is built and constructed as planned.
(Prior Code, § 10-5-14) (Ord. 98-4, passed 10-12-1998) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.114 LARGE SCALE DEVELOPMENT SUBDIVISIONS; REQUIRED INFORMATION.
   Due to the impact that a large scale development would have on public
utilities and services, the developer shall submit the following information
along with the preliminary plat:
   (A)   Identification of all public services that would be provided to the
development, including, but not limited to, fire protection, police protection,
central water, central sewer, road construction, parks and open space,
recreation, maintenance, schools, and solid waste collection;
   (B)   Estimate of the public service costs to provide adequate service to
the development;
   (C)   Estimate of the tax revenue that will be generated from the
development; and
   (D)   Suggested public means of mitigating the impact of the development on
public services or financing the services for the development if the cost for
the public services would not be offset by tax revenue received from the
development.
(Prior Code, § 10-5-15) (Ord. 98-4, passed 10-12-1998) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.115 CEMETERY SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   Submission of proposed function. The developer of any cemetery
subdivision shall provide the Council with written documentation that will
sufficiently explain the functions of the proposed cemetery for either human or
animal remains.
   (B)   Compliance with state law. The developer of any cemetery subdivision
shall submit a written statement that has been prepared by an attorney that
adequately assures the compliance of the proposed cemetery with the procedural
management requirements that are outlined in Idaho Code Title 27.
(Prior Code, § 10-5-18) (Ord. 98-4, passed 10-12-1998) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.116 SUBDIVISION WITHIN FLOODPLAIN.
   In addition to the provisions of this subchapter, any subdivision of the
city shall comply with all applicable provisions of the floodplain regulations
of the city as now in effect or as may hereafter be amended.
(Prior Code, § 10-5-19) (Ord. 98-4, passed 10-12-1998)
§ 154.117 SUBDIVISION WITHIN AREA OF CRITICAL CONCERN.
   (A)   Designation of areas of critical concern.
      (1)   Hazardous or unique areas may be designated as an area of critical
concern by the City Council in compliance with the comprehensive plan, or by
the state. Special consideration shall be given to any proposed development
within an area of critical concern to assure that the development is necessary
and desirable and in the public interest in view of the existing unique
conditions.
      (2)   Hazardous or unique areas that may be designated as areas of
critical concern are as follows:
         (a)   Documented natural hazards such as landslides, avalanches, or
active fault areas;
         (b)   Property with uncontrolled or untested fills;
         (c)   Steep slopes typically in excess of 30 degrees or two to one (2:
1) (horizontal to vertical);
         (d)   Difficult soil and geological conditions;
         (e)   Floodplain, or the presence or documentation of continuous
surface or near surface water;
         (f)   Prime agricultural, timber, and mining lands; and
         (g)   Areas of special historical, cultural, archeological,
biological, geological, or scenic importance, which need to be preserved.
   (B)   Environmental assessment plan.
      (1)   The developer shall prepare and submit an environmental assessment,
along with the preliminary plat application, for any development that is
proposed within an area of critical concern.
      (2)   The content of the environmental assessment shall be prepared by an
interdisciplinary team of professionals that shall provide answers to the
following questions.
         (a)   What changes will occur to the area of environmental concern as
a result of the proposed development?
         (b)   What corrective action or alternative development plans could
occur so as not to significantly change the area of environmental concern?
         (c)   What changes in the area of environmental concern are
unavoidable?
         (d)   What beneficial or detrimental effect would the development have
on the environment, including, but not limited to, animal life, plant life,
social and economic concerns, noise and visual impacts, available farmland, and
other?
(Prior Code, § 10-5-18) (Ord. 98-4, passed 10-12-1998)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 154.130 ADMINISTRATION.
   The Council shall appoint an Administrator to carry out the provisions as
herein specified and to serve at the pleasure of the Council. The Administrator
shall receive and process all subdivision applications.
(Prior Code, § 10-6-1) (Ord. 98-4, passed 10-12-1998)
§ 154.131 VACATIONS AND DEDICATIONS.
   (A)   Application for vacation or dedication; costs.
      (1)   Any property owner desiring to vacate an existing subdivision,
public right-of-way, or easement shall complete and file an application with
the Administrator. These provisions shall not apply to the widening of any
street which is shown in the comprehensive plan, or the dedication of streets,
rights-of-way, or easements to be shown on a recorded subdivision.
      (2)   The applicant shall pay all costs incurred during vacation or
dedication procedures, including, but not limited to, public notices, printing,
filing fees, and public hearings.
   (B)   Administrative action by Council.
      (1)   Vacations. When considering an application for vacation procedures,
the City Council shall establish a date for a public hearing and give such
public notice as required by law. The City Council may approve, deny, or modify
the application. Whenever public rights-of-way or lands are vacated, the City
Council shall provide adjacent property owners with a quitclaim deed for the
vacated rights-of-way in such proportions as are prescribed by law.
      (2)   Dedications. When considering an application for dedication
procedures, the City Council may approve, deny, or modify the application.
Within a proposed subdivision, arterial and collector streets, as shown on the
comprehensive plan, shall be dedicated to the public in all cases. In general,
all other streets also shall be dedicated to public use. When a dedication is
approved, the required street improvements shall be constructed or a guarantee
furnished assuring the construction prior to acceptance of the dedication. To
complete the acceptance of any dedication of land, the owner shall furnish to
the City Council a deed describing and conveying such lands to be recorded with
the County Recorder.
      (3)   Decision. The Council shall review the request and all agency
responses within 30 days of the meeting at which the issue as on the agenda
either approve, conditionally approve, or deny the request.
(Prior Code, § 10-6-2) (Ord. 98-4, passed 10-12-1998)
§ 154.132 VARIANCES.
   No variance shall be favorably acted upon by the City Council unless there
is a finding as a result of a public hearing that all of the following exist:
   (A)   There are such special circumstances or conditions affecting the
property that strict application of the provisions of this chapter would
clearly be impracticable or unreasonable. In such cases, the subdivider shall
first state his or her reasons in writing as to the specific provision or
requirement involved;
   (B)   Strict compliance with the requirements of this chapter would result
in extraordinary hardship to the subdivider because of unusual topography or
other physical conditions, and would result in inhibiting the achievement of
the objectives of this chapter;
   (C)   The granting of the specified variance will not be detrimental to the
public welfare or injurious to other property in the area in which the property
is situated;
   (D)   Such variance will not violate the provisions of Idaho Code; and
   (E)   Such variance will not have the effect of nullifying the interest and
purpose of this chapter and the comprehensive plan.
(Prior Code, § 10-6-3) (Ord. 98-4, passed 10-12-1998)
§ 154.133 AMENDMENTS.
   The City Council may, from time to time, amend, supplement, or repeal the
regulations and provisions of this chapter in the following manner.
   (A)   The City Council, prior to adopting an amendment, supplement, or
repeal of this chapter, shall conduct at least one public hearing in which
interested persons shall have an opportunity to be heard. At least 15 days
prior to the hearing, notice of the time and place and a summary of the
proposal to be discussed shall be published in the official newspaper or paper
of general circulation within the jurisdiction. The City Council shall also
make available a notice to other papers, radio, and television stations serving
the jurisdiction for use as a public service announcement. Notice of intent to
amend, supplement, or repeal this chapter shall be sent to all political
subdivisions providing services within the planning jurisdiction, including
school districts, at least 15 days prior to the public hearing scheduled by the
Council.
   (B)   Following the City Council hearing, if the City Council makes a
material change in this chapter other than that published for the present
hearing, further notice and hearing shall be provided before the City Council
takes action. A record of the hearings, findings, and actions taken shall be
maintained.
(Prior Code, § 10-6-4) (Ord. 98-4, passed 10-12-1998)
§ 154.134 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   No subdivision plat required by this chapter or Idaho Code shall be
admitted to the public land records of the county or recorded by the County
Recorder until such subdivision plat has received final approval of the City
Council.
   (B)   No public board, agency, commission, official, or other authority
shall proceed with the construction of or authorize the construction of any of
the public improvements required by this chapter until the final plat has
received the approval of the City Council.
   (C)   No permits for construction of any structure shall be issued on any
parcel or lot until it has been determined such parcel or lot meets the
requirements of this chapter.
   (D)   The City Attorney shall, in addition to taking whatever criminal
action deemed necessary, take steps to civilly enjoin any violation of this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 10-6-5) (Ord. 98-4, passed 10-12-1998)
§ 154.999 PENALTY.
   Violations of any of the provisions of this chapter, or failure to comply
with any of its requirements, shall constitute a misdemeanor and shall be
punishable by a fine of up to $300 or incarceration in the county jail for a
period of up to 20 days, or by both such fine and incarceration. Each day such
violation continues shall be considered a separate offense. The landowner,
tenant, subdivider, builder, public official, or any other person who commits,
participates in, assists in, or maintains such violation may each be found
guilty of a separate offense. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the City
Council or any other public official or private citizen from taking such lawful
action as is necessary to restrain or prevent any violation of this chapter or
Idaho Code.
(Prior Code, § 10-6-5) (Ord. 98-4, passed 10-12-1998)
CHAPTER 155: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
155.001   Short title; authority; purpose; intent; enactment and zoning
districts established
   
155.002   Zoning districts map
   
155.003   Interpretations
   
155.004   Definitions
Planning and Zoning Commission
   
155.015   Membership
   
155.016   Terms
   
155.017   Vacancies
   
155.018   Removal
   
155.019   Reimbursement for expenses
   
155.020   Officers
   
155.021   Duties and responsibilities
Administrative Procedures
   
155.035   Intent
   
155.036   Permit required
   
155.037   Exemptions
   
155.038   Application forms
   
155.039   Application fees
   
155.040   Administrative lot splits
   
155.041   Subdivision permits
   
155.042   Building permits
   
155.043   Conditions may be imposed
   
155.044   Amendments
   
155.045   Rezoning of land
   
155.046   Hearing notices
   
155.047   Requirements for hearing notices
   
155.048   Approvals valid for one year
   
155.049   Appeals
   
155.050   Hearing procedures
   
155.051   Mediation
   
155.052   Transcribed record of hearings
   
155.053   Decision record
   
155.054   Deadline for decision
   
155.055   Conflicting provisions
Single-Family Residential District (R-1)
   
155.070   Description and purpose
   
155.071   Permitted buildings and uses
   
155.072   Conditional buildings and uses permitted
   
155.073   Variances
   
155.074   Building height
   
155.075   Detached accessory buildings
   
155.076   Setback requirements
   
155.077   Area requirements
   
155.078   Sign regulations
   
155.079   Parking requirements
Two-Family Residential District (R-2)
   
155.090   Description and purpose
   
155.091   Permitted buildings and uses
   
155.092   Conditional buildings and uses permitted
   
155.093   Variances
   
155.094   Building height
   
155.095   Detached accessory buildings
   
155.096   Common walls
   
155.097   Setback requirements
   
155.098   Area requirements
   
155.099   Sign regulations
   
155.100   Parking requirements
Multiple-Family Residential District (R-3)
   
155.115   Description and purpose
   
155.116   Permitted buildings and uses
   
155.117   Conditional buildings and uses permitted
   
155.118   Variances
   
155.119   Building height
   
155.120   Detached accessory buildings
   
155.121   Common walls
   
155.122   Setback requirements
   
155.123   Area requirements
   
155.124   Sign regulations
   
155.125   Parking requirements
Residential Manufactured Home or Mobile Home District (R-M)
   
155.126   Description and purpose
   
155.127   Permitted buildings and uses
   
155.128   Conditional buildings and uses permitted
   
155.129   Variances
   
155.130   Building height
   
155.131   Setback requirements
   
155.132   Area requirements
   
155.133   Detached accessory buildings
   
155.134   Sanitation requirements
   
155.135   Sign regulations
   
155.136   Parking requirements
   
155.137   Other standards and requirements
Central Business District (C-1)
   
155.150   Description and purpose
   
155.151   Permitted buildings and uses
   
155.152   Conditional buildings and uses permitted
   
155.153   Variances
   
155.154   Building height
   
155.155   Setback requirements
   
155.156   Area requirements
   
155.157   Detached accessory buildings
   
155.158   Sign regulations
   
155.159   Parking requirements
Highway Commercial District (C-2)
   
155.170   Description and purpose
   
155.171   Permitted buildings and uses
   
155.172   Conditional buildings and uses permitted
   
155.173   Variances
   
155.174   Building height
   
155.175   Setback requirements
   
155.176   Area requirements
   
155.177   Detached accessory buildings
   
155.178   Sign regulations
   
155.179   Parking requirements
   
155.180   Loading facilities
Industrial District (IND)
   
155.195   Description and purpose
   
155.196   Permitted buildings and uses
   
155.197   Conditional buildings and uses permitted
   
155.198   Variances
   
155.199   Building height
   
155.200   Setback requirements
   
155.201   Area requirements
   
155.202   Detached accessory buildings
   
155.203   Sign regulations
   
155.204   Parking requirements
Industrial/Agricultural District (INAG)
   
155.215   Description and purpose
   
155.216   Permitted buildings and uses
   
155.217   Conditional buildings and uses permitted
   
155.218   Variances
   
155.219   Building height
   
155.220   Setback requirements
   
155.221   Area requirements
   
155.222   Detached accessory buildings
   
155.223   Sign regulations
   
155.224   Parking requirements
Planned Unit Developments
   
155.235   Definition and intent
   
155.236   Conflicting provisions
   
155.237   Uses permitted
   
155.238   Common open space
   
155.239   Increased residential density
   
155.240   Commercial/industrial uses
   
155.241   Pre-application meeting
   
155.242   Application for PUD
   
155.243   PUD review
   
155.244   Planning and Zoning Commission action on PUD plan
   
155.245   Final approval of PUD plan
   
155.246   Planning and Zoning Commission action on final plan
   
155.247   Post-review meeting
   
155.248   Extension of approval
   
155.249   Minor modifications and extensions approval
Land Use Regulations and Nonconforming Uses
   
155.260   Establishment and designation of use districts
   
155.261   Schedule of district land use controls
   
155.262   Nonconforming uses
   
155.263   Restriction on enlargement and maintenance
   
155.264   Termination of nonconformity
   
155.265   Damage to nonconforming building
   
155.266   Change in use
   
155.267   District changes
Development Agreements and Zoning Enforcement
   
155.280   Certificate of occupancy
   
155.281   Temporary certificate of occupancy
   
155.282   Development agreements
   
155.283   Failure to obtain permit
   
155.284   Enforcement action
Variances
   
155.295   Purposes
   
155.296   Action
   
155.297   Duration of approval
   
155.298   Application for variance
   
155.299   Notice requirements
   
155.300   Appeals; fees
   
155.301   Action on appeals by City Council
Conditional Use Permits (CUP)
   
155.315   Intent
   
155.316   Use permit prerequisite to building permit
   
155.317   Application for permit; fee
   
155.318   General use permit criteria
   
155.319   Investigations
   
155.320   Public hearings
   
155.321   Action by Planning and Zoning Commission
   
155.322   Conditions may be imposed
   
155.323   Effective date
   
155.324   Appeals; fees
   
155.325   Adherence to approved plan
   
155.326   Revocation of permit
   
155.327   Action on appeals by City Council
Off-Street Parking Requirements
   
155.340   General requirements
   
155.341   Parking area design
   
155.342   Number of parking spaces required
   
155.343   Loading spaces
   
155.344   Maintenance
   
155.345   Accessible parking spaces
Landscaping and Fences
   
155.360   Intent
   
155.361   Buffer yard requirements
   
155.362   Fences
   
155.363   Table; figures
   
155.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   City Superintendent, see Ch. 32
   Sign regulations, see Ch. 153
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 155.001 SHORT TITLE; AUTHORITY; PURPOSE; INTENT; ENACTMENT AND ZONING
DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   Short title. This chapter shall be known as the “Troy Zoning
Ordinance” and is adopted pursuant to authority granted by Idaho Code Title 67,
Chapter 65; and Article 12, § 2 of the State Constitution, as amended or
subsequently codified. For purposes of promoting pride of ownership, and
health, safety, and general welfare within its jurisdiction, the city enacts
this chapter and the city is hereby divided into the following zoning
districts:
      (1)   R-1: Single-Family Residential;
      (2)   R-2: Two-Family Residential;
      (3)   R-3: Multiple-Family Residential;
      (4)   R-M: Residential Manufactured Home or Mobile Home;
      (5)   C-1: Central Business;
      (6)   C-2: Highway Commercial;
      (7)   IND: Industrial; and
      (8)   INAG: Industrial/Agricultural.
   (B)   Uses conform to regulations. The use of land or premises shall conform
to the regulations set forth in the zoning districts, unless otherwise provided
by this chapter.
   (C)   Buildings, structures require conformance. No building or structure
shall be structurally altered or erected or used unless otherwise provided for
in this chapter except in conformity with the regulations herein set forth for
the zoning districts in which such building or structure is located.
   (D)   Intent; objectives.
      (1)   It is the intent of this chapter to guide development and to
regulate the use of land within the jurisdiction of the city. This chapter is
designed to lessen traffic congestion, to secure safety from fire, panic, and
other dangers, to prevent the overcrowding of land, to avoid undue
concentration of population, and to facilitate the adequate provision of
transportation, water, sewage, schools, parks, and other public requirements.
Furthermore, this chapter is based upon the adopted comprehensive plan and is
enacted for the convenience and general welfare of the residents of the city.
      (2)   This chapter will have the following objectives:
         (a)   To implement the policies of the comprehensive plan;
         (b)   To protect the residential, commercial, industrial uses, and
public areas from the unreasonable intrusion of incompatible uses;
         (c)   To provide for appropriately located residential areas with a
variety of dwelling types and density ranges;
         (d)   To protect the natural beauty of the city by encouraging
creativity in the design of future developments;
         (e)   To encourage the proper distribution and compatible integration
of commercial and industrial uses within designated areas; and
         (f)   To provide that future additions and alterations to, or
remodeling of, existing buildings or structures is completed in a reasonable
time and in compliance with this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-1) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001)
§ 155.002 ZONING DISTRICTS MAP.
   The most recent zoning map of the city, with all of the explanatory matter,
is hereby adopted by this chapter. The zoning map shall delineate the
boundaries of the zoning districts.
   (A)   Changes made to zoning map. All changes made to the zoning district
boundaries or other matter shall be entered promptly after the amendment
procedures have been followed in §
155.044, and such amendment has been approved by the City Council.
   (B)   Interpretation of the zoning district boundaries. When uncertainty
exists as to the boundary of any district boundary, the following regulations
shall apply.
      (1)   When the district boundary line follows a street, alley, or public
right-of-way, it shall be construed as following the centerline thereof.
      (2)   When the district boundary line follows a lot line, such lot line
shall be construed to be such boundary line.
      (3)   When the district boundary line either divides a lot or crosses
unsubdivided territory, the location of such boundary shall be indicated on the
zoning map.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-2) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001)
§ 155.003 INTERPRETATIONS.
   The words and terms used, defined, interpreted, or further described in this
chapter shall be construed as follows.
   (A)   The word SHALL is mandatory; the word MAY is permissive; and the word
SHOULD is preferred. The masculine shall include the feminine.
   (B)   Words used in the singular number include the plural, and words used
in the plural number include the singular, unless the context clearly indicates
the contrary.
   (C)   The word BUILDING includes the word STRUCTURE.
   (D)   The word LOT includes the words PLOT, PARCEL, and TRACT.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-1) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001)
§ 155.004 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABUTTING. Land having a common property line or district line, or separated
only by a private street, alley, or easement.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING. A building which is subordinate to and incidental to the
principal building on the same lot, but does not include any building
containing a dwelling unit, as defined in this section.
   ACCESSORY USE. A use incidental and subordinate to the principal use of the
premises.
   ADMINISTRATOR. An official having knowledge in the principles and practices
of planning and zoning, who is appointed by the City Council to administer this
chapter under the guidance of the Planning and Zoning Commission.
   AGRICULTURE. Tilling of soil, horticulture, raising crops, livestock, and
dairying, including all uses customarily accessory and incidental thereto, but
excluding slaughterhouses and commercial feedlots.
   AIRPORT. Any area of land or water which is used or intended for use by
aircraft, and including the necessary appurtenant structure or facilities
located thereon.
   ALLEY or LANE. A passageway open to public travel, not more than 25 feet
wide, which affords generally a secondary means of vehicular access to abutting
lots and is not intended for general traffic circulation.
   ANIMAL HOSPITAL. Any building or portion thereof designed or used for the
care or treatment of animals.
   APARTMENT. A room or suite of rooms in a building comprised of three or more
dwelling units which is arranged, designed, or used as a single housekeeping
unit and has a complete kitchen and sanitary facilities permanently installed.
   AREA OF CITY IMPACT. The development area around but outside the city
boundary, established pursuant to Idaho Code § 67-6526, where development
within the county is likely to affect the city.
   ARTERIAL STREET. A street designated for the purpose of carrying fast and/or
heavy traffic.
   AUTOMOBILE OR TRUCK REPAIR. Premises on which motor vehicles and trailers
are taken in for both minor and major repairs, and may include vehicular
lubrication, related services, and sale of parts.
   AUTOMOBILE OR TRUCK SALES. Premises on which new or used automobiles,
trailers, or trucks in operating condition are displayed in the open for sale
or trade, and where related services are provided.
   AUTOMOBILE PARKING LOT/GARAGE. A facility used for storage, parking, care,
or repair of motor vehicles, or where such vehicles are kept for remuneration,
hire, or sale.
   AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION. Commercial use of premises used primarily for
retail sale and delivery to the vehicle of motor vehicle fuel and of
lubricating oils, tires, and incidental vehicular accessories, and providing
vehicular lubrication and related services, including minor vehicle repairs.
   BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENT. Any place of lodging that provides eight or
fewer rooms for rent, is the owner’s personal residence, and is occupied by the
owner during the time of rental.
   BOARDING HOUSE. A building other than a hotel or restaurant where rooms are
rented on a weekly or monthly basis and meals are provided for compensation to
three or more persons, but not more than 12 persons, who are not members of the
householder’s family.
   BUILDING. A structure designed or used as the living quarters for one or
more families, or a structure designed for use as an accessory to a structure
used for living quarters, or a structure designed for commercial or industrial
uses.
   BUILDING, DETACHED. A building surrounded by open space on the same lot.
   BUILDING, GOVERNMENT. A building owned or used by the federal, state,
county, or city government, or by any political subdivision, agency, or
instrumentality thereof.
   BUILDING, NONCONFORMING. Any building constructed prior to the adoption of
the ordinance codified herein, which does not conform to the requirements of
this chapter.
   CARPORT. A stationary structure intended to house or protect motor vehicles
owned or operated by the occupants of the principal building and which has at
least 40% of the total area of its sides open to the weather.
   CEMETERY. A lot that has been platted for the selling of sites for the
burial of animal or human remains.
   CITY. The City of Troy, Idaho.
   CITY CLERK. The City Clerk of Troy, Idaho.
   CITY COUNCIL. The elected or appointed Council members of the city. Also
referred to as THE COUNCIL.
   CLINIC. A building designed and used for the medical, dental, or surgical
diagnosis or treatment of patients under the care of doctors and/or nurses.
   CLUB. An incorporated or unincorporated association of persons organized for
social, fraternal, athletic, educational, literary, or charitable purposes.
Property occupied by a CLUB is deemed to be semiprivate in character, and is
subject to the regulations governing public buildings and places, excluding
groups organized primarily to render a service which is normally considered a
business.
   COLLECTOR STREET. A street designated for the purpose of carrying traffic
from minor streets to other collector streets and/or arterial streets.
   COMMERCIAL LODGING USES. These uses include hotels, motels, and convention
centers having lodging facilities.
   COMMISSION. See definition of PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The comprehensive plan of the city officially adopted by
the City Council.
   CONDITIONAL USE. A use or occupancy of a structure, or use of land,
permitted only upon the issuance of a conditional use permit and subject to the
limitations and conditions specified therein.
   CONVENIENCE STORE. A neighborhood store engaging primarily in the sale of
basic food items. Nonfood items may also be sold, provided they are considered
everyday convenience goods.
   COTTAGE INDUSTRY USES. These uses refer to industrial uses conducted on a
lot with a residential dwelling unit. Up to four employees may be employed in
addition to family members. USES include industrial activities related to
agriculture, trucking operations, small automotive repair shops, well and
septic tank system service, carpentry, upholstery, woodworking, and other
similar uses.
   DAYCARE CENTER. Any establishment or place in which are commonly received at
one time not more than 12 children not of common parentage, for a period not
exceeding 12 hours, for the purpose of being given care or training for
compensation or reward.
   DISTRICT or ZONE. A portion of the territory of the city within which
certain uniform regulations and requirements, or various combinations thereof,
apply under the provisions of this chapter.
   DRIVE-IN ESTABLISHMENT. An establishment, other than an automobile service
station, which is designed to accommodate the motor vehicles of the patrons in
such manner as to permit the occupants of vehicles, while remaining therein, to
make purchases or receive services.
   DWELLING. A building, or portion thereof, containing one or more dwelling
units. The term DWELLING does not include any trailer, motel, hotel,
guesthouse, or boarding house, as defined herein.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY. A building or portion thereof, containing three
or more dwelling units.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A building designed for use and occupancy by no
more than one family.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A detached building designed for and occupied
exclusively by two families independent of each other.
   EASEMENT. A grant by a property owner to specific persons or to the public
to use land for specific purposes. Also a right acquired by prescription.
   ESTABLISHED GRADE. The high point of the sidewalk at the front or side lot
line as established by the city.
   EXTRACTION AND DISPOSAL ACTIVITIES. These activities include extraction uses
such as mining and quarrying, and disposal uses such as sanitary landfills,
sludge disposal or storage, resource recovery facilities, trash compaction or
transfer stations, and any other form of waste management facilities and
extraction uses.
   FAMILY. One or more persons related by blood, marriage, adoption, or a group
of not more than six persons (excluding servants) not related by blood or
marriage, living together as a single housekeeping unit in a dwelling unit.
   FLOOD. The temporary inundation of land adjacent to and inundated by
overflow from a river, stream, lake, or other body of water.
   FLOOD OF 100-YEAR FREQUENCY. A flood magnitude which has a 1% chance of
being equaled or exceeded in any given year.
   FLOODPLAIN. The relatively flat area of lowland adjoining the channel of a
river, stream, lake, or other body of water which has been or may be covered by
water of a flood of 100-year frequency. The FLOODPLAIN includes the channel,
floodway, or floodway fringe, as established pursuant to engineering practices
of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers.
   FLOODPROOFING. Measures designed to prevent and reduce flood damage for
those uses or structures located in the floodplain, including measures to
prevent floodwaters from entering structures.
   FLOODWAY. A designated portion of the 100-year flood area in which waters
are rapidly moving, which includes the stream channel and other areas as
designated on floodplain maps covering the jurisdiction involved.
   FLOODWAY FRINGE. The part of the floodplain which is beyond the floodway.
Such areas include those portions of the floodplain which will be inundated by
flood of 100-year frequency.
   FRONTAGE STREET. A minor street, parallel to and/or adjacent to an arterial
street, to provide access to abutting properties.
   HEIGHT, BUILDING. The vertical distance from the grade to the highest point
of the coping of a flat roof or to the deck line of a mansard roof, or the
average height of the highest gable of a pitch or hip roof.
   HIGHWAY. A street designated as a highway by an appropriate state or federal
agency.
   HOME BUSINESS. A business conducted on a lot in conjunction with a
residential dwelling unit. Up to two employees may be employed that do not live
on the property. This use involves no exterior storage, and all vehicles and
materials shall be located in buildings. This type of BUSINESS includes
contractors, service businesses, offices, music, art, other schools, and art
studios and galleries.
   HOME OCCUPATION. Any gainful occupation engaged in by an occupant of a
dwelling unit, including handicrafts, dressmaking, millinery, laundering,
preserving, office of a professional, teaching of music, dancing, and other
instruction when limited to attendance of one pupil at a time, and other like
OCCUPATIONS which meet all of the following conditions:
      (1)   The use is clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the
dwelling for dwelling purposes;
      (2)   The use is conducted entirely within the dwelling and is carried on
by the inhabitants thereof;
      (3)   No article shall be sold or offered for sale from the dwelling
except such as is produced by the occupant, and no mechanical or electronic
equipment shall be installed or maintained other than such is customarily
incidental to the home-based business use;
      (4)   The use does not change the character of the premises or adversely
affect the uses permitted in the Residential District;
      (5)   The use creates no appreciable additional traffic and requires not
more than one additional parking space;
      (6)   No persons are employed other than those necessary for domestic
purposes;
      (7)   Not more than one-fourth of the gross area of said dwelling is used
for such use; and
      (8)    No internal or external alterations or construction features not
customarily in dwellings are involved.
   HOSPITAL. An establishment which provides accommodations, facilities, and
services over a continuous period of 24 hours or more for observation,
diagnosis, and care, of two or more individuals, not related by blood or
marriage to the operator, who are suffering from illness, injury, deformity, or
abnormality, or from any condition requiring obstetrical, medical, or surgical
services.
   IMPROVEMENT. Any alteration to the land or other physical construction
associated with subdivision and building site development.
   JUNKYARD. An outdoor space where junk, waste, discarded or salvaged
materials are stored or handled, including automobile wrecking yards, storage
of salvaged building and structural steel materials and equipment; excluding
yards or establishments for the sale, purchase, or storage of used cars or
machinery in operable condition, and the processing of used, discarded, or
salvaged materials as part of a permitted manufacturing operation on the same
premises.
   KENNEL, COMMERCIAL. Any lot or premises, or portion thereof, on which three
or more dogs, cats, or other household domestic animals are maintained,
harbored, possessed, boarded, bred, or cared for in return for compensation or
kept for sale.
   KENNEL, NONCOMMERCIAL. Any lot, building, or enclosure, or portion thereof,
in which more than two dogs and/or cats of at least six months of age are kept
and/or boarded without compensation.
   LOADING AND UNLOADING SPACE, OFF-STREET. An open off-street area of land
other than street or public way, the principal use of which is for the
standing, loading, and unloading of motor vehicles, tractors, or trailers, to
avoid undue interference with public streets and alleys.
   LOT. A unit of land described by metes and bounds, or part of a recorded
subdivision so recorded for transfer of ownership.
   LOT LINE. The boundary property line encompassing a lot. The FRONT LOT LINE
is the boundary line which abuts a public street. For a corner lot, the owner
may select either street as the front lot line. The REAR LOT LINE is the line
most nearly parallel to and most remote from the front property line. All other
lot lines are SIDE LOT LINES. An INTERIOR LOT LINE is a side lot line in common
with another lot line.
   LOT TYPES. As used in these regulations, LOT TYPES are as follows.
      (1)   CORNER LOT. A lot located at the intersection of two or more
streets.
      (2)   FLAGPOLE LOT. A lot divided to create separate lots, which must
have an access at least 20 feet wide to a street. The pole part of the LOT may
not be included in the square footage required for lot size in the zone.
      (3)   INTERIOR LOT. A lot other than a corner lot with frontage on only
one street other than a corner lot.
      (4)   THROUGH LOT. A lot with frontage on more than one street other than
a corner lot.
   LOT WIDTH. The horizontal distance between side lot lines measured at right
angles to the depth at a point midway between the front and rear lot lines.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A single-family dwelling unit with all of the following
characteristics:
      (1)   Designed for long-term occupancy and containing complete bath and
kitchen facilities, with plumbing and electrical connections provided for
attachment to outside systems;
      (2)   Designed to be transported after fabrication according to
manufacturer’s specifications and all regulating agencies; and
      (3)   Delivered to the site where it is to be occupied as a complete
dwelling unit and ready for occupancy, except for minor and incidental
unpacking and assembly operations, located on a foundation, with connections to
utilities and the like.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. Any area, tract, plot, or site of land, whereupon two or
more standard mobile homes or manufactured homes are placed, located, and
maintained for dwelling purposes on a permanent or semipermanent basis and for
which a fee, or rental or contract for payment for such use, is collected by or
collectable to the person holding the land.
   MOBILE HOME, STANDARD. A detached single-family dwelling unit fabricated
prior to 1976, with the following characteristics:
      (1)   Designed for long-term occupancy and containing sleeping
accommodations, a flush toilet, a tub or shower, bath and kitchen facilities
with plumbing and electrical connections provided for attachment to outside
systems;
      (2)   Designed to be transported after fabrication on its own wheels or
on a flatbed or detached wheels according to the requirements of all regulating
agencies; and
      (3)   Delivered to the site where it is to be occupied as a complete
dwelling unit, including major appliances and furniture, and ready for
occupancy except for minor and incidental unpacking and assembly operations,
location on foundation supports, a connection to utilities, and the like.
   MONUMENT. Any permanent marker either of concrete, galvanized iron pipe, or
iron or steel rods, used to identify any tract, parcel, lot, or street lines,
as specified in Idaho Code § 50-1303.
   MOTEL. A building, or group of buildings on the same premises, containing
sleeping or dwelling units independently accessible from the outside, with
garage space or parking space located on the premises and designed for or
occupied by travelers. The term includes, but is not limited to, any buildings
or building groups designated as auto courts, motor lodges, tourist courts, or
any other title or sign intended to identify them as providing lodging to
motorists.
   NONCONFORMING USE. Any use lawfully occupying a building, structure, or land
at the effective date hereof, or of subsequent amendments thereto, which does
not conform to the regulations for the zoning district in which it is located.
   NURSING HOME. A building housing any facility, however named, whether
operated for profit or not, the purpose of which is to provide skilled nursing
care and related medical services for two or more individuals suffering from
illness, disease, injury, or deformity, or requiring care because of old age or
other disabling condition.
   OPEN SPACE. An area open to the sky for outdoor recreation activity or kept
open for aesthetic purposes, exclusive of streets, buildings, or other covered
structures.
   PARKING LOT. An open, graded, and surfaced area, other than a street or a
public way, to be used for vehicle parking or storage for a limited period of
time. This would include operable passenger vehicles and commercial vehicles
and is available to the public or residents, whether for compensation, free, or
as an accommodation to clients or customers.
   PARKING SPACE. Usable space within a public or private parking area or
building, not less than 180 square feet (nine feet by 20 feet), exclusive of
access drives, aisles, or ramps for the storage of one passenger automobile or
passenger vehicle.
   PARTIAL RIGHT-OF-WAY. A dedicated right-of-way providing only a portion of
the required street width, usually along the edge of a subdivision or tract of
land.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD). A development that has one or more of the
following characteristics:
      (1)   Is designed as a combination of residential, commercial, and
industrial uses on one or more parcels;
      (2)   Has both open space and clustered high density use on parts of the
parcel;
      (3)   Is either developed as a project which will operate under single
ownership or control, or is developed for the purpose of selling individual
lots or estates which will be sold; and/or
      (4)   Lots may utilize either dedicated streets or, at the discretion of
the City Council, private streets.
   PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION. Sometimes referred to herein as the
COMMISSION. A commission established by city ordinance to administer all city
ordinances pertaining to any activity related to planning and zoning within the
city limits and the surrounding area of impact.
   PRIVATE STREET. A street that is not accepted for public use or maintenance
which provides vehicular and pedestrian access.
   PUBLIC SERVICE USES. These uses include emergency service buildings or
garages such as ambulance, fire, police, rescue, utility substations, or
transmission and distribution facilities, including telephone and like
government owned facilities, except landfills and mining facilities.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK. Any area, tract, plot, or site of land, whereupon
two or more travel trailers or recreational vehicles are placed, located,
maintained, and occupied on a temporary basis and for which a fee or rental for
such use is collected by or collectable to the person operating the PARK.
   REST HOME, ELDERLY HOUSING. The same as a NURSING HOME, as defined in this
section, except that medical care is not administered therein.
   RESTAURANT. Any land, building, or part thereof, other than a boarding
house, where meals are provided for compensation, including, among others, a
café, cafeteria, coffee shop, lunchroom, tearoom, and dining area.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. Land dedicated or reserved for use, as a public way which
normally includes streets, sidewalks, and other public utilities or service
areas.
   SALVAGE OR WRECKING YARD. Any use of premises, excluding fully enclosed
buildings, on which two or more motor vehicles not in operating condition are
standing more than 30 days, or on which used motor vehicles or parts thereof
are dismantled or stored.
   SETBACK AREA. The space on a lot required to be left open and unoccupied by
buildings or structures, either the front, side, or rear yard requirements of
this chapter, or by delineation on a recorded subdivision map.
   SIGN. Any identification, description, illustration, symbol, statue, or
device, illuminated or nonilluminated, which is visible from any public place
designed to advertise, identify, or convey information, including any
landscaping where letters or numbers are used for the purpose of directing the
public’s attention to a product or location, with the exception of window
displays and state or national flags. For the purpose of removal, SIGN shall
also include all sign structures.
   STANDARD SPECIFICATIONS.
      (1)   The standards as specified in ordinance or as officially adopted by
the city, including, but not limited to:
         (a)   Uniform Building Code;
         (b)   National Electrical Code;
         (c)   Uniform Plumbing Code;
         (d)   Uniform Mechanical Code;
         (e)   Uniform Housing Code; and
         (f)   National Fire Safety Code.
      (2)   Any exceptions of these codes are listed in Chapter 151 of this
code.
   STATE. The State of Idaho.
   STORY. The portion of a building included between the upper surface of any
floor and the upper surface of the floor next above, except that the topmost
story shall be that portion of the building included between the upper surface
of the topmost floor and the ceiling or roof above. If the finished floor level
directly above a basement or cellar is more than six feet above grade, such
basement or cellar shall be considered a STORY.
   STREET. A right-of-way which provides vehicular and pedestrian access to
adjacent properties, acceptance or grant of which has been officially approved
by Council. The term STREET also includes the terms highway, thoroughfare,
parkway, throughway, road, avenue, boulevard, land, place, or other such terms.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, except fences, which requires
permanent location on the ground or is attached to something having location on
the ground.
   TAVERN or LOUNGE. A building where alcoholic beverages are sold for
consumption on the premises, not including restaurants where the principal
business is serving food.
   USE. The purpose which land, buildings, or structures serve, or for which it
is occupied, maintained, arranged, designed, or intended.
   UTILITIES. Installations for conducting water, sewage, gas, electricity,
telephone, television, stormwater, and similar facilities providing service to
and use by the public.
   VARIANCE. An adjustment made in the application of the specific requirements
of this chapter to a particular piece of property, which property because of
special circumstances applicable to it being deprived of privileges commonly
enjoyed by other properties in the same zone or vicinity and which adjustment
remedies disparity in privileges. A VARIANCE is a form of special exception.
   YARD. An open space on the same lot with a principal building or group of
buildings which is unoccupied and unobstructed, except as otherwise permitted
in this chapter, and which extends along a lot line and at right angles thereto
to a depth or width specified in the yard regulations for the zoning district
in which the lot is located.
   YARD, FRONT. The yard extending across the full width of the lot adjacent to
the front street line.
   YARD, REAR. The yard extending across the full width of the lot and lying
between the rear line of the lot and the nearest line of the principal or
accessory building.
   YARD, SIDE. The yard lying between the nearest wall of the principal or
accessory building and side lot line and extending from the front yard or the
front lot line to the rear yard.
   ZONING MAP. The map incorporated into this chapter designating the zoning
districts.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-2) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001; Ord. 2003-04, passed 10-
27-2003)
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
§ 155.015 MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   A Planning and Zoning Commission consisting of five members appointed
by the Mayor, and confirmed by the City Council, shall be established in the
city. Members shall be selected and appointed without respect to political
affiliation and will assume all responsibilities and duties as set forth in
Idaho Code and by this chapter.
   (B)   One member of this Commission may be a nonresident, registered voter,
and taxpayer, residing within the boundaries established by the City School
District, and shall have a vote on the Commission.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-1) (Ord. 2001-02, passed 4-23-2001; Ord. 2004-02, passed 1-
12-2004)
§ 155.016 TERMS.
   The initial term of office for the first appointed members of this
Commission shall be two, three, and four years, to be determined by the Mayor.
Thereafter, the term of office for each appointed Commission member shall be
four years.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-2) (Ord. 2001-02, passed 4-23-2001)
§ 155.017 VACANCIES.
   Vacancies occurring other than through expiration of the term shall be
filled for the reminder of that term by the Mayor, and confirmed by the City
Council.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-3) (Ord. 2001-02, passed 4-23-2001)
§ 155.018 REMOVAL.
   Commission members may be removed by a majority vote of the City Council.
Members missing more than three meetings in a one-year period without excuse
shall automatically be removed.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-4) (Ord. 2001-02, passed 4-23-2001)
§ 155.019 REIMBURSEMENT FOR EXPENSES.
   Members shall be reimbursed for expenses incurred while performing the
duties and responsibilities of this Commission. All expenses shall be approved
by the City Council prior to payment.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-5) (Ord. 2001-02, passed 4-23-2001)
§ 155.020 OFFICERS.
   The Commission shall elect a Chairperson and a Vice Chairperson, who will be
entitled to vote in all matters. The Chairperson shall appoint a recorder of
proceedings. The position of Chairperson and Vice Chairperson may be renewed on
an annual basis in the month of January.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-6) (Ord. 2001-02, passed 4-23-2001)
§ 155.021 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The purpose of this section is to promote the health, safety, and general
welfare of the people of the city as follows.
   (A)   Comprehensive plan changes. The Planning and Zoning Commission has a
statutory responsibility to recommend changes in the comprehensive plan to the
City Council. The Commission may be authorized to conduct a public hearing on
changes and that a second public hearing be conduced in front of the City
Council.
   (B)   Zoning ordinance changes. The Planning and Zoning Commission has a
statutory responsibility to recommend changes in the zoning ordinances and
zoning districts to the City Council. The Commission may be authorized to
conduct a public hearing on such changes and that a second public hearing be
conducted in front of the City Council.
   (C)   Subdivision applications. The Planning and Zoning Commission has
authority to review subdivision applications, conduct a public hearing
regarding subdivisions, and to make a recommendation to the City Council. The
City Council will then conduct a second public hearing regarding approval of
the preliminary plat and, later, a third public hearing regarding approval of
the final plat.
   (D)   Conditional use permits.
      (1)   The Planning and Zoning Commission will have authority to conduct
public hearings and make a recommendation regarding conditional use permits.
The City Council would then conduct a meeting to consider the conditional use
permit and would hold a second public hearing on the conditional use permit if
it deemed such a hearing was necessary.
      (2)   The Council would be able to issue the conditional use permit
without a public hearing if no opposition was shown in any prior meeting.
   (E)   Variances. The Planning and Zoning Commission will have the authority
to conduct public hearings and make a recommendation regarding variances. The
City Council would conduct a meeting to consider the variance and would hold a
second public hearing on the variance if it deemed such a meeting was
necessary. The Council would be able to issue the variance without a public
hearing if no opposition was shown in any prior meeting.
   (F)   Planned unit development applications. The Planning and Zoning
Commission will have the authority to review planned unit development
applications, conduct a public hearing regarding planned unit developments, and
to make recommendations to the City Council. The City Council will conduct a
second public hearing regarding planned unit developments.
   (G)   Professional hearing examiners. The Council and/or the Planning and
Zoning Commission will have the option to use professional hearing examiners to
hear applications for subdivisions, conditional use permits, zoning boundary
changes, and variance requests. The Council or Commission may appoint a hearing
examiner to conduct a public hearing when it determines that it is in the
public interest to do so.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-7) (Ord. 2001-03, passed 8-13-2001)
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES
§ 155.035 INTENT.
   The intention of this subchapter is to require a permit for all land
development and building activity in the city, and to establish procedures for
the administration of this chapter, including the procedures for processing
permit applications required by Idaho Code § 67-6519, and the hearing
procedures required by Idaho Code § 67-6534.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-1) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001)
§ 155.036 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   A permit shall be required for any division of land, grading, construction,
reconstruction, or any land development or building activity. Applications for
permits shall be processed as described in this chapter and Chapter 154 of this
code.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-2) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.037 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Activities listed here are not exempt from any requirements of this
chapter, except the requirement for a permit.
   (B)   No permit shall be required for the following:
      (1)   Lot line adjustments, in which no new lot is created, but property
lines are adjusted;
      (2)   Remodeling that does not alter the exterior dimensions of the
building involved;
      (3)   Accessory buildings of less than 120 square feet in floor area and
less than ten feet in height;
      (4)   Fences of six feet or less in height; or
      (5)   Minor utility installations.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-3) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001)
§ 155.038 APPLICATION FORMS.
   Applications shall be submitted on forms provided by the city and multiple
copies of applications and supporting materials may be required by the Planning
and Zoning Commission. Incomplete applications shall not be approved.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-4) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001)
§ 155.039 APPLICATION FEES.
   Application fees for each type of permit established by this chapter shall
be established by resolution of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-5) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001)
§ 155.040 ADMINISTRATIVE LOT SPLITS.
   Any time that an original tract of land, a lot of a recorded plat, or any
other parcel of land is divided or partitioned into not more than two lots,
parcels, or sites for the purpose of transfer of ownership or development, the
following application process and procedures shall be followed.
   (A)   Application. An application for lot split on a form provided by the
city shall be made and shall contain, at a minimum, the following information:
      (1)   Name, address, and telephone number of the applicant;
      (2)   Legal description of property and proof of ownership or agency;
      (3)   Description of existing use;
      (4)   Zoning district;
      (5)   Description of lots after proposed lot split;
      (6)   Description of proposed use; and
      (7)   Documentation of the permission of the owner of the parcel to be
split.
   (B)   Procedure. Prior to approving an application under division (A) above,
the Planning and Zoning Commission shall make the following findings.
      (1)   The minimum requirements under this chapter for acreage, density,
lot area, and setback have been complied with.
      (2)   The proposed lot split is in conformity with the comprehensive
plan.
      (3)   The proposed lot split is in the public interest and will not
adversely impact adjoining property interests.
   (C)   Notice.
      (1)   Within 15 days after a decision has been rendered, the Planning and
Zoning Commission shall provide the applicant with written notice of the action
on the request.
      (2)   Notice of the proposed lot split shall be sent to the adjacent
property owners.
   (D)   Lot size. It is the policy of the city that all lots must meet the
minimum lot size for development. Existing lots less than the minimum size will
require a variance before the owner may develop them.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-6) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.041 SUBDIVISION PERMITS.
   For subdivision permits, see
Chapter 154 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-7) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001)
§ 155.042 BUILDING PERMITS.
   The intent of the building permit procedure is to assure that routine land
development and building activity comply with this chapter. Applications for
building permits shall follow the procedures described here and in the Uniform
Building Code.
   (A)   Application; fee. The developer or property owner shall file a
properly completed application form, the required supporting materials, and the
required application fee with the City Clerk. The application must include a
site plan of the property showing the location of all existing buildings,
proposed new buildings, and the location of all easements. The site plan must
be drawn accurately to scale with a size of no less than one inch equal to 20
feet and include the location of all right-of-way lines, as well as the
existing edge of paved streets, sidewalks, curbs, and storm drains.
   (B)   Approval; disapproval. The Administrator shall determine whether the
proposed building or use is in compliance with the comprehensive plan and this
chapter. If the Administrator finds that the proposed building or use complies,
the application for a permit shall be approved. If the Administrator finds that
the proposed building or use does not comply, the application for a permit
shall not be approved.
   (C)   Time limit. The Administrator shall notify the developer or property
owner of his or her decision, or of a referral to the Planning and Zoning
Commission, within 15 days after the application is filed with the city.
   (D)   Referral to Commission. The Administrator may refer any building
permit application to the Planning and Zoning Commission for confirmation of
its compliance or lack of compliance with the comprehensive plan and this
chapter. All such referrals shall be placed on the agenda of the next regular
Commission meeting.
   (E)   Appeal. The Planning and Zoning Commission decision may be appealed to
the City Council using the appeal procedure in §
155.049.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-8) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001)
§ 155.043 CONDITIONS MAY BE IMPOSED.
   Conditions may be imposed on any lot split or variance, if the following is
determined.
   (A)   The conditions are clearly designed to assure compliance with one or
more specific requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   A list of all conditions imposed is provided to the developer or
property owner with notification of the Planning and Zoning Commission
decision. That list shall specifically identify the provisions of this chapter
and the condition that is designated to be implemented.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-9) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001)
§ 155.044 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Any person may petition for amendment of this chapter or any zoning
district.
   (B)   The amendment procedure shall be as described in this section and in
Idaho Code § 67-6511.
      (1)   Application; fee. The property owner or developer shall file a
properly completed application form, the required supporting materials, and the
required application fee with the Planning and Zoning Commission.
      (2)   Planning Commission hearing. The Planning and Zoning Commission
shall place a hearing on the application on the agenda for the next regular
Commission meeting for which the notice requirements can be met. Notice
requirements for an amendment shall be as set forth in Idaho Code § 67-6519 and
in §
155.046.
      (3)   Contract for review. The Planning and Zoning Commission may
contract with a planner or other professional for review of the application,
with the cost of that review being covered by the application fee. Such reviews
shall be prepared in the form of a written report submitted to the Commission
for use at the hearing. The Commission shall, upon its receipt, provide a copy
of this report to the property owner or developer and place it on file for
public review with the other application materials.
      (4)   Hearing. The Planning and Zoning Commission shall conduct a hearing
on the proposed amendment following the procedures established in §
155.050. No application for an amendment shall be reviewed if the property
owner or developer, or a representative, is not present.
      (5)   Determination of compliance; recommendation. The Planning and
Zoning Commission shall determine whether the proposed amendment is consistent
with the comprehensive plan and recommend to the City Council that the
amendment be approved or disapproved.
      (6)   Consideration by Council. The Planning and Zoning Commission
decision shall be considered by the City Council in a timely fashion.
      (7)   Council decision. The city shall notify the property owner or
developer and interested parties of the Council’s decision within ten days, but
no amendment to this chapter shall become effective until that amendment has
been adopted as an ordinance and published as required by law.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-10) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001)
§ 155.045 REZONING OF LAND.
   (A)   Conditions. For the purpose of establishing and maintaining sound,
stable, and desirable development within the city, the rezoning of land is to
be discouraged and allowed only under certain circumstance as provided
hereafter. The zoning map is the result of a detailed and comprehensive
appraisal of the city’s present and future needs regarding land use allocation
and, as such, should not be amended unless to correct a manifest error or
because of changed or changing conditions in a particular area of the city in
general. Rezoning shall only be allowed if the applicant demonstrates by clear
and convincing evidence of the following.
      (1)   The land to be rezoned was zoned in error and, as presently zoned,
is inconsistent with the policies and goals of the city comprehensive plan.
      (2)   The area for which rezoning is requested has changed or is changing
to such a degree that it is in the public interest to encourage development or
redevelopment of the area.
      (3)   The proposed rezoning is necessary in order to provide land for a
community related use, which was not anticipated at the time of the adoption of
the city comprehensive plan, and that such rezoning will be consistent with the
policies and goals of the comprehensive plan.
   (B)   Incidental revisions. This declaration of standards for rezoning shall
not control a rezoning which occurs incidental to a comprehensive revision of
the city zoning map.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-11) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001)
§ 155.046 HEARING NOTICES.
   All required notices shall provide the following information:
   (A)   The name and mailing address of the property owner;
   (B)   A legal description of the property;
   (C)   The address of the property or another general description by which
the public can identify the property;
   (D)   The present land use of the property;
   (E)   The proposed use of the property;
   (F)   The body (Planning and Zoning Commission) that will conduct the
hearing;
   (G)   The date, time, and place of the hearing;
   (H)   A statement of the availability of application materials for public
review;
   (I)   A statement that “public comment is encouraged;” and
   (J)   Written materials in excess of one page must be submitted to the city
at least three working days prior to the hearing.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-12) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001)
§ 155.047 REQUIREMENTS FOR HEARING NOTICES.
   The following information shall be required for hearing notices.
   (A)   Newspaper. The notice shall be published in the city’s official
newspaper.
   (B)   Posting on property. Notices shall be posted on the property by the
city not less than one week prior to the public hearing.
   (C)   Notice to property owners. Notice shall also be provided to property
owners or purchasers of record within the land being considered, and within 300
feet (except for variances) of the external boundaries of the land being
considered, and any additional area that may be substantially impacted by the
proposed conditional use as determined by the Planning and Zoning Commission.
   (D)   Alternative notice. When notice is required to be given to 200 or more
property owners, or purchasers of record, an alternative form of procedure of
official notice shall be published in the official newspaper for two
consecutive days.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-13) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001)
§ 155.048 APPROVALS VALID FOR ONE YEAR.
   Permits shall be valid for one year from the date of approval. The Planning
and Zoning Commission may extend this period for good cause.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-14) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001)
§ 155.049 APPEALS.
   Any decision of the Planning and Zoning Commission may be appealed to the
City Council using the procedure described as follows.
   (A)   Filing; fee. The appellant shall file a properly completed appeals
form, the required supporting materials, and the required appeals fee, with the
City Clerk within 15 days after the Commission’s decision.
   (B)   Hearing; notice. The City Clerk shall place a hearing on the appeal on
the agenda of the next regular City Council meeting for which the notice
requirements can be met. Notice requirements for an appeal shall be the same as
for the permit application.
   (C)   Conduct of hearing. The City Council shall conduct a hearing on the
appeal, with proper public notice, following the procedure established in §
155.050. No appeal shall be heard if the appellant is not the property owner or
his or her legal representative, or if the appellant or representative is not
present.
   (D)   Decision. The City Council shall determine whether the decision being
appealed is in compliance with the comprehensive plan and this chapter, and
affirm, modify, or overturn that decision accordingly.
   (E)   Notice of decision. The City Clerk shall notify the appellant and
interested parties of the City Council decision within 15 days.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-15) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001)
§ 155.050 HEARING PROCEDURES.
   The following procedures shall be followed in all hearings.
   (A)   The presiding officer shall announce the purpose and subject of the
hearing.
   (B)   The presiding officer shall determine whether proper notice of the
hearing has been provided. That determination shall be based on the submission
of affidavits of publication and posting, and certified mail receipts showing
full compliance with the notice requirements of this chapter. If proper notice
has not been provided, the hearing shall be rescheduled.
   (C)   The presiding officer shall determine whether the application form
required by this chapter is complete and includes all required supporting
materials. If the application is not complete, the hearing shall be
rescheduled.
   (D)   The presiding officer shall ask if any Planning and Zoning Commission
member wishes to declare a conflict of interest, as defined by Idaho Code § 67-
6506, in the matter to be heard and excuse any member who declares such a
conflict from participation in the hearing.
   (E)   The presiding officer shall remind those present that all statements
given must address the merits of the proposed development as measured by its
compliance or lack of compliance with the comprehensive plan and this chapter.
   (F)   The presiding officer shall ask for a statement from the developer,
property owner, or his or her representative. The applicant may also have any
representative or expert participate in this presentation. Members of the
Commission are encouraged to ask questions during this process. All questions
and replies shall be directed through the presiding officer.
   (G)   The presiding officer shall ask for a presentation of a report on the
proposal being considered.
   (H)   The presiding officer shall ask for statements from the public, first
from those in favor, then from those opposed to the application. Persons giving
statements shall begin by stating their name and physical address. All
questions and replies shall be directed through the presiding officer.
   (I)   When all statements have been given, the presiding officer shall ask
if the applicant or his or her representative wishes to speak in rebuttal to
other statements or to clarify their statement. Neither new statements nor the
introduction of new evidence shall be permitted at this time.
   (J)   The presiding officer shall close the public hearing and call for
discussion by the Planning and Zoning Commission. That discussion shall lead to
action on the matter being considered.
   (K)   Written statements, plans, drawings, photographs, or other materials
offered in support of statements at a hearing are part of that hearing record
and shall be retained by the Planning and Zoning Commission. Supporting
materials shall be left with the Commission after each statement is made.
   (L)   The Planning and Zoning Commission may impose a time limit on the
statements given in order to assure completion of the agenda.
   (M)   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall require persons who wish to
make a statement to register their intention to do so with the Commission
before the hearing. The presiding officer shall use the register to call on
persons to present their statements.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-16) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001)
§ 155.051 MEDIATION.
   (A)   Applicability. Mediation of land use decisions will be governed by the
procedures in Idaho Code § 67-6510 and this section.
   (B)   Application. Application for mediation may be requested in writing by
any applicant or affected person, by the Mayor, Planning and Zoning Commission
Chairperson, or by the City Council regarding any final decision of the
Planning and Zoning Commission or City Council. Applications must be received
by the City Clerk within 14 days of a final land use decision made by the city.
   (C)   Determination of participation. The City Council shall, within 30 days
of receipt of an application, determine whether it will participate in
mediation.
   (D)   Participation. Where the City Council determines that it will
participate in mediation, the applicant and any persons objecting to the
decision shall be allowed to participate in at least one mediation session. The
City Council shall select the mediator after consulting with the party
requesting mediation and the applicant. The city shall maintain a list of
qualified mediators for this purpose. Compensation of the mediator shall be
determined by the City Council prior to or at the outset of the first mediation
session.
   (E)   Decline of participation. An applicant may decline to participate in
mediation that has been requested by an affected person, which will terminate
the process. An affected person may decline to participate in a mediation
requested by the applicant, but this will not affect the process.
   (F)   Time limitation. Upon receipt of a request for mediation, any time
limitation relevant to the application making the basis of such a mediation
shall be tolled. Such tolling shall cease at the first of the following:
      (1)   When the applicant or the affected person who requested the
mediation has participated in at least one mediation session and states in
writing that no further participation by that party is desired;
      (2)   Where the City Council determines the process should terminate; or
      (3)   Where no mediation session has been scheduled for at least 28 days
from the date of such a request.
   (G)   Recommendations. Any recommendation of the mediator shall be in
writing and set forth reasons for recommendation and appropriate provisions of
the comprehensive plan and code sections applicable to the recommendations.
   (H)   Public hearing before Council. A public hearing shall be held before
the City Council where a recommended resolution has been made through the
mediation process.
   (I)   Council action. The City Council shall act on the mediation
recommendation within 60 days of the receipt of the recommendation. The
mediation process shall not be part of the official record regarding
consideration of the application upon which the mediation is based.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-17) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001)
§ 155.052 TRANSCRIBED RECORD OF HEARINGS.
   The city shall keep a transcribable tape record of all hearings on file for
at least six months after the final hearing on the property or development. All
materials received during the hearing process will be identified by exhibit
numbers.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-18) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001)
§ 155.053 DECISION RECORD.
   All decisions shall be reported in written form as required by Idaho Code §
67-6535. The completed decision record shall include the application materials
and all exhibits, including any report prepared by or on contract for the
Commission.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-19) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001)
§ 155.054 DEADLINE FOR DECISION.
   (A)   This section establishes the “reasonable time” for deliberation on
applications by the Planning and Zoning Commission as required by Idaho Code §
67-6519.
   (B)   The Commission shall make a decision on any application for a permit
within 60 days of the hearing, if a hearing is required by this chapter, or
within 90 days of the meeting at which the application first appeared on the
Commission’s agenda, except as follows.
      (1)   The Planning and Zoning Commission may delay consideration of any
application when inclement weather or snow cover prevents a proper onsite
inspection.
      (2)   The time limit may be doubled for a major project or extended with
the consent of the property owner.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-20) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001)
§ 155.055 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Whenever regulations or restrictions imposed by this chapter are in
conflict with the regulations or restrictions imposed by any governmental
authority through legislation, rules, regulations, restrictions, ordinances, or
resolutions, the more restrictive of those, which impose higher standards or
requirements, shall govern.
   (B)   Regardless of any other provision of this chapter, no land shall be
used and no structure erected or maintained in violation of any state or
federal pollution control or environmental protection law or regulation.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-21) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001)
SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT (R-1)
§ 155.070 DESCRIPTION AND PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the Single-Family Residential District (R-1) is to develop
and protect residential areas from overcrowding of land and to encourage the
development of low density areas free from other uses except those which are
both compatible with and convenient to the residents of such districts.
(Prior Code, § 9-5A-1) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001)
§ 155.071 PERMITTED BUILDINGS AND USES.
   Permitted buildings and uses in the R-1 District shall be set forth in §
155.261.
(Prior Code, § 9-5A-2) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001)
§ 155.072 CONDITIONAL BUILDINGS AND USES PERMITTED.
   The Planning and Zoning Commission may grant a conditional use permit for
any of the conditional uses set forth in §
155.261 for the R-1 District. Such conditional uses shall follow the
regulations set forth in §§
155.315 through
155.327.
(Prior Code, § 9-5A-3) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001)
§ 155.073 VARIANCES.
   The Planning and Zoning Commission may grant a variance on building and land
uses for the R-1 District, for such variances as are in accordance with the
procedures set forth in §§
155.295 through
155.301.
(Prior Code, § 9-5A-4) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001)
§ 155.074 BUILDING HEIGHT.
   Building heights in the R-1 District shall be restricted to 30 feet or two
and one-half stories. For structures built on a slope, the slope side shall be
permitted to have three stories.
(Prior Code, § 9-5A-5) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.075 DETACHED ACCESSORY BUILDINGS.
   Detached accessory buildings in the R-1 District shall be restricted to 15
feet or one story. Combined structures shall cover no more than 50% of the lot
area. Accessory buildings shall not be closer than ten feet from each other or
the principal building.
(Prior Code, § 9-5A-6) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.076 SETBACK REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Front yard. No building or structure shall be erected nearer than 20
feet from the right-of-way line of the street.
   (B)   Side yard. No building or structure shall be erected nearer than ten
feet from an adjoining side property line, except corner lots abutting a
street, where a 20-foot setback shall be required.
   (C)   Rear yard. Rear yards shall be required, having a depth of not less
than 15 feet.
(Prior Code, § 9-5A-7) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 155.077 AREA REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Lot area. The minimum lot area for each residential lot shall be 9,500
square feet and a lot width at the established building line of not less than
60 feet.
   (B)   Lot coverage. Buildings or structures may cover no more than 50% of
the lot area.
(Prior Code, § 9-5A-8) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 155.078 SIGN REGULATIONS.
   All sign uses shall conform to the city sign ordinance, as set forth in
Chapter 153 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 9-5A-9) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 155.079 PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
   All off-street parking shall meet the requirements set forth in §§
155.340 through
155.345.
(Prior Code, § 9-5A-10) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001) Penalty, see §
154.999
TWO-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT (R-2)
§ 155.090 DESCRIPTION AND PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the Two-Family Residential District (R-2) is to provide
medium density development located near to shopping, recreation, cultural, and
other community facilities.
(Prior Code, § 9-5B-1) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001)
§ 155.091 PERMITTED BUILDINGS AND USES.
   Permitted buildings and uses in the R-2 District shall be set forth in §
155.261.
(Prior Code, § 9-5B-2) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001)
§ 155.092 CONDITIONAL BUILDINGS AND USES PERMITTED.
   The Planning and Zoning Commission may grant a conditional use permit for
any of the conditional uses set forth in §
155.261 for the R-2 District. Such conditional uses shall follow the
regulations set forth in §§
155.315 through
155.327.
(Prior Code, § 9-5B-3) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001)
§ 155.093 VARIANCES.
   The Planning and Zoning Commission may grant a variance on building and land
uses for the R-2 District, for such variances as are in accordance with the
procedures set forth in §§
155.295 through
155.301.
(Prior Code, § 9-5B-4) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001)
§ 155.094 BUILDING HEIGHT.
   Building heights in the R-2 District shall be restricted to 30 feet or two
and one-half stories.
(Prior Code, § 9-5B-5) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.095 DETACHED ACCESSORY BUILDINGS.
   Detached accessory buildings in the R-2 District shall be restricted to 15
feet or one story. Accessory buildings shall not be closer than ten feet from
each other or the principal building.
(Prior Code, § 9-5B-6) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.096 COMMON WALLS.
   Common walls shall be adequately soundproofed in accordance with the Uniform
Building Code.
(Prior Code, § 9-5B-7) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.097 SETBACK REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Front yard. No building or structure shall be erected nearer than 20
feet from the right-of-way line of the street.
   (B)   Side yard. No building or structure shall be erected nearer than ten
feet from an adjoining side property line, except corner lots abutting a
street, where a 20-foot setback shall be required from the right-of-way line of
the street.
   (C)   Rear yard. Rear yards shall be required having a depth of not less
than 15 feet.
(Prior Code, § 9-5B-8) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.098 AREA REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Lot area. The minimum lot area for the first residence on a
residential lot shall be 9,500 square feet and a lot width at the established
building line of not less than 80 feet. The minimum additional lot area for the
second residence is 3,000 square feet.
   (B)   Lot coverage. Buildings or structures may cover no more than 50% of
the lot area.
(Prior Code, § 9-5B-9) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.099 SIGN REGULATIONS.
   All sign uses shall conform to the city sign ordinance, as set forth in
Chapter 153 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 9-5B-10) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001)
§ 155.100 PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
   All off-street parking shall meet the requirements set forth in §§
155.340 through
155.345.
(Prior Code, § 9-5B-11) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001)
   MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT (R-3)
§ 155.115 DESCRIPTION AND PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the Multiple-Family Residential District (R-3) is to provide
areas for medium to heavy residential use. This district will provide for a
transitional/buffer zone between commercial and industrial districts with low
density residential zoning.
(Prior Code, § 9-5C-1) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001)
§ 155.116 PERMITTED BUILDINGS AND USES.
   Permitted buildings and uses in the R-3 District shall be set forth in §
155.261. All dwelling types permitted in the R-1 and R-2 Districts shall also
be permitted in the R-3 District.
(Prior Code, § 9-5C-2) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001)
§ 155.117 CONDITIONAL BUILDINGS AND USES PERMITTED.
   The Planning and Zoning Commission may grant a conditional use permit for
any of the conditional uses set forth in §
155.261 for the R-3 District. Such conditional uses shall follow the
regulations set forth in §§
155.315 through
155.327.
(Prior Code, § 9-5C-3) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001)
§ 155.118 VARIANCES.
   The Planning and Zoning Commission may grant a variance on building and land
uses for the R-3 District, for such variances as are in accordance with the
procedures set forth in §§
155.295 through
155.301.
(Prior Code, § 9-5C-4) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001)
§ 155.119 BUILDING HEIGHT.
   Building heights in the R-3 District shall be restricted to 30 feet or two
and one-half stories.
(Prior Code, § 9-5C-5) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.120 DETACHED ACCESSORY BUILDINGS.
   Detached accessory buildings in the R-3 District shall be restricted to 15
feet or one story. Accessory buildings shall not be closer than ten feet from
each other or the principal building.
(Prior Code, § 9-5C-6) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.121 COMMON WALLS.
   Common walls shall be adequately soundproofed in accordance with the Uniform
Building Code.
(Prior Code, § 9-5C-7) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.122 SETBACK REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Front yard. No building or structure shall be erected nearer than 20
feet from the right-of-way line of the street.
   (B)   Side yard. No building or structure shall be erected nearer than ten
feet from an adjoining side property line, except corner lots abutting a
street, where a 20-foot setback shall be required from the right-of-way line of
the street.
   (C)   Rear yard. Rear yards shall be required having a depth of not less
than 15 feet.
(Prior Code, § 9-5C-8) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.123 AREA REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Lot area. The minimum lot area for the first residence on a
residential lot shall be 9,500 square feet and a lot width at the established
building line of not less than 80 feet. The minimum additional lot area for
each additional residence shall be 3,000 square feet.
   (B)   Lot coverage. Buildings or structures may cover no more than 50% of
the lot area.
   (C)   Usable open space. The site plan shall provide for at least 250 square
feet of usable open landscaped park space for each residential unit.
(Prior Code, § 9-5C-9) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.124 SIGN REGULATIONS.
   All sign uses shall conform to the city sign ordinance, as set forth in
Chapter 153 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 9-5C-10) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001)
§ 155.125 PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
   All off-street parking shall meet the requirements set forth in §§
155.340 through
155.345.
(Prior Code, § 9-5C-11) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001)
RESIDENTIAL MANUFACTURED HOME OR MOBILE HOME DISTRICT (R-M)
§ 155.126 DESCRIPTION AND PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the Residential Manufactured Home or Mobile Home District (R-
M) is to provide medium density residential development areas for standard
manufactured homes or mobile homes, as defined in this chapter, properly
located in the community pattern that are compatible for such uses and in
harmony with community services.
(Prior Code, § 9-5D-1) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001)
§ 155.127 PERMITTED BUILDINGS AND USES.
   Permitted buildings and uses in the R-M District shall be set forth in §
155.261.
(Prior Code, § 9-5D-2) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001)
§ 155.128 CONDITIONAL BUILDINGS AND USES PERMITTED.
   The Planning and Zoning Commission may grant a conditional use permit for
any of the conditional uses set forth in §
155.261 for the R-M District. Such conditional uses shall follow the
regulations set forth in §§
155.315 through
155.327.
(Prior Code, § 9-5D-3) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001)
§ 155.129 VARIANCES.
   The Planning and Zoning Commission may grant a variance on building and land
uses for the R-M District, for such variances as are in accordance with the
procedures set forth in §§
155.295 through
155.301.
(Prior Code, § 9-5D-4) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001)
§ 155.130 BUILDING HEIGHT.
   Building heights in the R-M District shall be restricted to 25 feet or two
stories.
(Prior Code, § 9-5D-5) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.131 SETBACK REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Front setback. No building or structure shall be erected nearer than
20 feet from the right-of-way line of the street.
   (B)   Side setback. No building or structure shall be erected nearer than
ten feet from an adjoining side property line, except corner lots abutting a
street, where a 20-foot setback from the street right-of-way line shall be
required.
   (C)   Rear setbacks. Rear yards shall be required having a depth of not less
than 15 feet.
   (D)   Density. Residential buildings or structures on the same lot must be a
minimum of 20 feet apart.
(Prior Code, § 9-5D-6) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.132 AREA REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Lot area. The minimum lot area for the first two residences on a
residential lot shall be 9,500 square feet and a lot width at the established
building line of not less than 80 feet. The minimum additional lot area for
each additional residence shall be 4,000 square feet.
   (B)   Lot coverage. Buildings or structures may cover no more than 50% of
the lot area.
   (C)   Usable open space. The site plan shall provide for at least 250 square
feet of usable open landscaped park space for each residential unit.
(Prior Code, § 9-5D-7) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.133 DETACHED ACCESSORY BUILDINGS.
   Detached accessory buildings shall be permitted as long as they are
constructed in the same style or are attached to the main building. The maximum
height of a detached accessory building shall be limited to one story or 15
feet in height, and shall not encroach upon required setback areas.
(Prior Code, § 9-5D-8) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.134 SANITATION REQUIREMENTS.
   Manufactured and mobile homes in the R-M District shall meet the following
sanitation requirements.
   (A)   Manufactured and mobile homes shall be connected to a public water
supply.
   (B)   Manufactured and mobile homes shall have a toilet.
   (C)   Manufactured and mobile homes shall be connected to a sanitary sewer
and meet minimum pollution and other health protection standards.
(Prior Code, § 9-5D-9) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.135 SIGN REGULATIONS.
   All sign uses shall conform to the city sign ordinance, as provided in
Chapter 153 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 9-5D-10) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001)
§ 155.136 PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
   All off-street parking shall meet the requirements set forth in §§
155.340 through
155.345.
(Prior Code, § 9-5D-11) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001)
§ 155.137 OTHER STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS.
   The following additional requirements shall apply in any R-M District.
   (A)   Park area. The minimum area to be approved as a standard manufactured
or mobile home park shall be at least three acres in size.
   (B)   Site plans required. An applicant shall submit to the City Clerk
copies of the required plans for the development or establishment for a
manufactured or mobile home park. Such plans shall indicate the relationship of
the proposal to the surrounding area, including existing streets, buildings,
open space, landscaping, and other relevant features. The Planning and Zoning
Commission shall review such plans as outlined in §§
155.315 through
155.327.
(Prior Code, § 9-5D-12) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001) Penalty, see §
155.999
CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT (C-1)
§ 155.150 DESCRIPTION AND PURPOSE.
   The Central Business District (C-1) is intended to preserve and enhance the
downtown business sector along a turn of the century theme. This district will
provide general shopping center retail needs to the community. This district
applies to the original core commercial area of the downtown. The building uses
in the Central Business District reflect the desire to have parking provided on
a district basis rather than having each individual building or use provide
parking.
(Prior Code, § 9-6A-1) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001)
§ 155.151 PERMITTED BUILDINGS AND USES.
   Permitted buildings and uses in the C-1 District shall be set forth in §
155.261.
(Prior Code, § 9-6A-2) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001)
§ 155.152 CONDITIONAL BUILDINGS AND USES PERMITTED.
   The Planning and Zoning Commission may grant a conditional use permit on
building and land uses for the C-1 District as set forth in §
155.261. Conditional use permits will be in accordance with the procedures set
forth in §§
155.315 through
155.327.
(Prior Code, § 9-6A-3) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001)
§ 155.153 VARIANCES.
   The Planning and Zoning Commission may grant a variance on building and land
uses for the C-1 District, such variances as are in accordance with the
procedures set forth in §§
155.295 through
155.301.
(Prior Code, § 9-6A-4) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001)
§ 155.154 BUILDING HEIGHT.
   The building heights in the C-1 District shall be limited to two stories or
30 feet, whichever is greater, unless a greater height is approved by the
Planning and Zoning Commission with a conditional use permit. When a C-
1 District abuts against any residential zoning in the city, the maximum height
shall not exceed the maximum building height in the abutting residential
district for a distance of 50 feet from the abutting boundary.
(Prior Code, § 9-6A-5) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.155 SETBACK REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No front or side setbacks are required, except when a C-1 District
abuts a residential district, then the front yard setback shall be no less than
20 feet. The side setback shall be no less than ten feet when a C-1 District
abuts a residential district. The rear setback shall be no less than 15 feet
when a C-1 District abuts a residential district.
   (B)   Off-street parking shall be permitted in the rear setback. No parking
will be permitted in the front setback.
(Prior Code, § 9-6A-6) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.156 AREA REQUIREMENTS.
   There shall be no maximum and a minimum lot size of 3,000 square feet in the
C-1 District.
(Prior Code, § 9-6A-7) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001)
§ 155.157 DETACHED ACCESSORY BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Detached accessory buildings shall be permitted as long as they are
constructed in the same style or are attached to the main building.
   (B)   The maximum height of a detached accessory building shall be limited
to one story or 15 feet in height, and shall not encroach upon required setback
areas.
(Prior Code, § 9-6A-8) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.158 SIGN REGULATIONS.
   All sign uses shall conform to the city sign ordinance, as set forth in
Chapter 153 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 9-6A-9) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001)
§ 155.159 PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
   All off-street parking shall meet the requirements set forth in §§
155.340 through
155.345.
(Prior Code, § 9-6A-10) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001)
HIGHWAY COMMERCIAL DISTRICT (C-2)
§ 155.170 DESCRIPTION AND PURPOSE.
   The Highway Commercial District (C-2) is intended to provide orderly
commercial development along major arterials. This district will provide open
green space along with moderate commercial retailing.
(Prior Code, § 9-6B-1) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001)
§ 155.171 PERMITTED BUILDINGS AND USES.
   Permitted buildings and uses in the C-2 District shall be as set forth in §
155.261.
(Prior Code, § 9-6B-2) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001)
§ 155.172 CONDITIONAL BUILDINGS AND USES PERMITTED.
   The Planning and Zoning Commission may grant a conditional use permit on
building and land uses for the C-2 District as set forth in §
155.261. Conditional use permits will be in accordance with the procedures set
forth in §§
155.315 through
155.327.
(Prior Code, § 9-6B-3) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001)
§ 155.173 VARIANCES.
   The Planning and Zoning Commission may grant a variance on building and land
uses for the C-2 District, for such variances as are in accordance with the
procedures set forth in §§
155.295 through
155.301.
(Prior Code, § 9-6B-4) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001)
§ 155.174 BUILDING HEIGHT.
   The building heights in the C-2 District shall be limited to two stories or
30 feet. When a C-2 District abuts against any residential district in the
city, the maximum height shall not exceed the maximum building height in the
abutting residential district for a distance of 50 feet from the abutting
boundary.
(Prior Code, § 9-6B-5) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.175 SETBACK REQUIREMENTS.
   No front or side setbacks are required, except when a C-2 District abuts a
residential district, then the front setback shall be no less than 20 feet. The
side setback shall be no less than ten feet when a C-2 District abuts a
residential district. The rear setback shall be not less than 15 feet when a C-
2 District abuts a residential district. Off-street parking shall be permitted
in the rear setback.
(Prior Code, § 9-6B-6) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.176 AREA REQUIREMENTS.
   There shall be no maximum or minimum lot sizes in the C-2 District.
(Prior Code, § 9-6B-7) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001)
§ 155.177 DETACHED ACCESSORY BUILDINGS.
   Detached accessory buildings shall be permitted as long as they are
constructed in same style or are attached to the main building. The maximum
height of a detached accessory building shall be limited to one story or 15
feet in height, and shall not encroach upon required setback areas.
(Prior Code, § 9-6B-8) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.178 SIGN REGULATIONS.
   All sign uses shall conform to the city sign ordinance, as set forth in
Chapter 153 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 9-6B-9) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001)
§ 155.179 PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
   All off-street parking shall meet the requirements set forth in §§
155.340 through
155.345.
(Prior Code, § 9-6B-10) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001)
§ 155.180 LOADING FACILITIES.
   Loading and unloading facilities shall be provided at the rear of the
building or structures where possible. If this is not practical, then the
loading and unloading facility should be screened so that it is not visible
from the street.
(Prior Code, § 9-6B-11) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001) Penalty, see §
155.999
INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT (IND)
§ 155.195 DESCRIPTION AND PURPOSE.
   The Industrial District (IND) is established to provide for and encourage
the grouping together of industrial uses capable of being operated under such
standards as to location and appearances of buildings and the treatment of the
land about them, that they will be unobtrusive and not detrimental to
surrounding commercial or residential uses.
(Prior Code, § 9-7A-1) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001)
§ 155.196 PERMITTED BUILDINGS AND USES.
   Permitted buildings and uses in the IND District shall be set forth in §
155.261.
(Prior Code, § 9-7A-2) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001)
§ 155.197 CONDITIONAL BUILDINGS AND USES PERMITTED.
   The Planning and Zoning Commission may grant a conditional use permit on
building and land uses for the IND District as set forth in §
155.261. Conditional use permits will be in accordance with the procedures set
forth in §§
155.315 through
155.327.
(Prior Code, § 9-7A-3) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001)
§ 155.198 VARIANCES.
   The Planning and Zoning Commission may grant a variance on building and land
uses for the IND District, for such variances as are in accordance with the
procedures set forth in §§
155.295 through
155.301.
(Prior Code, § 9-7A-4) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001)
§ 155.199 BUILDING HEIGHT.
   The building heights in the IND District shall be limited to three stories
or 45 feet. When an IND District abuts against any residential district in the
city, the maximum height shall not exceed the maximum building height in the
abutting residential district for a distance of 100 feet from the abutting
boundary.
(Prior Code, § 9-7A-5) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.200 SETBACK REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Front setback. The front yard setback shall be a minimum of 20 feet
when a lot abuts, touches, or adjoins or is across the street from a
residential district. Otherwise, no front yard setback is required.
   (B)   Side setback. The side yard setback shall be a minimum of 20 feet when
a lot abuts, touches, or adjoins a residential district. Otherwise, no setback
is required.
   (C)   Rear setback. The rear yard setback shall be a minimum of 20 feet when
a lot abuts, touches, or adjoins a residential district. Otherwise, no setback
is required.
(Prior Code, § 9-7A-6) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.201 AREA REQUIREMENTS.
   There shall be no maximum or minimum lot sizes in the IND District.
(Prior Code, § 9-7A-7) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001)
§ 155.202 DETACHED ACCESSORY BUILDINGS.
   Detached accessory buildings shall be permitted as long as they are
constructed in same style and/or are attached to the main building. The maximum
height of accessory uses shall be limited to one story or 15 feet in height,
and shall not encroach upon required setback areas.
(Prior Code, § 9-7A-8) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.203 SIGN REGULATIONS.
   All sign uses shall conform to the city sign ordinance, as provided in
Chapter 153 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 9-7A-9) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001)
§ 155.204 PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
   All off-street parking shall meet the requirements set forth in §§
155.340 through
155.345.
(Prior Code, § 9-7A-10) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001)
INDUSTRIAL/AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT (INAG)
§ 155.215 DESCRIPTION AND PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the Industrial/Agricultural District (INAG) is to act as a
buffer zone between property in the impact zone and any other zoning district
within the city. The INAG District shall also provide adequate growth control
standards of the fringe areas of the community deemed to be important for the
preservation and use of rural areas.
(Prior Code, § 9-7B-1) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001)
§ 155.216 PERMITTED BUILDINGS AND USES.
   The purpose of the Industrial/Agricultural District (INAG) is to act as a
buffer zone between property in the impact zone and any other zoning district
within the city. The INAG District shall also provide adequate growth control
standards of the fringe areas of the community deemed to be important for the
preservation and use of rural areas.
(Prior Code, § 9-7B-2) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001)
§ 155.217 CONDITIONAL BUILDINGS AND USES PERMITTED.
   The Planning and Zoning Commission may grant a conditional use permit on
building and land uses for the INAG District as set forth in §
155.261. Conditional use permits will be in accordance with the procedures set
forth in §§
155.315 through
155.327.
(Prior Code, § 9-7B-3) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001)
§ 155.218 VARIANCES.
   The Planning and Zoning Commission may grant a variance on building and land
uses for the INAG District, as for such variances are in accordance with the
procedures set forth in §§
155.295 through
155.301.
(Prior Code, § 9-7B-4) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001)
§ 155.219 BUILDING HEIGHT.
   The building heights in the INAG District shall be limited to three stories
or 45 feet, unless a greater height is approved with a conditional use permit
by the Planning and Zoning Commission. When an INAG District abuts against any
residential district in the city, the maximum height shall not exceed the
maximum building height in the abutting residential district for a distance of
100 feet from the abutting boundary.
(Prior Code, § 9-7B-5) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.220 SETBACK REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Front setback. The front yard setback shall be a minimum of 30 feet
from the right-of-way line of the street.
   (B)   Side setback. The side yard setback shall be a minimum of 20 feet,
except corner lots shall maintain a 25-foot setback which are adjacent to the
street which intersects the street upon which the building fronts.
   (C)   Rear setback. The rear yard setback shall be a minimum of 20 feet.
(Prior Code, § 9-7B-6) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.221 AREA REQUIREMENTS.
   The minimum lot area shall be one-half acre.
(Prior Code, § 9-7B-7) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.222 DETACHED ACCESSORY BUILDINGS.
   Detached accessory buildings shall be permitted as long as they are
constructed in same style and/or are attached to the main building. The maximum
height of a detached accessory building shall be limited to one story or 15
feet in height, and shall not encroach upon required setback areas.
(Prior Code, § 9-7B-8) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.223 SIGN REGULATIONS.
   All sign uses shall conform to the city sign ordinance, as provided in
Chapter 153 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 9-7B-9) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001)
§ 155.224 PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
   All off-street parking shall meet the requirements set forth in §§
155.340 through
155.345.
(Prior Code, § 9-7B-10) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001)
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS
§ 155.235 DEFINITION AND INTENT.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD) is a process that provides greater design
flexibility by allowing deviations from the typical development standards
required by this chapter. The intent is to encourage more comprehensively and/
or innovatively designed projects than can sometimes be accomplished through
the standard development requirements, in exchange for providing greater
benefits to the community. The goal is to provide increased benefits to the
citizens of the city in exchange for flexibility in the application of
development standards.
(Prior Code, § 9-8-1) (Ord. 2003-06, passed 11-10-2003)
§ 155.236 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Whenever there is a conflict or difference between the provisions of
this subchapter and of other subchapters of this chapter, the provisions of
this subchapter shall prevail.
   (B)   Subjects not covered by this subchapter shall be governed by the
applicable provisions found elsewhere in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 9-8-2) (Ord. 2003-06, passed 11-10-2003)
§ 155.237 USES PERMITTED.
   (A)   A variety of residential, commercial, industrial, or combinations of
these land uses, may be permitted within a PUD.
   (B)   All proposed uses may be permitted within a PUD, upon finding by the
Planning and Zoning Commission that the proposal:
      (1)   Provides public benefits that would not be achievable through the
normally required zoning standards;
      (2)   Is compatible with surrounding development; and
      (3)   Is in conformance with the city comprehensive plan.
(Prior Code, § 9-8-3) (Ord. 2003-06, passed 11-10-2003)
§ 155.238 COMMON OPEN SPACE.
   (A)   Minimum area. A minimum of 10% of the land area developed within any
PUD that includes residential uses shall be planned for common open space for
the residents or users of the area being developed. Location of the reserved or
common open space shall be determined during the PUD process.
   (B)   Ownership. The common open space provided in a PUD shall be held
privately for the use of owners or residents within the development, or shall
be dedicated to the public. Public utility rights-of-way and easements are not
acceptable for common open space unless such land or rights-of-way are usable
for a trail or other similar public purpose. All open space shall be reviewed
and approved by the Planning and Zoning Commission.
   (C)   Maintenance. The responsibility for the maintenance of all open spaces
shall be specified by the developer and city prior to approval of the final
development plan and included in a development agreement.
(Prior Code, § 9-8-4) (Ord. 2003-06, passed 11-10-2003) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.239 INCREASED RESIDENTIAL DENSITY.
   The Planning and Zoning Commission may recommend an increase in density
based on the merits of the design proposed. Character, identity, architectural,
and siting variation incorporated in a development may be considered cause for
density increases. When appropriate, the city may approve a project with
reduced amenities or improvements under special circumstances, such as a lower
density than permitted by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 9-8-5) (Ord. 2003-06, passed 11-10-2003)
§ 155.240 COMMERCIAL/INDUSTRIAL USES.
   The plan for the PUD project shall provide for the integrated and harmonious
design of buildings. This shall include adequate and properly arranged
facilities for internal traffic circulation, landscaping, and such other
features and facilities as may be necessary to make the project attractive and
efficient. Buffering or screening commercial/industrial uses from residential
uses within, or adjacent to, the development shall be incorporated into the
design. All areas designed for future expansion or not intended for immediate
improvement or development shall be landscaped or otherwise maintained in a
neat and orderly manner.
(Prior Code, § 9-8-6) (Ord. 2003-06, passed 11-10-2003) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.241 PRE-APPLICATION MEETING.
   The developer shall meet with the Planning and Zoning Administrator prior to
the submission of the PUD development plan. The purpose of this meeting is to
discuss, early and informally, the criteria and standards contained herein, and
to familiarize the developer with the comprehensive plan, zoning ordinance,
subdivision ordinance, and such other plans and ordinances as are deemed
appropriate.
(Prior Code, § 9-8-7) (Ord. 2003-06, passed 11-10-2003)
§ 155.242 APPLICATION FOR PUD.
   A complete application for PUD shall be filed with the Planning and Zoning
Administrator. At least one public hearing shall be held before the Planning
and Zoning Commission following the requirements of §§
155.035 through
155.055.
(Prior Code, § 9-8-8) (Ord. 2003-06, passed 11-10-2003)
§ 155.243 PUD REVIEW.
   (A)   Review; considerations. The Planning and Zoning Commission shall
review the development plan within 45 days after a complete application has
been filed, to determine if it is consistent with the intent and purpose of
this subchapter, whether the proposed development advances the general welfare
of the community and neighborhood, and whether the benefits, combination of
various land uses, and the interrelationship with the land uses in the
surrounding area justify the deviation from standard district regulations.
   (B)   Information required. The application shall contain the following
information for PUDs:
      (1)   PUD submitted as subdivision. A written statement by the developer
setting forth the reasons why, in his or her opinion, the PUD conforms to the
comprehensive plan and would be in the public interest. This statement should
also include the following information:
         (a)   Are exemptions from development requirements of city ordinances
being requested? Describe;
         (b)   An analysis of the impact of the PUD on the infrastructure of
the community. This shall include deficiencies in existing infrastructure,
including water, sewer, traffic, and what improvements would be needed to bring
the infrastructure up to an acceptable level of service that could accommodate
the PUD;
         (c)   A schedule for the development of units to be constructed in
progression, and a description of the design principles for buildings and
streetscapes;
         (d)   Tabulation of the number of acres in the proposed project for
various uses;
         (e)   The number of housing units proposed by type;
         (f)   Estimated residential population by type of housing; and
         (g)   Deed restrictions, protective covenants, and other legal
statements or devices to be used to control use, development, and maintenance
of the land, and the improvements thereon, including those areas which are to
be commonly owned and maintained.
      (2)   Submitted without subdivision.
         (a)   Requirements listed in any application site plan review process;
and
         (b)   A written statement by the developer setting forth the reasons
why, in his or her opinion, the PUD conforms to the comprehensive plan and
would be in the public interest. This statement should also include the
following information:
            1.   What deviations from zoning district regulations are being
requested;
            2.   An analysis of the impact of the PUD on the infrastructure of
the community. This shall include deficiencies in existing infrastructure,
including water, sewer, traffic, and what improvements would be needed to bring
the infrastructure up to an acceptable level of service that could accommodate
the PUD;
            3.   A time schedule for the development of units to be
constructed, and a description of the design principles for buildings and
streetscapes;
            4.   Tabulation of the number of acres in the proposed project for
various uses;
            5.   The number of units proposed by type; and
            6.   Deed restrictions, protective covenants, and other legal
statements or devices to be used to control use, development, and maintenance
of the land, and the improvements thereon, including those areas which are to
be commonly owned and maintained.
(Prior Code, § 9-8-9) (Ord. 2003-06, passed 11-10-2003)
§ 155.244 PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION ACTION ON PUD PLAN.
   (A)   Within 30 days of the closing of a public hearing, or at the next
available regularly scheduled Planning and Zoning Commission meeting
thereafter, the Planning and Zoning Commission shall either recommend approval,
approval with supplementary conditions, or disapproval of the application as
presented. This time period may be extended for up to 90 days with consent of
the applicant, or for good cause. Upon recommending approval or denial of the
application, the Planning and Zoning Commission shall specify in writing:
      (1)   The ordinance and standards used in evaluating the application;
      (2)   The reasons for approval or denial; and
      (3)   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain a
permit.
   (B)   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall consider the general
standards applicable to conditional use permits and criteria for conditional
uses before approving in principle a PUD development plan.
(Prior Code, § 9-8-10) (Ord. 2003-06, passed 11-10-2003)
§ 155.245 FINAL APPROVAL OF PUD PLAN.
   (A)   Upon approval of findings and conclusions, the Planning and Zoning
Commission, when applied for, may review the final PUD at the next available
meeting.
   (B)   An application for final approval of the PUD development plan may be
filed with the Planning and Zoning Administrator by at least one property owner
or person having an interest in the property. The application shall be signed
by the owner of the property attesting to the truth and exactness of all
information supplied on the application for final development plan. Each
application shall clearly state that the approval shall expire and may be
revoked if construction on the project has not begun within two years from the
date of issuance of the approval.
(Prior Code, § 9-8-11) (Ord. 2003-06, passed 11-10-2003)
§ 155.246 PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION ACTION ON FINAL PLAN.
   (A)   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall consider the following when
reviewing a final PUD development plan.
      (1)   The proposed development must be initiated within two years of the
date of approval.
      (2)   Each individual phase of the development, as well as the total
development, can exist as an independent unit capable of creating an
environment of pleasing aesthetics or that adequate assurance will be provided
that such objective will be attained.
      (3)   Any exception from standard district requirements is warranted by
the design and other amenities incorporated in the final development plan, in
accordance with the PUD and the adopted policy of the City Council.
      (4)   The existing and proposed utility services are adequate for the
population densities and uses proposed.
      (5)   There are no substantial changes from the approved PUD plan.
   (B)   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall either approve, approve with
conditions, or disapprove the final PUD application as presented. Upon granting
or denying the final PUD application, the Planning and Zoning Commission shall
specify in writing:
      (1)   The ordinance and standards used in evaluating the application;
      (2)   The reasons for approval or denial; and
      (3)   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain a
permit.
(Prior Code, § 9-8-12) (Ord. 2003-06, passed 11-10-2003)
§ 155.247 POST-REVIEW MEETING.
   If approved, or approved with conditions, the applicant shall schedule a
post-review meeting with the Planning and Zoning Administrator or designee, to
discuss final implementation of the PUD, including any minor change requests or
conditions of approval. No construction of any kind shall take place on the
site of an approved PUD until final construction plans are reviewed and
approved by the City Engineer, and a development agreement and a construction
improvement agreement are completed and properly approved by the city.
(Prior Code, § 9-8-13) (Ord. 2003-06, passed 11-10-2003)
§ 155.248 EXTENSION OF APPROVAL.
   The approval of a final development plan for a PUD shall be for a period not
to exceed two years, or as agreed upon between staff and the developer, to
allow for the development of the project. If no construction has begun within
two years after approval is granted, the approved final development plan shall
be void.
(Prior Code, § 9-8-14) (Ord. 2003-06, passed 11-10-2003)
§ 155.249 MINOR MODIFICATIONS AND EXTENSIONS APPROVAL.
   (A)   An extension of the time limit or modification of the approved final
development plan shall be submitted in writing by the developer to the Planning
and Zoning Administrator. The request shall specify which modifications are
proposed and why the changes are necessary. The Planning and Zoning
Administrator, or designee, shall render a decision on the requested time limit
or modification. Any major modification shall require a public hearing in front
of the Planning and Zoning Commission.
   (B)   Notice of hearing shall be provided in the same manner as the original
PUD hearing. Any time extension over nine months shall require a public hearing
in front of the Planning and Zoning Commission. Notice of hearing shall be
provided in the same manner as the original PUD hearing.
(Prior Code, § 9-8-15) (Ord. 2003-06, passed 11-10-2003)
LAND USE REGULATIONS AND NONCONFORMING USES
§ 155.260 ESTABLISHMENT AND DESIGNATION OF USE DISTRICTS.
   The following use districts are established and shall apply to and govern
the use, maintenance, or development of any land in the city:
   (A)   R-1: Single-Family Residential;
   (B)   R-2: Two-Family Residential;
   (C)   R-3: Multiple-Family Residential;
   (D)   R-M: Residential Manufactured Home or Mobile Home;
   (E)   C-1: Central Business;
   (F)   C-2: Highway Commercial;
   (G)   IND: Industrial; and
   (H)   INAG: Industrial/Agricultural.
(Prior Code, § 9-9-1) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001)
§ 155.261 SCHEDULE OF DISTRICT LAND USE CONTROLS.
   District land use controls shall be as set forth in the table of land uses
provided below in this section.
   (A)   Determining where uses are allowed. To determine in which district a
specific use is allowed:
      (1)   Find the use in one of the groups;
      (2)   Read across the schedule until either a “P” or “C” appears;
      (3)   If a “P” appears, the use is a permitted use. If a “C” appears, the
use is only allowed upon the issuance of a conditional use permit in accordance
with the provisions of §§
155.315 through
155.327; and
      (4)   If a “P” or “C” does not appear under a district, that use is not
allowed in that district.
   (B)   Unlisted land uses. The Planning and Zoning Commission shall interpret
the appropriate district for land uses not specifically listed by determining
the district in which similar uses are permitted. Such other similar uses shall
not be inconsistent with the purpose of the district, shall not impair the
present or potential use of properties in the surrounding areas, and shall not
have any different or more detrimental effect upon the adjoining neighborhood
areas or districts than the specifically listed buildings and uses. When
several combined uses exist, or are proposed, the most intensive shall be
considered as the primary activity.
   (C)   Unauthorized uses. Where a use is not authorized or where no other
similar uses are listed and ambiguity exists concerning the appropriate
district or procedure for the establishment of a particular use, said use must
be established by conditional use permit in accordance with the provisions of
§§ 155.305 through
155.317 until such time as this subchapter is amended to specifically include
such use.
Table of Land Uses
Land Uses R-1 R-2 R-3 R-M C-1 C-2 IND INAG
Table of Land Uses
Land Uses                                      R-1 R-2 R-3 R-M C-1 C-2 IND INAG
Agricultural1
Accessory use or building                                          C   P   P
Agricultural, general                                                      P
Berry and bush crop                                                        P
Flower gardening (for commercial purposes)                                 P
Gardening (for home consumption)               P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P
Gardening, truck                                                           P
Grazing or raining of domestic farm animals2                               P
Kennel(s), noncommercial                       P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P
Mineral resources, natural (subject to state                               P
law provisions)
Orchards, tree crops                                               P   P   P
Plant nurseries (greenhouses)                                      P   P   P
Plant or tree farm                                                         P
Civic or Cultural
Aquarium                                                       P   P
Arboretum                                      P   P   P   P       P
Art gallery                                                    P   P
Auditorium                                                     P   P
Botanical garden                               P   P   P           P
Cemetery or mausoleum                                              P   P
Civic, social, or fraternal organization               P       P   P
Community center                                   C   C   P   P   P
Crematorium                                                        C   P
Historic site or monument                      C   C   C   C   C   C   C   C
Library                                            C   C       P   P
Museum or planetarium                                          P   P
Tourist information center                                     P   P
Commercial
Accessory use or building                                      P   P   P   P
Antique store                                                  P   P
Apparel and accessory                                          P   P
Appliance sales and service                                    P   P
Art supply                                                     P   P
Auction sales                                                      C   P   P
Automobile or truck sales, new and used                            P   P   P
Automobile parts and accessories                               P   P   C
Bakery                                                         P   P
Bar, nightclub, or cocktail lounge                             P   P
Bicycle shop                                                   P   P
Bookstore                                                      P   P
Bowling alley                                                  C   P   C   C
Building material                                                  P   C   C
Cabinet shop                                                       P   P   P
Camera and supplies                                            P   P
Clothing                                                       P   P
Confectionary                                                  P   P
Convenience stores                                     C       C   P   C   C
Craft store                                                    P   P
Curio and novelty                                              P   P
Dairy products, retail only                            C       P   P
Delicatessen                                                   P   P
Department store                                               C   P
Drapery store                                                  P   P
Dress and millinery                                            P   P
Drugstore or pharmacy                                          P   P
Electrical and electronic supply                               P   P   P
Fabric                                                         P   P
Farm and garden supply                                         C   P   P   P
Florist                                                        P   P
Fuel sales or service station                                      P   C
Furniture                                                      P   P
General merchandise                                            P   P
Gift shop                                                      P   P
Greenhouse                                                         P   P   P
Grocery                                                        P   P
Hardware                                                       P   P
Hobby and toy                                                  P   P
Home furnishing and equipment                                  P   P
Hotel                                                          P   P
Ice cream                                                      P   P
Import                                                         P   P   P   P
Jewelry                                                        P   P
Leather goods                                                  P   P
Liquor store, package                                          P   P
Meat market                                                    P   P
Mobile home, manufactured home, and                                P   C   C
recreational vehicle sales
Music shop                                                     P   P
Nursery, plant and flower                                          P   C   C
Office supply and equipment                                    P   P
Paint and wallpaper                                            P   P
Pawnshop                                                       P   P
Pet shop                                                       P   P
Pharmacy (drugs and medical supplies only)                     P   P
Planned unit development                       C   C   C   C   C   C   C   C
Restaurant (drive-in or otherwise)                             C   P   C   C
Restaurant (except no drive-ins, walk-ups, or                  P   P
alcoholic beverages)
Secondhand (if conducted within a wholly                       P   P   C   C
enclosed building)
Sewing machine sales and service                               P   P
Shoe store                                                     P   P
Shopping center, community                                         P   C   C
Shopping center, neighborhood                          C       C   P
Sporting goods                                                 P   P
Surgical, medical, and dental supplies and                     P   P   P   C
equipment
Tavern                                                         C   C   C   C
Telephone, computer, and the like                              P   P
Theater, drive-in                                                          C
Theater, movie (indoor)                                        P   P
Tobacco shop                                                   C   C   C   C
Upholstery, automobile and furniture                               P   P   P
Variety store                                                  P   P
Communication, Utility, and Transportation
Accessory use or building                                          P   P   P
Airports, heliports, landing fields, and the                       C   C   C
like
Ambulance service                                      C       P   P
Automobile parking lot/garage, private                         P   P   P   P
Automobile parking lot/garage, public                          P   P   P   P
Bus shelter, commercial                                        P   P
Cellular telephone towers                                          C   C   C
Electrical substations                         C   C   C   C   C   C   C   C
Packaging and crating                                              C   P   P
Radio and TV stations with transmission and                        C   C   C
receiving towers
Radio and TV stations without transmission and                 P   P   P   P
receiving towers
Taxicab office                                                 P   P
Telephone/telegraph center or station                          P   P
Travel agency                                                  P   P
Truck and bus parking lot                                          C   P   P
Trucking yard or terminal                                          C   P   P
Utility owned building, structure, or use                          C   P   P
Water tanks and sewage lift stations           P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P
Industrial
Accessory use or building                                              P   C
Administrative and sales offices related to                    P   P   P   C
industrial uses
Agricultural supply                                                    P   C
Asphalt plant                                                          P   C
Automobile body, paint shop                                        P   P   C
Concrete batching and mixing                                           P   C
Dairy products processing                                          C   P   C
Equipment sales, including large implement or                          P   C
heavy equipment
Grain feed and seed processing and sales                           C   P   C
Hatchery                                                                   C
Impound/storage yard, vehicle                                              C
Incineration or reduction of garbage, dead                                 C
animals, offal, or refuse
Laboratory                                                     C   C   C   C
Lumberyard, retail                                             C   C   P   C
Machine shop                                                       C   P   C
Manufacture, assembly, or packaging of                                 C   C
products from previously prepared materials
Manufacture, compounding, bottling,
processing, packaging, or treatment of food
and beverage products
Manufacturing, compounding, processing,
assembling, packaging, treatment, or
fabrication of the following products:
textile, apparel, and related items, building
materials, furniture and fixtures, paper,                              C   C
chemicals and chemical products, petroleum,
electronic, concrete, rubber, plastic, metal,
professional and scientific, or any
combination thereof of items, materials, or
goods
Meat, poultry, and fish processing and packing                     C   P   C
Monument works, stone                                              C   P   C
Petroleum storage                                                          C
Planing mill                                                       C   P   C
Plumbing supplies and services                                 P   P   P   C
Research facility                                              C   P   P   C
Retail sales/services incidental and directly                  P   P   P   C
related to industrial uses
Salvage or wrecking yard                                                   C
Sanitary landfill, garbage dump                                            C
Sewage and waste treatment plant                                       P   P
Slaughterhouse, provided enclosed within a                             C   C
building
Warehouse, distribution and wholesale                              C   P   C
Residential
Accessory use or building                      P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P
Boarding and rooming houses                        P   P
Cottage industry                               C   C   C   C   P   P   P   P
Dwelling, caretaker                                    P
Dwelling, multiple-family                              P
Dwelling, single-family                        P   P   P       P   P
Dwelling, single-family attached, multiple-            P       P
unit zero lot line
Group care home                                    C   C
Home occupation                                P   P   P   P
Home occupation daycare                        C   P   P
Manufactured home                              P   P   P   P
Manufactured home/mobile home park                     C   P
Mobile home                                                P
Nursing home or rest home                              P
Planned unit development                       C   C   C   C   C   C   C   C
Shelter or temporary home for care or lodging      P   P
Service and Office
Accessory use or building                                      C   P   P   P
Advertising                                                    P   P   C   C
Animal shelter                                                     C   P   P
Apparel, repair or alteration                                  P   P
Appliance repair                                               C   P   P   C
Automobile or truck repair                                     C   P   P   C
Bank                                                   C       P   P
Barber or beauty shop                                          P   P
Blood bank                                                     P   P
Blueprinting, duplicating, and the like                            P   P   P
Building maintenance                                               P   P   P
Business association, office                                   P   P
Car wash                                                           P   P   C
Catering                                                       P   P
Church or religious facility                   C   C   C   C   C   C   C   C
Clinic                                                 C       P   P   C   C
Clinic, small animal                                   C           P   C   C
Construction trade office                                      P   P   P   P
Consumer credit, collection                                    P   P
Dance hall                                                     C   P   C   C
Dance, music and voice school                  C   C   C       P   P
Data processing                                C   C   C       P   P
Daycare                                        C   C   C   C   P   P
Dry cleaner, coin operated, custom, and self-                  P   P   C   C
service
Dry cleaner, coin or attendant operated, no                    P   P   C   C
onsite cleaning plant
Employment                                             C       P   P
Equipment rental                                                   P   P   C
Finance and investment                                         P   P
Furniture refinishing                                              P   P   C
Governmental building or facility                              P   P   C   C
Horticultural services                                             P   P   P
Hospital                                               C       C   P       C
Hospital, large animal                                                 C   C
Hospital, small animal                                             P       C
Insurance and related                                          P   P
Kennel, commercial                                                     C   C
Labor union organization                                       P   P   P
Laboratory, biochemical and x-ray                                  P       C
Laboratory, medical and dental                                     P       C
Laundromat, self-service cleaner                           C   C   P
Laundry, commercial plant                                              P   C
Lockers, cold storage, retail use only                             P   P
Locksmith                                          C   C       P   P
Medical clinic and related services                    C       P   P
Mortuary and funeral                                   C       C   P
Motel and motor hotel                                          C   P   C   C
Newspaper printing                                             P   P   P
Photography, camera, supplies, developing                      P   P
Planned unit development                       C   C   C   C   C   C   C   C
Post office                                            C       P   P
Printing and publishing                                        P   P
Prison, jail, and the like                                     C   C   C   C
Professional office                            C   C   C       P   P   C   C
Radiator repair and service                                        P   P   C
Real estate, title and related                         C       P   P
School, academic/vocational, commercial        C   C   C   C   P   P   P   C
School, academic/vocational, public/nonprofit  C   C   C   C   P   P   P   C
Shoe repair                                            C       P   P
Storage rental                                                     P   P   C
Studio (artist, interior decorator,            C   C   C   C   P   P
photographer, and the like)
Tailor or dressmaking                          C   C   C   C   P   P
Taxidermy                                                          P   P   C
Tire shop, including recapping                                     C   P   C
Treatment center for alcoholism/chemical                       C   P   C   C
dependency
Veterinary                                                         P   P   C
Welfare and charitable distribution                            C   P
Sporting, Recreation, and Amusement
Accessory use or building                                          C   C   C
Carnivals, circuses, amusement parks                               C   C   C
Concession                                                         C   C   C
Entertainment and amusement, indoor                            C   C
Equestrian facility and riding academy                                 C   C
Game room                                                      P   P
Go-cart track                                                          C   C
Golf course and country club                       C   C                   C
Golf driving range                                                 C   P   C
Golf, miniature                                        C           P   P   P
Health club                                        C   C       P   P   P   P
Ice or roller skating, indoor public                           C   P
Ice or roller skating, outdoor public                          C   P
Park, playground, or open space                P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P
Recreation facility, indoor                            C       C   P   P   P
Riding academy                                                         C   C
Riding stable, commercial                                                  P
Sports arena                                                       C   C   C
Swimming pool, indoor or outdoor public        C   C   C       C   C
Tennis court, indoor or outdoor public         C   C   C       C   C
Notes to table:
Blank =   Not allowed
P =      Permitted use
C =      Conditional use
 
1.   Any enterprise customarily carried on in the field of general agriculture,
which is not obnoxious or detrimental to the public welfare. No commercial
slaughterhouse or feedlot operation is allowed.
2.   Except pigs. Cows, horses, sheep, and goats may be kept, provided lots
have an area of at least 30,000 square feet.
 
(Prior Code, § 9-9-2) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001; Ord. 2007-06, passed 11-
26-2007)
§ 155.262 NONCONFORMING USES.
   It is the intent of these regulations to control, mitigate, or terminate
uses that do not conform to the regulations specified by this chapter for the
district in which such use is located.
(Prior Code, § 9-9-3) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001)
§ 155.263 RESTRICTION ON ENLARGEMENT AND MAINTENANCE.
   The lawful use of a building or of land which exists at the time of adoption
hereof, although such use does not conform to the regulations specified for the
district in which the use is located, may be continued; provided, that no such
use shall be enlarged or increased nor be extended to occupy a greater area
than that occupied by such use at the time of adoption hereof. Ordinary
maintenance and repair may be made to any nonconforming building, providing
that no structural alterations are made, and providing that the cost of such
work shall not exceed 25% of the assessed valuation of such building in any
one-year period.
(Prior Code, § 9-9-4) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.264 TERMINATION OF NONCONFORMITY.
   If the nonconforming use of land, or a building or operation within a
building, ceases for a continuous period of one year or more, such use or
operation shall be considered abandoned, and the subsequent use of such land,
or building or operation within it, shall be resumed only in accordance with
the regulations specified by this chapter for the district in which such land,
or building or operation is located, subject to the provisions of Idaho Code §
67-6538.
(Prior Code, § 9-9-5) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.265 DAMAGE TO NONCONFORMING BUILDING.
   A nonconforming building damaged or destroyed by fire, flood, or other
disaster to an extent of more than 50% of the appraised value, may be restored
only if made to conform with all the regulations of the district in which it is
located.
(Prior Code, § 9-9-6) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.266 CHANGE IN USE.
   The Planning and Zoning Commission may permit any nonconforming use to be
changed to any specified use; provided, that the Commission determines at a
public hearing, notice of which has been sent to all property owners in the
neighborhood, that the proposed use is not detrimental or objectionable to the
neighborhood.
(Prior Code, § 9-9-7) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001)
§ 155.267 DISTRICT CHANGES.
   Whenever the boundaries of a district shall be changed so as to transfer an
area from one district to another district of a different classification, the
foregoing provisions of this subchapter shall also apply to any nonconforming
uses existing therein.
(Prior Code, § 9-9-8) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001)
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS AND ZONING ENFORCEMENT
§ 155.280 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   A certificate of occupancy shall be required before any building or use is
occupied. A certificate of occupancy indicates that an onsite inspection has
shown that the building or use complies with this chapter, including any
conditions imposed upon its approval. Occupancy of a building or use without a
certificate of occupancy shall be a violation of this chapter. The issuance of
a certificate of occupancy shall not be construed as approval of any violation
of this chapter that may have been undiscovered during the inspection.
(Prior Code, § 9-10-1) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.281 TEMPORARY CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   A temporary certificate of occupancy may be issued to permit temporary use
of a building in cases where weather prevents the prompt completion of such
required improvements such as landscaping. No temporary certificate of
occupancy shall be issued for more than 90 days.
(Prior Code, § 9-10-2) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001)
§ 155.282 DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS.
   (A)   Authority. The city, pursuant to Idaho Code § 67-6509 and §§
155.035 through
155.055, may require, as a condition of rezoning of land, that an owner or
developer make a written development agreement or commitment concerning use or
development of the subject parcel. The development agreement may limit,
restrict, or condition uses on the property being rezoned.
   (B)   Requirements. Prior to requiring or permitting a development agreement
as a condition of rezoning, the city shall determine the following.
      (1)   The development agreement will foster the policies and objectives
of the comprehensive plan.
      (2)   The development agreement will assist the enhancement and stability
of the parcel’s development and use.
      (3)   The development agreement will help to stabilize and enhance the
surrounding properties, developments, and uses.
   (C)   Form of agreements. Development agreements shall be in the form of
legal agreements appropriate for recording. Development agreements must be
approved by the City Council, and shall contain specific provisions for
modification, enforcement, and termination.
   (D)   Recording required. Development agreement commitments shall be
recorded in the office of the County Recorder. Unless modified or terminated by
the city, a commitment is binding on the owner of the parcel, each subsequent
owner, or other person acquiring an interest in the parcel. A commitment which
is binding on the owner of the parcel is unrecorded; however, an unrecorded
commitment is binding on a subsequent owner or other person acquiring an
interest only if that subsequent owner or other person has actual notice on the
commitment.
   (E)   Modification of agreements. Development agreement commitments may be
modified only by permission of the city after complying with the notice and
hearing provisions of Idaho Code § 67-6509 and §§
155.046 and
155.050.
   (F)   Termination of agreement. The zoning decision upon which the use is
based may be reversed upon failure of the requirements of the commitment after
a reasonable time, as determined by the City Council, upon failure of the
owner, each subsequent owner or other persons acquiring an interest in the
parcel to comply with the conditions in the commitment. After complying with
the notice and hearing provisions of Idaho Code § 67-6509 and §§
155.046 and
155.050, the agreement may be terminated by the city. Violation of a written
commitment by the owner, a subsequent owner, his or her agent or lessee shall
be deemed written consent to rezone due to failure of the conditions imposed by
the commitment in accordance with the provisions in this section.
   (G)   Violation. Violation of any condition or commitment in the agreement
shall be a violation of this chapter and subject to civil or penal action.
(Prior Code, § 9-10-3) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 155.283 FAILURE TO OBTAIN PERMIT.
   Whenever the Administrator becomes aware of an activity for which a permit
is required by this chapter, but for which a permit has not been approved, he
or she shall notify the occupant (and owner if they are not the same) of the
site to immediately cease all unpermitted activity. Notice shall be given by
posting on the site and first class mail. If activity does not cease, the
Administrator shall ask the City Attorney to take prompt action, as authorized
by Idaho Code § 67-6527, to end the unpermitted activity, and if a permit is
not subsequently issued, to require restoration of the site to its original
condition. Required restoration shall include restoration of vegetative cover
where sites have been graded in violation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 9-10-4) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 155.284 ENFORCEMENT ACTION.
   The process for enforcement of this chapter shall be as follows.
   (A)   Notice. The Administrator shall notify the occupant (and owner if they
are not the same) of the violation by first class mail and/or posting on the
site. The notice shall describe the violation, cite the sections of this
chapter being violated, and order the occupant to attain compliance within 30
days or less where public health, safety, or welfare may be endangered.
   (B)   Action by violator. Any person who receives a notice of violation may
request inspection by the Administrator to show that compliance has been
attained within the 30 days allowed or do as follows:
      (1)   File a written request with the Administrator for an extension of
time to attain compliance, with such extensions being limited to a maximum of
60 days and culminated by an inspection to show that compliance has been
attained; or
      (2)   File an appeal of the Administrator’s notice, following the appeals
procedure of §
155.049.
   (C)   Failure to comply. The Administrator shall notify any occupant or
owner who fails to attain compliance within the specified time, or to show on
appeal that a violation has not occurred. The City Council may consider legal
action on the violation at a specified date, time, and place. This notice shall
be posted on the site and sent by first class mail at least 15 days before that
hearing. The description of the violation from the original notice shall be
repeated and the penalties that may be imposed for violations of this chapter
will be cited again.
   (D)   Council action. The City Council may consider action on the violation.
The occupant or owner shall be permitted to present evidence that a violation
has not occurred. If the City Council finds that a violation has occurred, it
may do as follows:
      (1)   Specify a time within which compliance shall be attained or the
matter automatically pursued by the City Attorney;
      (2)   Direct the City Attorney to immediately initiate civil and/or
criminal actions to bring the building or use into compliance; and/or
      (3)   File a notice of no compliance with the County Recorder.
(Prior Code, § 9-10-5) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001)
VARIANCES
§ 155.295 PURPOSES.
   (A)   The Planning and Zoning Commission is empowered to grant variances in
order to prevent or to lessen such practical difficulties and unnecessary
physical hardships inconsistent with the objectives of zoning as would result
from a literal interpretation and enforcement of certain of the regulations
prescribed by this chapter.
   (B)   (1)   A variance shall not be considered a right or special privilege,
but may be granted to an applicant only upon a showing of undue hardship
because of:
         (a)   Special characteristics applicable to the site which deprives it
of privileges commonly enjoyed by other properties in the same zone or
vicinity; and
         (b)   The variance is not in conflict with the public interest.
      (2)   Hardships must result from special site characteristics relating to
the size, shape, or dimensions of a site or the location of existing structures
thereon, from geographic, topographic, or other physical conditions, or from
population densities, street locations, or traffic conditions.
   (C)   Variances are not intended to allow something that others do not have
a permitted right to do. The purpose of a variance is to provide fair treatment
and to see that individuals are not penalized because of site characteristics
beyond their control.
(Prior Code, § 9-11-1) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001)
§ 155.296 ACTION.
   (A)   Variances permitted; findings required. The Planning and Zoning
Commission may grant a variance with respect to fences and walls, site, area,
width, frontage, depth, coverage, front yard, rear yard, side yards, outdoor
living area, height of structures, distances between structures, or landscaped
areas, as the variance was applied for or in modified form if, on the basis of
application, investigation, and evidence submitted, the Commission makes the
following findings.
      (1)   Literal interpretation and enforcement of the regulation would
result in practical difficulty or unnecessary physical hardship inconsistent
with the objectives of this chapter.
      (2)   There are extraordinary site characteristics applicable to the
property involved or to the intended use of the property which do not apply
generally to other properties classified in the same zoning district.
      (3)   Literal interpretation and enforcement of the regulation would
deprive the applicant of privileges enjoyed by the owners of other properties
classified in the same zoning district.
      (4)   The granting of the variance will not constitute a grant of special
privilege inconsistent with the limitations on other properties classified in
the same zoning district.
      (5)   The granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the public
health, safety, or welfare or materially injurious to properties or
improvements in the vicinity.
   (B)   Parking variances; findings required. The Planning and Zoning
Commission may grant a variance with respect to off-street parking facilities
or off-street loading facilities if, on the basis of the application,
investigation, and the evidence submitted, the Commission makes the following
additional findings.
      (1)   Neither present nor anticipated future traffic volumes generated by
the use of the site in the vicinity reasonably require literal interpretation
and enforcement of the regulation.
      (2)   The granting of the variance will not result in the parking or
loading of vehicles on public streets in such a manner as to interfere with the
free flow of traffic.
      (3)   The granting of the variance will not create a safety hazard or any
other condition inconsistent with the objectives of this chapter.
   (C)   Waivers of front yards, fences, walls, hedges. The Planning and Zoning
Commission may grant variances for the waiver of required front yards, fences,
walls, or hedges, based on a substitute plan, which provides equal safety or
esthetics qualities by other means. The substitute plan must:
      (1)   Provide adequate vision clearance for vehicles, both those passing
on the street and those leaving the development site;
      (2)   Include landscaping;
      (3)   Provide a front yard of at least six feet along at least half the
frontage; and
      (4)   Not be detrimental to the public health, safety, or welfare, or be
materially injurious to properties or improvements in the vicinity.
(Prior Code, § 9-11-2) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001)
§ 155.297 DURATION OF APPROVAL.
   The use or construction permitted under the terms of any variance shall be
commenced within a six-month period. If such use or construction has not
commenced within such time period, the variance shall no longer be valid. Prior
to the expiration of the six-month period, the Planning and Zoning Commission
may, upon request of the applicant, extend approval for up to an additional six
months from the original date of approval.
(Prior Code, § 9-11-3) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001)
§ 155.298 APPLICATION FOR VARIANCE.
   (A)   Filing; form. Application for a variance shall be filed with the
Planning and Zoning Commission on a form prescribed by the city, which shall
include any information the Commission deems necessary.
   (B)   Scale drawing. The application shall be accompanied by an accurate
scale drawing of the site and any adjacent property affected, showing all
existing and proposed locations of streets, property lines, uses, structures,
driveways, pedestrian walks, off-street parking and off-street loading
facilities, and landscaped areas.
   (C)   Nonrefundable fee. The application shall be accompanied by the
appropriate fee, which is established by Council resolution and is
nonrefundable.
(Prior Code, § 9-11-4) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001)
§ 155.299 NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   A notice of public hearing shall be given not less than 15 calendar days nor
more than 30 calendar days prior to the date of the public hearing by mailing
notices to the adjacent property owners. The notice shall contain the address
or location of property for which the application is taken as well as a brief
description of the nature of the application.
(Prior Code, § 9-11-5) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001)
§ 155.300 APPEALS; FEES.
   Notice of appeal from the Planning and Zoning Commission decision shall be
given to the City Clerk within 15 days of the decision. The notice shall be
accompanied by the appropriate fee, which is established by City Council
resolution and nonrefundable. All appeals shall follow the procedures set forth
in §
155.049.
(Prior Code, § 9-11-6) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001)
§ 155.301 ACTION ON APPEALS BY CITY COUNCIL.
   The City Council, at the next duly held meeting, shall set a date and time
for a public hearing on the appeal and notify those concerned. The Planning and
Zoning Commission shall submit a written decision setting forth reasons for
their action. The Council, after said public hearing, shall render its decision
within 15 calendar days after the filing of such appeal. The Council may by
resolution affirm, reverse, or modify any decision, determination, or
requirements, but before granting any item which was denied by the Planning and
Zoning Commission, or before changing any of the conditions imposed by the
conditions in the use permit, the Council shall make a written decision setting
forth reasons for the action taken. All appeals shall follow the procedures set
forth in §
155.049.
(Prior Code, § 9-11-7) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001)
CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS (CUP)
§ 155.315 INTENT.
   (A)   Certain types of uses require special consideration prior to their
being permitted in a particular district. The reason for special consideration
involves, among other things, the size of the area required for the full
development of such uses, the nature of the traffic problems incidental to
operation of the use, the effect such uses have on any adjoining land uses, and
on the growth and development of the community as a whole.
   (B)   All uses permitted conditionally are declared to possess such unique
and special characteristics as to make impractical their being included as
outright uses in any of the various districts deemed within this chapter. The
authority for the location and operation thereof shall be subject to review and
the issuance of a CUP. The purpose of review shall be to determine that the
characteristics of any such use shall not be unreasonable or incompatible with
the type of uses permitted in surrounding areas, and for stipulating such
conditions as may be reasonable so that the basic purposes of this subchapter
shall be served. Nothing construed herein shall be deemed to require the
Planning and Zoning Commission to grant a CUP.
(Prior Code, § 9-12-1) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001)
§ 155.316 USE PERMIT PREREQUISITE TO BUILDING PERMIT.
   No building permit shall be issued when a CUP is required by the terms of
this chapter, unless a permit has been granted by the Planning and Zoning
Commission and then only in accordance with the terms and conditions of the
CUP. Conditional use permits may be temporary or permanent for any use or
purpose for which such permits are required or permitted by provisions of this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 9-12-2) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001)
§ 155.317 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT; FEE.
   Application for a CUP shall be made to the Planning and Zoning Commission by
the owner of the affected property, or his or her authorized agent, on a form
prescribed by the city. The application shall be accompanied by such
information as may be required by the city to enable the pertinent criteria to
be applied to the proposal, together with a filing fee. Fees are established by
City Council resolution and are nonrefundable.
(Prior Code, § 9-12-3) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001)
§ 155.318 GENERAL USE PERMIT CRITERIA.
   A CUP may be granted only if the proposal conforms to all the following
general use permit criteria, as well as to all other applicable use permit
criteria.
   (A)   Compatibility. The location, size, design, and operating
characteristics of the proposed development will be compatible with and will
not adversely affect the livability or appropriate development of abutting
properties and the surrounding neighborhood, with consideration to be given to:
      (1)   Harmony in scale, bulk, coverage, and density;
      (2)   The availability of public facilities and utilities;
      (3)   The harmful effect, if any, upon desirable neighborhood character;
      (4)   The generation of traffic and the capacity of surrounding streets;
and
      (5)   Any other relevant impact of the development.
   (B)   Location, design, site planning. The location, design, and site
planning of the proposed development will provide a convenient and functional
living, working, shopping, or civic environment, and will be as attractive as
the nature of the use and its location and setting warrants.
   (C)   Enhancement of area. The proposed development will enhance the
successful operation of the surrounding area in its basic community functions,
or will provide an essential service to the community or region. The use must
be consistent with applicable elements of the comprehensive plan.
(Prior Code, § 9-12-4) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001)
§ 155.319 INVESTIGATIONS.
   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall cause to be made an investigation
of facts necessary to provide information to ensure a decision consistent with
the intent and criteria of this section.
(Prior Code, § 9-12-5) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001)
§ 155.320 PUBLIC HEARINGS.
   (A)   Requirements. Public hearing and legal notification procedures
required by this section shall follow the procedures outlined in §§
155.046 and
155.050. The Planning and Zoning Commission shall also determine whether the
proposal conforms to the general use permit criteria and to other applicable
use permit criteria and may grant or deny the application for the proposed CUP
or require such changes or impose such reasonable conditions of approval as are
in its judgment necessary to ensure conformity to said criteria. The
determination of the Commission shall become final 15 calendar days after the
date of decision unless appealed to the City Council in accordance with the
provisions of this section and §
155.049.
   (B)   Mobile home parks.
      (1)   Whenever application for a mobile home park is considered, there
shall be two public hearings. The first public hearing shall be limited to
consideration of permit criteria relative to land use. Ten calendar days prior
to the hearing, a concept plan shall be submitted to the Planning and Zoning
Commission. The plan shall be drawn at a scale of not less than one inch equals
100 feet and show the following:
         (a)   Existing conditions of the proposed site in terms of land use,
zoning, and circulation systems;
         (b)   Proposed location and number of mobile home spaces; and
         (c)   Proposed locations of accessways.
      (2)   Following the first public hearing, if land use approval is given,
the developer may proceed with preparation of the preliminary site plan of the
park which is to be prepared in accordance with the city subdivision ordinance.
      (3)   Following receipt of the preliminary site plan, within 30 days, it
shall be reviewed by the Planning and Zoning Commission to determine if it is
consistent with the purpose and intent of the city subdivision ordinance.
      (4)   Upon approval or conditional approval of the preliminary site plan,
the developer may proceed with preparation of the final site plan.
      (5)   Following receipt of the final site plan, a second public hearing
shall be scheduled before the Planning and Zoning Commission for the purpose of
review of the final site plan. Action by the Commission shall be to approve,
disapprove, or approve with conditions.
      (6)   Individual approval at one of the two required public hearings does
not constitute final approval.
      (7)   Final approval for mobile home park CUPs shall require approval at
both public hearings, following the sequences of §
155.345(A).
      (8)   The CUP shall be issued with all conditions listed thereon,
following the second required public hearing at which approval has been given.
(Prior Code, § 9-12-6) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001)
§ 155.321 ACTION BY PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION.
   The action by the Planning and Zoning Commission upon the application for a
CUP shall be by the majority of the members of the Commission present at the
meeting where the application is considered. If a CUP is denied, the minutes of
the Commission shall clearly state the reasons for denial. In order to grant a
user permit, the findings of the Commission shall be that the establishment,
maintenance, and operation of such use or building applied for will meet the
requirements of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 9-12-7) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001)
§ 155.322 CONDITIONS MAY BE IMPOSED.
   (A)   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall designate conditions with the
CUP as it deems necessary to secure the purpose of this subchapter and may
require the guarantees and evidence that such conditions will be complied with.
   (B)   Such conditions may include:
      (1)   Regulation of uses;
      (2)   Special yards, spaces;
      (3)   Fences and walls;
      (4)   Surfacing of parking areas to city specifications;
      (5)   Street dedications and improvements (or bonds);
      (6)   Regulation or points of vehicular ingress and egress;
      (7)   Regulation of signage;
      (8)   Landscaping and maintenance;
      (9)   Maintenance of the grounds;
      (10)   Provisions for open space and parks;
      (11)   Regulation of noise, vibration, odors, or other similar nuisances;
      (12)   Regulation of time for certain activities;
      (13)   Duration of use; and
      (14)   Such other conditions as will make possible the development of the
city in an orderly and efficient manner in conformity with the intent and
purposes set forth in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 9-12-8) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001)
§ 155.323 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   No CUP shall become effective until after an elapsed period of 15 calendar
days from the date of the action of the Planning and Zoning Commission.
(Prior Code, § 9-12-9) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001)
§ 155.324 APPEALS; FEES.
   (A)   Filing. During the 15-day period from the date of the action by the
Planning and Zoning Commission, written appeals from action of the Commission
may be taken to the City Council by the applicant or other interested party.
The use permit shall not become effective until the determination of any appeal
pending against it.
   (B)   Notice; fee; procedure.
      (1)   Notice of appeal shall be given to the Planning and Zoning
Commission. The application shall be accompanied by the appropriate fee, which
is established by City Council resolution and nonrefundable.
      (2)   All appeals shall follow the procedures set forth in §
155.049.
(Prior Code, § 9-12-10) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001)
§ 155.325 ADHERENCE TO APPROVED PLAN.
   A CUP shall be subject to the plans and other conditions upon the basis of
which it was granted. Unless a different termination date is prescribed, the
permit shall terminate six months from the effective date of the granting
unless actual construction or alteration, or actual commencement of the
authorized activities, has commenced. However, such period of time may be
extended by the Planning and Zoning Commission, upon application filed at any
time before said period has expired, but in no event shall the order be
extended for more than 12 months from the date the use permit was first
granted.
(Prior Code, § 9-12-11) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001)
§ 155.326 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   In the event of a violation of any of the provisions of zoning regulations,
general permit criteria, or in the event of a failure to comply with any
prescribed condition of approval, the Planning and Zoning Commission may, after
notice and hearing, revoke any CUP. The determination of the Commission shall
become final 15 calendar days after the date of the decision, unless appealed
to the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 9-12-12) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001)
§ 155.327 ACTION ON APPEALS BY CITY COUNCIL.
   The City Council, at the next duly held meeting, shall set a date and time
for a public hearing on the appeal and notify those concerned. The Planning and
Zoning Commission shall submit a report setting forth reasons for their action.
The Council, after said public hearing, shall render its decision within 35
calendar days after the hearing on the appeal. The Council may affirm, reverse,
or modify any decision, determination, or requirements, but before granting any
item which was denied by the Planning and Zoning Commission, and before
changing any of the conditions imposed in the use permit, the Council shall
make a written determination setting forth the reasons for their decision. All
appeals shall follow the procedures set forth in §
155.049.
(Prior Code, § 9-12-13) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001)
OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS
§ 155.340 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   When the intensity of use of any building, structure, or premises is
increased through the addition of dwelling units, gross floor seating capacity,
or other units of measurement specified, parking or loading facilities as
required herein shall be provided for such increase in intensity of use.
   (B)   Parking and loading facilities shall be provided whenever the existing
use of a building or structure changes to a new use.
   (C)   Access to parking spaces as required herein for commercial and
industrial uses shall not be less than 12 feet and not more than 40 feet wide
at the curb line.
   (D)   No lawfully existing building shall be deemed to be a nonconforming
building solely because of the lack of any such required spaces; provided, that
space being used for off-street parking or loading in connection with any such
building at the time of the effective date hereof, or amendments thereto, shall
not be further reduced in area or capacity.
   (E)   When the required number of parking spaces is calculated, fractional
numbers equal to or greater than one-third shall be adjusted to the next higher
whole number of spaces.
   (F)   Parking space requirements for a use not specifically mentioned shall
be the same as for a use specified which has similar traffic generating
characteristics.
   (G)   Except as required for dwellings and motels, off-street parking
facilities for several buildings, structures, or uses, or for mixed uses, may
be provided collectively. The total number of spaces so located together shall
not be less than the sum of the separate requirements for each of the buildings
or uses.
   (H)   Parking spaces and access driveways shall be made of a hard surface,
if off-street parking areas have more than four spaces.
   (I)   Lighting used to illuminate off-street parking areas shall be directed
away from residential properties, and such parking areas shall be effectively
screened on any side adjoining property in a residential zone by a wall, or
fence, or hedge to a height of six feet, except for the front yard setback area
of the adjoining residential property, in which case the height shall be three
feet.
   (J)   Required parking spaces for dwellings shall be upon the same premises
as the dwelling, and no parking space shall be located in any required front or
side yard.
(Prior Code, § 9-13-1) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.341 PARKING AREA DESIGN.
   (A)   All public or private parking areas or garages, except those required
in conjunction with a single-family or two-family dwelling on a single lot,
shall be designed, laid out, and constructed in accordance with the provisions
of this section and the minimum standards as set forth in figure 1, “minimum
parking lot requirements.”
   (B)   In any district, driveways or accessways providing ingress and egress
to or from private or public parking areas or garages shall be permitted
together with any appropriate traffic control devices required.
   (C)   In any residential district, public or private parking areas and/or
spaces shall not be permitted in any required yard, except as provided herein.
   (D)   Required parking spaces shall be permitted on driveways in the
required front yard in conjunction with any single-family or two-family
dwelling on a single lot, provided parking is for no more than two vehicles.
   (E)   Public or private parking areas, spaces or garages in any residential
district are permitted in any interior yard that abuts an alley, provided said
parking areas, structures, or spaces shall comply with the parking diagram in
figure 1.
   (F)   In any commercial or industrial district, public or private parking
areas or parking spaces are permitted in any required or interior yard, except
when lot lines of said districts are common with property zoned residentially,
in which case the parking areas shall be not less than ten feet from the lot
line, unless a permanent sight obscuring fence is constructed and maintained
along that portion of the parking abutting the residentially zoned property.
   (G)   (1)   Areas of three or more parking spaces, except in conjunction
with single-family or two- family dwellings on a single lot, shall be served by
a service drive so that no backyard movement or other maneuvering of a vehicle
within a street, other than an alley, will be required.
      (2)   Service drives shall be designed and constructed to facilitate the
flow of traffic, provide maximum safety to pedestrians and vehicular traffic on
the site, but in no case shall two-way and one-way driveways be less than 20
feet wide and 12 feet wide respectively.
   (H)   Public parking areas provided in excess of the requirements of this
section or as a permitted use shall be designed and laid out in conformance
with figure 1.
(Prior Code, § 9-13-2) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001)
§ 155.342 NUMBER OF PARKING SPACES REQUIRED.
   (A)   The number of off-street parking spaces required shall be no less than
as set forth as follows:
Use Off-Street Parking Space Required
Commercial
Use                                     Off-Street Parking Space Required
Commercial
Barber and beauty shops                 1 per 75 square feet of gross floor
                                        area
Food and beverage places with sale and  1 per 200 square feet of gross floor
consumption on premises                 area
Medical, optical, and dental offices    1 per 150 square feet of gross floor
                                        area
Mortuaries                              1 per 75 square feet of gross floor
                                        area used for assembly
Office buildings, business and          1 per 400 square feet of gross floor
professional offices with onsite        area
customer service
Offices not providing services          1 per 400 square feet of gross floor
                                        area
Pharmacies                              1 per 150 square feet of gross floor
                                        area
Retail establishments, except as        1 per 300 square feet of gross floor
otherwise provided                      area
Retail stores handling bulky            1 per 600 square feet of gross floor
merchandise, household furniture, or    area
appliance repair shops
Industrial
Except as specifically mentioned        1 per 500 square feet of gross floor
herein, industrial uses listed as       area
permitted in the Industrial District
Laboratories and research facilities    1 per 800 square feet of gross floor
                                        area
Machinery or equipment sales            1 per 1,000 square feet of gross floor
                                        area
Wholesale and storage operations        1 per 700 square feet of gross floor
                                        area
Institutional
Hospitals                               1 per patient bed
                                        1 per every 4 fixed seats or every 8
                                        feet of bench length or every 28 square
Churches, clubs, lodges                 feet where no permanent seat or benches
                                        are maintained in main auditorium
                                        (sanctuary or place of worship)
Libraries, museums, art galleries       1 per 250 square feet of gross floor
                                        area
Nursing homes for the aged, group care  1 per 5 beds, and 1 per employee
homes, asylums, and the like
Recreational or Entertainment
Bowling alleys                          4 per lane
Participating type, e.g., skating rinks 1 per 75 square feet of gross floor
                                        area
Racquet ball, handball                  2 per court
Spectator type, e.g., auditoriums,
assembly halls, theaters, stadiums,     1 per 4 seats
places of public assembly
Residential
Dwelling, single-family                 2 per dwelling unit on a single lot
Dwelling, two-family or multiple        2 per dwelling unit; where fractional,
                                        next highest full unit
Elderly housing                         1 per 2 dwelling units
Hotels, motels, motor hotels, and the   1 per room
like
Rooming or boarding houses              1 per room
Schools
College, resident type                  1 per 3 full-time equivalent students,
                                        plus 1 for each faculty member
                                        1 per employee and faculty member and 1
Elementary                              per 30 seats in auditoriums or assembly
                                        halls
Junior high                             1 per employee and faculty member and 1
                                        per 30 students
Senior high                             1 per employee and faculty member and 1
                                        per 20 students
 
   (B)   (1)   Off-street parking requirements for buildings and uses not set
forth in division (A) above and of undetermined use shall be determined by the
Planning and Zoning Commission. The Commission determination shall be based
upon the requirements for the most comparable building or use specified
therein.
      (2)   The Commission decision may be appealed.
(Prior Code, § 9-13-3) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.343 LOADING SPACES.
   (A)   Each off-street loading space shall measure not less than 35 feet by
12 feet and shall have an unobstructed height of 15 feet and shall be made
permanently available for parking and shall be surfaced, improved, and
maintained.
   (B)   Required loading spaces shall be in conformance with the following:
      (1)   Department stores, freight terminals, hospitals, sanitariums,
industrial or manufacturing establishments, retail or wholesale stores or
storage warehouses, or any similar use which has, or intends to have, 10,000
square feet or more, shall provide the following truck loading or unloading
spaces:
 
Square Feet of Aggregate Gross Floor Area Required Number of Spaces
10,000 to 15,999                          1
16,000 to 39,999                          2
40,000 to 65,000                          3
Each additional 25,000                    1 additional
 
      (2)   Loading spaces shall not require access to the building through a
parking lot used for customer parking.
(Prior Code, § 9-13-4) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.344 MAINTENANCE.
   Maintenance of all areas provided for off-street parking and loading shall
include removal and replacement of dead and dying trees, grass and shrubs,
removal of trash, weeds, and other debris. MAINTENANCE shall also include
repair of parking and loading surfaces, traffic control devices, signs, light
standards, fences, walls, curbs, and railing. All areas shall provide for
proper drainage of surface water to prevent drainage onto adjacent properties,
roadways, and walkways. Any lights used to illuminate such areas shall be so
arranged as to reflect the light away from the adjoining residential
properties.
(Prior Code, § 9-13-5) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.345 ACCESSIBLE PARKING SPACES.
   (A)   Standards. Accessible spaces shall be provided for disabled people in
accordance with the appendix of the current city adopted edition of the Uniform
Building Code (UBC). Parking and loading accessibility regulations in the UBC
and this section do not supersede the American Disabilities Act (ADA)
regulations in 28 C.F.R. part 36; Appendix A, 4.1.2. (5a, b, c, d, e) as
reflected hereafter.
   (B)   Compliance and existing elements. Alterations to existing parking
facilities shall comply with provisions of this section. Alterations shall not
reduce, or have the effect of reducing, accessibility or usability of any
parking facility. Alterations which would reduce accessibility will provide for
alternative means of accessibility compliant with the provisions of this
section. If compliance with this section is technically infeasible, the
alteration shall provide access to the maximum extent technically feasible. If
existing elements, spaces, essential features, or common area related to
parking facilities are altered, each such altered element, space, feature, or
area shall comply with the applicable provisions in division 1 of the appendix
in chapter 11 of the city adopted Uniform Building Code and CABO/ANSI A1178.1.
Variances shall be reviewed according to §
155.296(B), and be in conjunction with the “reasonable accommodation” language
of ADA standards.
   (C)   Required number. 
Total Number of Parking Spaces in Lot Required Minimum Number of Accessible
                                      Spaces
Total Number of Parking Spaces in Lot Required Minimum Number of Accessible
                                      Spaces
1 to 25                               1
26 to 50                              2
51 to 75                              3
76 to 100                             4
101 to 150                            5
151 to 200                            6
201 to 300                            7
301 to 400                            8
401 to 500                            9
501 to 1,000                          10
1,001 and over                        10, plus 1 for each 100 over 1,000
 
   (D)   Exceptions. At facilities providing medical care and other services
for persons with mobility impairments, parking spaces shall be provided as in
division (C) above, with the following exceptions:
      (1)   Outpatient units and facilities: 10% of the total number of parking
spaces provided serving each such outpatient unit facility; and
      (2)   Units and facilities that specialize in treatment or services for
persons with mobility impairments: 20% of the total number of parking spaces
provided serving each such unit or facility.
   (E)   Dimensions.
      (1)   All accessible spaces shall be a minimum of eight feet in width
plus a five-foot wide adjacent access aisle.
      (2)   One in every eight accessible spaces, but not less than one, shall
have an adjacent aisle eight feet in width and shall be designated as “van
accessible.”
      (3)   All accessible spaces shall be a minimum of 20 feet in length.
      (4)   Passenger loading zones shall provide a pedestrian access aisle at
least five feet wide and 20 feet long adjacent and parallel to the vehicle pull
up space. If there are curbs between the access aisle and the vehicle pull up
space, then a curb ramp shall be provided. At least one passenger loading zone
shall be provided if loading zones are being utilized.
   (F)   Design.
      (1)   Access aisles shall not be restricted by planters, curbs, or wheel
stops.
      (2)   Access aisles shall be level with the parking space.
      (3)   Two accessible spaces may utilize the same adjacent access aisle.
      (4)   Accessible parking spaces shall be designated as reserved for the
disabled by a sign showing the symbol of accessibility. Van accessible spaces
shall have an additional sign “van accessible” mounted below the symbol of
accessibility. Such sign shall not be obscured by a vehicle parking in the
space. A painted accessible symbol shall also be placed in all accessible
spaces. All signage and striping of accessible spaces shall conform to
regulations in Appendix A.4.30 of ADA.
   (G)   Location.
      (1)   Access aisles shall be connected to an accessible route to the
accessible entrance of a building. The parking access aisle must either:
         (a)   Blend with the accessible route; or
         (b)   Have a curb ramp. Such ramp opening must be located within the
access aisle boundaries and not within the parking space boundaries. (See
figure A.)
      (2)   Parking spaces for disabled people and accessible passenger loading
zones that serve a particular building shall be the spaces or zones located
closest to the nearest entrance on an accessible route.
   (H)   Restriping. When a multiresidential (four plus units on one site)
development, commercial, or industrial business, or the city, as an entity,
resurfaces or paints a new striping pattern onto a parking lot containing more
than five spaces, it must provide accessible parking spaces, clearance, and
ramps as required by provisions of the appendix for chapter 11 of the Uniform
Building Code, this section, and the ADA standards for accessible design.
Painting over old lines as maintenance work or nonslurry shall not be construed
to be RESTRIPING for purposes of this section.
(Prior Code, § 9-13-6) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001) Penalty, see §
155.999
LANDSCAPING AND FENCES
§ 155.360 INTENT.
   (A)   The purpose of landscaping is to bring relief from heat, noise, and
glare through proper placement of green plants and trees, and to encourage
pleasant and attractive surroundings.
   (B)   Greenbelts, landscape screening, or buffer yards may be required for
the protection of residential properties from adjacent major arterial streets,
waterways, railroad rights-of-way, or other features.
   (C)   Any new subdivision or special development must meet the requirements
for landscaping as set forth in the subdivision ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 9-14-1) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001)
§ 155.361 BUFFER YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Buffer yards shall be provided in accordance with provisions in this
section whenever any use, development, or modification to use or development is
being reviewed under this chapter.
   (B)   Table 1, “Required Buffer Yards Between Zoning Districts,” is hereby
adopted as part of this section. The letter designation in Table 1 refers to
the buffer yard standards established in §
155.363(B).
   (C)   Buffer yard requirements shall vary depending on the intensity of both
the zoning district of the proposed use and its neighbors. Three different
standards, A, B, and C, are hereby established to accommodate the range of
buffer yard needs. Buffer yards shall conform to the minimum standards provided
in §
155.363(B).
   (D)   All required buffer yards shall be located on the perimeter of a lot
or parcel upon which the development occurs and shall extend from lot line to
lot line, or in an alternative location if the applicant demonstrates that it
will provide an equivalent or superior buffering effect between uses. Buffer
yards shall not be located on any portion of a public or private street,
dedicated right-of-way, or vision clearance triangle.
   (E)   The minimum size of plants at the time of planting shall be as
follows:
      (1)   Canopy trees: one and one-half inch caliper;
      (2)   Understory trees: four feet in height;
      (3)   Shrubs:
         (a)   Deciduous: 15 inches in height; and
         (b)   Evergreen: 12 inches in height.
      (4)   Evergreen trees: three feet in height.
   (F)   Existing trees and other vegetation may be used in combination for
buffering if they are healthy and will satisfy the requirements of this
section.
   (G)   Whenever buffering is required, a buffer yard plan, which may be
incorporated into any other site plan required to be submitted under this
chapter, shall be prepared showing the approximate location, height, size, and
type of all plantings, fences, berms, and irrigation systems.
   (H)   All buffering required by this section shall be installed prior to
occupancy or commencement of use. A building permit shall be issued only upon
completion of all improvements required herein, assuring that a reasonable time
of completion is attained. REASONABLE TIME OF COMPLETION under this section
shall be defined as no longer than 12 months after issuance of the building
permit.
   (I)   The maintenance of buffer yards required by this section is a
continuing obligation of the property owner. The use of property for which a
building permit is issued shall be conditional upon the continued satisfaction
of the requirements of this section.
(Prior Code, § 9-14-2) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.362 FENCES.
   A fence, hedge, wall, column, pier, post, or any similar structure, or any
combination of such structures, may be permitted in the required yards of the
various districts, subject to the following conditions and requirements. It is
intended that these conditions and requirements shall provide privacy and
protection, and screening and accenting of shrubs and landscaping, without
unduly interfering with the view from neighboring properties or jeopardizing
the safety of pedestrians or vehicles.
   (A)   It shall be the responsibility of the property owner to locate all
property lines.
   (B)   No fence, hedge, or wall may extend beyond or across a property line
unless in joint agreement with the abutting property owner.
   (C)   No fence, hedge, or wall shall be placed nearer than 12 inches to any
public sidewalk.
   (D)   No barbed wire or other sharp, pointed, or electrically charged fence
shall be permitted, except as follows.
      (1)   Temporary fences on construction sites may be as high as required
to protect the property during the period of construction and may have barbed
wire where it is not less than eight feet above ground.
      (2)   In the Industrial/Agricultural District, an electrically charged
fence or battery operated fence may be permitted if used to contain livestock.
      (3)   The Industrial District may have barbed wire not less than eight
feet above ground.
   (E)   Fences, walls, or compact hedges shall not exceed seven feet in
height. Height, including walls or other structures, shall be measured as
follows.
      (1)   In required yards abutting a street, it shall be the total
effective height measured from the finished grade on the side nearest the
street.
      (2)   In other required yards, it shall be the total effective height
above the finished grade measured on the side nearest the abutting property.
      (3)   On property lines, the height may be measured from the finished
grade of either side when the abutting property owners are in joint agreement.
      (4)   Parks and schools where play activities take place may have fences
and back slope exceeding the maximum height in this section.
   (F)   On corner lots, no fences, hedge, structure, wall, or landscaping
display shall interfere with the unobstructed view over 36 inches above the
nearest street in a restricted triangular area formed by the three points
established by:
      (1)   The intersection of the property lines at the corner; and
      (2)   By measuring 30 feet back from the intersection on each property
line, except that rail type fences not exceeding 42 inches in height, with more
than two four-inch rails, mounted on a minimum number of four-inch posts, may
be permitted in the restricted triangular area.
(Prior Code, § 9-14-3) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.363 TABLE; FIGURES.
   (A)   Table 1.
Required Buffer Yards Between Zoning Districts1
Zone of Adjacent Property Zone of Proposed Use
                          R-1 R-2 R-3 R-M C-1 C-2 IND INAG
Required Buffer Yards Between Zoning Districts1
Zone of Adjacent Property Zone of Proposed Use
                          R-1 R-2 R-3 R-M C-1 C-2 IND INAG
R-1                               A       B   B   C   C
R-2                               A       B   B   C   C
R-3                       A   A       A   B   B   C   C
R-M                               A       B   B   C   C
C-1                       B   B   B   B       A   B   B
C-2                       B   B   B   B   A       B   B
IND                       C   C   C   C   B   B       A
INAG                      C   C   C   C   B   B   A
Notes to Table:
Refer to division (B) below for detail.
1.   No buffer yard required if space is blank.
 
Zoning Districts:
Single-Family Residential                  R-1
Two-Family Residential                  R-2
Multiple-Family Residential               R-3
Residential Manufactured Home or Mobile Home   R-M
Central Business                     C-1
Highway Commercial                  C-2
Industrial                           IND
Industrial/Agricultural                  INAG   
 
   (B)   Figure 6, standard buffer yards.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c2edc9d3d64eef249c260ad87ad3d56927a6f8fe/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1839.jpg]
   (C)   Reduction of buffer widths. Buffer yard width may be reduced to a
minimum of ten feet where an irrigation system is installed providing a
convenient and reliable source of water to all portions of the buffer yard so
reduced in width.
(Prior Code, § 9-14-4) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.999 PENALTY.
   Violations of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor, and shall be punishable
by a fine in any amount not exceeding $300 or by imprisonment for a period of
not longer than 30 days, or by a fine and imprisonment. Each day in which a
violation continues, it shall be considered a separate offense. The city may
also use any available civil remedy to enforce this chapter.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c2edc9d3d64eef249c260ad87ad3d56927a6f8fe/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1841.jpg]
(Prior Code, § 9-10-6) (Ord. 2001-04, passed 8-27-2001)
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Idaho Code
References to Prior Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO IDAHO CODE
Idaho Code Cite Code Section
Idaho Code Cite     Code Section
18-111              10.12;
                    93.99
23-927(1)(a)        112.07
23-927(2)           112.07
25-3520A            90.04
itle 27             154.115
itle 49             71.040
                    154.006;
50-1303             154.066;
                    155.003
50-1304             154.024
50-1306             154.004
50-1326             154.024;
                    154.073
55-2604             135.02
67-6503             152.01
67-6506             155.050
67-6509             155.282
67-6510             155.051
67-6511             155.044
67-6517             154.050
67-6519             155.035;
                    155.054
67-6519             155.044
67-6526             154.004;
                    155.004
67-6527             155.283
67-6534             155.035
67-6535             155.053
67-6538             155.264
itle 50, Chapter 9  10.03
itle 44, Chapter 22 151.015;
                    151.018
                    154.002;
itle 50, Chapter 13 154.006;
                    154.024
itle 67, Chapter 52 10.12;
                    152.28
                    154.002;
itle 67, Chapter 65 154.006;
                    155.001
itle 39, Chapter 40 151.018
itle 39, Chapter 41 151.018
itle 44, Chapter 21 151.018
itle 44, Chapter 22 151.018
itle 44, Chapter 25 151.018
                    
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code Section 2025 Code Section
Prior Code Section 2025 Code Section
1-3-1              10.99
1-3-2              10.99
1-3-3              73.99
1-4-1              32.25
1-4-2              32.26
1-4-3              32.27
1-4-4              32.28
1-4-5              32.29
1-4-6              32.30
1-4-7              32.31
1-4-8              32.32
1-4-9              32.33
1-4-10             32.34
1-4-11             32.35
1-4-12             32.36
1-5-1              31.01
1-5-2              31.02
1-5-3              31.03
1-5-4              31.04
1-5-5              31.05
1-5-6              31.06
1-5-7              31.07
1-6-1              32.01
1-6-2              32.02
1-6-3              32.03
1-6-4              32.04
1-6-5              32.05
1-6-6              32.06
1-6-7              32.07
1-6-8              32.08
1-6-9              32.09
1-6-10             32.10
1-7-1              33.01
1-8-1              33.02
1-9-1              32.50
1-9-2              32.51
1-10-1             11.01
1-10-2             11.02
1-11-1             30.15
1-11-2             30.16
1-11-3             30.17
1-11-4             30.18
1-11-5             30.19
1-11-6             30.20
1-11-7             30.21
1-11-8             30.22
1-11-9             30.23
1-11-10            30.24
1-11-11            30.25
1-11-12            30.26
1-11-13            30.27
1-11-14            30.99
1-12-1             30.01
2-1-1              151.015
2-1-2              151.016
2-1-3              151.017
2-1-4              151.018
2-1-5              151.019
2-1-6              151.020;
                   151.999
2-2-1              151.001
2-3-1              151.002
2-7-1              151.035
2-7-2              151.036
2-7-3              151.037
2-7-4              151.038
2-7-5              151.039
2-7-6              151.040
2-7-7              151.041
2-7-8              151.042
2-7-9              151.043
2-7-10             151.044
2-7-11             151.045
2-7-12             151.046
2-7-13             151.047
2-7-14             151.048
2-7-15             151.049
2-7-16             151.050
2-9-1              151.090
2-9-2              151.091
2-9-3              151.092
2-9-4              151.093
2-9-5              151.094
2-9-6              151.095
2-9-7              151.096
2-9-8              151.999
3-1-1              92.01
3-2-1              92.02
3-2-2              92.02
3-3-1              92.03
3-3-2              92.03
3-3-3              92.03
3-4-1              91.01
3-5-1              92.30
3-5-2              92.31
3-5-3              92.32
3-5-4              92.33
3-5-5              92.34
3-5-6              92.35
3-6-1              92.15
3-6-2              92.16
3-6-3              92.17
3-6-4              92.18
3-6-5              92.19
4-1-1              110.02
4-2-1              110.03
4-2-2              110.03
4-3-1              50.30
4-3-2              50.31
4-3-3              50.32
4-3-4              50.33
4-3-5              50.34
4-3-6              50.35
4-3-7              50.36
4-3-8              50.37
4-3-9              50.38
4-4-1              91.03
4-4-2              91.03
4-5-1              50.01
4-5-2              50.02
4-5-3              50.03
4-5-4              50.04
4-5-5              50.05
4-5-6              50.06
4-5-7              50.07
4-5-8              50.08
4-5-9              50.09
4-5-10             50.10
4-5-11             50.11
4-5-12             50.12
4-5-13             50.13
4-5-14             50.14
4-5-15             50.99
4-5-16             50.15
5-1-1              110.15
5-1-2              110.16
5-1-3              110.17
5-1-4              110.18
5-1-5              110.19
5-1-6              110.20
5-1-7              110.21
5-1-8              110.22
5-1-9              110.23
5-1-10             110.24
5-1-11             110.25
5-1-12             110.26
5-1-13             110.27
5-1-14             110.28
5-2-1              110.01
5-2-2              110.01
5-2-3              110.01
5-2-4              110.01
5-3-1              113.20
5-3-2              113.21
5-3-3              113.22
5-3-4              113.23
5-3-5              113.24
5-3-6              113.25
5-3-7              113.26
5-4-1              113.01
5-4-2              113.02
5-4-3              113.03
5-4-4              113.04
5-4-5              113.05
5-5-1              114.01
5-5-2              114.02
5-5-3              114.03
5-6-1              111.01
5-6-2              111.02
5-6-3              111.03
5-6-4              111.04
5-6-5              111.05
5-6-6              111.06
5-6-7              111.07
5-6-8              111.08
5-6-9              111.99
5-6-10             111.09
5-6-11             111.10
5-7-1              112.55
5-7-2              112.56
5-7-3              112.57
5-7-4              112.58
5-7-5              112.59
5-7-6              112.60
5-7-7              112.61
5-7-8              112.62
5-7-9              112.63
5-7-10             112.64
5-7-11             112.65
5-7-12             112.66
5-7-13             112.67
5-7-14             112.68
5-7-15             112.69
5-8-1              112.01
5-8-2              112.02
5-8-3              112.03
5-8-4              112.04
5-8-5              112.05
5-8-6              112.06
5-8-6-1            112.07
5-8-7              112.08
5-8-8              112.09
5-8-9              112.10
5-8-10             112.11
5-8-11             112.12
5-8-12             112.13
5-8-13             112.14
5-8-14             112.15
5-8-15             112.16
5-9-1              151.065
5-9-2              151.066
5-9-3              151.067
5-9-4              151.068
5-9-5              151.069
5-9-6              151.070
5-9-7              151.071
5-9-8              151.072
5-9-9              151.073
5-9-10             151.074
5-9-11             151.075
5-9-12             151.076
5-10-1             112.30
5-10-2             112.31
5-10-3             112.32
5-10-4             112.33
5-10-5             112.34
5-10-6             112.35
5-10-7             112.36
5-10-8             112.37
5-10-9             112.38
5-10-10            112.39
5-10-11            112.40
6-1-1              133.01
6-1-2              130.01
6-1-3              131.01
6-1-4              130.07
6-1-6              131.02
6-1-7              136.01
6-1-8              130.02
6-1-9              131.03
6-1-10             132.01
6-1-11             134.01
6-1-12             132.02
6-1-13             136.02
6-1-14             137.01
6-1-15             133.02
6-1-16             131.04
6-1-17             130.03
6-1-18             133.03
6-1-19             133.04
6-1-20             133.05
6-1-21             130.04
6-1-22             130.05
6-1-23             133.06
6-1-24             134.02
6-1-25             130.06
6-1-26             134.03
6-1-27             91.07
6-1-29             132.03
6-1-30             131.05
6-1-31             131.06
6-1-33             132.04
6-1-34             91.06
6-1-35             134.04
6-1-36             131.07
6-1-36             134.05
6-1-37             132.05
6-1-39             133.07
6-1-40             132.06
6-1-41             136.03
6-1-42             130.08
6-1-43             131.08
6-1-44             132.07
6-1-45             130.09
6-1-46             131.09
6-1-47             91.08
6-2-1              90.35
6-2-2              90.36
6-2-3              90.37
6-2-4              90.38
6-2-5              90.39
6-2-6              90.40
6-2-7              90.41
6-2-8              90.42
6-2-9              90.43
6-2-10             90.44
6-2-11             90.45
6-2-12             90.46
6-2-13             90.47
6-2-14             90.48
6-2-15             90.49
6-2-16             90.50
6-2-17             90.99
6-3-1              90.01
6-3-2              90.02
6-3-3              90.03
6-3-4              90.04
6-3-5              90.05
6-3-6              90.06
6-3-7              90.07
6-3-8              90.08
6-3-9              90.09
6-3-10             90.10
6-3-11             90.11
6-3-12             90.12
6-3-13             90.13
6-3-14             90.14
6-3-15             90.15
6-3-16             90.16
6-3-17             90.17
6-3-18             90.18
6-3-19             90.19
6-3-20             90.20
6-3-21             90.21
6-4-1              91.02
6-5-1              135.01
6-5-3              135.02
6-5-4              135.03
6-6-1              137.15
6-6-2              137.16
6-7-1              91.05
6-7-2              91.05
6-7-3              91.05
6-8-1              114.15
6-8-2              114.16
6-8-3              114.17
6-8-4              114.18
6-8-5              114.19
6-8-6              114.20
6-8-7              130.01
7-1-1              150.15
7-1-2              150.16
7-1-3              150.17
7-2-1              150.30
7-2-2              150.31
7-2-3              150.32
7-3-1              150.45
7-3-2              150.46
7-3-3              150.47
7-3-4              150.48
7-4-1              91.04
7-4-2              91.04
7-4-3              91.04
7-5-1              51.015
7-5-2              51.016
7-5-3              51.017
7-5-4              51.018
7-5-5              51.019
7-5-6              51.020
7-5-7              51.021
7-5-8              51.022
7-5-9              51.023
7-6-1              51.035
7-6-2              51.036
7-6-3              51.037
7-6-4              51.038
7-6-5              51.039
7-6-6              51.040
7-6-7              51.041
7-6-8              51.042
7-6-9              51.043
7-6-10             51.044
7-6-11             51.045
7-6-12             51.046
7-6-13             51.047
7-6-14             51.048
7-6-15             51.049
7-6-16             51.050
7-6-17             51.051
7-6-18             51.052
7-6-19             51.053
7-6-20             51.054
7-6-21             51.055
7-6-22             51.056
7-6-23             51.057
7-6-24             51.058
7-6-25             51.059
7-6-26             51.060
7-6-27             51.061
7-6-32             51.062
7-6-33             51.062
7-6-34             51.063
7-6-35             51.064
7-6A-1             51.075
7-6A-2             51.076
7-6A-3             51.077
7-6A-4             51.078
7-6A-5             51.079
7-6A-6             51.080
7-6A-7             51.081
7-6A-8             51.082
7-6A-9             51.083
7-6A-10            51.084
7-6A-11            51.085
7-6A-12            51.086
7-6A-13            51.087
7-6A-14            51.999
7-7-1              51.100
7-7-2              51.101
7-7-3              51.102
7-7-4              51.103
7-7-5              51.104
7-7-6              51.999
7-8-1              150.02
7-8-2              150.99
7-9-1              51.001
7-9-2              51.999
7-10-1             93.01
7-10-2             93.02
7-10-3             93.99
7-11-1             150.01
7-11-2             150.99
8-1-1              70.01
8-2-1              71.001
8-2-2              71.002
8-2-3              71.003
8-2-4              71.004
8-2-5              71.005
8-2-6              71.006
8-2-7              71.007
8-3-1              70.15
8-3-2              70.16
8-3-3              70.17
8-3-4              70.18
8-3-5              70.19
8-3-6              70.20
8-3-7              70.21
8-3-8              70.22
8-3-9              70.23
8-3-10             70.24
8-3-11             70.25
8-4-1              71.090
8-4-2              71.091
8-4-3              Ch. 75, Schd. I
8-4-4              Ch. 75, Schd. I
8-4-5              Ch. 75, Schd. I
8-4-6              Ch. 75, Schd. I
8-4-7              Ch. 75, Schd. II
8-5-1              71.020
8-5-2              71.021
8-5-3              71.022
8-5-4              71.023
8-5-5              71.024
8-5-6              71.025
8-5-7              71.026
8-5-8              71.027
8-5-9              71.028
8-5-10             71.029
8-5-11             71.030
8-5-12             71.031
8-5-13             71.032
8-5-14             71.033
8-5-15             71.034
8-5-16             71.035
8-5-17             71.036
8-5-18             71.037
8-5-19             71.038
8-5-20             71.039
8-5-21             71.040
8-5-22             71.041
8-6-1              71.105
8-6-2              71.106
8-6-3              71.107
8-6-4              71.108
8-6-5              71.109
8-6-6              71.110
8-6-7              71.111
8-7-1              71.070
8-7-2              71.071
8-7-3              71.072
8-7-4              71.073
8-7-5              70.074
8-7-6              70.075
8-7-7              72.01
8-7-8              72.02
8-7-9              72.03
8-7-10             72.04
8-7-11             72.05
8-7-12             72.06
8-7-14             72.07
8-7-15             72.08
8-7-16             72.09
8-7-17             72.10
8-7-18             72.11
8-7-19             72.12
8-7-20             72.13
8-7-21             72.14
8-7-22             72.15
8-7-23             72.16
8-7-24             72.17
8-7-25             72.18
8-7-26             72.19
8-7-27             72.99
8-8-1              73.35
8-8-2              73.36
8-8-3              73.37
8-8-4              73.38
8-8-5              73.39
8-9-1              70.40
8-9-2              70.41
8-9-3              70.42
8-9-4              70.43
8-9-5              70.44
8-9-6              70.45
8-9-7              70.46
8-9-8              70.47
8-9-9              70.48
8-9-10             70.49
8-9-11             70.50
8-10-1             71.055
8-10-2             71.056
8-10-3             71.057
8-10-4             71.058
8-10-5             71.059
8-10-6             71.060
8-10-7             71.061
8-10-8             71.062
8-10-9             71.063
8-10-10            71.064
8-10-11            71.065
8-10-12            71.066
8-10-13            71.067
8-10-14            71.068
8-10-15            71.069
8-11-1             73.15
8-11-2             73.16
8-11-3             73.17
8-11-4             73.18
8-11-5             73.19
8-11-6             73.20
8-11-7             73.21
8-11-8             73.22
8-11-9             73.23
8-11-10            73.24
8-12-1             73.01
8-12-2             73.02
8-12-3             73.03
8-12-4             73.04
8-13-1             73.50
8-13-2             73.51
8-13-3             73.52
8-13-4             73.53
8-13-5             73.54
8-13-6             73.55
8-13-7             73.56
8-13-8             73.57
8-13-9             73.58
8-13-10            73.59
8-13-11            73.60
8-13-12            73.61
8-14-1             70.02
8-14-2             70.02
8-14-3             70.02
8-14-4             70.02
8-15-1             74.01
8-15-2             74.02
8-15-3             74.03
8-15-4             74.04
8-15-5             74.05
8-15-6             74.06
8-15-7             74.07
8-15-8             74.08
8-15-9             74.09
8-15-10            74.10
8-15-11            74.11
8-15-12            74.12
8-15-13            74.13
8-15-14            74.14
8-15-15            74.15
8-15-16            74.16
8-15-17            74.17
8-15-18            74.18
8-15-19            74.19
8-15-20            74.20
8-15-21            74.21
9-1-1              155.001
9-1-2              155.002
9-2-1              155.003
9-2-2              155.004
9-3-1              155.015
9-3-2              155.016
9-3-3              155.017
9-3-4              155.018
9-3-5              155.019
9-3-6              155.020
9-3-7              155.021
9-4-1              155.035
9-4-2              155.036
9-4-3              155.037
9-4-4              155.038
9-4-5              155.039
9-4-6              155.040
9-4-7              155.041
9-4-8              155.042
9-4-9              155.043
9-4-10             155.044
9-4-11             155.045
9-4-12             155.046
9-4-13             155.047
9-4-14             155.048
9-4-15             155.049
9-4-16             155.050
9-4-17             155.051
9-4-18             155.052
9-4-19             155.053
9-4-20             155.054
9-4-21             155.055
9-5A-1             155.070
9-5A-2             155.071
9-5A-3             155.072
9-5A-4             155.073
9-5A-5             155.074
9-5A-6             155.075
9-5A-7             155.076
9-5A-8             155.077
9-5A-9             155.078
9-5A-10            155.079
9-5B-1             155.090
9-5B-2             155.091
9-5B-3             155.092
9-5B-4             155.093
9-5B-5             155.094
9-5B-6             155.095
9-5B-7             155.096
9-5B-8             155.097
9-5B-9             155.098
9-5B-10            155.099
9-5B-11            155.100
9-5C-1             155.115
9-5C-2             155.116
9-5C-3             155.117
9-5C-4             155.118
9-5C-5             155.119
9-5C-6             155.120
9-5C-7             155.121
9-5C-8             155.122
9-5C-9             155.123
9-5C-10            155.124
9-5C-11            155.125
9-5D-1             155.126
9-5D-2             155.127
9-5D-3             155.128
9-5D-4             155.129
9-5D-5             155.130
9-5D-6             155.131
9-5D-7             155.132
9-5D-8             155.133
9-5D-9             155.134
9-5D-10            155.135
9-5D-11            155.136
9-5D-12            155.137
9-6A-1             155.150
9-6A-2             155.151
9-6A-3             155.152
9-6A-4             155.153
9-6A-5             155.154
9-6A-6             155.155
9-6A-7             155.156
9-6A-8             155.157
9-6A-9             155.158
9-6A-10            155.159
9-6B-1             155.170
9-6B-2             155.171
9-6B-3             155.172
9-6B-4             155.173
9-6B-5             155.174
9-6B-6             155.175
9-6B-7             155.176
9-6B-8             155.177
9-6B-9             155.178
9-6B-10            155.179
9-6B-11            155.180
9-7A-1             155.195
9-7A-2             155.196
9-7A-3             155.197
9-7A-4             155.198
9-7A-5             155.199
9-7A-6             155.200
9-7A-7             155.201
9-7A-8             155.202
9-7A-9             155.203
9-7A-10            155.204
9-7B-1             155.215
9-7B-2             155.216
9-7B-3             155.217
9-7B-4             155.218
9-7B-5             155.219
9-7B-6             155.220
9-7B-7             155.221
9-7B-8             155.222
9-7B-9             155.223
9-7B-10            155.224
9-8-1              155.235
9-8-2              155.236
9-8-3              155.237
9-8-4              155.238
9-8-5              155.239
9-8-6              155.240
9-8-7              155.241
9-8-8              155.242
9-8-9              155.243
9-8-10             155.244
9-8-11             155.245
9-8-12             155.246
9-8-13             155.247
9-8-14             155.248
9-8-15             155.249
9-9-1              155.260
9-9-2              155.261
9-9-3              155.262
9-9-4              155.263
9-9-5              155.264
9-9-6              155.265
9-9-7              155.266
9-9-8              155.267
9-10-1             155.280
9-10-2             155.281
9-10-3             155.282
9-10-4             155.283
9-10-5             155.284
9-10-6             155.999
9-11-1             155.295
9-11-2             155.296
9-11-3             155.297
9-11-4             155.298
9-11-5             155.299
9-11-6             155.300
9-11-7             155.301
9-12-1             155.315
9-12-2             155.316
9-12-3             155.317
9-12-4             155.318
9-12-5             155.319
9-12-6             155.320
9-12-7             155.321
9-12-8             155.322
9-12-9             155.323
9-12-10            155.324
9-12-11            155.325
9-12-12            155.326
9-12-13            155.327
9-13-1             155.340
9-13-2             155.341
9-13-3             155.342
9-13-4             155.343
9-13-5             155.344
9-13-6             155.345
9-14-1             155.360
9-14-2             155.361
9-14-3             155.362
9-14-4             155.363
9-15-1             153.01
9-15-2             153.02
9-15-3             153.03
9-15-4             153.04
9-15-5             153.05
9-15-6             153.06
9-15-7             153.07
9-15-8             153.08
9-15-9             153.09
9-15-10            153.10
9-15-11            153.11
9-15-12            153.12
9-15-13            153.13
9-15-14            153.14
9-15-15            153.15
9-15-16            153.16
9-15-17            153.17
9-15-18            153.18
9-15-19            153.19
9-15-20            153.20
9-15-21            153.21
9-15-22            153.99
9-16A-1            152.01
9-16A-2            152.02
9-16A-3            152.03
9-16A-4            152.04
9-16B-1            152.05
9-16B-2            152.06
9-16C-1            152.07
9-16C-2            152.08
9-16C-3            152.09;
                   152.99
9-16C-4            152.10
9-16C-5            152.11
9-16C-6            152.12
9-16D-1            152.25
9-16D-2            152.26
9-16D-3            152.27
9-16D-4            152.28
9-16E-1            152.40
9-16E-2            152.41
9-16E-3            152.42
9-16E-4            152.43
9-16E-5            152.44
10-1-1             154.001
10-1-2             154.002
10-1-3             154.003
10-1-4             154.004
10-1-5             154.005
10-1-6             154.006
10-2-1             154.020
10-2-2             154.021
10-2-3             154.022
10-2-4             154.023
10-2-5             154.024
10-2-6             154.025
10-2-7             154.026
10-2-8             154.027
10-3-1             154.040
10-3-2             154.041
10-3-3             154.042
10-3-4             154.043
10-3-5             154.044
10-3-6             154.045
10-3-7             154.046
10-3-8             154.047
10-3-9             154.048
10-3-10            154.049
10-3-11            154.050
10-4-1             154.065
10-4-2             154.066
10-4-3             154.067
10-4-4             154.068
10-4-5             154.069
10-4-6             154.070
10-4-7             154.071
10-4-8             154.072
10-4-9             154.073
10-4-10            154.074
10-4-11            154.075
10-4-12            154.076
10-4-13            154.077
10-4-14            154.078
10-4-15            154.079
10-4-16            154.080
10-4-17            154.081
10-4-18            154.082
10-4-19            154.083
10-4-20            154.084
10-4-21            154.085
10-5-1             154.100
10-5-2             154.101
10-5-3             154.102
10-5-4             154.103
10-5-5             154.104
10-5-6             154.105
10-5-7             154.106
10-5-8             154.107
10-5-9             154.108
10-5-10            154.109
10-5-11            154.110
10-5-12            154.111
10-5-13            154.112
10-5-14            154.113
10-5-15            154.114
10-5-18            154.115
10-5-18            154.117
10-5-19            154.116
10-6-1             154.130
10-6-2             154.131
10-6-3             154.132
10-6-4             154.133
10-6-5             154.999
10-6-5             154.134
                   
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No.   Date Passed   Code Section
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
78       4-9-1912    92.15—
                     92.19
81       2-2-1915    51.015;
                     51.019
94       6-4-1929    91.01
                     112.55—
162      7-1-1958    112.63;
                     112.65—
                     112.69
                     112.01—
                     112.06;
-        1- -1968    112.08—
                     112.12;
                     112.14—
                     112.16
192      5-5-1970    72.16—
                     72.19
                     113.30;
                     112.32;
199      7-6-1971    112.33;
                     112.36;
                     112.40
                     112.30;
                     112.31;
212      9-4-1973    112.34;
                     112.35;
                     112.37;
                     112.39
215      11-2-1976   71.041
229      5-21-1979   11.01
                     51.100—
247      4-2-1984    51.104;
                     51.999
251      11-5-1984   151.035—
                     151.050
255      - -1986     112.06;
                     112.07
254      5-5-1986    51.016
                     50.01—
258      1-19-1987   50.15;
                     50.99
260      4-21-1987   33.02
                     30.15—
263      8-1-1988    30.27;
                     30.99
265      9-6-1988    112.13
280      7-16-1990   51.040;
                     51.052
282      12-17-1990  112.62;
                     136.01
                     51.061;
292      2-15-1993   51.075—
                     51.087;
                     51.999
315      1-20-1996   135.01
320      10-14-1996  151.090—
                     151.096
                     70.15;
                     70.24;
                     70.25;
                     72.09;
                     72.10;
328      3-10-1997   72.12;
                     72.15;
                     73.35—
                     73.39;
                     114.18; 113.06;
                     136.03
329      8-11-1997   11.02
333      9-10-1997   30.01
334      9-22-1997   131.02
335      10-27-1997  71.090
                     51.020;
336      11-10-1997  51.021;
                     51.041
                     154.001—
                     154.006;
                     154.020—
                     154.027;
                     154.040—
                     154.050;
98-4     10-12-1998  154.065—
                     154.085;
                     154.100—
                     154.117;
                     154.130—
                     154.134;
                     154.999
                     153.01—
98-05    10-12-1998  153.21;
                     153.99
99-1     1-11-1999   150.02;
                     150.99
99-02    2-12-1999   72.99
99-10    11-22-1999  Ch. 75, Schd. I
                     90.35—
2000-05  7-24-2000   90.50;
                     90.99
                     152.01—
                     152.12;
                     152.25—
2000-06  8-28-2000   152.28;
                     152.40—
                     152.44;
                     152.99
2000-08  10-9-2000   90.01—
                     90.21
2001-02  4-23-2001   155.015—
                     155.020
2001-03  8-13-2001   155.021
                     155.001—
                     155.004;
                     155.035—
                     155.055;
                     155.070—
                     155.079;
                     155.090—
                     155.100;
                     155.115—
                     155.137;
                     155.150—
                     155.159;
                     155.170—
                     155.180;
                     155.195—
2001-04  8-27-2001   155.204;
                     155.215—
                     155.224;
                     155.260—
                     155.267;
                     155.280—
                     155.284;
                     155.295—
                     155.301;
                     155.315—
                     155.327;
                     155.340—
                     155.345;
                     155.360—
                     155.363;
                     155.999
2003-04  10-27-2003  154.006;
                     155.004
2003-06  11-10-2003  155.235—
                     155.249
2004-01  1-12-2004   Ch. 75, Schd. I, II
2004-02  1-12-2004   155.015
2004-07  9-27-2004   112.64
2005-04  9-12-2005   51.001;
                     51.999
2007-06  11-26-2007  155.261
2010-01  4-14-2010   31.03
                     93.01;
2012-01  6-13-2012   93.02;
                     93.99
2012-02  6-13-2012   150.01;
                     150.99
2015-03  6-24-2015   135.02
2016-02  12-14-2015  91.01
                     151.015—
2019-01  11-14-2018  151.020;
                     151.096
2021-001 1-27-2021   90.03
2021-003 12-8-2021   92.30—
                     92.35
                    
 
