COUNTY CODE
of
TWIN FALLS COUNTY, IDAHO
1996
Code current through:
Ord. 289, passed 5-2-2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
This code of the county of Twin Falls County, as supplemented, contains
ordinances up to and including ordinance 289, passed May 2, 2025. Ordinances of
the county adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code
to the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the
county office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the
code has been amended, superseded or repealed.
American Legal Publishing
Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not affect the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
ORDINANCE NO. 290       
 
AN ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING ZONING STANDARDS FOR AGRICULTURAL PROTECTION AREAS
WITHIN TWIN FALLS COUNTY, IDAHO, WHICH ESTABLISHES THE REQUIREMENTS OF
AGRICULTURAL PROTECTION AREAS, WITHIN TWIN FALLS COUNTY, IDAHO AND REPEALING
ALL CODE SECTIONS OR PARTS THEREOF IN CONFLICT HEREWITH, ESTABLISHING
SEVERABILITY AND PROVIDING FOR AN EFFECTIVE DATE.
 
WHEREAS, the Board of County Commissioners of Twin Falls County, Idaho deems it
necessary to protect and promote the public health, safety and welfare of the
citizens of Twin Falls County; and
 
WHEREAS, the Twin Falls Boards of County Commissioners anticipates that there
will be inquiries regarding application for Agricultural Protection Area (APA);
and
 
WHEREAS, Agricultural Protection Areas can produce substantial benefit to the
economic climate of Twin Falls County; and
 
WHEREAS, appropriate zoning and other health, safety and general welfare
regulations are needed to strike a balance between those who might benefit from
establishment of such uses and those who lands and surroundings might feel
impact of such operations; and
   
WHEREAS, a draft of this ordinance was considered by the Twin Falls Board of
County Commissioners at a duly notice hearing on the 13th, day of August, 2025.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF TWIN
FALLS COUNTY, IDAHO:
 
The Board of County Commissioners of Twin Falls County, Idaho hereby adopts the
following standards and regulation for Chapter 6 Article K Agricultural
Protection Area (APA) of the Twin Falls County Code Title 8 Zoning Code as
attached as Exhibit A.
 
Repeal of Conflicting Provisions: All ordinances, provisions, amendments and
code sections or parts which conflict with this Ordinance are hereby repealed.
 
Severability: The ordinance is hereby declared to be severable. Should a court
of competent jurisdiction declare any portion of this ordinance invalid, the
remaining provisions shall continue in full force and effect and shall be read
to carry out the purpose(s) of the ordinance before the declaration of partial
invalidity.
 
Effective Date: this Ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and after
its passage, approval, and publication according to law.
 
 
Approved by the Board of County Commissioners of Twin Falls County, Idaho, on
this 13th day of August, 2025.
 
TWIN FALLS COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
 
 
/s/ Don Hall____________________
Don Hall, Chairman
 
 
/s/ Rocky Matthews_____________        ATTEST:
Rocky Matthews, Commissioner
 
 
/s/ Brent Reinke________________ /s/ Valarie Varadi for .
Brent Reinke, Commissioner          Kristina Glascock, Clerk
 
“Exhibit A”
Chapter 6
 
District or Zones
 
Article K: AGRICULTURAL PROTECTION AREA (APA)
 
 
SECTION:
 
8-6K-1:    Purpose
8-6K-2: Definitions
8-6K-3: Creation and Designation of APA
8-6K-4: Creation of Agricultural Protection Area Commission
8-6K-5: Duties of the Agricultural Protection Area Commission
8-6K-6: Application
8-6K-7: Review Process
8-6K-8: Renewal of APA
8-6K-9: Expansion or Modification of APA
8-6K-10: Removal or Termination of an APA
8-6K-11: Fees
8-6K-12: Enforcement, Prohibitions, and Penalties
8-6K-13: Severability
 
 
8-6K-1: PURPOSE
 
The purpose of this ordinance is to provide for a voluntary process through
which agricultural and timber producers of Twin Falls County may make
application to commit lands actively devoted to agriculture for future
agricultural use. An Agricultural Protection Area (“APA”) designation aims to
protect productive farmland, rangeland, and forest land; encourage best farming
practices; support the local agricultural economy; and provide for long-term
planning stability.
 
8-6K-2: DEFINITIONS
 
Agriculture Production: means activities or conditions conducted on land
actively devoted to agriculture as defined in section 63-604, Idaho Code, or on
forest land as defined in section 63-1701, Idaho Code.
 
Agriculture Protection Area (APA): means specific parcels of land in a
designated geographic area voluntarily created under the authority of this
chapter and pursuant to Idaho Code § 67-9701 for the purpose of protecting and
preserving agricultural land.
 
Agriculture Protection Area Commission (APAC): means the advisory board to the
governing body created pursuant to section 67-9705, Idaho Code. Members of the
APAC are actively employed by or supporting production agriculture within Twin
Falls County. Members of the APAC may include representatives from the local
soil and water conservation district board of supervisors, the local
cattlemen’s association board, the county farm bureau board, an irrigation
district or water users’ association board, or a grower/commodity association
or commission.
 
Applicant: means anyone who owns five (5) contiguous acres or more of land that
has been in active agricultural or forest production for the previous three (3)
consecutive years, consistent with the provisions of section 63-604 and 63-
1701, Idaho Code, and who voluntarily applies for that land to be part of an
agricultural protection area.
 
Area of City Impact (AOI): area designated by county ordinance where city
growth and development are expected to occur.
 
Board: The Board of County Commissioners of Twin Falls County, Idaho.
 
Farm Structure: a structure designed to be used on a farm. These structures
require a zoning permit, an agricultural building permit, or a regular building
permit depending on what they are used for and their size and nothing in this
section of code exempts them from obtaining the required permits.
 
Hardship: means a situation or circumstance over which a landowner in an
agricultural protection area has no control and can then petition for removal
for reasons that include but are not limited to and adverse result in
litigation against the farm or landowner, death of a close family member that
would lead to unanticipated financial hardships, significant tax liabilities,
bankruptcy cue to another person’s fraud, or any other illegal activity.
 
Proposal: means written documents submitted to a governing body or agricultural
protection area commission from a landowner regarding his property.
 
Subdivision: The result of an act of dividing an original lot, tract or parcel
of land into more than three (3) parts for the purpose of transfer of ownership
or development.
 
8-6K-3: CREATION AND DESIGNATION OF APA
 
An Agriculture Protection Area shall be designated as an “APA.” An APA
designation is a voluntary land use designation available to landowners who
wish to protect their agricultural land from future nonagricultural
development. To qualify for and APA designation, the land must be:
 
A.   At least five (5) contiguous acres,
B.   Actively devoted to an agricultural or forest purpose, pursuant to I.C.
63-604 and I.C. 63-1701
C.   Assessed and appraised by Twin Falls County Assessor as agriculture or
forestland.
D.   Located within a zone that allows for agricultural or forest use,
E.   Without any CAFOs sited on the parcel(s),
F.   Not part of any commercial or residential subdivision.
 
8-6K-4: CREATION OF AGRICULTURAL PROTECTION AREA COMMISSION
 
Pursuant to Idaho Code § 67-9705 and the provisions of this Chapter, the Twin
Falls Board of County Commissioners (Board) hereby establishes the APA
commission subject to the following requirements:
 
A.   The APA commission (APAC) shall be composed of at least three (3) and no
more than five (5) members who are residents of Twin Falls County and are
actively employed by or supporting production agricultural in Twin Falls
County;
 
B.   The Board shall appoint an APAC and fill vacancies. Initial appointments
of the APAC, shall be made as follows: One APAC member to a (1) one year term,
one APAC member to a (2) year term; and one APAC member to a three (3) year
term. All subsequent appointments shall be made for three (3) year terms. The
terms of office for each appointive member shall be defined by Idaho Code 67-
9705, be consecutive, and shall be no less than three (3) years and no more
than six (6) years. Vacancies occurring otherwise than through the expiration
of terms, by reason of death, resignation, disqualification, removal, or
inability to act by any APAC member, shall be filled for the unexpired portion
of the term by a new member appointment by the Board.
 
8-6K-5: DUTIES OF THE AGRICULTURAL PROTECTION AREA COMMISSION
 
The APA commission duties shall include the following:
 
A.   The APAC shall provide for meetings and hearing to obtain advice on the
agricultural needs of the county. The APAC may also conduct informal meetings
with public officials and agencies, agricultural professionals, educational
professionals, and other organizations to evaluate the agricultural needs of
the county. All meetings of the APAC shall be subject to the Idaho Open Meeting
law and a record and recording of all meetings shall be kept, and
 
B.   The APAC shall review complete applications within sixty (60) days of
receiving such application for inclusion in an agricultural protection area
pursuant to the requirements of this Section and make recommendations to the
Board regarding such applications.
 
C.   Organization: The members of the APAC shall elect its own chairman and
create and fill such other offices as it may determine it requires. Any
expenditures of the commission shall, exclusive of gift or fees, be within
amounts appropriated and set aside by the county, for the purpose of the
commission as herein set forth. Within such limits, the commission is
authorized to employ such employees and technical advisers as are deemed
necessary for its work.
 
D.   Conflict of Interest: APAC members must disclose any actual or potential
economic interest in the processing or action of and abstain from participation
in the decision-making process.
 
E.   Quorum: A majority of the appointive members of the APAC shall be
necessary to constitute a quorum at any meeting.
 
F.   Written Report: Upon review of the application where a recommendation will
be made to the Board, staff shall submit the following: minutes of the meeting,
a written report citing the criteria considered relevant, state the facts
relied upon, and the justification for the recommendation of the APAC.
 
8-6K-6: APPLICATION  
 
Landowners wishing to establish an APA must submit an application with the
required fees to the Twin Falls County Community Development Services
Department. At a minimum, the application shall include the following:
 
A.   Name, phone number, email, and mailing address of the land owner, and
representative;
B.   Provide deeds for all land to be included in APA,
C.   Provide a site plan of the properties to be included in the APA, with
existing homes, outbuildings, canals, easement, roadways, etc. Site plan shall
be a minimum 11”x17” size, with engineering scale and legible.
D.   A statement outlining the current contiguous acres of land, land use,
agricultural productivity, and other relevant characteristics of the land to be
included in the APA;
E.   The number of years the land has been in agricultural or forest
production, the types of agricultural or forest commodities produced, and the
applicant’s plan to continue using the land for agricultural or forest
purposes;
F.   The stated reasons for seeking an APA designation;
G.   Comment letters from local agencies that address safety, development, or
other concerns in relation to their jurisdiction. Letters from Idaho
Transportation Department will need to address transportation corridors, and
future public right of way. Local agencies shall include: Canal Company, South
Central Public Health District, Highway District, Fire Department, and Twin
Falls County Bureau of Weeds.
 
H.   Soil surveys, water rights, and any other relevant environmental
assessment.
I.   Provide written statement regarding agricultural production capability of
the land within the proposed APA,
J.   Provide information regarding proximity to the following: planned airport
expansion or development, planned transportation corridors or future public
right of ways,
 
8-6K-7: REVIEW PROCESS
 
Upon receipt of a completed application, the APAC shall review the proposal and
make a recommendation to the Board within sixty (60) days of receiving the
completed application. The application shall be evaluated on the following
criteria:
 
A.   The minimum acreage of land designated as APA must be five (5) acres
actively devoted to agricultural or forest production. Land in the APA over
five (5) acres must be contiguous.
 
B.   Adjacence to an existing area of city impact;
C.   Possible conflict with existing city annexation or development plans or
agreements;
D.   Proximity to existing public rights of way;
E.   Proximity to planned transportation corridors or future public rights of
way;
F.   Proximity to planned airport expansion or development,
G.   Proximity to planned development with existing entitlements;
H.   Agricultural production capacity of the land within the proposed APA.
Notwithstanding the criteria and review process outlined in this code, the
Board may place additional conditions on lands designated as an APA, including
but not limited to, setbacks from existing public rights of way, setbacks from
existing public structures, and review of the land’s APA designation after
twenty (20) years.
 
Once the APAC makes its recommendation to the Board, the Board shall hold a
public hearing to consider the APA application and Map Amendment. The Board
shall issue its decision within sixty (60) days of receiving the APAC
recommendation. Failure to make a decision shall render the APAC recommendation
final. The Board decision shall include findings of facts supporting its
decision. The decision shall specify, at a minimum:
 
A.   The ordinance and standards used in evaluating the application,
B.   The agricultural protection areas commission’s recommendation;
C.   A reasoned explanation for the decision reached by the Board.
D.   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain approval.
 
Following the written decision, the Board shall file an executed document with
the county recorder containing:
 
A.   The date of creation or dissolution of the APA by the Board, legal
description of the parcels or real property to be included in the APA, any
written decision or findings of fact by the APAC and Board. Such document shall
be recorded with the county recorder within ten (10) days;
 
B.   Amend the county map to reflect the boundaries of the APA.
 
8-6K-8: RENEWAL OF APA
 
Lands designated as an APA will remain so designated for a period of twenty
(20) years. If the landowner wishes to continue with the agricultural
protection area, no action on the part of the landowner is necessary. The Board
shall automatically renew the agricultural APA for another twenty (20) years,
and shall record the renewal of the APA designation with the date of creation
and renewal, legal description of the parcels or real property included in the
APA, and the written decision of the Board for renewal within ten (10) days.
 
Failure of the landowner to notify the county, or failure of the county to
review the APA terms, will result in the APA designation continuing for another
twenty (20) years.
 
8-6K-9: EXPANSION OR MODIFICATION OF APA
 
Any expansion or modification of an existing APA shall follow the same
application, review, and hearing procedures outlined in this ordinance. Any
expansion of an APA shall be contiguous to the existing APA.
 
8-6K-10: REMOVAL OR TERMINATION OF AN APA
 
Lands designated as an APA will remain so designated for a period of twenty
(20) years. A land owner wishing to terminate an APA designation must notify
the Board in writing of their desire to terminate the APA designation at least
ninety (90) day prior to the expiration of the APA. Early termination of the
APA shall only occur upon the landowner proving proof of an undue hardship as
defined in this code. The landowner seeking to terminate an APA bears the
burden of proof in demonstrating the hardship. Early termination of an APA is
not taken lightly, and will be carefully considered by the Board.
 
8-6K-11: FEES
 
The applicant shall upon filing the application with the Zoning Administrator
pay an application fee as determined by the Board of County Commissioners, and
posted in the office of the Zoning Administrator.
 
8-6K-12: ENFORCEMENT, PROHIBITIONS, AND PENALTIES
 
Unless otherwise approved by the Board, the following land uses are not allowed
within an APA:
 
A.   Small or large confined animal feeing operation (CAFO);
B.   Residential Subdivisions, agricultural business in the agricultural zone,
land with manufacturing uses, properties located in the Commercial and
Industrial zoning districts.
C.   Agri-solar, battery storage structures, wind energy, solar energy, or any
Small and Large Energy Projects
D.   Any other nonagricultural land uses.
 
8-6K-13: SEVERABILITY
 
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase of this title is held
to be invalid by any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not
affect the validity of the remaining portions of this title and they shall
remain in full force and effect.
 
 
 
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 140
   AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING
   THE COUNTY CODE OF TWIN FALLS COUNTY, IDAHO
   BE IT ORDAINED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF TWIN FALLS COUNTY, IDAHO:
   Section 1: From and after the date of passage of this ordinance, the County
Code of Twin Falls County, Idaho, prepared by Sterling Codifiers, Inc.,
contains a compilation of all ordinances of a general nature together with the
changes made to said ordinances, under the direction of the governing body of
the county, with the exception of the Twin Falls County Zoning Ordinance #21,
the Planned Unit Development Ordinance #23, the Twin Falls Subdivision
Ordinance #17, and the Twin Falls County Areas of City Impact Ordinances, which
will be codified at a later date, under the direction of the governing body of
the county, shall be accepted in all courts without question as the official
code and law of the county as enacted by the Board of County Commissioners.
   Section 2: It is hereby adopted, as a method of perpetual codification, the
loose leaf type of binding together with the continuous supplement service,
provided by Sterling Codifiers, Inc., whereby each newly adopted ordinance of a
general and permanent nature amending, altering, adding or deleting provisions
of the official county code is identified by the proper catch line and is
inserted in the proper place in the official copy, one (1) copy of which shall
be maintained in the office of the Clerk of the District Court, certified as to
correctness and available for inspection at any and all times that said office
is regularly open.
   Section 3: All ordinances of a general nature included in this official
county code shall be considered as a continuation of said ordinance provision
and the fact that some provisions have been deliberately eliminated by the
governing body shall not serve to cause any interruption in the continuous
effectiveness of ordinances included in said official county code. All
ordinances of a special nature, such as tax levy ordinances, bond ordinances,
franchises, vacating ordinances and annexation ordinances shall continue in
full force and effect unless specifically repealed or amended by a provision of
the county code. Such ordinances are not intended to be included in the
official county code.
   Section 4: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of such code, or
to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such
code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the county to be
misrepresented thereby.
   Section 5: All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith, are,
to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
   Section 6: Any person violating any provision of this ordinance and the code
adopted by the same, where a penalty is not already provided for, shall be
punished by a fine not to exceed three hundred dollars ($300) or imprisonment
in the county jail for not more than six (6) months or by both such fine and
imprisonment.
   Section 7: This ordinance and the code adopted by the same shall be in full
force and effect from and after its passage and approval in accordance with
law, as printed and published in book form by order of the Board of County
Commissioners.
   APPROVED AND ADOPTED this 26 day of August, 1996.
      TWIN FALLS COUNTY BOARD OF
      COMMISSIONERS
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL COUNTY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon the adoption by the Board of County Commissioners, this County Code is
hereby declared to be and shall hereafter constitute the official County Code
of Twin Falls County, State of Idaho. This County Code of ordinances shall be
known and cited as the TWIN FALLS COUNTY CODE and is hereby published by
authority of the Board of County Commissioners and shall be supplemented to
incorporate the most recent legislation of the County as provided in Section
1-1-3 of this Chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this County Code by title in any legal documents. (1996 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
The County Code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be
received without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of
this State as the ordinances of the County of general and permanent effect,
except the excluded ordinances enumerated in Section
1-2-1 of this Title. (1996 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending the County Code shall set forth the title, chapter and
section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this County Code. All
such amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this County Code. Each such replacement page
shall be properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of
the County Code. (1996 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this County Code in such a manner that
the meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages
may be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by
the Board of County Commissioners. The Clerk of the District Court shall see
that the replacement pages are properly inserted in the official copies
maintained in the office of the Clerk. Any person having custody of a copy of
the County Code shall make every effort to maintain said Code current as to the
most recent ordinances passed. Such person shall see to the immediate insertion
of new or replacement pages when such are delivered or made available to such
person through the office of the Clerk of the District Court. Said Code books,
while in actual possession of officials and other interested persons, shall be
and remain the property of the County and shall be returned to the office of
the Clerk of the District Court when directed so to do by order of the Board of
County Commissioners. (1996 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Ways And Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the County passed prior to the adoption of this
County Code are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this County
Code or are by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to
the saving clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the
following ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances;
appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations;
franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances
establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public places;
improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to elections;
ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the
County; zoning ordinances; and all special ordinances. (1996 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this County Code or by virtue of the
preceding Section, excepting as the County Code may contain provisions for such
matters, in which case, this County Code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (1996 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former
ordinance whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to any
offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any
penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such
offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   This Section shall extend to all repeals, either by express words or
implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any new provisions
upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Nothing contained in this Chapter shall be construed as abating any
action now pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance of the County
herein repealed, and the provisions of all general ordinances contained in this
Code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions and not a new enactment of the
same provisions; nor shall this Chapter be deemed as discontinuing, abating,
modifying or altering any penalty accrued or to accrue, or as affecting the
liability of any person, firm or corporation, or as waiving any right of the
County under any ordinance or provision thereof in force at the time of the
adoption of this County Code. (1996 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this County Code or any part thereof is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of
the remaining portions of this Code, or any part thereof. The Board of County
Commissioners hereby declares that it would have passed each section,
subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof
irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections, subsections,
subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases be declared
unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective. (1996 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: Definitions, General
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
   A.   Whenever any word in any section of this County Code importing the
plural number is used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or
persons, any single matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included,
although distributive words may not have been used. When any subject matter,
party or person is referred to in this County Code by words importing the
singular number only, or a particular gender, several matters, parties or
persons and the opposite gender and bodies corporate shall be deemed to be
included; provided, that these rules of construction shall not be applied to
any section of this County Code which contains any express provision excluding
such construction or where the subject matter or context may be repugnant
thereto.
   B.   The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the County has been
changed in the content of this County Code to "Title", "Chapter", "Section"
and/or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and
clarification purposes only. Such change to the County's ordinances is not
meant to amend passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (1996
Code)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this Code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
CODE: The County Code of Twin Falls County.
COUNTY: The County of Twin Falls, State of Idaho 1 .
EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this Code to a County employee by
title only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of Twin
Falls County".
FEE: A sum of money charged by the County for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
FISCAL YEAR: The fiscal year of Twin Falls County, Idaho shall commence on
October 1 of each year.
GENDER: A word importing either the masculine or feminine gender only shall
extend and be applied to the other gender and to persons.
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive to the sensibilities of reasonable persons, or any
act or activity creating a hazard which threatens the health and welfare of
inhabitants of the County, or any activity which by its perpetuation can
reasonably be said to have a detrimental effect on the property of a person or
persons within the community.
OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this Code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this Code.
OFFICERS: Whenever reference is made in this Code to a County officer by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of Twin Falls
County".
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Shall include every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
STREET: Shall include alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places and sidewalks.
TENANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who occupies
the whole or any part of such buildings or land, whether alone or with others.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person, or in case he is unable to write, by his proper
mark. (1996 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. I.C. § 31-146.
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of the County Code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or re-
enacted. (1996 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Application Of Provisions
1-4-3: Liability Of Officers
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY 1 :
Unless specifically provided elsewhere, any person convicted of a violation of
any section or provision of this County Code deemed a misdemeanor may be fined
in a sum not to exceed three hundred dollars ($300.00) for any offense and may
be confined in jail for a period of not more than six (6) months. Either or
both such fine and imprisonment may be imposed; and in addition thereto, any
person so convicted shall pay such costs as the court may assess. (1996 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. I.C. §§ 18-111, 18-113, 31-714.
1-4-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   The penalty provided in this Chapter shall be applicable to every
section of this County Code the same as though it were a part of each and every
separate section. Any person convicted of a violation of any section of this
County Code where any duty is prescribed or obligation imposed, or where any
action which is of a continuing nature is forbidden or is declared to be
unlawful, shall, unless otherwise provided, be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day such duty or
obligation remains unperformed or such act continues, unless otherwise
specifically provided in this County Code.
   B.   In all cases where the same offense is made punishable or is created by
different clauses or sections of this County Code, the prosecuting officer may
elect under which to proceed; but not more than one recovery shall be had
against the same person for the same offense; provided, that the revocation of
a license or permit shall not be considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar
any other penalty being enforced.
   C.   Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act constitutes
a breach of any section or provision of this County Code and there shall be no
fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the provisions of this
Chapter shall apply. (1996 Code)
1-4-3: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this County Code designating the duties of any officer or
employee shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for
any fine or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the
intention of the Board of County Commissioners to impose such fine or penalty
on such officer or employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the
section creating the duty. (1996 Code)
CHAPTER 5
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
SECTION:
1-5-1: Board Established; Election And Terms Of Office
1-5-2: Qualifications
1-5-3: Petition In Lieu Of Filing Fee
1-5-4: Bond
1-5-5: Organization
1-5-6: Powers And Duties
1-5-1: BOARD ESTABLISHED; ELECTION AND TERMS OF OFFICE 1 :
There is hereby established a board of county commissioners which shall consist
of three (3) members, one from each district in the county. At the general
election in 1936, two (2) members shall be elected for a term of two (2) years
and one member for a term of four (4) years; at each biennial election
thereafter, one member shall be elected for a term of two (2) years and one for
a term of four (4) years; it being further provided, that at the general
election in 1936, the commissioner from county commissioner's district number
one shall be elected for a term of four (4) years, and that the four (4) year
term shall be allotted thereafter in rotation to districts number two, three
and one. (1996 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 31-703.
1-5-2: QUALIFICATIONS:
   A.   Age; Residency 1 : No person shall be elected to the board of county
commissioners, unless he has attained the age of twenty one (21) years at the
time of the election, is a citizen of the United States and shall have resided
in the county one year next preceding his election and in the district which he
represents for a period of ninety (90) days next preceding his election.
   B.   Declaration Of Candidacy: Each candidate shall file his declaration of
candidacy with the clerk of the district court.
   C.   Filing Fee: Each candidate who files a declaration of candidacy shall
at the same time pay a filing fee of forty dollars ($40.00) which shall be
deposited in the county treasury. (1996 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. IC § 34-617.
1-5-3: PETITION IN LIEU OF FILING FEE:
   A.   Signatures Required: In lieu of paying a filing fee, candidates may
qualify for the office of county commissioner by filing a declaration of
candidacy and a nominating petition. The petition shall contain the signatures
of five (5) qualified electors from within the commissioner's district.
   B.   Verification Of Signatures: Signatures on such nominating petitions
shall be verified in the manner prescribed in Idaho Code, section 34-1807.
(1996 Code)
1-5-4: BOND 1 :
Each county commissioner shall execute an official bond in the sum of five
thousand dollars ($5,000.00). (1996 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. IC §§ 31-2015, 59-805.
1-5-5: ORGANIZATION:
   A.   Officers:
      1.   Chairman: Members of the board of county commissioners shall, at
their first regular meeting on the second Monday of January after their
election, elect a chairman from their number.
      2.   Vice Chairman: Members of the board of county commissioners shall,
at their first regular meeting on the second Monday of January after their
election, elect a vice chairman to act at a meeting of the board in the absence
or inability of the chairman to be present.
      3.   Clerk: The clerk of the district court is ex officio clerk of the
board of commissioners. The clerk of the board shall have the duties as set out
in Idaho Code, section 31-708, as amended. (1996 Code)
   B.   Meetings:
      1.   Regular Meetings: Regular meetings of the Twin Falls County
commissioners shall be held Monday through Friday from eight o'clock (8:00)
A.M. to five o'clock (5:00) P.M., normally excluding lunchtime, in the
commissioners' office. At times, the board may hold lunch meetings conducted
between twelve o'clock (12:00) noon and one o'clock (1:00) P.M. or including
the time between twelve o'clock (12:00) noon and one o'clock (1:00) P.M.
      2.   General Topics: The meetings shall commence with routine
deliberation and action on documents and expenditures such as, but not limited
to, the county warrant register, contracts submitted in the normal course of
business, assessor's changes and rebates, licenses, resolutions and ordinances,
land use/land division matters, and county grant applications. The meetings
shall include an executive session, if required, for the purpose of
deliberating and deciding medical indigency matters and an executive session
for the purpose of receiving and requesting legal advice from the county
attorneys.
      3.   Board Of Equalization: In order to accommodate the board of
equalization, which shall convene at least once in each month up to the fourth
Monday in June and from the fourth Monday in June until the second Monday in
July, the board of Twin Falls County commissioners meeting as the board of
equalization will hold additional regular meetings as deemed necessary to
complete the business before the board.
      4.   Additional Meetings Allowed: The board of Twin Falls County
commissioners shall retain the power to call such other meetings as deemed
necessary and authorized by the open meeting law. (Ord. 193, 3-5-2007)
   C.   Quorum; Procedures: A majority of the board constitutes a quorum. The
chairman must preside at all meetings of the board, and in case of his absence
or inability to act, the members present must, by an order, select one of their
number to act as chairman temporarily. Any member of the board or its clerk may
administer oaths to any person concerning any matter submitted to the board or
connected with its powers or duties. (1996 Code)
1-5-6: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The board of commissioners shall have those powers and duties set out in Idaho
Code, section 31-801 et seq., as amended. (1996 Code)
CHAPTER 6
COUNTY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
ARTICLE A. CLERK OF THE DISTRICT COURT
SECTION:
1-6A-1: Office Established; Election And Term
1-6A-2: Qualifications
1-6A-3: Petition In Lieu Of Filing Fee
1-6A-4: Bond
1-6A-5: Duties As Auditor And Recorder
1-6A-1: OFFICE ESTABLISHED; ELECTION AND TERM:
There is hereby established the office of the Clerk of the District Court who
shall be ex officio Auditor and Recorder and ex officio Clerk of the Board of
County Commissioners. The Clerk of the District Court shall be elected by the
qualified voters of the County at the time and in the manner prescribed by law
for the election of members of the legislature and shall hold his office for a
term of four (4) years 1 . (1996 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. Const. Idaho, art. 5, § 16.
1-6A-2: QUALIFICATIONS 1 :
   A.   Ex Officio Auditor; Recorder: At the general election, 1974, and every
four (4) years thereafter, a Clerk of the District Court shall be elected in
every county. The Clerk of the District Court shall be the ex officio Auditor
and Recorder.
   B.   Age; Residency: No person shall be elected to the office of the Clerk
of the District Court unless he has attained the age of twenty one (21) years
at the time of his election, is a citizen of the United States, and shall have
resided within the County one year next preceding his election.
   C.   Declaration Of Candidacy: Each candidate shall file his declaration of
candidacy with the Clerk of the District Court.
   D.   Filing Fee: Each candidate who files a declaration of candidacy shall
at the same time pay a filing fee of forty dollars ($40.00) which shall be
deposited in the County Treasury. (1996 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. I.C. § 34-619.
1-6A-3: PETITION IN LIEU OF FILING FEE:
   A.   Signature Required: In lieu of paying a filing fee, candidates may
qualify for the office of Clerk of the District Court by filing a declaration
of candidacy and a nominating petition. The petition shall contain the
signatures of five (5) qualified electors.
   B.   Verification Of Signatures: Signatures on such nominating petitions
shall be verified in the manner prescribed in Idaho Code, section 34-1807.
(1996 Code)
1-6A-4: BOND:
The Clerk of the District Court shall execute an official bond in the penal sum
of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) with two (2) sufficient sureties, to be
approved by the District Judge, conditioned that he will faithfully perform the
duties of his office and at all times account for and pay over all monies in
his hands as Clerk, and the penalty of such bond may, at any time, be increased
by the District Judge. The Clerk may require a bond from any deputy 1 . (1996
Code)
 
Notes
1 1. I.C. §§ 31-2015, 59-805.
1-6A-5: DUTIES AS AUDITOR AND RECORDER:
   A.   County Auditor: The duties of the County Auditor shall be as set forth
in Idaho Code, section 31-2301 et seq., as amended.
   B.   County Recorder: The duties of the County Recorder shall be as set
forth in Idaho Code, section 31-2401 et seq., as amended. (1996 Code)
ARTICLE B. COUNTY TREASURER
SECTION:
1-6B-1: Office Established; Election And Term
1-6B-2: Qualifications
1-6B-3: Petition In Lieu Of Filing Fee
1-6B-4: Bonds
1-6B-5: Duties
1-6B-1: OFFICE ESTABLISHED; ELECTION AND TERM:
There is hereby established the office of County Treasurer who shall serve as
ex officio County Tax Collector. The Treasurer shall be elected for a term of
four (4) years as provided by law 1 . (1996 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. Const. Idaho, art. 18, § 6.
1-6B-2: QUALIFICATIONS 1 :
   A.   Ex Officio Tax Collector; Public Administrator: At the general
election, 1974, and every four (4) years thereafter, a County Treasurer shall
be elected in every county. The County Treasurer shall be the ex officio public
administrator and ex officio tax collector.
   B.   Age; Residency: No person shall be elected to the office of County
Treasurer unless he has attained the age of twenty one (21) years at the time
of his election, is a citizen of the United States and shall have resided
within the County one year next preceding his election.
   C.   Declaration Of Candidacy: Each candidate shall file his declaration of
candidacy with the Clerk of the District Court.
   D.   Filing Fee: Each candidate who files a declaration of candidacy shall
at the same time pay a filing fee of forty dollars ($40.00) which shall be
deposited in the County Treasury. (1996 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. I.C. § 34-620.
1-6B-3: PETITION IN LIEU OF FILING FEE:
   A.   Signature Required: In lieu of paying a filing fee, candidates may
qualify for the office of County Treasurer by filing a declaration of candidacy
and a nominating petition. The petition shall contain the signature of five (5)
qualified electors.
   B.   Verification Of Signatures: Signatures on such nominating petitions
shall be verified in the manner prescribed in Idaho Code, section 34-1807.
(1996 Code)
1-6B-4: BONDS:
   A.   County Treasurer: The County Treasurer shall execute an official bond
in double the probable amount of money that may, at any time, come into his
hands as such Treasurer, to be fixed by the Board of County Commissioners;
provided, if surety bond be given as provided in Idaho Code, section 41-2604,
as amended, the bond need not exceed twenty five percent (25%) of the probable
amount that may be at hand at any one time, but in no case to be less than ten
thousand dollars ($10,000.00) 1 .
   B.   Tax Collector: The official bond of the Tax Collector shall be not less
than two thousand dollars ($2,000.00) nor more than fifty thousand dollars
($50,000.00) to be fixed by the Board of County Commissioners 2 . (1996 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. I.C. §§ 31-2015, 59-805.
2 2. I.C. §§ 31-2015, 59-805.
1-6B-5: DUTIES:
   A.   Duties As County Treasurer: The duties of the County Treasurer shall be
as set forth in Idaho Code, section 31-2101 et seq., as amended.
   B.   Duties As Tax Collector: The duties of the County Tax Collector in
relation to the collection of revenue are prescribed in Idaho Code, title 63,
as amended. (1996 Code)
ARTICLE C. COUNTY ASSESSOR
SECTION:
1-6C-1: Office Established; Election And Term
1-6C-2: Qualifications
1-6C-3: Petition In Lieu Of Filing Fee
1-6C-4: Bond
1-6C-5: Duties
1-6C-1: OFFICE ESTABLISHED; ELECTION AND TERM:
There is hereby established the office of County Assessor who shall be elected
for a term of four (4) years as provided by law 1 . (1996 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. Const. Idaho, art. 18, § 6.
1-6C-2: QUALIFICATIONS:
   A.   Election: At the general election, 1974, and every four (4) years
thereafter, a County Assessor shall be elected in every county.
   B.   Age; Residency: No person shall be elected to the office of County
Assessor unless he has attained the age of twenty one (21) years at the time of
his election, is a citizen of the United States and shall have resided within
the County one year next preceding his election.
   C.   Declaration Of Candidacy: Each candidate shall file his declaration of
candidacy with the Clerk of the District Court.
   D.   Filing Fee: Each candidate who files a declaration of candidacy shall
at the same time pay a filing fee of forty dollars ($40.00) which shall be
deposited in the County Treasury. (1996 Code)
1-6C-3: PETITION IN LIEU OF FILING FEE:
   A.   Signatures Required: In lieu of paying a filing fee, candidates may
qualify for the office of County Assessor by filing a declaration of candidacy
and a nominating petition. The petition shall contain the signatures of five
(5) qualified electors.
   B.   Verification Of Signatures: Signatures on such nomination petitions
shall be verified in the manner prescribed in Idaho Code, section 34-1807.
(1996 Code)
1-6C-4: BOND:
The County Assessor shall execute an official bond in the sum of five thousand
dollars ($5,000.00) 1 . (1996 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. I.C. §§ 31-2015, 59-805.
1-6C-5: DUTIES:
The County Assessor shall perform the duties prescribed in Idaho Code, title
63, as amended, relating to revenue 1 . (1996 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. I.C. § 31-2501.
ARTICLE D. COUNTY PROSECUTING ATTORNEY
SECTION:
1-6D-1: Office Established; Election And Term
1-6D-2: Qualifications; Candidacy
1-6D-3: Petition In Lieu Of Filing Fee
1-6D-4: Bond
1-6D-5: Powers And Duties
1-6D-1: OFFICE ESTABLISHED; ELECTION AND TERM:
There is hereby established the office of County Prosecuting Attorney who shall
be elected for a term of four (4) years as provided by law 1 . (1996 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. Const. Idaho, art. 18, § 6.
1-6D-2: QUALIFICATIONS; CANDIDACY:
   A.   Age; Residency: No person shall be elected to the office of Prosecuting
Attorney, unless he has attained the age of twenty one (21) years at the time
of his election, is admitted to the practice of law within this State, is a
citizen of the United States and a qualified elector within the County 1 .
(1996 Code)
   B.   Declaration Of Candidacy: Each candidate shall file his declaration of
candidacy with the Clerk of the District Court.
   C.   Filing Fee: Each candidate who files a declaration of candidacy shall
at the same time pay a filing fee of forty dollars ($40.00) which shall be
deposited in the County Treasury. (1996 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. I.C. § 34-623.
1-6D-3: PETITION IN LIEU OF FILING FEE:
   A.   Signatures Required: In lieu of paying a filing fee, candidates may
qualify for the office of Prosecuting Attorney by filing a declaration of
candidacy and a nominating petition. The petition shall contain the signatures
of five (5) qualified electors.
   B.   Verification Of Signatures: Signatures on such nominating petitions
shall be verified in the manner prescribed in Idaho Code, section 34-1807.
(1996 Code)
1-6D-4: BOND:
The County Prosecuting Attorney shall execute an official bond in the sum of
two thousand dollars ($2,000.00) 1 . (1996 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. I.C. §§ 31-2015, 59-805.
1-6D-5: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The County Prosecuting Attorney shall have those powers and duties set out in
Idaho Code, title 31, chapter 26, as amended. (1996 Code)
ARTICLE E. COUNTY SHERIFF
SECTION:
1-6E-1: Office Established; Election And Term
1-6E-2: Qualifications
1-6E-3: Petition In Lieu Of Filing Fee
1-6E-4: Bond
1-6E-5: Powers And Duties
1-6E-1: OFFICE ESTABLISHED; ELECTION AND TERM:
There is hereby established the office of County Sheriff who shall be elected
for a term of four (4) years as provided by law 1 . (1996 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. Const. Idaho, art. 18, § 6.
1-6E-2: QUALIFICATIONS:
   A.   Election: At the general election, 1972, and every four (4) years
thereafter, a Sheriff shall be elected in every county.
   B.   Age; Residency: No person shall be elected to the office of Sheriff
unless he has attained the age of twenty one (21) years at the time of his
election, is a citizen of the United States and shall have resided within the
County one year next preceding his election.
   C.   Declaration Of Candidacy: Each candidate shall file his declaration of
candidacy with the Clerk of the District Court.
   D.   Filing Fee: Each candidate who files a declaration of candidacy shall
at the same time pay a filing fee of forty dollars ($40.00) which shall be
deposited in the County Treasury 1 . (1996 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. I.C. §§ 34-618, 59-805.
1-6E-3: PETITION IN LIEU OF FILING FEE:
   A.   Signatures Required: In lieu of paying a filing fee, candidates may
qualify for the office of County Sheriff by filing a declaration of candidacy
and a nominating petition. The petition shall contain the signatures of five
(5) qualified electors.
   B.   Verification Of Signatures: Signatures on such nominations petitions
shall be verified in the manner prescribed in Idaho Code, section 34-1807.
(1996 Code)
1-6E-4: BOND:
The County Sheriff shall execute an official bond in the sum of ten thousand
dollars ($10,000.00) 1 . (1996 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. I.C. §§ 31-2015, 59-805.
1-6E-5: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The County Sheriff shall have those powers and duties as set out in Idaho Code,
title 31, chapter 22, as amended. (1996 Code)
ARTICLE F. COUNTY CORONER
SECTION:
1-6F-1: Office Established; Election And Term
1-6F-2: Qualifications
1-6F-3: Petition In Lieu Of Filing Fee
1-6F-4: Bond
1-6F-5: Powers And Duties
1-6F-1: OFFICE ESTABLISHED; ELECTION AND TERM:
There is hereby established the office of County Coroner who shall be elected
for a term of four (4) years as provided by law 1 . (1996 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. Const. Idaho, art. 18, § 6.
1-6F-2: QUALIFICATIONS 1 :
   A.   Election: At the general election, 1986, and every four (4) years
thereafter, a County Coroner shall be elected in every county.
   B.   Age; Residency: No person shall be elected to the office of County
Coroner unless he has attained the age of twenty one (21) years at the time of
his election, is a citizen of the United States and shall have resided within
the County one year next preceding his election.
   C.   Declaration Of Candidacy: Each candidate shall file his declaration of
candidacy with the Clerk of the District Court.
   D.   Filing Fee: Each candidate who files a declaration of candidacy shall
at the same time pay a filing fee of forty dollars ($40.00) which shall be
deposited in the County Treasury. (1996 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. I.C. § 34-622.
   
1-6F-3: PETITION IN LIEU OF FILING FEE:
   A.   Signatures Required: In lieu of paying a filing fee, candidates may
qualify for the office of County Coroner by filing a declaration of candidacy
and a nominating petition. The petition shall contain the signatures of five
(5) qualified electors.
   B.   Verification Of Signatures: Signatures on such nominating petitions
shall be verified in the manner prescribed in Idaho Code, section 34-1807.
(1996 Code)
1-6F-4: BOND:
The County Coroner shall execute an official bond in the sum of one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00) 1 . (1996 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. I.C. §§ 31-2015, 59-805.
1-6F-5: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The County Coroner shall have those powers and duties as set out in Idaho Code,
section 31-2801 et seq., as amended. (1996 Code)
CHAPTER 7
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
(Rep. by Ord. 265, 4-15-2021)
CHAPTER 8
INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM
(Rep. by Ord. 251, 11-18-2019)
CHAPTER 9
ADVISORY BOARDS
SECTION:
1-9-1: Authorization
1-9-2: Terms Of Office
1-9-3: Appointment
1-9-4: Organization
1-9-5: Powers
1-9-6: Disqualification
1-9-1: AUTHORIZATION:
   A.   Pursuant to Idaho Code section 31-828, the board of county
commissioners hereby establishes such advisory boards as are deemed necessary
to ensure that a cross section of the county is represented, and the
commissioners duly advised in matters necessary to the full discharge of the
duties of the chief executive authority of county government.
   B.   Members of advisory boards shall serve without salary or wage in an
advisory capacity at the will and pleasure of the board of county commissioners
in matters relating of concern to Twin Falls County.
   C.   Nothing in this chapter shall conflict with advisory boards
specifically controlled by Idaho Code.
   D.   This chapter shall not apply to advisory boards whose regulations are
stated elsewhere in this code. (Ord. 215, 5-11-2009)
1-9-2: TERMS OF OFFICE:
All advisory boards shall be comprised as follows:
   A.   The board of county commissioners shall appoint and confirm the members
to the advisory boards. Advisory boards shall consist of up to eleven (11)
voting members. A department head selected by the commissioners as the most
appropriate for each particular advisory board shall act as an ex officio,
nonvoting member.
   B.   Members of each advisory board shall be selected without respect to
sex, age, profession or political affiliation and shall represent a broad cross
section of the county. Members should have expertise or demonstrate an interest
in the improvement, development, maintenance and/or management of the
particular interest of the designated board.
   C.   Initial appointments to new boards made by the board of county
commissioners shall be: three (3) members for one year terms, three (3) members
for two (2) year terms, and three (3) members for three (3) year terms. These
initial appointments shall be considered one term. Any number of members above
nine (9) shall serve a two (2) and one year term respectively.
      1.   There shall be no honorary, lifetime or advisory members of any
board.
   D.   The board of county commissioners shall make all subsequent
appointments for a term of three (3) years. Terms shall expire on December 31
of the expiring year.
   E.   When a member's term expires, the board of county commissioners must
either reappoint the member or appoint a new member to fill the vacancy. No
member may serve more than two (2) consecutive terms on one advisory board.
      1.   Members of the board of community guardians are specifically exempt
from these term limits.
   F.   A member appointed to fill the position of a vacating member during a
term will fulfill the remaining months of the term. This shall not constitute a
term.
   G.   Members of an advisory board must reside in Twin Falls County.
      1.   Noncounty residents may serve on an advisory board and be appointed
by the board of county commissioners as an ex officio, nonvoting member.
   H.   No person shall be appointed to an advisory board where a related
person is employed within the county department or serves on the same board.
For the purpose of this section, "related" shall mean any person related by
blood or marriage within the second degree.
   I.   Members shall relinquish all voting rights upon the expiration of their
terms unless reappointed to the board.
   J.   Members are not allowed to serve on multiple boards. (Ord. 215, 5-11-
2009)
1-9-3: APPOINTMENT:
   A.   Recommendations by the appropriate department head may be made to the
board of county commissioners for initial and all subsequent appointments by
December 1 of the expiring year. Applicants may also apply for appointment upon
public notice of vacancy.
   B.   The board of county commissioners shall appoint new board members by
majority vote by December 31 of the expiring year of the board member whose
term is up.
   C.   The board of county commissioners can, by majority vote, reorganize or
dissolve any advisory board for any reason. (Ord. 215, 5-11-2009)
1-9-4: ORGANIZATION:
   A.   Officers: Each advisory board shall elect a chairman and a vice
chairman from among the committee's members. The officers shall be selected at
the first meeting in January and serve for a one year term.
      1.   Chairman: The chairman shall preside at all meetings, designate
subcommittee members and duties, call special meetings and be an ex officio
member of all subcommittees.
      2.   Vice Chairman: The vice chairman shall perform all duties of the
chairman in the chairman's absence.
      3.   Chairman Pro Tempore: In the absence of the chairman and vice
chairman, the chairman shall elect a chairman pro tempore to perform the duties
of the chairman.
   B.   Bylaws: Advisory boards may enact such bylaws as are deemed necessary
by the board to conduct business and that are not contrary to this chapter. All
bylaws must be in writing and adopted by the board of county commissioners. All
bylaws must be made available for public inspection. (Ord. 215, 5-11-2009)
1-9-5: POWERS:
   A.   Advisory boards shall provide recommendations and advice to the board
of county commissioners and the ex officio department head. Boards shall serve
an advisory function only and have no power over the final decision of the
board of county commissioners or the ex officio department head that serves as
an ex officio member of the board.
      1.   This section in no way is intended to effect the statutory authority
granted to the board of community guardians. (Ord. 215, 5-11-2009)
1-9-6: DISQUALIFICATION:
   A.   Any advisory board, unless stated explicitly elsewhere in this code,
may by majority vote, recommend removal of a member to the board of county
commissioners, for any reason, including, but not limited to:
      1.   Excessive conflicts of interest or continued conflicts of interest
which interfere with the member's ability to perform his duties as interpreted
by the board.
      2.   False or misrepresenting statements by a member at the time of
application and appointment.
   B.   In the event that a member of the committee does not attend three (3)
consecutive meetings, that person must submit an explanation of the absences to
the committee and the board of county commissioners. Upon examinations of the
explanation the advisory board may recommend, or the board of county
commissioners may call for, the immediate resignation of that member for a high
or inexcusable absentee rate.
   C.   Advisory board members serve at the will and pleasure of the board of
county commissioners and any member of any board may be removed for any reason
by a vote by a majority of the county commission. (Ord. 215, 5-11-2009)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-1-1: Purpose
2-1-2: Definitions
2-1-3: Commission Created; Appointment; Qualifications
2-1-4: Organization; Officers; Rules; Meetings
2-1-5: Powers; Duties; Responsibilities
2-1-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this Chapter is to promote the educational, cultural, economic,
and general welfare of the public of the County through the identification,
evaluation, designation, and protection of those buildings, sites, areas,
structures, and objects which reflect significant elements of the County's, the
State's, and the Nation's historic, architectural, archaeological, and cultural
heritage. (Ord. 101, 12-19-1986; 1996 Code)
2-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases when used in this Chapter shall have, unless
the context clearly indicates otherwise, the following meanings:
COMMISSION: The Historic Preservation Commission of the County of Twin Falls.
COUNTY: The County of Twin Falls.
HISTORIC PRESERVATION: The research, documentation, protection, restoration,
and rehabilitation of buildings, structures, objects, districts, areas, and
sites significant in the history, architecture, archaeology or culture of this
State, its communities or the Nation.
HISTORIC PROPERTY: Any building, structure, area or site that is significant in
the history, architecture, archaeology or culture of this community, the State
or the Nation. (Ord. 101, 12-19-1986)
2-1-3: COMMISSION CREATED; APPOINTMENT; QUALIFICATIONS:
   A.   Creation: There is hereby created a Historic Preservation Commission
which shall consist of a minimum of five (5) and a maximum of ten (10) members
who shall be appointed by the County Commissioners.
   B.   Qualifications: All members of the Historic Preservation Commission
shall have a demonstrated interest, competence, or knowledge in history or
historic preservation. The County Commissioners shall endeavor to appoint at
least two (2) members with professional training or experience in the
disciplines of architecture, history, architectural history, urban planning,
archaeology, engineering, law, or other historic preservation related
disciplines.
   C.   Appointment; Term: Initial appointments to the Historic Preservation
Commission shall be made as follows: Two (2) one year terms, four (4) two (2)
year terms; four (4) three (3) year terms. All subsequent appointments shall be
made for three (3) year terms. Historic Preservation Commission members may be
reappointed to serve additional terms. Vacancies shall be filled in the same
manner as original appointments and the appointee shall serve for the remainder
of the unexpired term.
   D.   Reimbursement: The members of the Commission may be reimbursed by the
County for expenses incurred in connection with their duties. (Ord. 101, 12-19-
1986)
2-1-4: ORGANIZATION; OFFICERS; RULES; MEETINGS:
   A.   Rules: The Historic Preservation Commission shall have the power to
make whatever rules are necessary for the execution of its duties as set forth
in this Chapter. Rules of procedure and bylaws adopted by the Historic
Preservation Commission shall be available for public inspection.
   B.   Officers: The Historic Preservation Commission shall elect officers
from among the Historic Preservation Commission members. The chairman shall
preside at meetings of the Historic Preservation Commission. The vice chairman
shall, in the absence of the chairman, perform the duties of the chairman.
   C.   Meetings: All meetings of the Historic Preservation Commission shall be
open to the public, and follow the requirements of Idaho's open meeting laws 1
. The Historic Preservation Commission shall keep minutes and other appropriate
written records of its resolutions, proceedings, and actions.
   D.   Technical Experts: The Historic Preservation Commission may recommend
to the County Commissioners, within the limits of its funding, the employment
of or the contracting with other parties for the services of technical experts
or other persons as it deems necessary to carry on the functions of the
Historic Preservation Commission. (Ord. 101, 12-19-1986)
 
Notes
1 1. I.C. § 67-2341
2-1-5: POWERS, DUTIES, RESPONSIBILITIES:
The Historic Preservation Commission shall be advisory to the County
Commissioners and shall be authorized to:
   A.   Surveys: Conduct a survey of local historic properties.
   B.   Property Acquisition: Recommend the acquisition of fee and lesser
interests in historic properties, including adjacent or associated lands, by
purchase, bequests, or donation.
   C.   Property Preservation Methods: Recommend methods and procedures
necessary to preserve, restore, maintain, and operate historic properties under
the ownership or control of the County.
   D.   Public Access: Recommend the lease, sale, other transfer or disposition
of historic properties subject to rights of public access and other covenants
and in a manner that will preserve the property.
   E.   Contracting: Contract, with the approval of County Commissioners, with
the State or Federal government, or any agency of either, or with any other
organization.
   F.   Historic Preservation Objectives: Cooperate with the Federal, State,
and local governments in the pursuance of the objectives of historic
preservation. (Ord. 101, 12-19-1986)
   G.   Land Use, Urban Renewal, Other Planning Processes: Participate in the
conduct of land use, urban renewal, and other planning processes undertaken by
the County or any city in the County. (1996 Code)
   H.   Provide Information: Recommend ordinances and otherwise provide
information for the purposes of historic preservation in the County.
   I.   Educational Programs: Promote and conduct an educational and
interpretive program on historic preservation and historic properties in the
County.
   J.   Entrance To Private Property: Historic Preservation Commission members,
employees or agents of the Historic Preservation Commission may enter private
property, buildings, or structures in the performance of its official duties
only with the express consent of the owner or occupant thereof.
   K.   National Register Of Historic Places Nominations: Review nominations of
properties to the National Register of Historic Places for properties within
the County's jurisdiction. (Ord. 101, 12-19-1986)
CHAPTER 2
MIDDLE SNAKE REGIONAL WATER RESOURCE COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-2-1: Commission Created; Membership
2-2-2: Terms; Compensation
2-2-3: Purpose
2-2-4: Powers
2-2-5: Executive Committee
2-2-6: Water Resource Plan Adoption
2-2-7: Annual Budget
2-2-8: Duration And Dissolution
2-2-9: Amendment Of Agreement
2-2-10: Addition Of Counties
2-2-11: Effective Date
2-2-1: COMMISSION CREATED; MEMBERSHIP:
   A.   Created: There is hereby created and established a regional commission,
to be known as the Middle Snake Regional Water Resource Commission
("Commission"), to be comprised of six (6) members, consisting of two (2)
members from each of the member counties. Said Commission shall act in an
advisory capacity to the board of county commissioners of the member counties.
   B.   Appointment: The board of county commissioners of each member county
shall submit the names of no less than two (2) nominees to represent the county
on the Commission and appointment shall be subject to majority vote of the
board of each member county.
   C.   Qualifications: To be eligible for appointment to a member county's
seat on the Commission, a person must be a current resident of said county and
may hold office only so long as such county residence is maintained. No persons
deemed by the Commissioners to lack ability of making an unbiased decision with
regard to water quality and quantity issues shall be eligible for membership.
Input from representatives of specific industry or environment groups and
organizations is best obtained through advisory committees and through the
hearing process. Appointees must have a basic knowledge of water quality and
quantity issues within the region, as well as an interest in serving the
public. (Ord. 136, 1-29-1996)
2-2-2: TERMS; COMPENSATION:
   A.   Terms; Vacancies: The term of office of each Commission member shall be
four (4) years; provided, however, that one of each member county's initial
appointments to the Commission shall serve a term of two (2) years and the
other initial appointment from each member county shall serve a term of four
(4) years. All vacancies shall be filled for the balance of the unexpired term
in the same manner as original appointments. Members may serve no more than two
(2) consecutive terms. The Commission shall elect a chairman and create and
fill any other office that it may deem necessary. The Commission may establish
subcommittees and advisory committees to advise and assist in carrying out its
responsibilities within the constraints of the approved annual budget.
   B.   Compensation: Commission members shall serve without compensation, but
may be reimbursed for their actual expenses incurred in attending Commission
meetings or conducting other Commission business under such rules as may be
adopted by the Executive Committee and within the constraints of the approved
annual budget. (Ord. 136, 1-29-1996)
2-2-3: PURPOSE:
It shall be the purpose of the Commission to:
   A.   Take actions as authorized and necessary to implement the goals and
objectives of the Plan, as the same are set forth therein.
   B.   Gather information on an on-going basis regarding the quality of water
resources in the member counties and establish baseline data for monitoring
water quality.
   C.   Act as a focal point for issues, concerns, uses and education regarding
all water resources, surface and underground, in the member counties and, in
connection therewith, provide a forum for the public to have input on such
issues and to obtain information and educational services with regard to the
same.
   D.   Work with governmental entities at all levels, water user groups,
private parties and the general public to coordinate and facilitate the
development of water study, management, protection or enhancement plans in and
for the region.
   E.   Provide a forum for local, State and Federal agencies to coordinate
activities related to the study, management, protection and enhancement of
water resources in the member counties and surrounding area.
   F.   Provide information and recommendations to local planning and zoning
commissions and other local governmental entities with respect to ordinances
that may be necessary or proper to facilitate the study, management, protection
and enhancement of water resources within the member counties.
   G.   Gather, coordinate and disseminate information regarding water resource
issues in the member counties to and for the benefit of governmental, business
and private parties.
   H.   Take additional actions, as necessary, to facilitate the Plan and the
accomplishment of its objectives.
   I.   The Commission is to act within the constraint of the annual budget as
approved by the county commissioners of the member counties. (Ord. 136, 1-29-
1996)
2-2-4: POWERS:
The Commission shall have and may exercise the following powers and duties
within the constraints of the annual budget approved by the commissioners of
the member counties:
   A.   To hold hearings on issues pertaining to the study, management,
protection and enhancement of water resources in the region, particularly as
the same may impact the member counties.
   B.   To make and submit testimony and comments, both oral and written, to
public and private entities and agencies, regarding the study, management,
protection and enhancement of water resources located in the member counties
and surrounding area.
   C.   To compile and disseminate information regarding the Plan and any and
all issues pertaining to the water resources located within the member
counties.
   D.   To take any actions necessary to coordinate the Plan with the plans,
rules or regulations of other governmental agencies, local, State and Federal,
which shall specifically include the State's Rules and Regulations for Nutrient
Management (IDAPA 16.01.16000, and as the same may be amended), with the
primary purpose of bringing such other plans, rules or regulations in line with
the Plan and secondary purpose of fostering coordination and cooperation with
respect to the same.
   E.   To invoke the provisions and/or protections set out in Executive Order
12630 as the same may impact or affect in any way the property and resources
located in the member counties.
   F.   To provide assistance to local governmental entities in the enforcement
of laws pertaining to the study, management, protection and enhancement of
water resources located in the member counties.
   G.   To review the Plan on an on-going basis and, when necessary, to
recommend revisions of the same to the executive committee and boards of county
commissioners of member counties.
   H.   To study and report with respect to the economic impacts of actions
taken by local, State and Federal agencies which may in any way impact,
restrict or impair water uses in the member counties.
   I.   To develop data on the customs and culture of the region for the
purpose of determining the impact of various actions taken by local, State and
Federal governmental agencies with respect to water resources located therein.
   J.   To do all things necessary or incidental to the proper operation of the
Commission and furtherance of the objectives of this Chapter, subject only to
authority properly delegated to the Commission. (Ord. 136, 1-29-1996)
2-2-5: EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE:
   A.   Appointment: There is hereby established an Executive Committee,
consisting of one county commissioner from each of the member counties, to be
appointed by the board of each participating county, which committee shall be
responsible for any legislative and regulatory, or financial functions of or
for the Commission.
   B.   Terms; Membership: Executive Committee members shall be appointed for a
term of four (4) years, subject to remaining in their position as an elected
County Commissioner. The Executive Committee shall elect a chairman and vice
chairman.
   C.   Quorum: Two (2) members shall constitute a quorum for the conduct of
business but all votes shall require a two (2) member majority.
   D.   Meetings: The Executive Committee shall meet at least four (4) times
each year.
   E.   Duties: The Executive Committee shall have and may exercise the
following powers and duties:
      1.   Recommend budgets to the commissioners of the member counties and
provide all necessary budgetary functions for the Commission.
      2.   To review the work of the Commission and to provide policy
direction.
      3.   To hold hearings in each county and make recommendation to the
commissions of the member counties with regard to amendments to the Plan.
      4.   To provide liaison services between the Commission and the boards of
county commissioners of the member counties.
      5.   To hire an executive director for the Commission, who shall serve at
the pleasure of the Committee. Such executive director shall serve as a
nonvoting member of the Executive Committee, carry on its business as directed
on an on-going basis, and act as its secretary-treasurer. The executive
director may, subject to the approval of the Executive Committee, employ and
remove any consultants, experts or other employees as may be needed within the
constraints of the budget as approved by the member counties.
      6.   To receive monies and property from member counties and to receive
gifts, grants, and donations from any person or entity, and to expend the same
for the purposes of this Chapter.
      7.   To retain and employ regular legal counsel, and to retain such
special counsel as may be deemed necessary, all within the constraints of the
annual budget.
      8.   With the recommendations of the Commission, to adopt rules and
regulations for the conduct of all business done and to be done pursuant to
this Chapter.
      9.   To do all things necessary or incidental to carry out the purposes
of this Chapter within the constraints of the budget as approved by the member
counties.
      10.   Provide information and recommendations to State and Federal
agencies, including the State legislature and U.S. Congress, regarding actions
or programs necessary for the study, management, protection, and enhancement of
water resources in the region as defined in the Plan but including additional
counties which may become party to this Chapter.
      11.   Authority to subpoena witnesses and documents for Commission
hearings. (Ord. 136, 1-29-1996)
2-2-6: WATER RESOURCE PLAN ADOPTION:
Twin Falls County hereby ratifies, affirms, and adopts the Coordinated Water
Resource Management Plan for the Middle Snake River (Plan) in the form attached
to Ordinance 136 as Exhibit "A", which exhibit is fully incorporated herein by
this reference. (Ord. 136, 1-29-1996; 1996 Code)
2-2-7: ANNUAL BUDGET:
The fiscal year of the Commission shall commence on October 1 of each year and
shall end on September 30 of the following year. The Executive Committee shall
prepare, by the first Monday in July of each year, a preliminary budget for the
Commission, including activities of the Executive Committee, and an estimate of
costs to be apportioned to each member county for the ensuing year. A copy of
the preliminary budget, showing the amount of costs to be allocated to each
member county, shall be distributed to each member county by July 15 of each
year for approval by the commissioners of the member counties. On or before
August 15 of each year a budget for the Commission shall be approved by the
Executive Committee and certified to each member county. Such determination
shall be binding upon all member counties. (Ord. 136, 1-29-1996)
2-2-8: DURATION AND DISSOLUTION:
It is intended that this agreement executed pursuant to the Ordinance codified
in this Chapter and the Commission established hereby shall have permanent
status. However, member counties shall have the ability to withdraw from this
agreement, beginning one year from the date hereof. Any member county wishing
to withdraw after completion of the first year, must give one year's written
notice to the Executive Committee of such intention to withdraw. A member
county withdrawing from the agreement executed pursuant to the Ordinance
codified in this Chapter shall not be entitled to reimbursement of any funds or
to any proportionate share of any property accumulated by the Commission or
Executive Committee and shall be responsible for payment of its share of the
budget for said fiscal year. This agreement executed pursuant to the Ordinance
codified in this Chapter may be terminated by majority vote of the member
counties after completion of its fifth year, in which event all assets
remaining after payment of all costs and expenses shall be distributed to the
member counties in proportion to their share of the last annual budget of the
Commission (Ord. 136, 1-29-1996)
2-2-9: AMENDMENT OF AGREEMENT:
This agreement adopted pursuant to the Ordinance codified in this Chapter may
be amended by an executed addendum, approved by resolution duly adopted by the
board of commissioners of each member county. (Ord. 136, 1-29-1996)
2-2-10: ADDITION OF COUNTIES:
Any county which is not a party to said agreement may, with the consent of a
majority of the board of commissioners of each member county, become a member
county to said agreement by executing an addendum to that effect to the
agreement and by the adoption of an ordinance approving the agreement. (Ord.
136, 1-29-1996)
2-2-11: EFFECTIVE DATE:
The agreement shall be effective from and after execution by the chairmen of
the boards of commissioners of the three (3) member counties. Each county shall
forthwith adopt an ordinance approving the agreement, which ordinance shall be
in the form attached hereto as Exhibit "B" attached to Ordinance 136, which
exhibit is incorporated herein by this reference. The number of each such
ordinance and the date of adoption shall be noted in the place indicated below.
(Ord. 136, 1-29-1996)
CHAPTER 3
COUNTY TREE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
2-3-1: Title
2-3-2: Authority
2-3-3: Jurisdiction
2-3-4: Advisory Board
2-3-5: New Development
2-3-6: County Parks And County Property
2-3-7: Tree Care, Easements And Line Clearance
2-3-8: Sites With Historic Trees
2-3-9: Arbor Day
2-3-10: Current Tree Issues
2-3-11: Amendments
2-3-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the TWIN FALLS COUNTY TREE ORDINANCE. (Ord. 197,
6-18-2007)
2-3-2: AUTHORITY:
This chapter is adopted pursuant to the authority offered by article 12,
section 2, of the constitution of the state of Idaho and by title 31, chapters
6, 7, and 8 of the Idaho Code. (Ord. 197, 6-18-2007)
2-3-3: JURISDICTION:
This chapter shall apply to all property in Twin Falls County located outside
the designated boundaries of those communities with tree city USA status,
including Twin Falls, Kimberly, Buhl and Filer, but will not apply to land held
under federal trust, state trust, historical sites nor Indian owned land. As
other city tree ordinances are approved within Twin Falls County, local
authority and jurisdiction will take precedence within those cities. (Ord. 197,
6-18-2007)
2-3-4: ADVISORY BOARD:
   A.   Approval: The board of county commissioners will approve a volunteer
citizen advisory board, to serve at the will of the commissioners. This tree
advisory board will consist of a minimum of five (5) persons possessing at
least one of the following requirements:
      1.   A representative from the pest control industry.
      2.   A representative from the nursery and/or landscaping industry.
      3.   A representative from the east, west and north Twin Falls County.
         a.   Persons interested or experienced in horticulture or
arboriculture will be preferred.
      4.   A representative of a civic group located in the county.
   B.   Input: In addition to the tree advisory board, input from the Twin
Falls city tree commission, master gardeners and CSI horticulture department is
recommended.
   C.   Term: Initially appointed representatives will be placed on two (2),
three (3), and four (4) year terms. After the initial terms, each
representative will then be eligible for another three (3) year appointment.
When terms end, each new representative will be appointed for a period of three
(3) years and may be reappointed for an additional three (3) year period by the
Twin Falls County commissioners. All members serve at the pleasure of the board
of Twin Falls County commissioners and may be removed by a majority vote of
that body.
   D.   Duties:
      1.   To advise the county commissioners on developing and maintaining a
countywide community forestry program.
      2.   To develop a community forest master plan for Twin Falls County.
      3.   To educate and promote proper tree planting, care and pruning
practices.
      4.   To create or collaborate on informational brochures to educate the
public on appropriate community trees and their benefits.
      5.   To represent the county in distributing tree information and
speaking before the public or the commissioners on tree/community related
issues.
      6.   To recruit volunteers for planting projects and promote Arbor Day
activities throughout the county.
      7.   To hold regular meetings as required by the elected chairman of the
tree advisory board.
      8.   To aid and advise cities within the county in obtaining and
maintaining tree city USA status.
      9.   To work in collaboration with other administrative agencies,
including, but not limited to, soil conservation districts, highway districts
and public utilities.
   E.   Liaison: The director of parks and waterways of Twin Falls County shall
serve as the liaison with the advisory board and the board of Twin Falls County
commissioners and will assist in the preparation, revision and implementation
of the county tree ordinance and community forestry master plan. (Ord. 197, 6-
18-2007)
2-3-5: NEW DEVELOPMENT:
New developments requiring platting, or any request for a change in zoning, are
encouraged to be evaluated for existing and future trees and their impact to
the proposed development. The tree advisory board will be allowed to review all
preliminary plats coming before the parks and waterways department for comment.
The tree advisory committee or designee may visit the site to examine issues of
tree removal, tree retention, water management and new tree plantings. The Twin
Falls County tree board will develop minimum standards for the community forest
based on International Society of Arboriculture ANSI300 standards, which takes
into account local soil and water issues for tree planting within the community
forest master plan. (Ord. 197, 6-18-2007)
2-3-6: COUNTY PARKS AND COUNTY PROPERTY:
The county parks and all other county property with growing trees will be kept
to the same minimum standards for tree care referenced the International
Society of Arboriculture ANSI300 standards in section
2-3-7 of this chapter. The Twin Falls County commissioners will promote the
education of a certified arborist to implement proper tree care programs and
make recommendations for all county and tree board issues. (Ord. 197, 6-18-
2007)
2-3-7: TREE CARE, EASEMENTS AND LINE CLEARANCE:
The Twin Falls County tree board promotes the application of all area
appropriate International Society of Arboriculture ANSI300 tree care practices,
unless such practices are superseded by the needs of the highway districts or
Idaho Power Company. Standards for tree selections and planting distances off
of road easements refer to the area highway district regulations and
literature. Standards for tree selections and minimum line clearance on
overhead power lines refer to Idaho Power Company policy and literature. (Ord.
197, 6-18-2007)
2-3-8: SITES WITH HISTORIC TREES:
The board will develop criteria to determine and distribute information on
trees of significance or historical trees. The board requests information on
the location of historic trees scheduled for removal, pruning or area
construction prior to such action within the right of way area, by either the
homeowner, Idaho Power or the highway districts. The board also requests the
opportunity to send a representative to the site for the purposes of inquiring
about the action, gain knowledge concerning the needs of the public or agency
requirements and documenting the consequences to the tree(s). This will be used
to build a database concerning trees of significance to add to the community
forest master plan and emphasize local issues in future literature produced by
the county tree board. (Ord. 197, 6-18-2007)
2-3-9: ARBOR DAY:
In Idaho, the last Friday in April has been designated as Arbor Day. The county
tree board will, though grants, funding from local sources, and county parks
assistance, select a date, purchase trees, elect a site or location in the
county, and host an Arbor Day event. The site will be selected through three
(3) initial criteria: a) a city that does not yet have tree city USA status, b)
a newly installed county park facility or trail, or c) an area within the
community where damage, either storm, accident, or vandalism has left it devoid
of trees. The board of commissioners for Twin Falls County will officially
proclaim and observe this selected day as Twin Falls County Arbor Day. (Ord.
197, 6-18-2007)
2-3-10: CURRENT TREE ISSUES:
The board will create or cosponsor literature detailing appropriate and
inappropriate trees for the entire county or local areas within the county.
Since tree problems are often based on situational conditions and may change as
the environment or the community forest changes, the literature will be updated
at least yearly, and open to interpretation. (Ord. 197, 6-18-2007)
2-3-11: AMENDMENTS:
Under the authority of the county commissioners of Twin Falls County the county
tree board reserves the right to alter and amend any and all portions to the
Twin Falls County tree ordinance and future community forest master plans. All
appropriate and legal steps will be followed for any such changes as pursuant
to Idaho law and Twin Falls County codes. (Ord. 197, 6-18-2007)
CHAPTER 4
TWIN FALLS COUNTY FAIR BOARD
SECTION:
2-4-1: Statement Of Purpose
2-4-2: Offices
2-4-3: Definitions
2-4-4: Members
2-4-5: Powers And Duties Of The Fair Board
2-4-6: Meetings
2-4-7: Officers
2-4-8: Relationship With The Board Of County Commissioners
2-4-1: STATEMENT OF PURPOSE:
This chapter shall set forth the powers, duties, responsibilities and terms of
the Twin Falls County Fair Board and may provide for any such other rules and
regulations under which the County Fair Board shall advise the Board of County
Commissioners and conduct its operations. (Ord. 288, 1-7-2025)
2-4-2: OFFICES:
The office of the Twin Falls County Fair Board shall be located at the
fairgrounds at the fair office building at 215 Fair Ave S. Filer, Twin Falls
County, Idaho. (Ord. 288, 1-7-2025)
2-4-3: DEFINITIONS:
BOARD: The Twin Falls County Board of County Commissioners.
COMMISSIONERS: The Twin Falls County Board of County Commissioners.
COUNTY: Twin Falls County.
COUNTY FAIR: The annual Twin Falls County Fair held at the Twin Falls County
Fairgrounds.
EVENT: A planned public or social occasion for which compensation is paid or an
admission fee is charged for use of the fairgrounds.
FAIR BOARD: The Twin Falls County Fair Board.
FAIR OFFICE: The office of the Twin Falls County Fair Board, located at 215
Fair Ave. S, Filer Idaho 83328.
PERSONNEL MANUAL: The Twin Falls County Personnel Policy Handbook. (Ord. 288,
1-7-2025)
2-4-4: MEMBERS:
   A.   Number, Election and Terms of Office:
      1.   Number of Members: The number of members of the Fair Board shall be
no less than five (5) and no more than seven (7) persons, unless and until
otherwise determined by the Commissioners.
      2.   Appointment and Terms:
         a.   Commencement of Terms: The members of the Fair Board shall be
appointed by the Board of County Commissioners, and their terms shall commence,
pursuant to Idaho Code, on the third Monday in January following the expiration
of the previous term.
         b.   Appointment of Members: Fair Board members will be appointed by
the Board of County Commissioners from among Twin Falls County residents who
express interest in serving in the position. Fair Board members whose terms are
expiring are eligible for reappointment to new terms upon indication of their
desire to be considered for reappointment. Additionally, the opening on the
Fair Board shall be made known to the public in general by the posting on the
official Twin Falls County website. All interested residents of the County are
eligible to apply for consideration by the Commissioners for appointment to the
Fair Board. The members of the Fair Board shall, as nearly as possible, be
selected from different industries and localities of the County.
      3.   Terms of Office: The Fair Board members are appointed to staggered
terms of office. All appointments by the Board of Commissioners to the Fair
Board shall be for a term of four (4) years, to commence on the third Monday of
January after expiration of the term of the prior appointment. No person shall
serve more than two terms on the Fair Board unless approved by the Board of
County Commissioners at a regular meeting of the Board.
      4.   Vacancies:
         a.   Filling Vacancies: Any vacancy in the Fair Board occurring by
reason of an increase in the number of Fair Board members authorized by the
commissioners, or by the reason of the death, resignation, disqualification,
removal or inability to act of any Fair Board member, or otherwise, shall be
filled for the unexpired portion of the term by the Board of Commissioners
after consultation with the Fair Board.
         b.   Committees: The Fair Board, by resolution adopted by the entire
Fair Board, may from time to time designate from among its members an executive
committee and such other committees and alternate members thereof as they deem
desirable, each consisting of two (2) or more members, with such powers and
authorities as may be provided in such resolution to the extent permitted by
law. Each such committee shall serve at the pleasure of the Fair Board.
      5.   Removal: Any Fair Board member may be removed with or without cause
at any time by the Board of County Commissioners at a regular meeting of the
board of commissioners called for that purpose.
         a.   A Fair Board member may be removed for, but not limited to, the
following reasons:
            (1)   A Fair Board member missing three (3) consecutive meetings;
            (2)   A Fair Board member no longer residing in Twin Falls County;
            (3)   Failure of a Fair Board member to carry out their duties as
outlined in Idaho Code § 22-204 or Section
2-4-4; and/or
            (4)   A Fair Board member creating and/or having conflict of
interest as defined in the Twin Falls County Personnel Manual. (Ord. 288, 1-7-
2025)
2-4-5: POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE FAIR BOARD:
   A.   Duties and Powers: The Fair Board shall be responsible for the
management of the fair property and interests of the County that relate to the
operation of the County fair, and may exercise all powers granted to them, and
shall fulfill all duties assigned to them by the Commissioners, and pursuant to
Idaho law, which powers and duties shall include the following:
      1.   Maintaining Property: Maintaining custody of and taking care of all
property belonging to the County, and used for fair purposes.
      2.   Financial Responsibility: Responsible for all monies received by the
Fair Board, raised by tax levies or levies for fair purposes, as well as
receipts from the operation of the fair, and any other monies received from
other sources for fair or fair grounds related purposes.
      3.   Public Depository Law: The Fair Board shall safely keep, or cause to
be safely kept, all monies coming into its care, custody, or possession in
strict compliance with the provisions of the public depository law of the state
of Idaho.
      4.   Calendaring of Events: The Fair Board shall maintain a calendar and
schedule of Events for use of fairgrounds property, and the Fair Manager shall
present a copy of such to the Board at its quarterly meeting or upon request.
      5.   Facilities Lease Agreements:
         a.   Formulation of Filing of Plans: Each Event shall require the
entering of a Facilities Lease Agreement signed by the Fair Board and by the
Renting Party. Such Agreement will call for, in writing, all plans for each
Event to be conducted at the fairgrounds. However, under no circumstances shall
a Facilities Lease Agreement's term exceed three hundred and sixty-four (364)
days. Such plans shall include, but not necessarily be limited to, safety and
security plans, and shall provide for liability coverage, provided by the
Renting Party, for use of the County's property.
         b.   Board Approval: Such Facilities Lease Agreements and plans shall
be presented to, upon request, the Board of County Commissioners, which Board
has the statutory responsibility to care for, maintain, and regulate the use of
the grounds. (See I.C. § 31-822). The Board of County Commissioners reserves
the right to revoke contracts for any events or activities at the Fairgrounds
that it deems inappropriate, unsafe, or not in the best interest of the
community.
      6.   Records: The Fair Board shall keep, or cause to be kept, proper
records of its proceedings, business transactions, and true and proper accounts
of all monies received by it and expended or on hand.
      7.   Vouchers: The Fair Board shall require proper vouchers, evidencing
all disbursements of money.
      8.   Compensation: Members of the Fair Board shall not receive
compensation for their services on the Fair Board. However, Fair Board members
shall be reimbursed for expenses incurred in the performance of their services.
      9.   Inspection of Records: The Fair Board shall allow open inspection of
its records by any taxpayer or voter within the County during all regular hours
consistent with the Idaho Public Records Act.
      10.   Publication of Statement: The Fair Board shall publish in at least
one issue of the newspaper of official publication in the County, a detailed
statement of all monies received and expended in connection with the operation
of the Twin Falls County fair, within ninety (90) days after the holding of the
fair each year.
      11.   Property Management: The Fair Board shall take charge of and manage
all such property as Twin Falls County has acquired or set aside for fair
purposes. Such management shall be under the authority and powers of the Board
of County Commissioners (See Idaho Code Section 31-822).
      12.   Purchase of Real Property: The Fair Board shall recommend to the
Board of County Commissioners, when appropriate, that purchases be made of real
property as may be needed for fair purposes. At no time shall the Fair Board
lease, mortgage, or otherwise encumber real property owned by the County.
      13.   Prizes and Fees: The Fair Board shall have the power to award
prizes, make exhibition contracts, fix and charge admission and entrance fees,
let contracts for concessions and services to be conducted at the fair or under
the direction of the Fair Board. The Board of County Commissioners reserves the
right to revoke contracts for any events or activities at the Fairgrounds that
it deems inappropriate, unsafe, or not in the best interest of the community.
      14.   Other Powers: The Fair Board shall have power to do all other
things necessary for holding County fairs.
      15.   Powers Restricted: The Fair Board shall not have the power to
create any indebtedness in excess of the amount to be derived from the special
levies for each year, and the estimated income from annual fair receipts, nor
shall it mortgage or otherwise pledge or encumber any of the real or personal
property owned by the County, and used for Fair purposes.
   B.   Fair Board Employees:
      1.   Fair Manager: The Fair Board shall have the power to employ a
competent Fair Manager whom shall be vested with general managerial powers
subject to the provisions of Idaho Code and this Chapter. The Fair Manager
shall be responsible for the day-to-day operations of the fairgrounds.
         a.   The Fair Manager shall be under the direct supervision of the
Fair Board and general supervision of the Board of County Commissioners. The
Fair Manager's compensation shall be set by the Fair Board upon the approval of
the Board of County Commissioners. The Fair Manager's employment shall be
governed by the Twin Falls County personnel manual and all attendant policies
and regulations thereto.
      2.   Other Employees: The Fair Board shall have the power to employ other
employees for the maintenance and operation of the Fairgrounds as needed. Fair
Board employees, while not County employees, shall be subject to the policies
contained in the Twin Falls County Personnel Manual. (Ord. 288, 1-7-2025)
2-4-7: MEETINGS:
   A.   Annual or Regular Meetings; Notice:
      1.   Annual Meeting: An annual meeting of the Fair Board shall be held on
the first Monday of February of each year, at the fair office, at the Twin
Falls County Fairgrounds in Filer, Idaho, for the preparation of the budget.
      2.   Monthly Meetings: The Fair Board shall hold regular monthly meetings
on the first Tuesday of each month at the same time and place and the Fair
Board may, from time to time, provide for the holding of other meetings and may
fix the time and place thereof by resolution of the Fair Board.
      3.   Notice and Agenda: Notice and Agenda of any meeting of the Fair
Board shall be given as required under the Idaho Open Meeting Law.
   B.   President: At all meetings of the Fair Board, the president of the Fair
Board shall preside. If the president is not at the meeting, then the vice
president shall preside.
   C.   Quorum and Adjournments:
      1.   Quorum: At all meetings of the Fair Board the presence of a majority
of the entire board shall be necessary and sufficient to constitute a quorum
for the transaction of business.
      2.   Adjournment: A majority of the Fair Board present at the time and
place of any regular or special meeting, although less than a quorum, may
adjourn the same from time to time without notice until a quorum shall be
present.
   D.   Manner of Action:
      1.   Votes: At all meetings of the Fair Board each member of the Fair
Board, including the president and vice president, shall be entitled to one (1)
vote on any matter before the Fair Board. Members who have a conflict of
interest or who personally stand to gain or lose financially by any issues
before the County Fair Board shall notify the president and abstain from voting
on that issue, otherwise all members shall vote. No decision at a meeting of
the Fair Board shall be made by secret ballot.
      2.   Action by Majority: The action of a majority of the Fair Board
present at any meeting at which a quorum is present, which is memorialized in
the written minutes, shall be the act of the Fair Board.
      3.   The Fair Board shall operate in a professional and courteous
fashion, and the president shall have the authority at any time to invoke
Robert's Rules of Order to the extent such rules are not in conflict with these
procedures. (Ord. 288, 1-7-2025)
2-4-7: OFFICERS:
   A.   Number, Qualifications, Election and Term of Office:
      1.   Officers: The officers of the Fair Board shall consist of a
president, a vice-president, and executive board member. All such officers
shall be members of the Fair Board as appointed by the Board of County
Commissioners.
      2.   Term of Officers: The president, vice president and executive board
member of the Fair Board shall be elected by the Fair Board at the first
regular meeting of the board, each year. Officers of the Fair Board shall serve
for a term of one year, commencing with their election.
   B.   Duties of Officers: Officers of the Fair Board shall have such powers
and duties as generally pertain to their respective offices. The officers shall
perform such powers and duties as are set forth in the job descriptions for the
president, vice-president, and executive board member, as approved by the Board
of Commissioners.
   C.   Resignation: Any officer of the Fair Board may resign at any time by
giving written notice of such resignation to the president or executive board
member of the Fair Board. Unless otherwise specified in such written notice,
such resignation shall take effect upon receipt thereof, and the acceptance of
such resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective.
   D.   Vacancies: A vacancy in any officer position by reason of death,
resignation, removal, inability to act, or disqualification may at any time be
filled for the unexpired portion of the term by the Fair Board. (Ord. 288, 1-7-
2025)
2-4-8: RELATIONSHIP WITH THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS:
   A.   General Supervision: The Board of County Commissioners are the chief
executives of Twin Falls County, Idaho, and as such are directly responsible
for the supervision, direction, and regulation of the Fair Board. The members
of the Fair Board shall serve under the general guidance and direction of the
Commissioners.
   B.   Division of Responsibilities:
      1.   It is within the powers and duties of the Board of Commissioners to
contract to purchase a site, grounds or parks on which to hold public fairs or
exhibitions to care for and maintain the same, and regulate the use thereof
and, in their discretion, to let, demise or lease the same to the state of
Idaho or the Department of Agriculture for such public fair or exhibition
purposes upon such terms and conditions and for such consideration as their
judgment shall best promote the holding of such fairs or exhibitions.
      2.   The duties of the Fair Board shall be to exercise care and custody
of all property belonging to the County and used for fair purposes, and shall
be responsible for all moneys received by it, raised by tax levy or levies for
fair purposes as well as all receipts from the operation of the fair and any
other moneys received from other sources for fair purposes, pursuant to
provisions set forth in Section
2-4-6, hereinabove.
      3.   The County will provide police and fire protectionLaw Enforcement to
the fairgrounds, during the County Fair, and pay the costs thereof. However,
the Fair Board shall be responsible for procuring security for any Event held
at the Fairgrounds and for any additional security required at the County Fair.
   C.   Required Meetings with Commissioners: The Fair Board shall be required
to meet with the Board of County Commissioners one time in the month of
December of each year in order to report to the Commissioners the current
status of fair operations, appointments, expiring terms of appointment of Fair
Board members and officers, and all other matters relating to the general
operation and fiscal stability and integrity of the Fair Board operations.
   D.   Budget Requests: The Fair Board shall meet on the first Monday of
February of each year for the purpose of determining what funds must be raised
by taxes for County Fair purposes, and then shall submit such determination to
the Board of County Commissioners no later than the fourth Monday in June of
each year. The Fair Board shall meet with, and submit to the Commissioners, a
budget request for the ensuing year, detailing the fiscal needs of the Fair
Board, and the amount of money to be raised by the County for fair purposes for
the coming year. The Commissioners shall thereafter approve or make such
amendments or modifications in the County fair budget as it deems proper, and
include the same in its annual County budget. (Ord. 288, 1-7-2025)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS AND LICENSING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
LIQUOR CONTROL
SECTION:
3-1-1: Purpose
3-1-2: Definitions
3-1-3: Days And Times When Alcoholic Liquor May Be Sold
3-1-4: Catering Permits And Other Requirements
3-1-1: PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this Chapter to regulate the days and times which
alcoholic liquor may be sold in Twin Falls County. (Ord. 289, 5-2-2025)
3-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR: "Alcoholic liquor," as the term is used in this Chapter,
includes:
   A.   "Alcohol," meaning the product of distillation of any fermented liquor,
rectified once or more than once, whatever may be the origin thereof, or
synthetic ethyl alcohol.
   B.   "Spirits," meaning any beverage which contains alcohol obtained by
distillation mixed with drinkable water and other substances in solution,
including, among other things, brandy, rum, whiskey and gin.
C.   Any liquid or solid, patented or not, containing spirits, and susceptible
of being consumed by a human being for beverage purposes and containing more
than four percent (4%) of alcohol by volume. (Ord. 289, 5-2-2025)
3-1-3: DAYS AND TIMES WHEN ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR MAY BE SOLD:
   A.   State Liquor Store Sales on Sunday: Alcoholic liquor may be sold or
delivered by any state liquor store or distributing station in Twin Falls
County on any Sunday which does not fall on Christmas Day.
   B.   Times When Sale of Liquor by the Drink is Prohibited: In accordance
with Idaho Code section 23-927, it is unlawful for liquor to be sold between
the hours of one o'clock (1:00) a.m. to ten o'clock (10:00) a.m.
   C.   Days When Liquor May Be Sold by the Drink: In addition to the days
listed in Idaho Code section 23-927, licensed premises in Twin Falls County may
choose to sell alcoholic liquor by the drink on Memorial Day, on Thanksgiving
Day, and/or on any Sunday which does not fall on Christmas Day. (Ord. 289, 5-2-
2025)
3-1-4: CATERING PERMITS AND OTHER REQUIREMENTS:
State laws about alcoholic beverages, including the requirements for the
issuance of alcohol beverage catering permits, are contained in the Idaho
Liquor Act at Title 23 of Idaho Code. (Ord. 289, 5-2-2025)
CHAPTER 2
PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
SECTION:
3-2-1: Definitions
3-2-2: Temporary Associations; Exemptions
3-2-3: License Required; Application
3-2-4: Investigation; Issuance
3-2-5: Service Of Process
3-2-6: Fees, Terms Of License
3-2-7: Bond Requirement
3-2-8: Exhibition Of License
3-2-9: Duty Of Sheriff To Enforce
3-2-10: Letting Of Private Property Restricted
3-2-11: Unlawful Conduct
3-2-12: Revocation Of License
3-2-13: Violation; Penalty
3-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
PEDDLER: Any person, whether a resident of Twin Falls County or not, traveling
by foot, motor vehicle or any other type of conveyance, however propelled,
drawn, pushed or moved, from place to place, from house to house or from street
to street, carrying, conveying or transporting goods, wares, merchandise, food
or farm products or provisions, offering and exposing the same for sale or
making sales and delivering articles to purchasers, or who, without traveling
from place to place shall sell or offer the same for sale from a wagon,
vehicle, railroad car, or any other type of conveyance. The word "peddler"
shall include the words "hauler" and "huckster".
SOLICITOR OR CANVASSER: Any person, whether a resident of Twin Falls County or
not, traveling either by foot, motor vehicle or any other type of conveyance,
from place to place, from house to house or from street to street, taking or
attempting to take, whether in person or by telephone, orders for sale of
goods, wares and merchandise, personal property of any nature whatsoever for
future delivery, or for services to be furnished or performed in the future,
whether he is collecting advance payments on such sales or not. Such
definitions shall include any person who, for himself, or for another person
hires, leases, uses or occupies any building, structure, tent, railroad boxcar,
boat, hotel room, lodging house, apartment, shop or any other place within the
County for the sole purpose of exhibiting samples and taking orders for future
delivery.
TEMPORARY BUSINESS: One which is expected to be in operation for six (6) months
or less within Twin Falls County. This definition shall not include nor be
construed to include:
   A.   Public or private auction for the disposal by an established business
of its assets or an individual for items of personal and household use.
   B.   Any person, partnership or corporation selling or dealing only with
retail merchants within Twin Falls County and being exclusively wholesale
sellers and dealers.
   C.   Any religious or charitable corporation or organization engaging in any
one or more of the above activities for strictly nonprofit purposes.
   D.   Any arts or crafts shows or fairs where the items for sale are
exhibited by the person producing the items; and, the exhibitor was invited by
the sponsoring party; the names of participants are accumulated by the
sponsoring party to be made available to the Twin Falls County Sheriff.
   E.   Any sales pursuant to court order.
   F.   The sale of farm or garden products by the persons producing such
products.
   G.   The sale of a newspaper subscription in which the seller is a person
engaged in both the delivery and sale of the newspaper.
   H.   Political groups seeking funds or memberships.
   I.   Twin Falls County Fair and grounds thereof.
During the course of any function or event conducted on the Twin Falls County
Fairgrounds, it shall be prohibited for any person, corporation, partnership,
association, organization, group, or entity to solicit money or to solicit,
sell, or distribute any merchandise or printed written material except under
license/contract issued by the Fair Board or Fair Manager and except from a
location and in a manner specifically fixed and designated by either the Fair
Board or the Manager. Licensees agree to abide by both the rules pertaining to
exhibitors and concessionaires and the exhibitor privilege contract.
TRANSIENT MERCHANT, ITINERANT MERCHANT OR ITINERANT VENDOR: Any person, firm or
corporation, whether as owner, agent, consignee, or employee, whether a
resident of Twin Falls County or not, who engages in the temporary business of
selling and delivering goods, wares and merchandise within Twin Falls County
and who, in furtherance of such purpose, hires, leases, uses or occupies any
public or private place, building, motor vehicle, tent, railroad boxcar, public
room in a hotel, lodging house, apartment, shop or any street or other place
within Twin Falls County for the exhibition and sale of such goods, wares and
merchandise, either privately or at public auction. (Ord. 129, 8-15-1994)
3-2-2: TEMPORARY ASSOCIATIONS; EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Temporary Associations: Any person, partnership or corporation engaged
as defined by this Chapter shall not be relieved from complying with the
provisions of this Chapter merely by reason of associating temporarily with any
local dealer, trader, merchant or auctioneer, or by conducting such transient
business in connection with, as a part of or in the name of any local dealer,
trader, merchant or auctioneer.
   B.   Petition For Exemption: Any person, partnership or corporation wishing
to engage in any one or more of the activities described above, and not
specifically excluded from the definition of the itinerant merchant, peddler,
or solicitor as set forth above, may petition the Twin Falls County Sheriff and
upon good cause shown, the Twin Falls County Sheriff may exempt the person,
partnership or corporation from application of this Chapter. (Ord. 129, 8-15-
1994)
3-2-3: LICENSE REQUIRED; APPLICATION:
   A.   License Required: It shall be unlawful for a transient merchant,
itinerant merchant, itinerant vendor, peddler or solicitor, as defined above,
to engage in such business within Twin Falls County without first obtaining a
license therefor in compliance with the provisions of this Chapter.
   B.   Application:
      1.   Application for license under this Chapter, whether a person, firm
or corporation, shall be made by filing with the Twin Falls County Sheriff a
written, sworn application signed by the applicant, if an individual, by all
partners if a partnership, and the president if a corporation, showing:
         a.   The name of the person having the management or supervision of
the applicant's business during the time that it is proposed that it will be
carried on in Twin Falls County; the local address of such person while engaged
in such business; the permanent address of such person; the capacity in which
such person will act; (that is, whether as proprietor, agent or otherwise); the
name and address of the person, firm or corporation for whose account the
business will be carried on, if any; and if a corporation, under the laws of
what State the same is incorporated.
         b.   Idaho State sales tax license number and, if applicable, Idaho
corporation license number.
         c.   The place in Twin Falls County where it is proposed the goods or
property is to be sold, or orders taken for the sale of such goods or property,
the place where such goods are manufactured or produced, where such goods are
located at the time the application is filed, the proposed method of delivery,
and the length of time during which it is proposed that the business shall be
conducted, together with written permission of the property owner, agent or
employee.
         d.   The place other than the permanent place of business of the
applicant within six (6) months next preceding the date of the application
conducting the transient business, stating the nature thereof and giving the
post office and street address of the location thereof.
         e.   A statement of the nature, character and quality of the goods,
wares or merchandise to be sold or offered for sale by the applicant in Twin
Falls County.
         f.   A brief statement of the nature and character of the advertising
done or proposed to be done in order to attract customers.
         g.   Whether or not the person having the management or supervision of
the applicant's business has been convicted of any crime, misdemeanor or
felony, and the place where the conviction occurred, including a statement as
to the nature of the offense, the date, the penalty and punishment assessed for
the crime.
         h.   A two inch by two inch (2" x 2") photograph showing the head and
shoulders in a clear and distinguishable manner of the applicant and any person
selling, delivering, conveying, carrying, transporting goods, wares,
merchandise, food or like merchandise of the applicant or offering to perform
services in the present or future for applicant.
         i.   When the applicant proposes to peddle any food or product for
human consumption, a certification by the South Central Health District shall
be required prior to issuance of a license.
         j.   Such other reasonable information as the Twin Falls County
Sheriff may deem proper to fulfill the purpose of this Chapter in the
protection of the public good.
      2.   The Twin Falls County Sheriff shall prepare a suitable application
in compliance with this Chapter. (Ord. 129, 8-15-1994)
3-2-4: INVESTIGATION; ISSUANCE:
   A.   Investigation: Upon receipt of the application, the Sheriff shall cause
such investigation of the applicant's business responsibility or moral
character to be made. The Sheriff may utilize such departments of the city,
County or State as deemed appropriate in the aid of the investigation. When the
Sheriff requests a criminal history record check by the Criminal Identification
Bureau of the Department of Law Enforcement, State of Idaho, the Sheriff shall
forward the applicant's fingerprints to the Criminal Identification Bureau for
a Statewide criminal history check. As a result of the investigation, if the
applicant's character and business responsibility are found to be
unsatisfactory, the application shall be denied. If, as a result of the
investigation, the character and business reputation appear to be satisfactory,
the Twin Falls County Sheriff shall so certify in writing and license shall be
issued if all of the requirements of this Chapter have been met.
   B.   Record Of Licenses Issued: The Twin Falls County Sheriff shall keep a
full record in his office of all licenses issued, and each such license shall
contain the number of the license, the date the same was issued, the nature of
the business authorized to be carried on, the amount of the license fee paid,
the expiration date of the license, the place where such business may be
carried on under said license, and the name of the person authorized to carry
on the same. (Ord. 129, 8-15-1994)
3-2-5: SERVICE OF PROCESS:
Before any license herein provided for shall be issued for engaging in the
business of an itinerant merchant, as herein defined, such applicant shall file
with the County Commissioners an instrument nominating and appointing the
County Clerk of the District Court his true and lawful agent with full power
and authority to acknowledge service of notice of process for and on behalf of
said applicant in respect to any matters connected with or arising out of the
business transacted under said license, which said instrument shall also
contain recitals to the effect that said applicant for such license consents
and agrees that service of any notice or process may be made upon said agent.
Said instrument shall also contain recitals to the effect that said applicant
for said license consents and agrees that service of any notice or process may
be made upon said agent, and when so made shall be taken and held to be as
valid as if personally served upon the person applying for the license under
this Chapter, according to the law of this or any other state, and waiving any
claim or right of error by reason of such acknowledgement of service or manner
of service. Immediately upon service of process upon the County Clerk of the
District Court, as herein provided, said County Clerk of the District Court
shall send to the licensee at his last known address, by registered mail, a
copy of said process. (Ord. 129, 8-15-1994)
3-2-6: FEES, TERMS OF LICENSE:
The license fee for any peddler, solicitor, canvasser, transient, itinerant
merchant or vendor shall be twenty five dollars ($25.00), payable in advance.
This license shall be valid for three (3) months and renewable no more than
once in the succeeding three (3) months. Each renewal shall be at a cost of
fifteen dollars ($15.00) and be valid for thirty (30) days. (Ord. 129, 8-15-
1994)
3-2-7: BOND REQUIREMENT:
   A.   Amount: Before any license as provided herein shall be issued for
engaging in the business of transient merchant, itinerant merchant or itinerant
vendor, peddler, solicitor or canvasser, as defined in this Chapter each
applicant shall file with the Twin Falls County Sheriff a surety bond or a
cashier's check in the amount of five hundred dollars ($500.00). The bond is to
be conditioned upon saving Twin Falls County harmless from any and all
liabilities or causes of action or expenses arising due to any claims which
might arise by virtue of a grant of a license to applicant and conditioned
further that no dirt, paper, litter or other debris will be permitted to remain
upon the streets or upon any private property. Every business firm, company or
corporation, which has one or more employees or agents acting in the capacity
of peddler, solicitor, canvasser or transient merchant, shall file with the
County Sheriff a surety bond covering all such employees or agents and running
to the County or a cashier's check in the amount of five hundred dollars
($500.00) for each employee and/or agent.
   B.   Approval: Every bond for those engaging in a business as a peddler,
solicitor or canvasser, or transient merchant as defined in this Chapter shall
be executed by the applicant as a principal and at least one surety upon which
service of process may be made in the State of Idaho, said bond to be approved
by the Twin Falls County Prosecuting Attorney, conditioned that the said
applicant and all of the applicant's agents and employees, shall comply fully
with all of the provisions of this Chapter.
   C.   Waiver: Based upon written justification and letters of reference from
local citizens, local business firms, local companies or local corporations, or
being licensed for one year, the above bonding requirements may be waived when
specifically approved by the Twin Falls County Commissioners.
   D.   Action On Bond: Action on the surety bond or cashier's check may be
brought directly by any person damaged by a licensee's violation of any
provision of this Chapter.
   E.   Bond Returned: After expiration of a license, the Twin Falls County
Sheriff shall, upon application of the licensee, return the bond or cashier's
check within six (6) months after receipt of application for return, unless the
County Sheriff has been notified of the pendency of any claim or cause of
action by any person upon the bond or cashier's check or that any of the
provisions of this Chapter have not been complied with. (Ord. 129, 8-15-1994)
3-2-8: EXHIBITION OF LICENSE:
The license issued under this Chapter shall be conspicuously posted at the
place of business named therein or exhibited in a conspicuous place if
applicant is using a motor vehicle and otherwise kept by applicant and
exhibited upon request by a police officer or citizen. In the event that the
applicant shall desire to do business in more than one place within the County,
separate licenses may be issued for each place of business and shall be
conspicuously posted in each place of business. (Ord. 129, 8-15-1994)
3-2-9: DUTY OF SHERIFF TO ENFORCE:
   A.   Examination Of Persons; Premises: It shall be the duty of the Sheriff
of the County to examine all places of business and persons in their respective
territories subject to the provisions of this Chapter, to determine if this
Chapter has been complied with and to enforce the provisions of this Chapter
against any person found to be violating the same.
   B.   Records Maintained: A copy of the license shall be kept by the Sheriff
who shall keep reports of any complaints against any person licensed under the
provisions of this Chapter and any conviction for violation of this Chapter;
the County Sheriff shall keep a record of all such licenses and such complaints
and violations.
   C.   Appeal Of Sheriff's Decision: If the applicant is aggrieved by any
decision of the County Sheriff, the applicant may appeal such decision to the
County Commissioners within seven (7) days of notice of the decision of the
County Sheriff. The applicant must, in writing, appeal to the County
Commissioners and set forth the reasons why the applicant should not be denied
a license. The County Commissioners shall set the time and place for a hearing
a reasonable period of time subsequent to applicant's written notice of appeal.
Notice of such hearing shall be personally served upon the applicant, or mailed
postage prepaid to the applicant at his last know address, at least three (3)
days prior to the date of the hearing. The order of the Twin Falls County
Commissioners shall be final. (Ord. 129, 8-15-1994)
3-2-10: LETTING OF PRIVATE PROPERTY RESTRICTED:
No property owner, nor his agent or employee, shall sublet, lease, sublease or
otherwise permit his property, or property of which he is in charge, to be used
by an itinerant merchant or itinerant vendor, as herein defined, unless
specifically excluded from application of this Chapter or unless the itinerant
vendor or itinerant merchant has obtained a license as provided herein. (Ord.
129, 8-15-1994)
3-2-11: UNLAWFUL CONDUCT:
No licensee hereunder shall:
   A.   Physical Contact Prohibited Without Permission: Make physical contact
with the person being solicited unless that person's permission is obtained;
   B.   Misrepresentation:
      1.   Misrepresent the purpose of the solicitation;
      2.   Misrepresent the affiliation of those engaged in the solicitation;
      3.   Represent the issuance of any license under this Chapter as an
endorsement or recommendation of the solicitation;
   C.   Continued Solicitation: Continue efforts to solicit from an individual
once the individual informs the solicitor that he does not wish to give
anything to or to buy anything from that solicitor;
   D.   Entry To Premises: Enter upon any premises when the same is posted with
a sign stating "No Peddlers Allowed" or other words to such effect;
   E.   False Statements:
      1.   Knowingly make any false statement on an application for a license
hereunder;
      2.   Commit any fraudulent act, misrepresentation or make any false
statement made in the course of carrying on the business. (Ord. 129, 8-15-1994)
3-2-12: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
   A.   Cause: The permits and licenses issued pursuant to this Chapter may be
revoked by the Twin Falls County Commissioners, after notice and hearing, for
any of the following causes:
      1.   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
application for license;
      2.   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in connection
with the selling of goods, wares or merchandise;
      3.   Any violation of this Chapter;
      4.   Conviction of the licensee of any felony or of a misdemeanor
involving moral turpitude; or
      5.   Conducting the business licensed under this Chapter in an unlawful
manner or in such a manner as to constitute a menace to the health, safety or
general welfare of the public.
   B.   Notice Requirements: The Twin Falls County Commissioners may revoke any
license issued under this Chapter for violation of any of the provisions of
this Chapter or any ordinance of the County or laws of the State of Idaho.
Prior to revocation by the Twin Falls County Commissioners, the County Clerk of
the District Court or Twin Falls County Commissioners shall notify the
applicant in writing, setting forth specifically the grounds of the complaint
and the time and place of the hearing. Such notice shall be personally served
upon the licensee, or mailed postage prepaid to the licensee at his last known
address at least three (3) days prior to the date set for the hearing. (Ord.
129, 8-15-1994)
3-2-13: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person violating any section of this Chapter for which special penalty be
not provided, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 129, 8-15-1994; 1996 Code)
CHAPTER 3
CONCESSIONAIRES
SECTION:
3-3-1: Purpose
3-3-2: Definitions
3-3-3: License Requirements
3-3-4: Lease Requirements
3-3-5: License Or Lease Nontransferable
3-3-6: Denial; Appeal
3-3-7: Violation; Penalty
3-3-1: PURPOSE:
Twin Falls County expressly recognizes hereby that the primary purpose of any
park maintained by the county is for the general public's use and enjoyment.
Said use is hereby acknowledged and made the primary purpose behind this
chapter. (Ord. 125, 7-10-2000)
3-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
COMMERCIAL ACTIVITY: Includes any person, partnership or corporation, operating
any occupation, work, trade or traffic, whether for profit or not. Commercial
activity includes the ongoing sale of services or goods and onetime events such
as fundraising concerts or video productions.
PARK: Includes any and all land areas owned, maintained by Twin Falls County
for purposes of recreation and general use by the public. A park also includes
any other land area within the jurisdiction of the Twin Falls County parks and
recreation department.
WATERFRONT PARK: Includes any park maintained by Twin Falls County parks
department which directly abuts a waterway, including, without limitation, the
following: Centennial park, Murtaugh Lake park, Drexler park, and any other
such park as may be so situated. (Ord. 125, 7-10-2000)
3-3-3: LICENSE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Any party desiring to conduct any phase of a commercial activity within
or from any boundary of a park or waterfront park must secure a license for
such purpose from the Twin Falls County parks and advisory board (the board) or
their designated agent.
   B.   In issuing license for onetime events, the board may consider the
public's health, safety, welfare, and may charge a reasonable license fee to
help defray the cost of park maintenance and cleanup.
      1.   Such fee will be set according to a schedule set by the board based
on extent of the public property use and the time the property will be used.
      2.   Failure to obtain a license required under this section shall
constitute an infraction, subjecting any violator to a fine of no more than
twice the applicable license fee. (Ord. 125, 7-10-2000)
3-3-4: LEASE REQUIREMENTS:
In the case of ongoing services such as boat tours, balloon rides and
refreshments, the required license may take the form of a lease.
   A.   Any such lease granted hereunder for proprietors any enterprise shall
be limited to one concessionaire per lease unless otherwise declared in writing
by the board.
   B.   Any such lease applicant must submit the appropriate rental payment, as
set by the board. Failure to pay any fee within thirty (30) days of the date
due is a violation of this chapter, and will be considered grounds for
termination of the lease. Any rental payment will be utilized by the Twin Falls
County parks department for maintenance of the county parks.
   C.   The maximum period for any lease granted hereunder will be given five
(5) years.
   D.   Before issuing a lease for ongoing services, the board should consider:
      1.   Whether public demand exceeds present services;
      2.   Whether an applicant holds necessary license from other agencies;
      3.   Proof of liability insurance in the amount of one million dollars
($1,000,000.00) for concessionaires with Twin Falls County named as an insured;
or proof of liability insurance for all other permittees;
      4.   South Central health department written approval;
      5.   Twin Falls County sheriff's department written approval for marine
activities. (Ord. 125, 7-10-2000)
3-3-5: LICENSE OR LEASE NONTRANSFERABLE:
No license or lease may be sold, exchanged, assigned or transferred without the
consent of the Twin Falls County parks and recreation advisory board. (Ord.
125, 7-10-2000)
3-3-6: DENIAL; APPEAL:
Any applicant denied a license or lease by the board may appeal said decision
to the Twin Falls County commissioners by filing a written notice of appeal
with the Twin Falls County clerk within ten (10) calendar days of denial of any
license or lease by the board. (Ord. 125, 7-10-2000)
3-3-7: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person violating any section of this chapter for which special penalty be
not provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall
be fined in a sum not exceeding three hundred dollars ($300.00). (Ord. 125, 7-
10-2000)
CHAPTER 4
AMBULANCE SERVICES
SECTION:
3-4-1: Definitions
3-4-2: License Required
3-4-3: Ambulance License Application
3-4-4: Ambulance License Liability Insurance
3-4-5: Ambulance Equipment Standards
3-4-6: Attendant-Driver Education
3-4-7: Investigation; License Issuance
3-4-8: License Fees
3-4-9: Suspension; Revocation Of License
3-4-10: Criminal Violations
3-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
AMBULANCE: Any privately-owned motor vehicle specifically designed and equipped
for the operation and transportation of wounded, injured or sick patients.
AMBULANCE SERVICE: Anyone engaging in the business of transporting ill, sick or
injured persons, for hire, or whoever holds himself out as engaging in such
business.
ATTENDANT: Any person responsible for the operation of an ambulance and the
care of the patients.
ATTENDANT-DRIVER: An individual who is qualified as attendant and as a driver
of said ambulance.
DRIVER: An individual who drives an ambulance. (Ord. 20, 1-28-1982)
3-4-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   Ambulance Service: It shall be unlawful for any person, as owner, agent
or otherwise, to be engaged in the business or service of the transportation of
patients originating within Twin Falls County, as an ambulance service unless
he holds a current valid license for said ambulance service issued pursuant of
this Chapter.
   B.   Attendant-Driver: It shall be unlawful for an ambulance to be operated,
driven, attended, or permitted to be operated, within Twin Falls County, unless
said ambulance shall have a valid license and unless said ambulance shall be
under the immediate supervision and control of a person holding a current,
valid Twin Falls driver, attendant, or attendant-driver license. (Ord. 20, 1-
28-1982)
3-4-3: AMBULANCE LICENSE APPLICATION:
Application for ambulance licenses shall be made upon forms prepared or
prescribed by the Board of County Commissioners and shall contain:
   A.   Applicant; Owner Name: The name and address of the applicant and the
owner of the ambulance and ambulance service under which the same ambulance
will be operated.
   B.   Business Name: The trade or fictitious name under which the applicant
does business or proposes to do business.
   C.   Training: The training and experience of the applicant in the
transportation and care of business together with any State emergency medical
service business shall be a prerequisite for Twin Falls County licenses.
   D.   Ambulance Description: A description of each ambulance, including the
make, model, manufacture, motor number and State license number.
   E.   Business Location: The location and description of the place it is
intended to operate from.
   F.   Other Information As Applicable: Such other information as the Board of
Commissioners may deem applicable. (Ord. 20, 1-28-1982)
3-4-4: AMBULANCE LICENSE LIABILITY INSURANCE:
Each ambulance shall, at all times when in use, carry and have in force and
effect insurance coverage issued by an insurance company licensed to do
business in the State of Idaho for each and every ambulance owned and operated
by the applicant or licensee providing the following minimum limits of
liability insurance:
$100,000.00 for property damage to any one person;
$300,000.00 for personal injury to one person;
$500,000.00 for personal injuries in any one occurrence.
(Ord. 20, 1-28-1982)
3-4-5: AMBULANCE EQUIPMENT STANDARDS:
The required equipment in each ambulance shall be set by the Idaho State
Department of Health and Welfare Emergency Medical Services Department and each
applicant for a license shall certify that each ambulance meets the aforesaid
minimum standards. Further, each applicant shall furnish and upon renewal shall
furnish an annual certificate of inspection by the State Emergency Medical
Service stating and setting forth that said ambulance does meet the minimum
standards applicable for that calendar year and set by the State Emergency
Medical Service. (Ord. 20, 1-28-1982)
3-4-6: ATTENDANT-DRIVER EDUCATION:
Each person desiring each applicant for an attendant, driver or attendant-
driver license shall furnish certification by the State Emergency Medical
Services that he has received sufficient training and/or experience to qualify
for the minimum standards of the State Emergency Medical Services. Such
compliance of either of the above inspections shall be deemed to be compliance
with the Twin Falls County minimum standards. (Ord. 20, 1-28-1982)
3-4-7: INVESTIGATION; LICENSE ISSUANCE:
   A.   Investigation By Commissioners: The Board of County Commissioners shall
within a reasonable time after receiving an application for a license cause
such investigation as deemed necessary to be made of the applicant and/or the
applicant's proposed orientation.
   B.   License Issuance: The Board of Commissioners shall issue a license
hereunder for a specified ambulance to be valid for a period of one year when
they find that:
      1.   Said ambulance has complied with the inspection provision of the
State Emergency Medical Service, obtains all the pre-requisite equipment and
appliances required during that period.
      2.   That the attendant, driver, or attendant-driver has received such
education/training as deemed necessary by the State Emergency Medical Services
standards and has successfully passed tests necessary to certify to same.
      3.   That the applicant is a reasonable and proper person to conduct and
operate an ambulance business. (Ord. 20, 1-28-1982)
3-4-8: LICENSE FEES:
All licenses shall bear the date of issue and shall expire December 31 next
following the date of issue, unless sooner suspended, terminated or revoked.
Each business license, ambulance license, driver's license, attendant's license
and attendant-driver's license shall have a fee as set by the Board of County
Commissioners of Twin Falls County. (Ord. 20, 1-28-1982; 1996 Code)
3-4-9: SUSPENSION; REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
   A.   Suspension; Revocation: Any licensee who shall:
      1.   Neglect or refuse to comply with the provisions of this Chapter or
with the conditions under which any license shall be issued; or,
      2.   Who shall violate any of the provisions of any ordinance of this
County; or,
      3.   Who shall violate any provision of the laws of the State of Idaho;
shall be subject to have his license suspended or revoked.
   B.   Notice: The Clerk of the District Court shall give notice of the
suspension or revocation, which notice shall set forth specifically the facts
supporting the charges or grounds for which the license was suspended and such
notice shall be served on the holder of the license. Said notice shall contain
a time and place that the hearing will be held by the Clerk of the District
Court at which time the holder of the license shall be heard in rebuttal. (Ord.
20, 1-28-1982)
3-4-10: CRIMINAL VIOLATIONS:
Any person violating the provisions of this Chapter shall, upon conviction
thereof, be punished by a fine as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 20, 1-28-1982; 1996 Code)
TITLE 4
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
911 EMERGENCY SERVICES
SECTION:
4-1-1: Service Established
4-1-2: Governing Board
4-1-3: Election
4-1-1: SERVICE ESTABLISHED:
A 911 emergency communications service is hereby established to serve the area
of Twin Falls County, Idaho as that County is defined in Idaho Code, section
31-129. (Ord. 109, 9-26-1990)
4-1-2: GOVERNING BOARD:
The governing board shall be the Board of County Commissioners of Twin Falls
County, Idaho. (Ord. 109, 9-26-1990)
4-1-3: ELECTION:
An election of funding for the 911 emergency communications service shall be
held as provided in Idaho Code, section 31-4803, subsections 2 and 3, on
November 6, 1990. (Ord. 109, 9-26-1990)
CHAPTER 2
SOLID WASTE
SECTION:
4-2-1: Definitions
4-2-2: Solid Waste Disposal Sites
4-2-3: Solid Waste Disposal; Delivery
4-2-4: Penalties For Violation
4-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
COMPOSTING: Biological decomposition of organic matter. It is accomplished by
mixing and piling in such a way to promote aerobic and/or anaerobic decay. The
process inhibits pathogens, viable weed seeds and odors.
COMPOSTING, AGRICULTURAL: Large scale production of compost intended for
agricultural use at or near the composting site. Agricultural composting
operations shall comply with local zoning requirements and shall be approved by
the Idaho department of agriculture.
COMPOSTING FACILITY, COMMERCIAL: Facility for the large scale production of
compost intended for sale and use on premises other than that where such
compost is produced. Commercial composting facilities shall be approved by the
South Central district health department and shall comply with local zoning
requirements. Agricultural service composting is not included.
COMPOSTING, PRIVATE: Producing compost, not for sale, on a parcel less than
five (5) acres, not to exceed ten (10) cubic yards at any particular time, for
use on the same premises where such compost is produced.
CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION DEBRIS: Waste building materials, packaging and
rubble resulting from construction, remodeling, repair and demolition
operations on pavements, houses, commercial buildings and other structures.
Such waste includes, but is not limited to, carpet, carpet padding, bricks,
concrete, masonry materials, soil, rock, lumber, road spoils, rebar, paving
materials and tree stumps. Noninert wastes and asbestos wastes are not
considered demolition waste.
RECYCLABLE MATERIALS: Materials that still have useful physical, chemical or
biological properties after serving their original purposes and can, therefore,
be reasonably reused or recycled for the same or other purposes. Recyclable
materials shall be considered solid waste for purposes of this chapter, if they
are not actually recycled.
RECYCLING CENTER: A facility where recyclable materials are collected, sorted,
flattened, crushed or bundled for shipment to reprocessors and reusers of the
materials. Automobile salvage yards may be considered recycling centers for the
purposes of this chapter. Recycling centers shall comply with all other
provisions of this code.
RECYCLING PLANT: A facility where recyclable materials are reprocessed and/or
reused from their waste form into new products or raw materials. Recycling
plants shall comply with all other provisions of this code.
SOLID WASTE: Any garbage, refuse, discarded material, including solid, liquid,
semisolid, or contained gaseous material resulting from industrial, commercial,
mining, and agricultural operations, and from community activities, but does
not include solid or dissolved materials in domestic sewage, or solid or
dissolved materials in irrigation return flows or industrial discharges that
are point sources subject to permits under other applicable law or regulation.
Solid waste includes, but is not limited to, household garbage, tires, scrap
metal, old paints, furniture, toys, discarded appliances, vehicles, empty
aerosol cans, paint cans, compressed gas cylinders, construction and demolition
debris, asbestos, and yard waste. (Ord. 223, 11-4-2011)
4-2-2: SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL SITES:
   A.   Disposal Sites Established: Solid waste disposal sites for the disposal
of garbage, rubbish, or other refuse shall be established at such places as the
Twin Falls County commissioners may from time to time designate by motion or
order and those sites are hereby designated the official disposal sites.
   B.   Disposal Only At Designated Sites: No person shall dispose of solid
wastes anywhere in Twin Falls County except at the official disposal sites,
approved for the type of solid wastes disposed, and designated by the Twin
Falls County board of commissioners.
   C.   Solid Waste Program: The Twin Falls County commissioners may appoint a
director to administer the solid waste program. The director would coordinate,
enforce, and set up such programs with the assistance of the state board of
health and/or the department of agriculture. (Ord. 223, 11-4-2011)
4-2-3: SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL; DELIVERY:
   A.   Delivery Of Solid Waste To District's Sites: From and after November 1,
2002, all solid waste collected from any source or location within Twin Falls
County, Idaho, whether collected by the county, any incorporated city, or by
any commercial collector of solid waste, shall be delivered to the approved
transfer station(s) or other solid waste disposal or resource recovery site(s)
within or designated for the use of the county by the Southern Idaho regional
solid waste disposal district or its successors or assigns.
   B.   Deposit Of Solid Waste: Deposit of solid waste is permitted at official
disposal sites only.
      1.   Dumping Prohibited: No person shall throw, discard, or deposit any
solid waste or refuse in or upon premises, improved or vacant, either public or
private, unless said premises is an official disposal site. No person shall
throw, discard, or deposit any solid waste upon any roadway, street, alley,
sidewalk or vacant ground, or in or upon any canal, irrigation ditch, drainage
ditch or other watercourse.
      2.   Accumulation Prohibited: All persons shall maintain their property
or premises in a sanitary condition, free from solid wastes. No person or
persons, business, corporation, or other entity (except for authorized or
designated sites which comply with all federal, state and local laws) shall
allow solid wastes or refuse to be maintained on any premises, lot or property
under his or her ownership or control. Solid waste may be stored for no more
than fourteen (14) days pending transport to a designated disposal site.
      3.   Deposit On Another's Property Prohibited: It shall be a violation of
this chapter to deposit solid waste on the property of another or to allow
solid waste to accumulate on a person's or entity's own property.
   C.   Recyclable Materials: Recyclable materials shall be stored, handled and
disposed of only at authorized or designated sites which comply with all
federal, state and local laws. Recyclable materials may be stored by
individuals, businesses, corporations, or other entities pending transport to a
recycling center, recycling plant or designated site for no more than one
hundred eighty (180) days. The transport and delivery of recyclable materials
shall be in compliance with all federal, state and local laws. Recyclable
materials shall be considered solid waste for purposes of this chapter if the
materials are not taken to a recycling center or recycling plant within one
hundred eighty (180) days.
   D.   Private Composting: Private composting is allowed. Compostable
materials are not required to be taken to disposal sites, provided that the
materials are currently being composted and the composting is in compliance
with all other applicable laws and regulations. Commercial and agricultural
composting is allowed subject to zoning restrictions and all other applicable
laws and regulations.
   E.   Solid Waste Transportation: No person shall cause or permit a vehicle
used to haul or transport solid waste to be so loaded, or to be of such
construction or condition, so as to permit any of the solid waste to drop or
fall upon or in any street or public way. (Ord. 223, 11-4-2011)
4-2-4: PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION:
   A.   Action: For a violation of this chapter the county may pursue any one
or more of the following actions:
      1.   See voluntary compliance;
      2.   Issue a civil citation (infraction);
      3.   Pursue a civil action to enforce compliance with the terms of this
chapter or to enjoin, restrain or abate any violation of the terms of this
chapter; or to seek any other appropriate remedy;
      4.   Pursue criminal prosecution.
   B.   General Penalties: Violations of this chapter are punishable as
follows:
      1.   For a first violation the violator will be deemed guilty of an
infraction and shall pay the fixed penalty of fifty dollars ($50.00).
      2.   For a second violation within two (2) years, the violator will be
deemed guilty of a second offense infraction and shall pay the fixed penalty of
one hundred dollars ($100.00), notwithstanding that the solid waste involved
may or may not be the same solid waste as was involved in the previous
violation.
      3.   For a third violation within two (2) years, the violator will be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and may be fined up to one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) and may be jailed for up to six (6) months, notwithstanding that
the solid waste involved may or may not be the same solid waste as was involved
in the previous violation.
      4.   Each day of continuing violation may be assessed as a separate
violation. (Ord. 223, 11-4-2011)
CHAPTER 3
UNCLAIMED BODIES
SECTION:
4-3-1: Coroner's Duties
4-3-1: CORONER'S DUTIES:
Seventy two (72) hours after the death of any human being in Twin Falls County,
if said human body is still not removed from any hospital within a seventy two
(72) hour period, then the County Commissioners do hereby authorize, empower,
and direct the Coroner of said County to forthwith take charge of the body as
though said body were unclaimed, notwithstanding the fact that there are known
heirs; and the Coroner is further directed to remove said body to a mortuary
for burial forthwith at County expense. (Ord. 15, 9-5-1969)
CHAPTER 4
BURNING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
4-4-1: Definitions
4-4-2: Accumulation Of Garbage And Rubbish Prohibited
4-4-3: Open Burning Of Garbage Prohibited
4-4-4: Permitted Burning
4-4-5: Time And Manner Of Burning
4-4-6: Burn Permits And Applications
4-4-7: Burn Permit Terminated
4-4-8: Special Fires
4-4-9: Penalty
4-4-10: Enforcement
4-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following terms as used in this chapter are defined as follows:
GARBAGE: All putrescible wastes except sewage, including, but not limited to,
table refuse, swill, offal, waste products of the preparation, consumption and
storage of foodstuff, animal wastes or material which contains animal waste
product, animal products or grass clippings.
NORMALLY ACCEPTABLE YARD WASTE: Includes tree limbs, dry leaves, and other dry
vegetation matter produced on premises that is readily burnable without a great
concentration of smoke. Grass clippings are considered garbage.
NUISANCE: A condition created by an unreasonable or unlawful act or omission by
a person that injures or endangers the health, safety, or comfort of others, is
offensive to community moral standards, or unlawfully obstructs the public in
free use of public or private property.
PERSON: An individual, partnership, corporation, association or any limited
liability entity.
PREMISES: Any publicly or privately owned lot, plot, parcel or tract of real
property, including an alley, right of way, road, street or highway.
RESIDENCE: A dwelling, whether a single unit or a unit in a multiple dwelling
construction.
RUBBISH: All nonputrescible wastes, including, but not limited to, discarded,
worthless personal property, sod and stumps, except for normally acceptable
yard waste or compost piles.
SPECIAL FIRES: See chapter 3, international fire code. Not limited to, but
including, bonfires, recreational fires, and other open burning. (Ord. 196, 5-
21-2007)
4-4-2: ACCUMULATION OF GARBAGE AND RUBBISH PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful to deposit, collect, store, or accumulate or permit the
deposit, collection, storage or accumulation of any garbage and/or rubbish upon
land, lots, premises, alleys, rights of way, or roads in the county, except for
normally acceptable yard waste, and/or garbage produced on premises. (Ord. 196,
5-21-2007)
4-4-3: OPEN BURNING OF GARBAGE PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful to open burn any garbage upon land, lots, premises,
alleys, rights of way, roads, streets or highways. (Ord. 196, 5-21-2007)
4-4-4: PERMITTED BURNING:
Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit or amend existing laws as to the burning
of agricultural fields, ditch banks, weeds, ceremonial fires, personal
recreational fires in a confined area or prohibit the use of open fires for the
purposes of preparing food for human consumption. (Ord. 196, 5-21-2007)
4-4-5: TIME AND MANNER OF BURNING:
   A.   All burning must be conducted during daylight hours and no burning may
remain burning or smoldering after sunset unless it is in a fully enclosed or
covered incinerator, or established fireplace or fire pit.
   B.   All burning must be conducted under constant observation by a
responsible person. (Ord. 196, 5-21-2007)
4-4-6: BURN PERMITS AND APPLICATIONS:
Burning permits for fires to be burned in a fire district are to be obtained
from the fire district wherein the fire is to be located and the procedures for
issuance of such permits shall be established by each fire district. (Ord. 196,
5-21-2007)
4-4-7: BURN PERMIT TERMINATED:
The fire chief, assistant chief, fire officer or fire marshal has the authority
to require that open burning be immediately discontinued (even if valid permit
has been issued) if smoke from burning becomes a nuisance or creates a
hazardous condition or a regional burn ban has been declared by a fire
management agency or the department of environmental quality. (Ord. 196, 5-21-
2007)
4-4-8: SPECIAL FIRES:
Special fires are allowed at the discretion of the fire chief of the district
wherein the fire is to be located. (Ord. 196, 5-21-2007)
4-4-9: PENALTY:
The first violation of this chapter is hereby declared to be a nuisance and may
be punishable as an infraction as defined in Idaho Code section 18-111 and
subject to a fine of seventy five dollars ($75.00). The second violation of
this chapter within a three (3) month period from the date of the first
violation is hereby declared to be a nuisance and may be punishable as an
infraction as defined in Idaho Code section 18-111 and subject to a fine of one
hundred dollars ($100.00). The third violation of this chapter within a three
(3) month period from the date of the first violation is hereby declared to be
a nuisance and may be punishable as a misdemeanor as defined in Idaho Code
section 18-111 and subject to a fine of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00). (Ord.
196, 5-21-2007)
4-4-10: ENFORCEMENT:
Enforcement of this chapter may be by uniform citation issued pursuant to rule
5 of the infraction criminal rules and/or rule 5 of the misdemeanor criminal
rules and by a law enforcement officer defined in rule 2(g) of the infraction
criminal rules and/or rule 2(g) of the misdemeanor criminal rules. A law
enforcement officer for purposes of this chapter shall include, peace officers,
the Twin Falls County sheriff and deputies. A uniform citation for violation of
this chapter shall be personally served upon the owner, if known, or the
occupant or person in charge of the possession of the premises or property on
which the nuisance is found. (Ord. 196, 5-21-2007)
TITLE 5
POLICE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
PUBLIC ASSEMBLIES
SECTION:
5-1-1: Purpose
5-1-2: Definitions
5-1-3: When A Permit Is Required
5-1-4: Timing Of Application
5-1-5: Contents Of Application
5-1-6: Revocation Of Permit
5-1-7: Removal Of Structures
5-1-8: Violation; Penalty
5-1-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to regulate the assemblage of large numbers of
people in order that health, sanitary, fire, police, transportation, and
utility services may be provided for the protection of the health, safety, and
welfare of all persons in the County. (Ord. 289, 5-2-2025)
5-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
ASSEMBLY OR PUBLIC ASSEMBLY: A group of persons gathered together at any
location at any single time for any purpose.
LOUD SOUND: Any noise or sound created at the public assembly that measures at
ninety-six (96) or more decibels.
PERSON: Any individual natural human being, partnership, corporation, firm,
company, association, society, or group. (Ord. 289, 5-2-2025)
5-1-3: WHEN A PERMIT IS REQUIRED:
   A.   Permits Are Required for the Following Public Assemblies:
      1.   Three hundred (300) people or more and alcohol or loud sound: No
person shall permit, maintain, promote, conduct, advertise, act as
entrepreneur, undertake, organize, manage or sell or give tickets to an
assembly, whether on public or private property, where: (a) three hundred (300)
or more people are in attendance or are reasonably anticipated to attend; and
(b) where alcohol will be consumed and/or loud sound will be present; unless a
permit to hold the assembly has first been issued by the Board of County
Commissioners.
      2.   Five hundred (500) people or more: No person shall permit, maintain,
promote, conduct, advertise, act as entrepreneur, undertake, organize, manage
or sell or give tickets to an assembly where five hundred (500) or more people
are in attendance or are reasonably anticipated to attend, whether on public or
private property, unless a permit to hold the assembly has first been issued by
the Board of County Commissioners.
   B.   Multiple Locations: A separate permit shall be required for each non-
contiguous location in which portions of an event take place if the individual
location would require a permit for the portion(s) of the event taking place at
that location. Approval conditions set by the Board of County Commissioners
shall apply to each location.
   C.   Maximum Number of Attendees: A permit shall permit the assembly of no
more than the maximum number of people stated in the permit. The permittee
shall not sell tickets to, nor permit to assemble at the permitted location,
more than the maximum number of allowed people.
   D.   Location of Event: No permit shall be issued to any anticipated
assembly of five hundred (500) or more people where the proposed location is
within one-quarter (1/4) mile of the mean high-water mark of the Snake River
and Rock Creek; or where said location may be hazardous, dangerous or
detrimental to the public health, safety, and/or welfare; unless the Board has
found that appropriate public health, safety, and welfare precautions have been
taken.
   E.   Conditions for Approval: The Board of County Commissioners may make
approval of public assembly permits conditional. The conditions may be based on
the characteristics of the site; the likely impacts on neighbors; the needs of
the event; or any other thing that advances the public health, safety, and/or
welfare.
   F.   Exceptions:
      1.   Allowed in zone: This chapter shall not apply to any business,
church, school, or other organization which is holding a gathering which is
allowed in the zone where the gathering will be held.
      2.   Allowed by permit: This chapter shall not apply to any business,
church, school, or other organization which is holding a gathering which
complies with a Special Use Permit or Conditional Use Permit granted for the
property where the gathering will be held.
      3.   Fairs: This chapter shall not apply to government-sponsored fairs
held on regularly-established fairgrounds.
      4.   City limits: This chapter shall not apply within any incorporated
municipality.
      5.   Expressive activity: This chapter shall not apply to spontaneous
gatherings, for the purpose of expressive activity, that occur in response to
breaking or emerging news. (Ord. 289, 5-2-2025)
5-1-4: TIMING OF APPLICATION:
   A.   An application must be submitted to the County Commissioner's Office
sixty (60) days in advance of the assembly.
   B.   The Board of County Commissioners may forward the application to
relevant stakeholders, including the following, for review:
      1.   The County Sheriff or his designee may provide a recommendation on
the security plan and/or the traffic control plan to the County Commissioners
at least thirty (30) days prior to the proposed assembly.
      2.   The appropriate fire district may provide a recommendation on the
fire protection plan to the County Commissioners at least thirty (30) days
prior to the proposed assembly.
      3.   The appropriate highway district may provide a recommendation on the
traffic control plan at least thirty (30) days prior to the proposed assembly.
   C.   Late Applications: Depending on the schedule of the Board and the
complexity of the application, applications received less than sixty (60) days
prior to an assembly may or may not be reviewed by the Board.
   D.   Items Due After Application Submitted:
      1.   Certificate of Insurance: A Certificate of Insurance shall be filed
with the County Commissioners at least fifteen (15) days prior to the beginning
of the assembly.
      2.   Bond: If the Board of County Commissioners has required a bond, the
bond must be submitted to the County Commissioners at least fifteen (15) days
prior to the date of the assembly.
      3.   Proof of compliance: Proof of compliance with this chapter and any
conditions found necessary by the Board of County Commissioners must be
submitted to the Board at least fifteen (15) days prior to the beginning of the
assembly. The permit will not be issued until appropriate requirements have
been met. (Ord. 289, 5-2-2025)
5-1-5: CONTENTS OF APPLICATION:
The application shall be accompanied by an application fee as set by the board
of County Commissioners.
Each application shall contain the following:
   A.   Location of Property: The address and legal description of all property
upon which the assembly is to be held.
   B.   Signature of Landowner: A statement made upon oath or affirmation by
the record owner(s) of all such property that the applicant has the landowner's
permission to use such property for an assembly with the maximum number of
persons stated in the application.
   C.   Signature of Applicant: A statement made upon oath or affirmation that
the statements contained therein are true and correct to the best knowledge of
the applicant and shall be signed and sworn to or affirmed by the individual
making application in the case of an individual or corporation; by all partners
in the case of a partnership; or by all officers of an association, society, or
group, or, if there are not officers, by all members of such association,
society or group.
   D.   Information about Signatories: The name, residence address, and mailing
address of all people required to sign the application. In the case of a
corporation, a certified copy of the articles of incorporation is required
together with the name, residence address, and mailing address of each person
holding ten percent (10%) or more of the stock of said corporation.
   E.   Right of Entry: The applicant shall agree that, if the County issues a
permit, the Sheriff and Sheriff's deputies shall be allowed entry to the public
assembly to enforce provisions of the permit or this chapter.
   F.   Number of People at Assembly: The maximum number of people which will
be assembled or admitted to the location of the assembly provided, however,
that the maximum number shall not exceed the maximum number which can
reasonably assemble at the location of the assembly in consideration of the
nature of the assembly, or the maximum number of people allowed to sleep within
the boundaries of the location of the assembly by the zoning ordinances of the
County if the assembly is to continue overnight.
   G.   Number of Tickets: The maximum number of tickets to be sold, if any.
   H.   Purpose of Assembly: The nature or purpose of the assembly.
   I.   Length of Assembly: The total number of days and/or hours during which
the assembly is to last.
   J.   How Occupancy will be Limited: The plans of the applicant to limit the
maximum number of persons permitted to assemble.
   K.   Requirements at Applicant's Expense: Before they may be issued a
permit, the applicant shall provide proof that they will furnish at their own
expense before the assembly commences:
      1.   Health requirements:
         a.   Water: The plan for supplying potable water including the source,
amount available, and location of outlets sufficient to meet all federal and
state requirements for purity, sufficient to provide drinking water for the
maximum number of people to be assembled at the rate of at least one gallon per
person per day; and
         b.   Toilet facilities: The plans for providing separate enclosed
toilets, meeting all state and local specifications, conveniently located
throughout the grounds, sufficient to provide facilities for the maximum number
of people to be assembled at the rate of at least one toilet for every one
hundred (100) persons; an efficient sanitary means of disposing of waste matter
deposited therein, which is in compliance with all state and local laws and
regulations; handwashing stations, and a continuous supply of soap and paper
towels shall be provided with each toilet; and
         c.   Garbage: the plans for providing a sanitary method of disposing
of solid waste, in compliance with state and local laws and regulations,
sufficient to dispose of the solid waste production of the maximum number of
people to be assembled at the rate of at least two and one-half (21/2) pounds
of solid waste per person per day, together with a plan for holding and a plan
for collecting all such waste and sufficient trash cans with tightfitting lids
and personnel to perform the task; and
         d.   Emergency medical service providers: plans for providing
emergency medical service providers, licensed to practice in the state of
Idaho, sufficient to provide emergency assistance for the maximum number of
people to be assembled at the rate of at least two emergency medical service
providers for every two thousand (2,000) people; together with an enclosed
covered facility where treatment may be rendered including the location of the
medical facility, the hours of availability of emergency medical service
providers, and provisions for emergency ambulance service.
      2.   Lighting: If the assembly is to continue during hours of darkness,
plans to provide illumination sufficient to light the central area of the
assembly, including the medical and health facilities; but not to shine
unreasonably beyond the boundaries of the enclosed location of the assembly.
The plans shall include the source of power, the amount of power, and the
location of lamps.
      3.   Parking: The plans for a parking area inside of the assembly grounds
sufficient to provide parking space for the maximum number of people to be
assembled at the rate of at least one parking space for every four (4) persons.
Plans shall include the size and location of lots, points of highway access,
and interior roads including routes between highway access and parking lots. In
the event that the site and access to it cannot handle the number of people
expected to attend the assembly, the County Commissioners can require the
promoter to provide parking at other sites with transportation between the
parking site and the site of the assembly to be provided by the promoter.
      4.   Emergency communication: The plans for a dependable method of
communication sufficient to provide service for the maximum number of people to
be assembled, at the rate of at least one separate device for each two thousand
(2,000) persons, including the source, number, and location of communication
devices.
      5.   Camping facilities: If the assembly is a multi-day event and will
include camping, plans shall be provided describing camping facilities that are
in compliance with all federal, state and local requirements.
      6.   Security guards: The plans for security, including the number of
guards and hours of availability, using either regularly-employed, duly sworn
off-duty peace officers of the state of Idaho; private guards licensed in the
County; or other qualified individuals sufficient to provide adequate security
for the maximum number of people to be assembled at the rate of at least one
security guard for every two hundred fifty (250) people as a minimum shall be
provided by the promoter.
      7.   Fire protection: The plans for fire protection including the number,
type, and location of all protective devices including alarms, extinguishers,
fire lanes, and escapes sufficient to meet all federal, state, and local
standards for the location of the assembly and sufficient emergency personnel
to efficiently operate the required equipment.
      8.   Food concessions: The plans for food concessions and concessionaires
(if any) who will be allowed to operate on the ground, including the names and
addresses of all concessionaires and their license or permit numbers.
      9.   Traffic control: Plans for an emergency entrance and exit to and
from the site of the proposed assembly. Said emergency entrance and exit shall
be kept open at all times for the use of emergency vehicles. The promoter is
responsible for providing traffic control personnel.
      10.   Insurance policy: A Certificate of Insurance, filed with the Board
of County Commissioners, underwritten by an insurance company licensed to do
business in Idaho in the minimum amount of one million dollars ($1,000,000.00),
which shall indemnify and hold harmless Twin Falls County or any of its agents,
officers, servants and employees from any liability or causes of action which
might arise by reason of granting this permit, and from any cost incurred in
cleaning up any waste material produced or left by the assembly, at the site or
surrounding areas. A Certificate of Insurance shall be filed with the County
Commissioners at least fifteen (15) days prior to the beginning of the
assembly.
      11.   Performance bond: At the discretion of the Board of Twin Falls
County Commissioners, a performance bond may be required to ensure compliance
with all terms of this chapter and/or to pay for potential damage to adjoining
or non-adjoining properties within one thousand (1,000) feet of the site of the
proposed assembly. (Ord. 289, 5-2-2025)
5-1-6: LICENSE ISSUANCE:
The application for a license shall be processed and issued after proof of
compliance with this chapter has been submitted to the board of county
commissioners. Proof of compliance with this chapter must be submitt
5-1-7: REMOVAL OF STRUCTURES:
All structures, installations, excavations and construction shall be removed by
the permittee from the site of the assembly at the termination of the event. In
the event this is not accomplished within ten (10) days after the assembly, the
County is authorized to accomplish the removal and charge the cost of the
removal against the performance bond or the permittee. (Ord. 289, 5-2-2025)
5-1-8: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   Public Assembly Without Permit: No public assembly for which a permit
is required shall take place without a permit. A landowner, leaseholder,
promoter, ticket-seller, or other person who holds, organizes, or allows such
an assembly, or in any manner violates this chapter, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor with penalties as set forth in Twin Falls County Code
1-4-1. Each day of violation shall be considered a separate offense.
   B.   Violation of any conditions of a Permit are punishable as follows:
      1.   For a first violation the violator will be deemed guilty of an
infraction and shall pay the fixed penalty of $200.00.
      2.   For a second violation within two (2) years, the violator will be
deemed guilty of a second offense infraction and shall pay the fixed penalty of
$300.00.
      3.   For a third violation within three (3) years, the violator will be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and may be fined up to one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) and may be jailed for up to six (6) months. In addition, applicants
and/or the venue promoter shall be barred from applying for any future public
assembly permit for 5 years from the date of the first violation.
      4.   Each day of violation shall be considered a separate offense. (Ord.
289, 5-2-2025)
CHAPTER 2
GENERAL OFFENSES
SECTION:
5-2-1: Hunting By Artificial Light
5-2-2: Chemical Substance Sale; Inhalation
5-2-1: HUNTING BY ARTIFICIAL LIGHT:
   A.   Definition: For the purposes of this Section, "hunting" shall mean
chasing, driving, flushing, attracting, pursuing, worrying, following after or
on the trail of, trapping, shooting at, stalking, or lying in wait for, any
wildlife, whether or not such wildlife is then or subsequently captured,
killed, taken, or wounded. Such term does not include stalking, attracting,
searching for, or lying in wait for, any wildlife by an unarmed person solely
for the purpose of watching wildlife or taking pictures thereof.
   B.   Restrictions: It shall be unlawful to cast or throw, after sunset, the
beam or rays of any spotlight, headlight or other artificial light capable of
utilizing six (6) volts or more of electrical power upon any field, forest, or
other place where animals may be reasonably expected to be present, or upon any
animal, or in attempting to locate any animal by any person while having in his
possession or under his control any uncased firearm or contrivance capable of
killing same, which shall be prima facie evidence of hunting with an artificial
light.
   C.   Exceptions: Nothing in this Section shall apply where the headlights of
a motor vehicle, operated and proceeding in a normal manner on any highway or
roadway, cast a light upon any animal on or adjacent to such highway or roadway
and there is no intent or attempt to locate such animal. (Ord. 37, 2-3-1977)
   D.   Penalty: Any person guilty of a violation of the improvision hereof is
punishable by a fine as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 37, 2-3-1977; 1996 Code)
5-2-2: CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE SALE; INHALATION:
   A.   Prohibited Acts: It shall be unlawful for any person for the purpose of
causing a condition of intoxication, inebriation, excitement, stupefaction, or
dulling of brain or nervous system intentionally to sell, ingest, or inhale the
fumes of any chemical substance containing a solvent or chemical compound
having the property of releasing toxic vapors or fumes.
   B.   Responsibility Of Other Persons: It shall be unlawful for any person by
act or neglect to encourage, aid, or cause any person under the age of eighteen
(18) years to come within the purview of this Section. (Ord. 13, 9-10-1968)
   C.   Penalty: Violation of this Section shall be punishable as provided in
Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 13, 9-10-1968; 1996 Code)
CHAPTER 3
FIREARMS
SECTION:
5-3-1: Discharging Of Firearms Prohibited
5-3-2: Discharge Of Firearms In Twin Falls County Parks
5-3-3: Hunting In County Parks
5-3-4: Violation
5-3-5: Repeal Of Conflicting Provisions
5-3-6: Severability
5-3-1: DISCHARGING OF FIREARMS PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any person to discharge a firearm in the area of Twin Falls
County unless such discharge is pursuant to the following:
   A.   Any officer of the law from discharging a firearm in the performance of
his duty; or
   B.   A person from discharging a firearm in the lawful defense of person or
persons or property; or
   C.   A person discharging a firearm in the course of lawful hunting; or
   D.   A landowner and guests of the landowner discharging a firearm, when the
discharge will not endanger persons or property; or
   E.   A person from discharging a firearm on an approved sport shooting range
as defined in section 55-2604, Idaho Code; or
   F.   A person discharging a firearm in the course of target shooting on
public land if the discharge will not endanger persons or property. (Ord. 238,
8-29-2014)
5-3-2: DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS IN TWIN FALLS COUNTY PARKS:
It is unlawful for any person, subject to the exceptions contained in Idaho
Code section 18-3302J, to discharge a firearm while in a Twin Falls County park
or into a Twin Falls County park or park located within Twin Falls County.
(Ord. 238, 8-29-2014)
5-3-3: HUNTING IN COUNTY PARKS:
It is unlawful for any person to hunt in Twin Falls County parks. (Ord. 238, 8-
29-2014)
5-3-4: VIOLATION:
A violation of this chapter is a misdemeanor and shall be punished in
accordance with the definition contained in Idaho Code. (Ord. 238, 8-29-2014)
5-3-5: REPEAL OF CONFLICTING PROVISIONS:
This chapter hereby repeals all provisions of Twin Falls County ordinances
which conflict with the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 238, 8-29-2014)
5-3-6: SEVERABILITY:
Irrespective of the basis of the invalidity, if any term or condition of this
chapter is invalid the remaining terms and conditions of this chapter are
severable. (Ord. 238, 8-29-2014)
CHAPTER 4
MINORS
SECTION:
5-4-1: Definitions
5-4-2: Truancy
5-4-3: Runaway; Incorrigibility
5-4-4: Curfew
5-4-5: Parental Responsibility
5-4-6: Enforcement Procedures
5-4-7: Penalties; Treatment
5-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
EMANCIPATED: Any person either eighteen (18) years of age or older, or if under
the age of eighteen (18), any person who is married or has been married; or any
person who is in active military service; or any person who is both self-
supporting and neither resides with nor is subject to parent control.
EMERGENCY: Any unforeseen health, accident, or crime-related exigency calling
for immediate action.
INCORRIGIBLE: Any juvenile who is uncontrollable.
JUVENILE: Any person less than the age of eighteen (18) and who has not been
duly emancipated.
PARENT: Any person having legal custody of a juvenile: a) as a natural or
adoptive parent; b) as a legal guardian; c) as a person who stands in loco
parentis; or d) as a person to whom legal custody has been given by order of
court.
REMAIN: To stay behind, to tarry and to stay unnecessarily upon the streets,
including the congregating of groups (or of interacting minors) totaling four
(4) or more persons in which any juvenile involved would not be using the
streets for ordinary or serious purposes such as mere passage or going home.
RUNAWAY: A juvenile under the age of eighteen (18) who has physically removed
himself from the supervision and control of his parents with the intent to
remain beyond the control of his parents.
STREET: A way or place, of whatsoever nature, open to the use of the public as
a matter of right for purposes of vehicular travel. The term "street" includes
the legal right of way, including, but not limited to, the cartway or traffic
lanes, the curb, the sidewalks whether paved or unpaved, and any grass plots or
other grounds found within the legal right of way of a street. The term street
applies irrespective of what it be called or formally named, whether alley,
avenue, court, road or otherwise. The term street shall also include shopping
centers, parking lots, parks, playgrounds, public buildings and similar areas
that are open to the public.
TIME OF NIGHT: Referred to herein is based upon the prevailing standard of
time, whether Mountain Standard Time or Mountain Daylight-Saving Time,
generally observed at that hour by the public in the County, prima facie the
time then observed in the Emergency Dispatch Center.
TRUANCY: As defined in the school regulations.
YEARS OF AGE: Continues from one birthday, such as the sixteenth to (but not
including the day of) the next, such as the seventeenth birthday. (Ord. 145,
12-29-1997)
5-4-2: TRUANCY:
   A.   Goals: Twin Falls County areas recognize the importance of school
attendance. Children must be taught in order to live in an ordered society.
   B.   Prohibited Acts: Any person between the ages of seven (7) years and
sixteen (16) years, living in the cities/County of Twin Falls who is deemed
truant from school or class, under the attendance regulations of the school,
without the consent of the student's parent/guardian or school officials is
guilty of a status offense.
   C.   Responsibility For Instruction: The parent or guardian of any child
resident in this State who has attained the age of seven (7) years at the time
of the commencement of school in his/her district, but not the age of sixteen
(16) years, shall cause the child to be instructed in subjects commonly and
usually taught in the public schools for the State. Unless the child is
otherwise comparably instructed, the parent or guardian shall cause the child
to attend a public, private, or parochial school during a period in each year
equal to that in which the public schools are in session; thereto conform to
the attendance policies and regulations established by the board of trustees,
or other governing body, operating the school attended, or the attendance
requirements of the parents in home schools.
   D.   Exceptions: Any exceptions to the requirement as codified by any school
district or as contained in Idaho Code, title 33, chapter 2 are hereby
recognized and given full force and effect. (Ord. 145, 12-29-1997)
5-4-3: RUNAWAY; INCORRIGIBILITY:
   A.   Goals: The County Commissioners recognize the importance of the family
as crucial to a child's development.
   B.   Prohibited Acts: It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of
eighteen (18), living or found in Twin Falls County, State of Idaho, to attempt
to run away or to run away from his parents, guardian or other legal custodian,
or to be or remain a person who has run away from his parents, guardian or
other legal custodian, or who commits or has committed any act or acts which
render him incorrigible or places him beyond the control of his parents,
guardian, or other legal custodian. (Ord. 145, 12-29-1997)
5-4-4: CURFEW:
   A.   Age And Hour Restrictions: It shall be unlawful for any person under
the age of eighteen (18) years to be or remain in or upon the streets within
Twin Falls County, at night, during the period beginning at eleven o'clock (11:
00) P.M. and ending at five o'clock (5:00) A.M. Sunday through Saturday.
Daytime curfew hours, during the school year session, are eight thirty o'clock
(8:30) A.M. to one thirty o'clock (1:30) P.M.
   B.   Exceptions: In the following exceptional cases, a minor on a County
street during the nocturnal hours for which subsection A of this Section is
intended to provide the maximum limits of regulation (and a clear guide for
minors, their parents, and their fellow citizens) shall not, however, be
considered in violation of these curfew provisions:
      1.   When accompanied by a parent or guardian of said juvenile.
      2.   When accompanied by an adult authorized by a parent of said minor.
      3.   When exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United
States Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech,
and the right of assembly. The juvenile shall evidence the bona fides of such
exercise by first delivering to the person designated by the Twin Falls County
Sheriff to receive such information, at the County building on Shoshone Street
North, in the city of Twin Falls, a written communication, signed by the
juvenile and countersigned, if practicable, by a parent of the juvenile with
their home address and telephone number, specifying when, where and in what
manner the juvenile will be on the streets at night (during hours when this
Chapter is otherwise applicable to said minor) in the exercise of a First
Amendment right specified in such communication.
      4.   When the juvenile is on the sidewalk of a place where said juvenile
resides, or on the sidewalk of either next-door neighbor not communicating an
objection to law enforcement.
      5.   When returning home, by a direct route from (and within 1 hour or
reasonable travel time after the termination of) any legitimate activity
consented to by the parent, school, or community-sponsored activity or any
activity of a religious or other voluntary association such as night classes,
library study, dances, proms, church socials, religious midnight masses or
other late night religious services, political activities including County
Commissioner meetings, athletic events, concerts and cultural or contemporary
music events.
      6.   When the juvenile carries a certified letter of employment,
renewable each calendar month when the current facts so warrant, dated, or
reissued not more than forty five (45) days previously, and briefly identifying
the juvenile, the addresses of his home and of his place of employment, and his
hours of employment.
      7.   When the juvenile is, with parental consent, in a motor vehicle.
This contemplates normal travel. It is the intention of this provision to
clearly exempt bona fide interstate movements along major routes through Twin
Falls County and interstate travel beginning or ending in Twin Falls County.
      8.   In the event of an emergency.
      9.   Each of the foregoing exceptions, and their several limitations such
as provisions for notification, are severable, as hereinafter provided, are
hereby reemphasized. These exceptions will be considered by the Commissioners
as warranted by future experience illuminated by the views of student
government associations, school personnel, citizens, associations, parents,
officers, and persons in authority concerned positively with juveniles as well
as with juvenile delinquency. (Ord. 145, 12-29-1997)
5-4-5: PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY:
It shall be unlawful for a parent having legal custody of a juvenile knowingly
to permit or by inefficient control to allow the juvenile to violate any of the
provisions of this Chapter under circumstances not constituting an exception
to, or otherwise, beyond the scope of, this Chapter. The term "knowingly"
includes knowledge which a parent should reasonably be expected to have
concerning the activities, conduct or whereabouts of a juvenile in that
parent's legal custody. It is intended to continue to keep neglectful or
careless parents up to a reasonable community standard of parental
responsibility through an objective test. It shall, therefore, be no defense
that a parent was completely indifferent to the activities. (Ord. 145, 12-29-
1997)
5-4-6: ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES:
   A.   Contacting Parents; Guardians: If a Sheriff's officer reasonably
believes that a juvenile is in violation of any of the provisions of this
Chapter, the officer shall notify the juvenile that he/she is in violation of
this Chapter, and shall require the juvenile to provide his/her name, address
and telephone number and how to contact his or her parent or guardian.
   B.   Determining Age Of Juvenile: In determining the age of the juvenile,
and in the absence of convincing evidence such as a birth certificate, a
Sheriff's officer on the street shall, in the first instance, use his/her best
judgment in determining age.
   C.   Questioning Of Juvenile; Parents: The normal procedure shall then be to
take the juvenile to the Twin Falls County Courthouse where a parent or
guardian shall immediately be notified to come for the juvenile. The juvenile
and/or parents or guardian shall then be questioned. This is intended to permit
ascertainment, under constitutional safeguards of relevant facts, and to
centralize responsibility in the person designated there and then on duty for
accurate, effective, fair, impartial and uniform enforcement, and recording,
thus making available experienced personnel and access to information and
records.
   D.   Release Into Custody Of Parent Or Guardian: When a parent or guardian,
immediately called, has come to take charge of the juvenile, and the
appropriate information has been recorded, the juvenile shall be released to
the custody of such parent. If the parent cannot be located or fails to take
charge of the juvenile, then the juvenile shall temporarily be entrusted to an
adult relative, neighbor, or other person who will on behalf of a parent or
guardian assume the responsibility of caring for the juvenile pending the
availability or arrival of a parent or guardian.
   E.   Written Acknowledgement Of Status Offense: Upon release of the juvenile
to his/her parent, the juvenile and parent shall sign a written acknowledgement
of the County's curfew, runaway, incorrigible, and truancy regulations which
notice shall be presumptive evidence of knowledge of this Chapter.
   F.   Status Offenders: Status offenders shall not be placed in any jail
facility, but instead may be placed in juvenile shelter care facilities, except
in the case of runaways, when there is specific detention request from a
foreign jurisdiction to hold the child pending transportation agreements.
   G.   Enforcement Limitations: This Chapter expressly excludes enforcement of
this Chapter within the territorial limits of any incorporated municipality
within Twin Falls County. (Ord. 145, 12-29-1997)
5-4-7: PENALTIES; TREATMENT:
   A.   Status Offense: Any juvenile who violates any provision of this Chapter
shall be guilty of a status offense punishable by the provision according to
State code of the Juvenile Corrections Act of 1994.
   B.   Violations By Parents Or Guardian: Any parent or guardian who shall
violate any of the provisions of this Chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor,
may be punished by jail time of up to six (6) months, and a fine of five
hundred dollars ($500.00). Said parent or guardian may also be required to
attend class instructions on parenting provided through Twin Falls County
Juvenile Probation Office. The purpose of the instruction is to provide the
parents with more ideas and support in raising their children.
   C.   Misdemeanor: Upon a first offense of any of the provisions of this
Chapter by the juvenile or parent, the Prosecuting Attorney may request a
preliminary inquiry from the Department of Juvenile Probation for screening and
assessment according to the Department of Juvenile Probation's designated and
authorized procedures.
   D.   Repeat Offender: Any child who has been adjudicated for commission of
two (2) status offenses within twelve (12) months may be charged, petitioned,
and adjudicated as a habitual status offender for the third status offense
committed within that twelve (12) month period. (Ord. 145, 12-29-1997)
CHAPTER 5
FIREWORKS
SECTION:
5-5-1: Definitions
5-5-2: Dangerous Fireworks Restricted; Permit
5-5-3: Safe And Sane Fireworks; Permit
5-5-4: Public Display Of Fireworks; Permit
5-5-5: Permit Revocation
5-5-6: Violation; Penalty
5-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
DANGEROUS FIREWORKS: Includes any of the following:
   A.   Firecrackers, cannon crackers, giant crackers, salutes, silver tube
salutes, cherry bombs, mines, ground bombardment, grasshoppers and other
explosive articles of similar nature.
   B.   Blank cartridges.
   C.   Skyrockets and rockets, including all similar devices employing any
combustible or explosive material and which rise in the air during discharge.
   D.   Roman candles, including all devices which discharge balls of fire into
the air.
   E.   Chasers and whistles, including all devices which dart or travel about
the surface of the ground during discharge.
   F.   Snakes and hats containing bichloride of mercury.
   G.   Sparklers more than ten inches (10") in length or one-fourth inch (1/
4") in diameter or made with other than iron wires.
   H.   All articles for pyrotechnic display such as aerial shells, salutes,
flash shells, sky battles, parachute shells, mines, Dago bombs, and similar
devices.
   I.   All torpedoes which explode by means of friction or which contain
arsenic and all other similar fireworks devices including cracker balls.
   J.   Fire balloons or balloons or any type which have burning material of
any kind attached thereto.
FIREWORKS: Shall include blank cartridges, toy pistols, toy cannons, toy canes
or toy guns in which explosives are used, fire balloons (balloons of a type
which have burning material of any kind attached thereto or which require fire
underneath to propel them), firecrackers, torpedoes, skyrockets, rockets, Roman
candles, fountains, wheels, Dago bombs, sparklers, and other fireworks of like
construction and any fireworks containing any combustible or explosive
substances for the purpose of producing a visible or audible effect by
combustion, deflagration, explosion or detonation.
Exempted from this part are all toy pistols, toy cannons, toy canes and toy
guns and similar devices such as party poppers or party favors in which paper
caps containing not more than twenty five one hundredths (0.25) grain of
explosive compound per cap are used and such caps whether single, roll or tape
type.
PUBLIC DISPLAY OF FIREWORKS: An entertainment feature where the public is
admitted or permitted to view the display or discharge of dangerous fireworks.
SAFE AND SANE FIREWORKS: Includes any of the following:
   A.   Cone fountains with pyrotechnic composition not exceeding fifty grams
(50 g) each.
   B.   Cylindrical fountains, whether base, spike or handle, with pyrotechnic
composition not exceeding seventy five grams (75 g) each and inside tube
diameter not exceeding three-fourth inch (3/4").
   C.   Sparklers and "dipped sticks" not more than ten inches (10") in length
or one-fourth inch (1/4") in diameter, made of steel or iron wire and Suzuki
and Morning Glories with pyrotechnic composition not exceeding four grams (4 g)
each.
   D.   Snakes which do not contain bichloride of mercury and pyrotechnic
composition not exceeding two grams (2 g) each.
   E.   Wheels with pyrotechnic composition not exceeding sixty (60) grains for
each complete wheel. The inside tube diameter of driver unit shall not exceed
one-half inch (1/2").
   F.   Whistles, without report and which do not dart or travel about the
ground during discharge, with pyrotechnic composition not exceeding six grams
(6 g) and containing no picric or gallic acid. (Ord. 11, 5-25-1982; amd. 1996
Code)
5-5-2: DANGEROUS FIREWORKS RESTRICTED; PERMIT:
It shall be unlawful for any person to possess, keep, store, or use within the
County of Twin Falls, any dangerous fireworks unless such person be the holder
of a valid fireworks permit for public display. (Ord. 11, 5-25-1982)
5-5-3: SAFE AND SANE FIREWORKS; PERMIT:
   A.   Permit Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, store, or
keep for sale any safe and sane fireworks anywhere within the County of Twin
Falls unless such person be the holder of a valid permit for sale of safe and
sane fireworks.
   B.   Application Process: Permits shall be obtained by applying to the City
Fire Department or fire protection district that has jurisdiction for the area
where the proposed sale of fireworks is to take place.
   C.   Sale: No safe and sane fireworks shall be sold, or offered for sale
except from twelve o'clock (12:00) noon June 15 to midnight on July 5 of each
year. (Ord. 248, 11-14-2017)
5-5-4: PUBLIC DISPLAY OF FIREWORKS; PERMIT:
   A.   Permit Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct a
public display of fireworks within the County of Twin Falls unless such person
be the holder of a valid permit for the public display of fireworks.
   B.   Application Process: Permits shall be obtained by applying to the City
Fire Department or fire protection district that has jurisdiction for the area
where the proposed public display of fireworks is to take place. (Ord. 248, 11-
14-2017)
5-5-5: PERMIT REVOCATION:
Any permit granted under this chapter may be revoked by order of the Board of
County Commissioners for any violation of law or ordinance committed, or
suffered to be committed, by the permittee in connection with fireworks. (Ord.
11, 5-25-1982)
5-5-6: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof, shall be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 11, 5-25-1982; amd. 1996 Code)
CHAPTER 6
DOG CONTROL
SECTION:
5-6-1: Definitions
5-6-2: Licensing And Fees Required
5-6-3: Anti Rabies Vaccination Required
5-6-4: Restricted, Prohibited Acts And Conditions
5-6-5: Destruction Of Dogs
5-6-6: Impoundment Procedures; Fees
5-6-7: Vicious Dogs
5-6-8: Violation; Penalty
5-6-9: Nuisance Behavior In Parks
5-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this Chapter the following terms shall have the meaning set
forth in this Section unless the context otherwise indicates:
AT LARGE: Any dog off or away from the premises of the owner, and not under the
control of such owner or his agent by confinement within a vehicle, or
otherwise restrained and under the immediate control of a competent and
responsible person.
DOG: Any male, female, spayed female or neutered male dog of any age including
wolves, coyotes, or any animal of the dog family domesticated, wild or crossed.
IMPOUNDED: Having been received into the custody of the Twin Falls County
Sheriff's Department or into the custody of the People for Pets Humane Society
or other designated agent of the Twin Falls County Sheriff's Department.
NUISANCE DOG: A dog which molests passersby or passing vehicles, trespasses on
property not owned by the dog's owner, is repeatedly at large, damages public
or private property, or barks, whines, or howls, in an excessive, continuous or
untimely fashion.
OWNER: Any person, persons, firm, association or corporation owning, keeping or
harboring a dog or dogs.
POUND: Any animal shelter, lot, premises, or building for the confinement and
care of dogs seized under the provisions of this Chapter.
VICIOUS DOG: Any dog, which when unprovoked, has bitten, clawed, or otherwise
harmed or constitutes a physical threat to persons or other animals, or a dog
whose temperament or habits endanger or menace any person or other animal. This
term shall not include a dog that bites, attacks, or menaces a person or other
animal that has tormented or injured the dog. (Ord. 133, 6-26-1995)
5-6-2: LICENSING AND FEES REQUIRED:
   A.   Procuring From Animal Shelter: For any animal that is procured from the
city animal shelter, the appropriate fee designated by said city animal shelter
must be paid. Said fee shall be maintained in a trust account to be
administered by the People for Pets Humane Society and used for the care and
control of County dogs.
   B.   Adoption Fees: Any County resident who adopts a dog within the control
of the People for Pets Humane Society under the auspices of the City shall pay
an adoption fee in the amount as set by the People for Pets Humane Society.
Said fee shall be maintained in a trust account to be administered by the
People for Pets Humane society and used for the care and control of County
dogs.
   C.   License Fees: Any dog found in the County and brought to the
impoundment facilities within the city shall be licensed prior to the dog's
release. The license fee shall be set by the People for Pets Humane Society.
The fees shall be maintained in a trust account to be administered by the
People for Pets Humane Society and used for the care and control of County
dogs. (Ord. 133, 6-26-1995)
5-6-3: ANTI RABIES VACCINATION REQUIRED:
Every dog shall be vaccinated by a licensed veterinarian with anti rabies
vaccine by the time any dog reaches the age of six (6) months and every three
(3) years thereafter on the anniversary date on the first vaccination;
provided, that the vaccination used is of the chick embryo type. Otherwise the
dog must be inoculated annually. Upon the vaccination, the veterinarian shall
issue to the owner a certificate or tag showing the date of vaccination and
said rabies tag must be affixed to the collar of the dog and worn at all times.
(Ord. 133, 6-26-1995)
5-6-4: RESTRICTED, PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Running At Large: It shall be unlawful for any person to own, harbor,
or have in his/her control a dog, whether the dog is licensed or not, which dog
is found at large upon the streets or alleys or the County, or in any public
place in the County or upon any other premises without the consent of the
person in possession of such premises. Said person who owns, harbors or has in
his/her control said dog is responsible for such dog being at large in
violation of this Chapter except:
      1.   When such dog is in the presence of a person and controlled by a
leash, not to exceed ten feet (10') in length; or
      2.   When such dog is confined to a motor vehicle; or
      3.   When such dog is in the immediate care and control of a competent
and responsible person.
   B.   Rabies Suspect:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for a person to own, harbor, or keep any dog
afflicted with rabies.
      2.   The Twin Falls County Sheriff's office or the People for Pets Humane
Society, shall secure, for destruction, any dog afflicted with rabies.
      3.   It is hereby made the duty of an owner of a dog showing symptoms of
rabies, or of an unvaccinated dog which has bitten any person causing an
abrasion of the skin to surrender the dog for confinement at the People for
Pets Humane Society, or a licensed veterinarian, for a minimum of ten (10)
days. If such a dog shall be determined to be free of rabies, the same shall be
returned to the owner upon payment of the regular fee for keeping dogs
impounded. If such fee is not paid, the dog shall be subject to disposal as
provided by disposition of unclaimed dogs in this Chapter. At the discretion of
either the Sheriff, the People for Pets Humane Society, or the South Central
District Health Department, if the owner of the subject dog submits a
certificate of current rabies vaccination the quarantine of the dog may be upon
the premises of the owner, or the person in charge of such dog, if the dog is
securely confined and is kept from contact with other animals.
   C.   Nuisance Dog: It shall be unlawful for any person to own, harbor, or
have in his/her possession any dog or dogs which acts in a manner consistent
with the definition of a nuisance dog as defined in Section
5-6-1 of this Chapter. Such dog shall be deemed a nuisance and shall be
prohibited and may be subject to impound pursuant to this Chapter.
   D.   Vicious Dogs: It shall be unlawful for any person to own, harbor, or
have in his/her possession any dog or dogs which, when unprovoked act in a
manner consistent with the definition of a vicious dog as defined in Section
5-6-1 of this Chapter. Such dog or dogs shall be prohibited and may be subject
to impound and destruction pursuant to this Chapter. (Ord. 133, 6-26-1995)
5-6-5: DESTRUCTION OF DOGS:
Any dog impounded hereunder and/or suffering from serious injury or disease,
may be humanely destroyed at the discretion of the People for Pets Humane
Society. (Ord. 133, 6-26-1995)
5-6-6: IMPOUNDMENT PROCEDURES; FEES:
The People for Pets Humane Society, or Twin Falls County Sheriff's office,
shall capture and impound any dog running at large or found to be a nuisance
pursuant to this Chapter. Notice and terms of the impoundment, redemption and
disposal of such dogs shall be as follows:
   A.   Record Of Impounding: Immediately after impounding any dog hereunder it
shall be the duty of the People for Pets Humane Society, to enter upon the
records of the animal shelter, the date of impounding, the description of the
dog impounded, and the record as whether or not such dog has been licensed as
required by the People for Pets Humane Society.
   B.   Licensed Dogs: Within twenty four (24) hours after impoundment of a dog
with a valid license, the People for Pets Humane Society shall give notice of
impoundment by mailing a letter or contacting the known owner of said dog and
shall notify the owner of his right to redeem the dog from impoundment within
forty eight (48) hours from the day of impoundment.
   C.   Reclaiming Dog; Fees: Any licensed or unlicensed dog may be reclaimed
by the owner thereof within forty eight (48) hours of impoundment by first
presenting a current dog license if the dog is unlicensed, and by paying the
People for Pets Humane Society ten dollars ($10.00) if spayed or fifteen
dollars ($15.00) if not spayed for the impoundment of the dog, and three
dollars ($3.00) per day for boarding for first time offender dogs and twenty
dollars ($20.00) for each a second offense and thirty dollars ($30.00) if
spayed or forty five dollars ($45.00) if not spayed for third offense by the
same thereafter. Said fee shall be maintained in a trust account to be
administered by the People for Pets Humane Society and used for the care and
control of county dogs.
   D.   Unclaimed Dogs: Any dog unclaimed or not redeemed within forty eight
(48) hours of impoundment shall become the sole property of the People for Pets
Humane Society, to offer for adoption as appropriate to any person after
obtaining a current license for said dog, or destruction as is appropriate.
(Ord. 133, 6-26-1995)
5-6-7: VICIOUS DOGS:
The People for Pets Humane Society, or Twin Falls County sheriff's office shall
capture, impound and may destroy any dog found to be vicious pursuant to this
section. Notice in terms of impoundment, determination of viciousness and
disposal of such dog shall be as follows:
   A.   Record Of Impounding: Immediately after impounding any dog hereunder,
it shall be the duty of the People for Pets Humane Society, to enter upon the
records of the animal shelter the date of impounding and the description of the
dog impounded under a charge of viciousness.
   B.   Determination Of Vicious Dog:
      1.   In the event the Twin Falls County sheriff's officer has probable
cause to believe a dog is vicious, the Twin Falls County sheriff's officer
shall capture and impound such dog. In the event the owner of the dog refuses
to surrender the dog to the Twin Falls County sheriff's officer, the Twin Falls
County sheriff's officer may employ any legal means to seize the dog and shall
issue a citation to summon the owner of the dog into magistrate court in the
fifth judicial district in the state of Idaho in and for the county of Twin
Falls. In the event no owner of a dog impounded under a charge of viciousness
can be found within forty eight (48) hours from time of impoundment, the dog
shall become the sole property of the People for Pets Humane Society and shall
be destroyed.
      2.   Upon the issuance of a summons, the court shall set a date and time
for a hearing to determine whether a dog is vicious as defined in section
5-6-1 of this chapter. The hearing procedures shall be governed by the Idaho
rules of civil procedure with the burden of proof on the owner of the dog to
show the dog is not vicious.
   C.   Destruction Of Vicious Dog:
      1.   If the court finds the dog is vicious as defined in section
5-6-1 of this chapter, such dog shall be subject to destruction by the People
for Pets Humane Society or a designated agent of Twin Falls County.
      2.   If the court finds that the dog is not vicious as defined in section
5-6-1 of this chapter, such dog may be released to the custody of the owner
upon payment to the pound or People for Pets Humane Society of the expenses of
impounding such dog. (Ord. 133, 6-26-1995)
5-6-8: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   Violation; Summons: In addition to or in lieu of impounding a dog and/
or destruction of a dog found in violation of this chapter, the sheriff or
deputy sheriff may issue to the known owner of such animal a summons in
magistrate court in the fifth judicial district in the state of Idaho and
county of Twin Falls, and upon conviction the owner shall be subject to any
penalties as provided by this chapter.
   B.   Penalties:
      1.   Any person violating subsection 5-6-4A, "Running At Large"; B,
"Rabies Suspect"; or C, "Nuisance Dog", of this chapter shall be guilty of an
infraction, punishable by a fine not to exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00).
      2.   Any person violating subsection 5-6-4D, "Vicious Dogs", of this
chapter, and in addition to any liability as provided in Idaho Code section 25-
2806, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
fined not exceeding more than three hundred dollars ($300.00) or by
imprisonment not exceeding more than thirty (30) days or by both said fine and
imprisonment. For a second or subsequent violation of this provision, the court
may, in the interest of public safety, order the owner to have the vicious dog
destroyed or may direct the appropriate authorities to destroy the dog. (Ord.
175, 12-20-2004)
5-6-9: NUISANCE BEHAVIOR IN PARKS:
   A.   Public Nuisances: Any person who owns, possesses, has custody of, or
harbors any animal, and wilfully or negligently fails to prevent such animal
from becoming a public nuisance within the boundaries of Twin Falls County
parks shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. A nuisance includes, but is not limited
to, the following:
      1.   Running at large (as defined in section
5-6-1 of this chapter);
      2.   Lack of restraint by an adequate leash not to exceed ten feet (10')
in length, secured by a competent person;
      3.   Molesting park visitors;
      4.   Defecating within county park boundaries when the defecation is not
immediately removed by the handler of the animal;
      5.   Urinating upon county park fixtures or upon flowers, shrubs or
trees;
      6.   Attacking, worrying, wounding, or killing other animals;
      7.   Frequent, continuous, or untimely barking.
   B.   Working Or Show Dogs, Exception: A working or show dog performing
activities such as herding, hunting, obedience, or tracking shall not be
considered unleashed while performing in such capacities under the control and
supervision of its handler.
   C.   Penalty: Penalty for conviction of the owner or person in possession of
such offending animal shall be as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 124; amd. 1996 Code)
CHAPTER 7
PUBLIC PARKS AND WATER SAFETY REGULATIONS
SECTION:
5-7-1: Definitions
5-7-2: Park Rules And Regulations
5-7-3: Water Safety At Centennial Waterway Park
5-7-4: Wake Control At County Reservoir
5-7-5: Regulations Near Hydroelectric Projects
5-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
DIRECTOR: The director of Twin Falls County parks and recreation department or
his designee. (1996 Code)
5-7-2: PARK RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to provide for the health,
safety, and preservation of property of the residents of the county.
   B.   Rules Of Conduct:
      1.   No event may be scheduled or sponsored within a county public park
for which there is any fee or admittance charged.
      2.   No alcohol or drugs may be sold or consumed in violation of any
local or state of Idaho ordinance.
      3.   No firearms may be uncased, nor shall shooting of arrows or any type
of missile be allowed within a park.
      4.   No sanitary facility may be placed within one hundred feet (100') of
any stream, other than director approved self-contained sanitary units.
      5.   No maintenance work, including washing, may be done on any vehicle
within park limits. Disabled vehicles shall be expeditiously removed from any
park by the owner.
      6.   Holding tanks or sanitary devices may not be emptied within a park
nor into any adjacent waterway.
      7.   Fires are permitted only at spaces provided for open fires within
the park limits.
      8.   It shall be unlawful for any person to park or own any vehicle found
to be parked in violation of posted parking restrictions within a Twin Falls
County park. It shall also be unlawful for any person to park or own any
vehicle found to be parked in any area blocking an emergency exit, fire lane,
or access point to a public parking area and/or public parking space. Parking
in violation of this subsection is an infraction.
       9.   It shall be unlawful for any person to use any kind of trapping
device, except for authorized furbearer or pest removal by permission of Twin
Falls County Parks Department or cooperative programming with Idaho Fish and
Game, within a Twin Falls County park. Violation of this subsection is an
infraction.
   C.   Rules Of Capacity:
      1.   County ordinances pertaining to group usage shall apply at all
county parks.
      2.   Parking capacity shall be established by the director based on
available amount of parking and turning space.
      3.   Waste containers are provided for the posted capacity of the park.
Additional containers shall be the responsibility of any group exceeding the
posted capacity.
      4.   Groups in excess of the posted capacity shall have a designated
sponsor who shall have a permanent address and listed telephone within the
state of Idaho. Said sponsor shall be required to provide a bond as set by the
board of county commissioners of Twin Falls County per person over the posted
capacity for the anticipated attendance. Costs of additional police and
security coverage shall be borne by the group as determined by the county
sheriff.
      5.   Attendance, anticipated or actual, may never exceed the posted
capacity by one hundred percent (100%).
      6.   The director may specify any additional charges warranted by the
group activity and deduct said charges from the bond, or if a bond be not
posted, the director shall assess such charges against the designated sponsor.
Such charges may include, but are not limited to, property destruction, cleanup
costs, and restoration of landscaping.
      7.   For any activity which may exceed the capacity of the park, the
designated sponsor shall provide liability insurance, holding the county
harmless, for any acts of negligence resulting from the activity. The amount of
said policy is to be determined by the county commission.
   D.   Posting Regulations:
      1.   Regulations and capacities for each park facility shall be posted in
appropriate places at park facilities. Illegibility of molested signs shall not
render regulations unenforceable.
      2.   Variances from regulations, or appeals from decisions of the
director shall be directed to the county commission, courthouse, Twin Falls,
Idaho.
   E.   Rules Of Regulation:
      1.   The director may regulate the hours of public usage at any county
park facility, based on approval of the county commission.
      2.   The director may regulate the speed of vehicles at any county park
facility, based on approval of the county sheriff.
      3.   The director may post signs of caution and warning involving
conditions that would be of concern for the public welfare.
      4.   The director may post signs that restrict parking in designated
areas and/or that limit parking spaces to particular types of vehicles.
   F.   Violations; Penalty:
      1.   Any person who shall omit, neglect or refuse to obey any act
required in these provisions shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
      2.    Violation of subsection (B)(8) of this section is an infraction and
each violation is punishable by a one hundred dollar ($100.00) fine plus court
costs.
      3.   Impoundment Of Vehicle: In addition to the remedies and penalties
provided in this chapter, any motor vehicle parked in violation of this section
may be towed away and impounded at the request of the Twin Falls County
Sheriff's Office by any duly licensed automobile wrecking and towing service
operator, and such vehicle shall by impounded by said towing operator until
such time as the owner of said vehicle shall pay to said towing operator his or
her standard towing fee plus standard mileage and storage fees for such
services. An impounded motor vehicle may be held in storage by said towing
operator until all of said reasonable fees are paid.
      4.   Violation of subsection (B)(9) of this section is an infraction and
each violation is punishable by a one hundred dollar ($100.00) fine plus court
costs. (Ord. 25, 7-1-1976; amd. 1996 Code; Ord. 250, 5-20-2019, Ord. 257, 9-28-
2020)
5-7-3: WATER SAFETY AT CENTENNIAL WATERWAY PARK:
   A.   Restrictions: Citation and conviction of violation of any of the
following subsections shall be a misdemeanor. The penalty shall be a fine as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 116, 4-27-1992; amd. 1996 Code)
      1.   A no wake speed shall be maintained from Auger Falls to a point six
hundred feet (600') upriver from the launching area. A buoy marks measured
area.
      2.   A speed of not more than twenty five (25) miles per hour shall be
maintained upriver from the marker buoy.
      3.   No water skiing is permitted on river waters accessible from
Centennial Waterfront park.
      4.   It is unlawful to obstruct the launching ramp for more than a
reasonable time to load or unload watercraft.
      5.   No swimming is allowed in the area of Centennial Waterfront park.
      6.   No motor powered personal skis are allowed in the river waters
accessible from Centennial Waterfront park.
   B.   Compliance With Statute: Idaho Code title 67, chapter 70, the safe
boating act, will be enforced at all times. (Ord. 116, 4-27-1992)
5-7-4: WAKE CONTROL AT COUNTY RESERVOIR:
   A.   Speed Restricted:
      1.   A "no wake" control speed of five (5) miles per hour or less is
imposed at the Twin Falls Power Plant Reservoir. The area of control begins at
the loading/unloading docks, and includes the surrounding cove area with the
end of the five (5) mile per hour or less speed control area being a point of
rocks on the east side of the Snake River marked with a buoy, extending
generally in a line westerly across the entrance to this cove to an Idaho Power
safety buoy.
      2.   Speed of all vessels outside the no wake control area shall be
maintained in a safe and courteous manner.
   B.   Loading Or Unloading Outside Area: No person or vessel shall obstruct
the loading/unloading docks for more than a reasonable time to safely load/
unload vessels and/or launch vessels.
   C.   Idaho Safe Boating Act: All terms in this section shall be construed,
as far as possible, in accordance with Idaho Code title 67, chapter 70,
entitled the Idaho safe boating act. (Ord. 132, 3-20-1995)
   D.   Violation; Penalty: Violation of this section is hereby declared to be
a misdemeanor. Penalty shall be a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 132, 3-20-1995; amd. 1996 Code)
5-7-5: REGULATIONS NEAR HYDROELECTRIC PROJECTS:
   A.   Purpose: To promote and protect the safety and welfare of the public
immediately above and below hydroelectric projects located on the Snake River
due to the inherent dangers associated with such projects, as authorized by
title 31, chapter 7, section 14 of the Idaho Code.
   B.   Definition: "Access" includes access of any type, including, but not
limited to, boating, kayaking, fishing, swimming, hunting, picture taking, or
any other activities.
   C.   Prohibited Acts: It shall be unlawful for any person, other than law
enforcement or employees of Idaho Power Company, or their agents, to access the
Snake River below the high water mark:
      1.   At Bliss power plant between the downstream side of Idaho Power
Company's dam, spillway and powerhouse, and Idaho Power Company's upstream buoy
line.
      2.   At Lower Salmon Falls power plant between the downstream side of
Idaho Power Company's dam, spillway and powerhouse and Idaho Power Company's
upstream buoy line.
      3.   At Upper Salmon Falls power plant between the downstream side of
Idaho Power Company's dam, spillway and powerhouse and Idaho Power Company's
upstream buoy line, including, but not limited to, the power canal.
      4.   At Shoshone Falls between the base of Shoshone Falls and Idaho Power
Company's upstream buoy line.
      5.   At Twin Falls power plant between the downstream side of Idaho Power
Company's dam, spillway and powerhouse, and Idaho Power Company's upstream buoy
line.
      6.   At Milner power plant between the downstream side of Milner Dam
Incorporated's dam, spillway and Idaho Power Company's powerhouse, and Milner
Dam Incorporated's upstream buoy lines.
      7.   At the above facilities, other areas designated by signage as
restricted due to inherent public safety dangers.
   D.   Violation: Any violation of this section is declared to be a
misdemeanor and shall be punishable in accordance with the general misdemeanor
penalties set forth in the Idaho Code.
   E.   Search And Rescue Expenses: In the event that it becomes necessary to
provide search, rescue, or retrieval services for a person or persons who
violate(s) this chapter, the county reserves the right to assess and recover
expenses from the violator(s). (Ord. 211, 11-3-2008)
CHAPTER 8
CAT CONTROL
SECTION:
5-8-1: Spaying/Neutering Of Stray Cats
5-8-1: SPAYING/NEUTERING OF STRAY CATS:
It is an acceptable and normal practice for a person to take temporary
possession of a stray, feral, or abandoned domesticated cat in Twin Falls
County for the purpose of having the cat spayed/neutered. For purposes of this
section, the cat must be caught in a humane manner, cared for in a humane
manner, spayed/neutered by an Idaho-licensed veterinarian, released in the
general area where it was caught, and released in an appropriate amount of time
as determined by an Idaho-licensed veterinarian. (Ord. 256, 9-28-2020)
CHAPTER 9
DISORDERLY HOUSES AND BUSINESSES
SECTION:
5-9-1: Disorderly Houses And Businesses
5-9-1: DISORDERLY HOUSES AND BUSINESSES:
   A.   No person shall keep a disorderly house or place of business or shall
permit or suffer any drunkenness, fighting, quarreling, unlawful games, or
riotous or disorderly conduct or breach of the peace in any house, place, or
building owned, kept, used, leased, or occupied by him.
   B.   Violation: A first violation of this section is an infraction
punishable by a two hundred dollar ($200.00) fine. A second or subsequent
violation within twenty-four (24) months is a misdemeanor and shall be
punishable in accordance with the general misdemeanor penalties set forth in
Idaho Code § 18-133. (Ord. 278, 11-28-2022)
TITLE 6
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-1-1: Parking Inside County Fairgrounds
6-1-2: Water On Public Highways
6-1-3: Temporary Landing Strips
6-1-4: Speed Limit
6-1-1: PARKING INSIDE COUNTY FAIRGROUNDS:
   A.   Restrictions: It shall be unlawful for any vehicle to be parked on or
in any areas of the County Fairground property in violation of posted parking
restrictions. It shall also be unlawful for any person to park any vehicle, or
to own any vehicle, found to be parked in any area blocking an emergency exit,
fire lane, or access point to a public parking area and/or public parking
space.
   B.   Vehicle Removal:
      1.   The Sheriff is hereby authorized to remove and impound, or cause to
be removed or impounded, any vehicle parked in violation of this Section.
      2.   The owner or operator of such vehicle may recover the same by paying
the cost of its removal and impounding, together with any sum due by reason of
a violation of this Section. Proof of such payment must be shown prior to
release of the vehicle by the impounding agency.
   C.   Enforcement; Fines:
      1.   If any vehicle is found stopped, standing or parked in any manner,
in violation of the provisions of this Section, and the identity of the
operator cannot be determined, the owner, person, corporation or named lessee
in whose name said vehicle is registered, shall be held prima facie responsible
for said violation.
      2.   A violation of the provisions hereof is punishable by a fine of
thirty five dollars ($35.00) to be paid by the owner, person, corporation, or
named lessee in whose name the vehicle is registered. (Ord. 123, 5-4-1994)
6-1-2: WATER ON PUBLIC HIGHWAYS:
   A.   Water User Defined: A user of water is one who controls, manages,
directs, diverts, uses, or implements water, water ditches or water pumps,
whether or not the water comes from a water district or irrigation district, so
long as the water, water ditches, or water pumps pertain to the land from which
the water flows, runs or sprinkles onto a public road.
   B.   Permissive Inference: A permissive inference can be made that either
the landowner, or occupant of land, or a user of water, or a provider of water
is responsible for and has the ability to prevent the flow of water upon a
public road. (Ord. 117, 4-27-1992)
   C.   Penalty: Any person violating any of the provisions of this Section
shall be subject to penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (1996 Code)
6-1-3: TEMPORARY LANDING STRIPS:
   A.   Definition: "Emergency situation" is defined as aircraft engine failure
and/or pilot is unable to continue flight.
   B.   Restrictions: The use of any roadway subject to the jurisdiction and
control of the Twin Falls, Murtaugh, Filer and Buhl Highway Districts for the
landing and taking off of any aircraft, other than in an emergency situation,
is prohibited.
   C.   Hazardous To Vehicle Travel: The use of Twin Falls, Murtaugh, Filer and
Buhl Highway Districts' roadways as temporary landing strips is hereby declared
to be a hazard to any person using said roadways for vehicle travel.
   D.   Chemical Spills: The possibility of chemical spills along roadways is
both dangerous to travelers and environmentally detrimental. (Ord. 115, 10-28-
1991)
   E.   Penalties:
      1.   Violation of the terms and conditions hereof shall constitute a
misdemeanor and any person in violation hereof shall be punished by a fine as
provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code.
      2.   Each landing or takeoff shall be considered a separate offense.
(Ord. 115, 10-28-1991; amd. 1996 Code)
6-1-4: SPEED LIMIT:
The Board of County Commissioners expressly recognizes hereby that the primary
purpose of any speed ordinance is to maintain traffic and highway safety upon
the highways of this County. In compliance with Idaho Code section 49-207 the
local highway districts have determined that many of the highways are rural in
nature and not designed for high speeds, and thus subject to potentially
dangerous occurrences due to misuse, excessive speed, or adverse weather
conditions.
   A.   Limit Established: The speed limit on all highways in Twin Falls
County, unless otherwise posted, is hereby established at fifty (50) miles per
hour pursuant to Idaho Code sections 49-207 and 49-208.
   B.   Penalty: The penalty for violation of this Section is hereby declared
to be an infraction, punishable as set forth in rule 9 of the Idaho Infraction
Rules contained in the Idaho Code. (Ord. 147, 1-26-1998)
CHAPTER 2
SKATEBOARDS, ROLLER SKATES, AND IN-LINE SKATES
SECTION:
6-2-1: Definitions
6-2-2: Restrictions
6-2-3: Penalty
6-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this Chapter, the following shall mean:
ROLLER AND IN-LINE SKATES: Any device designed to be worn on the foot with
wheels or rollers and which is designed to be propelled by human power. This
definition includes those devices commonly known as in-line skates.
SKATEBOARD: Any device with wheels or rollers attached to a platform designed
for standing on and which is designed to be propelled by human power. (1996
Code)
6-2-2: RESTRICTIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person, except in areas provided by appropriate
signing and barricading at the instance of the Sheriff, to roller skate or
skateboard on any street, highway, roadway, or public thoroughfare within the
County. (Ord. 10, 5-1967)
6-2-3: PENALTY:
Any person guilty of violation of the provision hereof is punishable by a fine
as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 10, 5-1967; 1996 Code)
TITLE 7
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODES
SECTION:
7-1-1: Purpose
7-1-2: Code Adoption
7-1-3: Amendments To Adopted Codes
7-1-4: Exemptions
7-1-5: Administration
7-1-6: Fees
7-1-7: Violations
7-1-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide minimum standards and requirements
for regulating and controlling, grading, quality and installation of materials,
use, occupancy, and maintenance of all buildings, mobile homes, manufactured
homes and structures in Twin Falls County. (Ord. 240, 2-6-2015)
7-1-2: CODE ADOPTION:
The approved editions of the following nationally recognized codes as adopted
by the state of Idaho, the Idaho heating, ventilation, and air conditioning
board and the Idaho building code board, are adopted as the official codes of
the county of Twin Falls, except as provided in section
7-1-3 of this chapter:
   A.   The 2012 international building code, including appendices G and I and
all rules promulgated by the board to provide equivalency with the provisions
of the Americans with disabilities act accessibility guidelines and the federal
fair housing act accessibility guidelines.
   B.   2012 international residential code parts I - IV and IX, including
appendices G, H, and J.
   C.   International energy conservation code.
   D.   International fire code.
   E.   International mechanical code.
   F.   International fuel gas code.
The adopted versions of the foregoing codes shall be deemed superseded by
successive versions of such codes as they are adopted or approved by the Idaho
building code board or the Idaho heating, ventilation and air conditioning
board, effective on the date any such codes are made effective by the Idaho
building code board and/or the Idaho heating, ventilation, and air conditioning
board. (Ord. 240, 2-6-2015)
7-1-3: AMENDMENTS TO ADOPTED CODES:
The following amendments shall be applicable to the adopted building codes:
   A.   International building code:
      1.   Definition of agricultural buildings: A structure designed and
constructed to house farm implements, hay, grain, poultry, livestock or other
horticultural products. This place shall not be a place of human habitation or
a place of employment, nor shall it be used by the public.
   B.   International residential code:
      1.   The most current version of the Idaho manufactured home installation
code.
   C.   International fire code:
      1.   Pursuant to Idaho Code § 41-253(2), a detached single family
dwelling, to be constructed upon lands of five (5) acres or more outside an
incorporated city and not within a designated area of city impact, is exempt
from the water supply and access requirements of the international fire code.
      2.   In rural areas and small communities of Twin Falls County (including
areas of city impact), the local fire chief or the designee of the fire chief
is authorized to reduce the fire-flow requirements of the international fire
code for isolated buildings or a group of buildings where the development of
full fire-flow requirements is impractical. Such reduction in the fire-flow
requirements may include one or more of the following alternatives:
         a.   Dividing a building using a two-hour fire barrier(s) to decrease
the area(s) to less than the total cubic footage outlined in the National Fire
Protection Association’s NFPA 1142.
         b.   Installing a fire sprinkler system as outlined in NFPA 13, 13-D,
or 13-R.
         c.   Installing a full-coverage, monitored fire detection system.
(Ord. 240, 2-6-2015; Ord. 277, 11-28-2022)
7-1-4: EXEMPTIONS:
Agricultural buildings are not exempt from the building codes adopted herein
and shall remain subject to placement requirements established by zoning
regulations. (Ord. 240, 2-6-2015)
7-1-5: ADMINISTRATION:
The following requirements must be met, if applicable, prior to the issuance of
a building and/or heating, ventilation, and air conditioning (HVAC) systems
permit:
   A.   Applicants shall provide plans and specifications of sufficient detail
to reflect compliance with code requirements.
   B.   Submit a completed building permit and/or HVAC permit application with
the required supporting documentation.
   C.   Whenever any work for which a permit is required by this chapter or the
building code has been commenced without first obtaining said permit, a special
investigation shall be made before a permit may be issued for such work. An
investigation fee, in addition to the permit fee shall be collected whether or
not a permit is then or subsequently issued. The investigation fee shall be
equal to the amount of the permit fee established by the board of Twin Falls
County commissioners.
   D.   The design criteria for Twin Falls County shall be as follows unless
determined differently based on the site evaluation by a qualified design
professional:
Ground snow load: 30#.
Wind speed: 90 mph with 3 sec. gust.
Seismic design: C.
Weathering: Severe.
Soil bearing pressure: 1500#.
Frost depth: 24" min.
Flood zone: Site specific.
Termite: Slight.
Elevation: 2900 to 4900.
   (Ord. 240, 2-6-2015)
7-1-6: FEES:
The board of Twin Falls County commissioners may establish fees for the
issuance of building permits, HVAC permits, plan reviews, reinspection and
other such fees as may be necessary to accomplish the purpose of this chapter.
(Ord. 240, 2-6-2015)
7-1-7: VIOLATIONS:
Violations of any of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with
any of its requirements may be dealt with in the following manner: Each day
such violation continues shall be considered a separate offense, and shall
constitute a misdemeanor as defined by Idaho Code and is punishable by up to
six (6) months in jail and up to a one thousand dollar ($1,000.00) fine, or
both; the county may seek civil penalties and forfeitures to the maximum extent
allowed by law. In the event that a violation threatens the public health,
safety and/or general welfare, the board of county commissioners may take any
lawful action it deems necessary to abate such violation. (Ord. 240, 2-6-2015)
CHAPTER 2
GRID ADDRESS SYSTEM
SECTION:
7-2-1: Address Locations Assigned
7-2-2: Purpose; Use
7-2-3: Requirements
7-2-1: ADDRESS LOCATIONS ASSIGNED:
Twin Falls County, in conjunction with U.S. West Communications and
Intermountain Gas Company has assigned grid address locations for residential
and/or business uses in the county. (Ord. 114, 2-24-1992)
7-2-2: PURPOSE; USE:
Grid address locations have been assigned for use by delivery and service
vehicles, to provide for enhanced emergency response times, and as a planning
tool in service to the residents of the county. (Ord. 114, 2-24-1992)
7-2-3: REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   The Twin Falls County board of county commissioners adopt the grid
address system and do hereby require each and every residence and/or business
to have assigned a proper grid address and the number is to be posted on the
property attached as close as possible to the main driveway entrance of the
property where it will be visible from the road.
   B.   State highways within Twin Falls County will be addressed using mile
post markers with respect to U.S. Highway 30, 50, 74, and 93. Every residence
and/or business to have assigned a proper address and the number is to be
posted on the property attached as close as possible to the main driveway
entrance of the property where it will be visible from the road. (Ord. 220, 8-
3-2011)
CHAPTER 3
AGRICULTURAL BUILDINGS
SECTION:
7-3-1: Purpose
7-3-2: Definition
7-3-3: Eligibility
7-3-4: Application Process
7-3-5: Conformance With International Building Code
7-3-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide an exemption for some classifications
of agricultural buildings from building permits, provide a definition for
agricultural buildings, and to safeguard life or limb, health, property and
public welfare. (Ord. 173, 10-20-2004)
7-3-2: DEFINITION:
   A.   Agricultural Building: Any building or structure qualifying under group
U occupancy (agricultural buildings) as defined by the latest edition of the
international building code as adopted by Twin Falls County, with the following
exceptions:
      1.   That the building or structure is not a place of human habitation,
nor used by the public.
      2.   That the building or structure is not a place of employment where
agricultural products are processed, treated or packaged including, but not
limited to, milking barns, free stall barns or other like structures.
      3.   Any building or structure qualifying under group A occupancy
(assembly) section 303 or group B occupancy (business) section 304 as defined
by the latest edition of the international building code as adopted by Twin
Falls County. (Ord. 173, 10-20-2004)
7-3-3: ELIGIBILITY:
The exemption for some classifications of agricultural buildings from building
permits shall only apply to agricultural buildings on five (5) acres or more,
or that are less than three hundred (300) square feet on property less than
five (5) acres. (Ord. 173, 10-20-2004)
7-3-4: APPLICATION PROCESS:
   A.   An application shall be submitted for consideration of an agricultural
building exemption. The application shall contain the following information:
      1.   The property owner's name, address and telephone number.
      2.   Location, address and parcel number of the proposed building site.
      3.   Building description to include building dimensions and proposed
use.
      4.   Site plan showing the proposed location of the building or
structure, existing buildings or structures, property lines, roads, utility
easements, compliance with building setbacks, etc.
   B.   The application shall be submitted to the zoning administrator for
consideration, and it will be reviewed in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter. The zoning administrator will then either grant or deny the
request. (Ord. 173, 10-20-2004)
7-3-5: CONFORMANCE WITH INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE:
Agricultural buildings or structures that qualify for an agricultural exemption
shall be constructed in accordance with the limitations of group U occupancy
(agricultural buildings) as required by the latest edition of the international
building code as adopted by Twin Falls County. (Ord. 173, 10-20-2004)
ARTICLE A. AGRICULTURAL SITING PERMITS
SECTION:
7-3A-1: Purpose
7-3A-2: Permit Required
7-3A-3: Application Process
7-3A-4: Inspection
7-3A-5: Recording
7-3A-6: International Building Code
7-3A-7: Fees
7-3A-8: Enforcement
7-3A-9: Severability
7-3A-10: Effective Date
7-3A-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose for this article is to provide for a siting permit for exempt
agricultural buildings for compliance with county setback requirements and
provide for the recording of agricultural buildings exempt status on the
property deed in order to safeguard life or limb, health, property and public
welfare. (Ord. 176, 4-27-2005)
7-3A-2: PERMIT REQUIRED:
All exempt agricultural buildings as defined by Twin Falls County shall obtain
a siting permit. (Ord. 176, 4-27-2005)
7-3A-3: APPLICATION PROCESS:
   A.   An application shall be submitted for a siting permit and shall contain
the following information:
      1.   The property owner's name, address and telephone number.
      2.   Long legal description.
      3.   Location, address and parcel number of the proposed building site.
      4.   Building description to include building dimensions and proposed
use.
      5.   Site plan showing the proposed location of the building or
structure, existing buildings or structures, property lines, roads, utility
easements, compliance with county setbacks, etc., drawn to scale on eighteen
inch by twenty four inch (18" x 24") paper.
      6.   Comment and/or approval: highway district, fire department, health
district and other such information that may be deemed necessary by the
building official.
   B.   The application shall be submitted to the building official for review
and consideration. The building official will grant the request if it complies
with county setbacks. (Ord. 176, 4-27-2005)
7-3A-4: INSPECTION:
   A.   Before construction shall commence a preliminary inspection is
required. The applicant shall stake the property lines and the proposed
building location. The applicant will then contact the building official to
schedule a site inspection. The building official will within a reasonable
period of time inspect the proposed building location for compliance with
county setbacks.
   B.   Upon completion of construction the applicant will contact the building
official to schedule a final site inspection. The building official will within
a reasonable period of time inspect the building for compliance with county
setbacks. (Ord. 176, 4-27-2005)
7-3A-5: RECORDING:
Prior to construction and the granting of the siting permit the applicant shall
record and attach to the deed a copy of the agricultural exemption granted by
the county planning and zoning administrator. (Ord. 176, 4-27-2005)
7-3A-6: INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE:
Inspections performed by the building official are to ensure compliance with
setback requirements only and not for compliance with the international
building code. It is the responsibility of the applicant to construct the
building in conformance with the international building code. (Ord. 176, 4-27-
2005)
7-3A-7: FEES:
Fees shall be established by resolution of the board of county commissioners.
(Ord. 176, 4-27-2005)
7-3A-8: ENFORCEMENT:
Violations of any of the provisions of this article or failure to comply with
any of its requirements shall constitute a misdemeanor and is punishable by up
to six (6) months in jail and up to a three hundred dollar ($300.00) fine or
both. Each day such violation continues shall be considered a separate offense.
(Ord. 176, 4-27-2005)
7-3A-9: SEVERABILITY:
This article is hereby declared to be severable. Should a court of competent
jurisdiction declare any portion of this article invalid, the remaining
provisions shall continue in full force and effect and shall be read to carry
out the purpose(s) of this article before the declaration of partial
invalidity. (Ord. 176, 4-27-2005)
7-3A-10: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This article shall be effective upon passage and publication as provided by
law. (Ord. 176, 4-27-2005)
CHAPTER 4
MOBILE OR MANUFACTURED HOMES AS STORAGE UNITS
SECTION:
7-4-1: Purpose
7-4-2: Definition
7-4-3: Requirements
7-4-4: Procedures And Approval Process
7-4-5: Enforcement
7-4-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide for regulations and standards for
mobile or manufactured homes to be used as storage units in Twin Falls County.
The regulations and standards contained herein are designated to protect and
promote the public health, safety and community welfare of Twin Falls County
and to encourage and promote proper installation of a mobile or manufactured
home as a storage unit. (Ord. 186, 8-29-2005)
7-4-2: DEFINITION:
"Manufactured home" means a structure transportable in one or more sections,
which in traveling mode is eight feet (8') or more in width or forty feet (40')
or more in length, or when erected on site, is three hundred twenty (320)
square feet or more, which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be
used as a dwelling unit with or without a permanent foundation. For the purpose
of this chapter, a mobile home shall be considered a manufactured home. (Ord.
186, 8-29-2005)
7-4-3: REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Mobile or manufactured homes when used as a storage unit shall be
classified as group S occupancy, unless otherwise determined by the building
official and comply with the requirements and regulations as found in the
latest edition of the international building code as adopted by Twin Falls
County.
   B.   Complete removal of all kitchen facilities and submission of plans for
modification to a group S occupancy signed by a professional engineer and/or
architect licensed in the state of Idaho.
   C.   Submission of foundation plan shall include a concrete perimeter
footing and foundation is required under all exterior walls. All running gear
shall be removed including, but not limited to, axles, hitches and other like
equipment.
   D.   A mobile or manufactured home, when used as a storage unit shall be
prohibited in the rural residential zone.
   E.   Mobile or manufactured homes when used as a storage unit shall comply
with the setback requirements for the respective zone in which the unit is
placed, and shall have a minimum twenty foot (20') separation between buildings
and structures.
   F.   Structural design plans shall be required for stacked units, and shall
be prepared by a professional engineer licensed in the state of Idaho. The
siding shall be of a material commonly used for multi-story storage structures.
No stacked units shall exceed thirty five feet (35') in height.
   G.   Mobile or manufactured homes, when used as a storage unit shall not
qualify for agricultural exemption.
   H.   Building permits shall be required for the placement and/or renovation
of all mobile or manufactured homes when used as a storage unit in Twin Falls
County. (Ord. 186, 8-29-2005)
7-4-4: PROCEDURES AND APPROVAL PROCESS:
   A.   The applicant shall submit a completed building permit application
along with required supporting documentation to the Twin Falls County building
department.
   B.   The Twin Falls County building department will review the application
within a reasonable amount of time.
   C.   Upon compliance with the requirements of this chapter and the
international building code, a permit may be issued. (Ord. 186, 8-29-2005)
7-4-5: ENFORCEMENT:
Violations of any of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with
any of its requirements may be dealt with in the following manner: Each day
such violation continues shall be considered a separate offense, and/or shall
constitute a misdemeanor as defined by Idaho Code and is punishable by up to
six (6) months in jail and up to a three hundred dollar ($300.00) fine, or
both, or the county may seek civil penalties and forfeitures to the maximum
extent allowed by law. In the event that a violation threatens the public
health, safety and/or general welfare of the citizens of Twin Falls County, the
board of county commissioners may take any actions it deems necessary to abate
such violation. (Ord. 186, 8-29-2005)
TITLE 8
ZONING
CHAPTER 1
PURPOSE AND SCOPE
SECTION:
8-1-1: Short Title
8-1-2: Authority
8-1-3: Purpose
8-1-4: Scope And Content   
8-1-5: Preservation Of Private Property Rights
8-1-6: Conflict With Other Laws
8-1-7: Amendments
8-1-8: Severability
8-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This title shall be known and may be cited and referred to as the Twin Falls
County zoning code. (Ord. 286, 8-19-2024)
8-1-2: AUTHORITY:
This title is hereby enacted pursuant to the authority granted to the Twin
Falls County Board of County Commissioners by the Idaho Local Land Use Planning
Act Idaho Code §§ 67-6501 - 67-6539. (Ord. 286, 8-19-2024)
8-1-3: PURPOSE:
This title is enacted for the purpose of promoting the public health, safety,
morals, comfort and general welfare; to conserve and protect property and
property values; to secure the most appropriate use of lands; to control the
density of population; to prevent undue traffic congestion and to facilitate
adequate and economical provisions for public improvements, all in accordance
with a comprehensive plan for the desirable future physical development of Twin
Falls County; and to provide a method of administration and to prescribe
penalties for the violations of provisions hereafter described, all as
authorized by the legislature and constitution of the state. (Ord. 286, 8-19-
2024)
8-1-4: SCOPE AND CONTENT:
This zoning code is effective within the unincorporated portions of Twin Falls
County. To determine which portions of this zoning code apply in an area of
city impact within Twin Falls County Title 8, Chapter 9. This zoning code
incorporates, as part of its terms, the Twin Falls County zoning maps which are
adopted and signed by the Board of County Commissioners and filed in the office
of the Twin Falls County Recorder. For the purpose of administration and
enforcement, the zoning maps in the office of the Twin Falls County Community
Development Services Department shall be considered as official zoning maps.
Any and all amendments to the official zoning maps shall also be made on the
zoning maps in the office of the Twin Falls County Community Development
Services Department at the time the amendments are filed with the County
Recorder. (Ord. 286, 8-19-2024)
8-1-5: PRESERVATION OF PRIVATE PROPERTY RIGHTS:
   A.   This title shall be interpreted in its various particulars to equally
protect each citizen from the undue encroachment on his private property by the
neighbors' use of their private property to the end that within the plan
established, each citizen shall have the maximum use of his property without
placing undue burden upon that of his neighbors.
   B.   In the administration of this title, every person shall be secure in
his person, house, papers and effects, and no administrator, agent or employee
of the county shall enter upon, investigate or search any of the premises of
any citizen without the consent of such citizen or order issued by a court of
proper jurisdiction.
   C.   Every citizen of Twin Falls County shall at all times have the right to
appear in person or by his agent before the commission or board as the case may
be, in the proper order of business and in conformance with this title to
propose or object to a proposal before the commission and to appeal any
decision of the commission to the board pursuant to the procedures contained in
chapter 3 of this title.
   D.   In the enforcement of this title, it shall be deemed to apply similarly
and equally to each person and each property in similar circumstances, and
shall not be enforced to discriminate between one individual and/or another
individual or other group as compared to all others, similarly situated. (Ord.
21, 12-1-1998)
8-1-6: CONFLICT WITH OTHER LAWS:
In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this title shall be
held to be minimum requirements. The provisions of this title shall control
where this title imposes a greater restriction than is imposed or required by
other provisions of law or by other rules, regulations, or resolutions. (Ord.
286, 8-19-2024)
8-1-7: AMENDMENTS:
This zoning code, including the map, may be amended as described in this title.
(Ord. 286, 8-19-2024)
8-1-8: SEVERABILITY:
If any term or section of this zoning code is held to be illegal, invalid,
unconstitutional, or unenforceable, that finding shall not undermine the
validity of the remaining portions of the ordinances, which are severable and
shall remain valid. (Ord. 286, 8-19-2024)
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
8-2-1: Construction Of Words
8-2-2: Definitions
8-2-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
For the purpose of this title, certain words and terms are defined as follows:
   A.   Words in the present tense include the future and the future includes
the present; the singular number includes the plural and the plural the
singular.
   B.   The word "lot" includes the words "plot", "tract" or "parcel of land"
as the sense may require it.
   C.   The term "erected" means "constructed", "altered", "moved" or
"repaired".
   D.   The words "shall" and "must" are always mandatory.
   E.   The word "district" is synonymous with the word "zone".
   F.   The term "building inspector" is synonymous with the term "planning and
zoning administrator".
   G.   The term "planning and zoning commission" is synonymous with the term
"zoning commission", and the term "planning commission" is synonymous with the
term "zoning commission". (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
8-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
ACCESSORY BUILDING 1 : A secondary building, the use of which is incidental but
similar to that of the main building and which is located on the same plot and
is a permitted use for that particular zone in which it is located.
ACCESSORY USE 2 : The use of land, secondary building or part thereof, on a
portion of the main building, such as being accessory to or incidental to the
principal use of the premises.
AGRICULTURAL BUILDING: Any building or structure qualifying under group U
occupancy (agricultural buildings) as defined by the latest edition of the
international building code as adopted by Twin Falls County, with the following
exceptions:
   A.   That the building or structure is not a place of human habitation, nor
used by the public.
   B.   That the building or structure is not a place of employment where
agricultural products are processed, treated or packaged including, but not
limited to, milking barns, free stall barns or other like structures.
   C.   Any building or structure qualifying under group A occupancy (assembly)
section 303 or group B occupancy (business) section 304 occupancy as defined by
the latest edition of the international building code as adopted by Twin Falls
County.
AGRICULTURE: Tilling of soil, horticulture, floriculture, forestry, fisheries,
viticulture, raising crops, livestock, farming, dairying and animal husbandry
including all uses customarily accessory and incidental thereto, but excluding
slaughterhouses, fertilizer works, boneyards and commercial feedlots.
Incidental retailing of goods on the premises of goods and products raised on
the premises shall also be considered as being within the definition of
agriculture.
AIRPORT: Any area of land or water that has been set aside, designated,
classified and duly established by jurisdictional authorities which may be used
for any or all of the following purposes: aircraft terminals for people, mail,
or freight, airport traffic control, weather stations, aircraft storage and
repair, tie down areas, storage of fuel or oil and other aircraft supplies and
parts, approach zones, landing strips, taxiways, clear area, hangars, offices
and such other facilities, buildings or structures.
AIRPORT INFLUENCE AREAS: The areas surrounding the Joslin Field, Magic Valley
regional airport and Buhl airport that are affected by significant aircraft
noise and safety hazards.
ALLEY: Any public space or thoroughfare which has been dedicated or deeded to
the public for public use and which provides a secondary public means of access
to abutting properties.
ANIMAL CLINIC OR VETERINARY OFFICE: Any building or portion thereof designed or
used for the care or treatment of cats, dogs, or other animals in which
veterinary service including clipping, bathing, boarding and other services are
rendered to dogs, cats and other small animals and domestic pets. Small animal
hospital or veterinary hospital is the same as a small animal or veterinary
clinic, the distinction being that in case of an animal hospital there is a
licensed veterinarian on the premises.
ANIMAL UNIT RESTRICTIONS: Restrictions placed on animal densities in each zone
district. See chapters 17 and 18 of this title.
ANIMAL UNIT(S): A term used to establish an equivalency for various species of
livestock. See chapters 17 and 18 of this title for specific animal unit
restrictions and equivalencies.
APARTMENT HOUSE OR MULTI-FAMILY USE: Any building or portion thereof which
contains three (3) or more dwelling units including residential condominiums.
AREA, BUILDABLE: The space within the setback lines remaining on a lot after
the minimum open space requirements of this title have been complied with.
AREA OF CITY IMPACT: Land surrounding the city limits of each city, agreed upon
in accordance with Idaho Code 67-6526.
AREA, PRIVATE PARKING: An open, graded area, other than a street or public way,
designed, arranged and made available for the storage of private passenger
automobiles of occupants of the building or buildings for which the parking
area is developed.
AREA, PUBLIC PARKING: An open area, other than a street or alley, used for the
temporary parking of automobiles and available for public use, whether free or
for compensation or as an accommodation for clients or customers.
AREA SETBACK: The space on a lot required to be left open and unoccupied by
buildings or structures, either by the front, side or rear yard requirements of
this title, or by delineation on a recorded subdivision/planned unit
development map.
AUTOMOBILE, TRAILER AND CAR LOT SALES AREA: Premises on which new or used
passenger automobiles, mobile homes, manufactured homes, trailers or trucks in
operating condition are displayed in the open for sale or trade or rental, and
where repair of such vehicles is limited to vehicles owned by the sales lot
operator and offered for sale.
AUTOMOBILE WRECKING YARD: Any area, lot, land or parcel, excluding farm
equipment on a farm, and excluding completely enclosed buildings, whereon more
than two (2) motor vehicles without current registration or where more than two
(2) inoperable or dismantled motor vehicles, (not in operating condition) are
standing more than thirty (30) days, or on which such used motor vehicles or
parts thereof, are dismantled or stored. For the purposes of this definition,
the term "inoperable" means the motor vehicle cannot move under its own power
or does not meet the minimum legal requirements necessary for the motor vehicle
to be operated in a safe and lawful manner upon the roads and highways in the
state of Idaho as set forth in the motor vehicle laws of the state of Idaho.
BARN: A building for the housing of farm animals, milking of livestock, and the
storage of farm equipment, machinery, products, or feed.
BOARD: The Board of County Commissioners of Twin Falls County, Idaho.
BOARDING HOUSE: Including lodging house or rooming house. Any building or
portion thereof other than a hotel, where lodging and/or meals are provided for
more than five (5) persons for compensation. Rest homes and homes for the aged
are not included in this definition.
BUILDING: Any structure used or intended for supporting or sheltering any use
or occupancy.
BUILDING CLASSIFICATION; AGRICULTURAL: A building located on agricultural
property and used to shelter farm implements, hay, grain, habitation and which
is not used by the public.
BUILDING, EXISTING: A building erected prior to the effective date hereof or
one for which a legal building permit has been issued, prior to the effective
date, subject to Section
8-1-8 of this Title.
BUILDING HEIGHT: The vertical distance from grade to the highest point of the
coping of a flat roof, or to the deck of a mansard roof or to the average
height of the highest gable of a pitched or hip roof.
BUILDING LINE: A line established by law or agreement and usually parallel to
property line beyond which a building or structure may not extend.
BUILDING, MAIN: A building other than an accessory building, and for which the
use thereof is authorized by this Title for the district in which it is
located.
BUILDING, NONCONFORMING: Any building which does not conform to the
requirements of this Title.
BUILDING SITE: The ground area of a building or group of buildings together
with all open spaces as required by this Title.
BUSINESS: The purchase, sale, exchange or other transaction involving the
handling or disposition of any article, substance or commodity for profit or
livelihood, or the ownership or management of office buildings, offices,
recreation or amusement enterprises or the maintenance and use of offices or
professions and trades rendering services.
CABIN: A small one story dwelling usually of simple construction containing
three (3) or fewer rooms used for sleeping.
CANYON FLOOR: That area between the mean high-water mark and where the final
slope is greater than thirty percent (30%).
CANYON LANDS: The canyon rim and floor extending from the mean high-water mark
to the outermost rim setback.
CANYON RIM: The canyon rim is the point below which the final slope of County
canyons exceeds thirty percent (30%) for a distance of ten (10) or more feet.
The "final slope", as the term is used here, excludes minor breaks in the
canyon wall which have a slope of less than thirty percent (30%), but are: a)
inaccessible from existing streets, and/or b) less than one hundred feet (100')
in width. There may be multiple rims meeting this definition. The location of
the rim shall be determined before any excavation or grading preparatory to
development occurs.
CARPORT: A roofed structure entirely open on two (2) or more sides.
CLINIC OR MEDICAL HEALTH CENTER: A building other than a "hospital" as defined
herein, used by two (2) or more licensed physicians or dentists associated with
one another for the purpose of receiving and treating patients.
CLUB OR LODGE: The social use of a building or of any premises by a nonprofit
association, where such use is restricted to enrolled members and their guests.
COLLECTION POND, TEMPORARY: Intended for the temporary impoundment of surface
water runoff.
COMMERCIAL FEEDLOT; STOCKYARD: See chapters 17 and 18 of this title.
COMMERCIAL SLAUGHTER AND MEATPACKING FACILITIES: Includes the: a) slaughtering,
b) meat canning, c) curing, d) smoking, e) salting, f) packing, g) rendering,
h) freezing, or other similar establishments in which meat products are so
processed for sale to the public and where the inspection of meat, meat
byproducts and meat food products are maintained.
COMMISSION: The planning and zoning commission of the county of Twin Falls.
CONDITIONAL USE 3 : A nonpermitted use which may be allowed with conditions if
not in conflict with the plan or requirements of this title.
CONDITIONAL USE/LAND DIVISION: The process which may allow the division of one
parcel of land into two (2) parcels. All land divisions or splits, shall have
equal shares of water transferred to the parcel(s) created.
CONDITIONAL USE/TEMPORARY HARDSHIP: Provides for the temporary placement of a
mobile home on the property where the need to care for the elderly, or other
medical hardship exists which makes it necessary to have someone living in
close proximity while care is being provided.
COOP: A cage or small enclosure under one hundred twenty (120) square feet used
to confine, restrict or house poultry or small furbearing animals.
CORRAL: A fenced enclosure where livestock are confined, stabled, fed, or
maintained and where crops, vegetation, forage growth or postharvest residues
are not sustained in the normal growing season over more than ten percent (10%)
of the enclosure. See chapters 17 and 18 of this title.
DAYCARE CENTER: A place, home, building, or location providing care, with
organized plan and instructions, for more than five (5) children of
presecondary school age not residing on the same premises.
DRIVE-IN ESTABLISHMENT: An establishment, other than a service station or truck
stop, which is designed to accommodate the motor vehicles of patrons in such
manner as to permit the occupants of such vehicles, while remaining therein, to
make a purchase or receive services.
DUPLEX: A building designed for or used by two (2) families or housekeeping
units.
DWELLING: A building, or portion thereof, containing one dwelling unit, and
which complies with the structural requirements of the adopted building code.
The term "dwelling" does not include any travel trailer, "motel", "hotel",
"guesthouse" or "boarding house" as defined herein.
DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY: A building, or portion thereof, containing three (3)
or more dwelling units.
DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY: A building designed for use and occupancy by no more
than one family.
DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY: A detached building designed for use and occupied
exclusively by two (2) families living independently of each other, known also
as a duplex.
DWELLING UNIT: A suite of two (2) or more habitable rooms providing complete
living facilities for one family including permanent provisions for living,
sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation.
EMERGENCY/25-YEAR PONDS: Designed as a 25-year, 24-hour storm event lagoon
system to retain normal precipitation, moisture or snow runoff.
FAIRGROUNDS: An area used as an entertainment site for festivals or carnivals
and may include buildings or structures. Such facilities are subject to county
ordinance 18, assembly ordinance, as amended.
FAMILY: An individual or two (2) or more persons related by blood, marriage, or
adoption; or a group of not more than five (5) persons (excluding servants) who
need not be related by blood, marriage, or adoption living together in a
dwelling unit.
FAMILY FOOD PRODUCTION: The keeping of domestic animals and fowl for the
production of food for the use of the family occupying the premises.
FARM LABOR DWELLING UNIT: Dwelling unit(s) for farm laborers employed full time
in connection with the agricultural use of the land.
FEEDLOTS; AGRICULTURAL: See chapters 17 and 18 of this title.
FLOODPLAIN: Land that may be submerged by floodwaters.
GARAGE: A building or portion thereof in which a motor vehicle containing
flammable or combustible liquids or gas in its tank is stored, repaired or
kept.
GARAGE, DETACHED: A building or a portion of a building, not more than one
thousand six hundred (1,600) square feet in area, in which only motor vehicles
used by the tenants of the building or buildings on the premises are stored or
kept.
GARAGE, PUBLIC: Any garage other than a private garage.
GOVERNING BODY: The board of county commissioners of Twin Falls County.
GRADE (ADJACENT GROUND ELEVATION): The lowest point of elevation of the
finished surface of the ground, paving or sidewalk within the area between the
building and the property line or, when the property line is more than five
feet (5') (1,524 mm) from the building, between the building and a line five
feet (5') (1,524 mm) from the building.
GUEST: A person other than a member of a family hiring or occupying a room for
living or sleeping purposes.
GUESTHOUSE: A detached or attached structure, being an accessory to a one-
family dwelling with not more than three (3) bedrooms, and which shall be used
or designed for use primarily by guests and not to be used as rental property.
HEALTH DEPARTMENT: State of Idaho department of health and welfare, or South
Central district health department.
HOME, MOBILE (MANUFACTURED HOME): A detached single-family dwelling unit with
all of the following characteristics:
   A.   Designed for long term occupancy and containing sleeping
accommodations, a flush toilet, a tub or shower bath and kitchen facilities
with plumbing and electrical connections for attachment to outside systems.
   B.   Designed to be transported after fabrication on its own wheels.
   C.   Arriving at the site where it is to be occupied as a dwelling complete,
including major appliances and furniture, and ready for occupancy except for
minor and incidental unpacking and assembly operations, location of foundation
supports, connection to facilities and the line.
   D.   Such unit may not or need not meet structural requirements of a
dwelling as provided in the adopted building code.
HOME, NURSING: A building housing any facility, however named, whether operated
for profit or not, the purpose of which is to provide skilled nursing care and
related medical services for more than eight (8) individuals suffering from
illness, disease, injury, deformity or requiring care because of old age. Also
known as a "rest home".
HOME OCCUPATION: Any gainful operation, profession or craft, which is
customarily incidental to or carried on in a dwelling place, and wherein the
use is clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the dwelling for dwelling
purposes, and which occupation is carried on only by the immediate members of
the family residing within the dwelling, and: a) the use does not change the
character of the dwelling, b) not more than one- fourth (1/4) of the area of
one floor of said dwelling is used for such use, c) no external alterations or
construction features not customary in dwellings is involved, and no external
indication of said home occupation except for a sign as provided in this Title.
HORSE, WILD - FREE ROAMING: All unbranded and unclaimed horses and burros on
public lands of the United States.
HORSES FOR PRIVATE USE: Horses kept and maintained as an accessory use to a
dwelling for the pleasure and use of the occupants thereof, and not used for
commercial purposes.
HOSPITAL: An institution where the ill or injured human beings are offered
treatment of a type recognized by State law, such as medicine and surgery,
osteopathy and the like.
HOTEL: Any building containing six (6) or more guest rooms intended or designed
to be used, or which are used, rented or hired out to be occupied or which are
occupied for sleeping purposes by guests.
HOUSE, BOARDING: A building other than a hotel or restaurant where meals are
provided for compensation to three (3) or more persons, who are not members of
the householder's family.
HOUSEHOLD PET: Animals or fowl customarily permitted in the house and kept for
company or pleasure, including dogs, cats, canaries and similar pets.
IMPOUNDMENT: A hollow structure with sloping or curving sides typically used
for holding water or other liquid.
INDUSTRIAL: Refers to the manufacturing, processing and testing of goods and
materials.
INFILL: To fill in areas consisting of outcrops and poor ground that cannot be
farmed.
JUNKYARD: See definition of Salvage Yard.
KENNEL: A premises where more than four (4) adult dogs are raised, kept,
housed, boarded or are engaged in the commercial business of breeding.
LAND USE PLAN: A general plan adopted and maintained by the County which shows
the most appropriate use of land within the County. (Said Land Use Plan to be
included in and made part of the Master Plan.)
LIVESTOCK CONFINEMENT OPERATION (LCO) 4 : Any lot, corral, or facility:
   A.   Where livestock are confined and maintained for a total of one hundred
eighty (180) days, or more in any twelve (12) month period; and
   B.   Where crops, vegetation, forage, growth or postharvest residues are not
sustained in the normal growing season over more than ten percent (10%) of the
enclosure; and
   C.   Where the number of animal units per acre exceeds the animal density
restriction for that zone.
LODGING HOUSE: See definition of House, Boarding.
LOT: A parcel of land that is described by reference to a recorded plat or by
metes and bounds.
LOT, CORNER: A lot abutting upon two (2) or more streets at their intersection.
LOT, INTERIOR: A lot abutting on any street.
LOT LINE: A line bounding the lot described in the title to the property.
LOT, THROUGH: A lot having frontage on two (2) streets which are parallel or
nearly so.
LOUNGE: See definition of Tavern Or Lounge.
MAJOR DRAINAGE: Such as, but not limited to, Rock Creek, Salmon Falls Creek,
Deep Creek, Mud Creek, Cottonwood Creek, Dry Creek, McMullin Creek, Cedar Draw,
Cedar Creek, Deadman's Gulch, Blue Gulch, Tuana Gulch, Desert Creek and the
Snake River.
MANUFACTURED BUILDING: Any building or building component, other than a mobile
home, which is constructed according to standards contained in the uniform
building code, as adopted or any amendments thereto, which is of closed
construction and is either entirely or substantially prefabricated or assembled
at a place other than the building site.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure, constructed according to HUD/FHA mobile home
construction and safety standards, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities,
and includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning, and electrical systems
contained therein.
MAPS, ZONING: The map or maps of Twin Falls County which are part of this title
designating zoning districts.
MASTER OR GENERAL PLAN: A comprehensive plan, or part thereof, which has been
adopted by the board of county commissioners for the purpose of building
development in the county, including, but not limited to, a plan or plans of
land use, streets, parks, and playgrounds, public buildings, off street
parking, neighborhood conservation and similar plans.
MAY: The term "may" when used in association with usages implies a use other
than a designated use. In no way does the term "may" imply an approval or a
permit but rather a usage that might be considered.
MOBILE HOME: A structure with over one thousand (1,000) square feet of interior
area pre-HUD 1976. Not to include recreational or travel trailers.
MOTEL: A building or group of two (2) or more detached, semidetached, or
attached buildings containing guest rooms with automobile parking space
provided in connection therewith, and designed, intended to be used or used
primarily for the accommodation of transient automobile travelers and which are
rented by the day. This definition shall include auto cabins, tourist courts,
motor courts, motor lodges, and similar designations.
NONCONFORMING BUILDING: A building, structure, or portion thereof, which does
not conform to the regulations of this Title applicable to the zone or district
in which such building is situated, but which existed prior to the effective
date in accordance with Section
8-1-8, subsections 8-9-1A and B, and Section
8-9-2 of this Title.
NONCONFORMING USE: A use of premises which does not conform to the regulations
of this Title, but which was in existence at the effective date hereof.
NUISANCE: In regards to agricultural operations, is defined as being flies,
odors, animal noises, tractor operations, discharges or other operations that
may be found to be annoying, unpleasant, or obnoxious. Nothing in this
definition or Title, however, shall be construed to limit the protections
provided for agricultural activities in chapter 45, title 22 of the Idaho Code,
also known as the Right To Farm Act. See Section
8-9-16 of this Title.
NUISANCE WAIVER: A form signed by owners or occupants of one- family dwellings
and divisions of land specifically waiving any nuisance claim(s) they may have
against agricultural operations including livestock confinement operations.
NURSERY/DAYCARE: A home or building in which children are tended or kept for
compensation, and licensed by State law to provide such facilities and
services. See also definition of Daycare Center.
OCCUPANCY, CHANGE OF: Any change in the character or use of a building or
premises, not including change of tenants, proprietors, occupants.
OFF-STREET PARKING: An area adjoining a building providing for the parking of
automobiles which does not include a public street but has convenient access to
it.
PARCEL: A unit of land in the ownership of one person and constituting a
portion of a separate tract of land.
PARK, MOBILE HOME: Any area, tract, plot or site of land developed, located and
maintained for dwelling purposes on a permanent or semipermanent basis.
PARK, TRAVEL TRAILER: Any area, tract, plot or site of land whereupon two (2)
or more travel trailers are placed, located and maintained for dwelling
purposes on a temporary basis and equipped with sanitary facilities. Such
facility shall be located on major highways or in the vicinity of public
recreational facilities. Other public convenience items may be required by the
Board.
PARKING AREA OR LOT (PUBLIC): An open area, other than a street or public way,
to be used for the storage, for limited periods of time, of operable passenger
automobiles and commercial vehicles, and available to the public, whether for
compensation, free, or as an accommodation to clients or customers.
PARKING AREA (PRIVATE): An open area, other than a street or public way,
designed, arranged and made available for the storage of private passenger
automobiles of occupants of the building or buildings for which the parking
area is developed and is necessary and accessory.
PARKING SPACE: A usable space within a public or private parking area or a
building of not less than one hundred eighty (180) square feet, either within a
structure or in the open, exclusive of driveways or access drives, for the
parking of motor vehicles.
PASTURE: An enclosed parcel of land where grass and fodder are grown for the
grazing of domestic livestock.
PEN: A small enclosure under one hundred twenty (120) square feet for the
confinement of animals.
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT: See Title 10, Chapter 3 of this Code.
PLOT: A parcel of land consisting of one or more lots or portions thereof,
which is described by reference to a recorded plat or by metes and bounds.
PREBUILT HOME: See definition of Manufactured Building.
PRINCIPAL DESIGNATED USE: The main use of land or building as distinguished
from a subordinate, accessory use or other uses.
PROPERTY: A lot or plot including all buildings and improvements thereon.
PROPERTY LINE: A recorded boundary of a plot.
PUBLIC: Operated by a government entity.
PUBLIC WATER AND SEWAGE SYSTEM: A water or sewage system which is owned and
operated by a local government authority or by local utility company adequately
controlled by a governmental authority.
REPAIR: The reconstruction or renewal of any part of an existing building for
the purpose of its maintenance. The word "repair" or "repairs" shall not apply
to any change in a structure such as would be required by additions to, or
remodeling of such structure.
RESIDENCE COURT: A group of one story buildings connected or detached facing
directly on a street or a common court which opens into a street.
RESIDENTIAL USE: A building or portion thereof designed exclusively for
residential occupancy, including one-family, two-family, and multiple
dwellings, but not including hotels, boarding and lodging houses, trailers,
camp cars or travel trailers.
REST HOME: See definition of Home, Nursing.
RESTAURANT: Any land, building, or part thereof, other than a boarding house,
where meals are provided for compensation, including, among others, such uses
as cafe, cafeteria, coffee shop, lunchroom, tearoom, and dining room.
RODEO: An area used as an entertainment site for an exhibition and/or
competition of the skills of cowboys.
ROOMING HOUSE: See definition of Boarding House.
SALVAGE YARD: A place where scrap, waste, discarded or salvaged materials are
bought, sold, exchanged, baled, packed, disassembled, or handled or stored,
including auto wrecking yards, house wrecking yards, used lumberyards, and
places or yards for storage of salvaged structural materials and equipment; but
not including such places where such uses are conducted entirely within a
completely enclosed building, and not including pawnshops and establishments
for the sale, purchase or storage of used furniture and household equipment,
used cars in operable condition, or salvaged materials incidental to
manufacturing operations conducted on the premises. See subsection 8-9-3C of
this Title.
SANITARIUM: A private hospital, whether or not such facility is operated for
profit.
SCHOOL: An institution conducting regular academic instruction at elementary
secondary and college levels. The minimum lot area must be ten (10) acres.
SCHOOL, TRADE OR INDUSTRIAL: An institution or facility conducting instruction
in the technical, commercial or trade skills such as business, beauticians,
barbers, electricians, automotive and so forth.
SERVICE: Providing, attaching, or hooking up to any building, mobile home, or
other structure any line or pipe which is intended to provide any of the
following services: telephone, gas, electricity, water or sewage disposal.
SERVICE STATION: A building or portion thereof and land used for the supply of
fuel, oil, and minor accessories for motor vehicles at retail direct to the
customer and for making minor emergency repairs.
SHED, LOAFING: A slight structure built for the sheltering of farm animals,
single storied with one or more sides completely open, where the animals range
at will rather than occupy fixed stanchions.
SHED, MACHINE: A structure usually of large size used to shelter farm equipment
and machinery.
SIGN: Any structure or natural object, such as tree, rock, brush, and the
ground itself, or part thereof or device attached thereto or represented
thereon, which shall be used to attract attention to any object, product,
place, activity, person, institution, organization or business, or which shall
display or include any letter, word, model, flag, banner, pennant, insignia,
device or representation used as, or which is in the nature of an announcement,
direction or advertisement. For the purpose of this definition, the word "sign"
does not include the flag, pennant, or insignia of any nation, state, county,
or other political unit, or any political, educational, charitable,
philanthropic, civic, professional, religious or like campaign, drive, movement
or event.
STABLE, PRIVATE: A detached accessory building or structure for the keeping of
one or more horses or cows owned and used by the occupant of the premises and
not for remuneration, hire or sale.
STABLE, RIDING: A building or structure used or designed for the boarding or
care of riding horses for remuneration, hire or sale.
STORY: That portion of a building included between the surface of a floor and
the ceiling next above it.
STREET: The public right of way which provides vehicular and pedestrian access
to adjacent properties. The term street includes also the terms thoroughfare,
parkway, thruway, road, avenue, boulevard, land, place and other such terms.
STREET; LOCAL ROADS: Any dedicated street serving as the principal means of
access to property which has not been designated as a State or Federal highway,
major collector or minor collector.
STREET; MAJOR COLLECTOR: The highways of the County which have been designated
as major collectors by the highway district having jurisdiction to provide an
improved system of roads for efficient, safe and economical movement of through
traffic given first priority.
STREET; MAJOR HIGHWAY: The highways of the County which have been designated as
State or Federal highways.
STREET; MINOR COLLECTOR: The highways of the County which have been designated
as minor collectors by the highway district having jurisdiction to provide an
improved system of roads for efficient, safe and economical movement of through
traffic with equal priority given to through traffic and property access.
STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS: Any change in the supporting members of the building
such as the bearing walls, columns, beams, girders or roof.
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or erected which requires permanent location
above or below the ground or attached to something having a permanent location
on the ground including signs and billboards.
SUBDIVISION: Land with more than three (3) splits occurring. See Title 10 of
this Code.
SUBDIVISION, MOBILE HOME OR MANUFACTURED HOME: A parcel or tract of land of at
least one acre in size developed as a planned unit development for the purpose
of creating both single ownership and common interest in real property for the
placement of mobile home units. The development must be compatible with
existing development in the area.
TAVERN OR LOUNGE: A building where alcoholic beverages are sold for consumption
on the premises, not including restaurants when the principal business is
serving food.
TRAILER COURT: See definition of Park, Travel Trailer and Chapter 8 of this
Title.
TRAILER, TRAVEL: Designed to be pulled behind a passenger vehicle or pickup
truck, whether self contained or not, and of such size or weight as not to
require special highway movement permits when drawn by a motorized vehicle.
TRAILER, TRAVEL; PARK: See definition of Park, Travel Trailer and Chapter 8 of
this Title.
UNINCORPORATED TERRITORY: All of the territory within the boundaries of Twin
Falls County, Idaho, which lies outside of incorporated cities and villages.
USE: The purpose for which land or a building thereon is designed, arranged or
intended or for which it is occupied, maintained or leased.
USE, ACCESSORY: See definition of Accessory Use.
USE, CONDITIONAL OR ADDITIONAL: See definition of Conditional Use.
USE, PRINCIPAL: The main use of land or buildings as distinguished from a
subordinate, accessory or conditional use.
UTILITY: Any public or private corporation or company which supplies the public
or a group of individuals with the following commodity, service or both:
telephone, gas, electricity, water, or sewage disposal.
VARIANCE: See Chapter 14 of this Title.
WASTE LAGOON: An open impoundment with earthen or concrete embankments for the
purpose of runoff collection for the purpose of settling, or temporary storage
of the following forms of livestock wastes: semisolid, slurry, and/or liquid.
YARD: The open, unoccupied space on the lot between the property or lot lines
and the front, rear or side wall of a building.
YARD, FRONT: The yard across the full width of the lot or plot which faces the
street and extends from the front building line of the building to the front
property line. All buildings shall comply with the highway district regulations
regarding front yard setbacks for major and minor collectors as designated on
the Official County Highway Map.
YARD, REAR: The yard across the full width of the lot or plot opposite the
front yard, extending from the rear building line of the building to the rear
property line.
YARD, SIDE: The yard between the side building line of the building and the
adjacent side property line and extending from the front yard to the rear yard.
ZONING MAP: The zoning map or maps of Twin Falls County, Idaho, incorporated
into this Title designating zoning districts together with all amendments
subsequently adopted.
ZONING OFFICIAL: The zoning administrator or his authorized representative.
ZONING PERMITS AND CERTIFICATES: A. Zoning Compliance: A building permit once
issued serves as a zoning permit.
   B.   Occupancy Certificate: A document issued by the zoning administrator
authorizing the occupancy and use of completed buildings, structures or
premises and the proposed use thereof for the purpose of ensuring compliance
with the provisions of this title and other county codes and regulations.
   C.   Notice Of Noncompliance: A document issued by the zoning administrator
indicating that a use or structure is nonconforming to the district regulations
or is not in conformity with other conditions or requirements of this title.
(Ord. 21, 12-1-1998; amd. Ord. 172, 10-20-2004; Ord. 173, 10-20-2004)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 12 of this title.
2 2. See chapter 12 of this title.
3 1. IC 67-6512.
4 1. See also chapters 17 and 18 of this title.
CHAPTER 3
ADMINISTRATION, BOARDS, AND COMMISSIONS
SECTION:
8-3-1: Administration And Officers
8-3-2: Compliance
8-3-3: Permits And Certificates
8-3-4: Permit Required; Exceptions
8-3-5: Fees
8-3-6: Reserved
8-3-7: Injunction
8-3-8: Planning And Zoning Commission
8-3-1: ADMINISTRATION AND OFFICERS:
   A.   Zoning Administrator:
      1.   Appointment: There is created the office of zoning administrator
(administrator), to be appointed by the board of county commissioners (board).
      2.   Compensation: The administrator shall be paid a salary as may be
determined by the board. Such salary and other necessary expenses shall be paid
from any appropriation made by the board, together with any other funds which
may become available by gift or by fees collected and placed to the account of
the planning and zoning commission (commission).
      3.   Duties: The administrator shall be the administrative official of
the commission and shall administer the provisions of this code as it relates
to planning and zoning issues. In addition the administrator shall:
         a.   Receive and examine applications for, and issue, building
permits, sign permits, zoning approval letters, and temporary use permits and
maintain permanent records thereof.
         b.   Conduct such investigations of buildings, structures, and use of
land as are necessary to determine compliance with the terms of this code.
         c.   Prepare application guidelines, forms, and administrative
procedures.
         d.   Receive, file and transmit to the commission and/or the board all
applications, petitions and other communications on which it acts.
         e.   Authorize such public hearings as are necessary to comply with
the requirements and objectives of this code.
         f.   Serve as an advisor to the commission making recommendations on
matters concerning rezoning, variances, special use permits, PUDs,
subdivisions, zoning and comprehensive planning.
         g.   Provide reports and discussions for use by the commission on each
item on the agenda.
         h.   If an application for a permit does not qualify for the usage
under the terms of this code, then the administrator may deny the application,
and/or may recommend other alternatives to the applicant.
         i.   Maintain permanent records of all inspections and determinations
made involving the inspection of buildings, structures and use of lands to
ensure continuous compliance with the terms of this code.
         j.   Order the abatement of violation of this code and order
compliance with this code and, if necessary, aid in the prosecution of such
violations.
         k.   And any other such duties and responsibilities as may be assigned
by the board or as provided for in this code.
         l.   Final determinations and actions of the administrator may be
appealed to the board pursuant to the appeals procedure in this code.
   B.   Planning And Zoning Director: It shall be the duty of the director to
assist the administrator in the administration of this code and in the absence
of the administrator to act in the administrator's stead.
   C.   Building Inspector: It shall be the duty of the building inspector to
assist the administrator with the enforcement of the provisions of the building
code.
   D.   Code Enforcement Officer: It shall be the duty of the code enforcement
officer to enforce the provisions of this code.
   E.   Prosecuting Attorney: The prosecuting attorney of Twin Falls County may
institute any necessary legal proceedings to enforce the provisions of this
code.
   F.   Sheriff: The Twin Falls County sheriff and authorized representatives
shall have the authority to enforce the provisions of this code. (Ord. 231, 4-
20-2012)
8-3-2: COMPLIANCE:
   A.   General Provisions:
      1.   No building permit may be lawfully issued, nor may an occupancy
certificate be granted, until the administrator has given authorization
indicating all requirements of this code, all conditions of approval, and any
other specific project related requirements have been met.
      2.   If any building or structure is erected, constructed, reconstructed,
altered, repaired, converted or maintained, or any building, structure or land
is occupied or used in violation of the provisions of this code or any
amendment hereto, the county may pursue any one or more of the following
actions:
         a.   Seek voluntary compliance;
         b.   Issue a civil citation (infraction);
         c.   Pursue a civil action to enforce compliance with the terms of
this code or to enjoin, restrain or abate any violation of the terms of this
code; or
         d.   Pursue criminal prosecution.
      3.   Violation of any conditions of approval, an administratively issued
permit, a special use permit, or any other requirements of this title is a
violation of this code and may subject such permit to revocation. Revocation of
any such permit may be made by the approving entity after notice and hearing as
provided by this code.
      4.   Any violation of any conditions of approval, an administratively
issued permit, a special use permit, variance, or any other requirements of any
zoning ordinance is a public nuisance, and instead of, or in addition to, any
other criminal or civil enforcement measure authorized by this code, may be
enjoined or restrained by the county as other nuisances are abated under
authority of applicable state law.
   B.   General Penalties: Except as otherwise stated in this code, violations
of any of the provisions of this title shall be punishable as follows:
      1.   For a first violation the violator will be deemed guilty of an
infraction and shall pay the fixed penalty of fifty dollars ($50.00) per day
that the violation continues.
      2.   For a second violation within two (2) years, the violator will be
deemed guilty of a second offense infraction and shall pay the fixed penalty of
one hundred dollars ($100.00) per day that the violation continues.
      3.   For a third violation within two (2) years, the violator will be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and may be fined up to one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) and may be jailed for up to six (6) months.
      4.   A citation shall be issued in person by a uniformed officer of the
county or authorized designee, or may be mailed by certified mail, return
receipt requested, to the occupant and the owner of record if the occupant is
not the owner of record. The citation shall include the date(s) of the
violation, the location of the property, and reference to the section(s) of
this code violated.
      5.   Each day of continuing violation may be assessed as a separate
violation.
   C.   Notification, Action Of Prosecuting Attorney: Whenever the
administrator shall determine that a violation has occurred, he shall notify
the prosecuting attorney of such violation and recommend action that should be
taken. Upon knowledge of violation, whether or not recommendation has been
received from the administrator, the board may request the prosecuting attorney
to commence action, criminal or civil, to correct the violation and to punish
the same.
   D.   Action Of The County: In the event any action is taken or any
construction commenced in violation of the provisions of this code, the proper
authorities of the county, in addition to other remedies, may institute any
appropriate action or proceeding to prevent such unlawful action or
construction or to restrain, correct or abate such violation or to prevent any
illegal act, conduct, business or use in or about such premises. (Ord. 231, 4-
20-2012)
8-3-3: PERMITS AND CERTIFICATES:
   A.   Issuance: Building permits shall be issued by the zoning administrator
or authorized representative. Application for such permits shall be on a form
approved by the board. The applicant shall furnish all information indicated
upon the application form. No construction or alteration shall be commenced or
if no structures are involved, no use shall be commenced except for
agricultural uses until the proper certificate has been issued by the zoning
administrator.
      1.   No permits shall be issued for any use in violation of this title or
any other county ordinance. Any certificates secured in violation of the state
or federal law shall be invalid.
      2.   The certificate shall be invalid upon violation by the applicant of
any of the conditions of the certificate.
      3.   No certificate or permit will be issued without the written approval
of the highway district, South Central district health department, or Twin
Falls Canal Company.
   B.   Conditions For Permit; Issue: There shall be filed with the zoning
administrator an application for such permit, setting forth the type of such
construction, alteration or change, and the zoning administrator may, where
conditions make it advisable to require it, require the applicant to submit a
plan with the application showing such work as is to be done. On all matters of
concern or interest to citizens generally, which would involve the issuance of
a permit for a purpose to which there might be general objection, the zoning
commission shall order notice to be published in a newspaper of general
circulation within the county of a public hearing to be had on such
application; such notice shall be published for not less than fifteen (15) days
prior to the public hearing, the zoning commission shall further order that
notice be given by the applicant to the property owners or residents within a
radius of three hundred feet (300') or as otherwise required by this title of
the subject property by mailing said notice to the property owners or
residents, which shall be deemed sufficient notice for the purpose of this
subsection, and at such hearing all interested parties shall be heard. Return
receipt of said notice mailing must be provided by the applicant.
   C.   Conformity Required: No use, structure or buildings shall be permitted
within the county in each zone except as hereinafter designated.
   D.   Occupancy Certificate: Upon completion of a project and prior to
occupancy of the premises, as specified in the adopted building code, the
applicant shall secure an occupancy certificate. Said certificate shall be
issued by the zoning administrator after all conditions specified have been met
and approvals required on the building permit have been secured. (Ord. 21, 12-
1-1998)
8-3-4: PERMIT REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Applications: Any person, firm or corporation desiring to construct,
erect, move or repair a building in the unincorporated territory of Twin Falls
County, shall first apply for a permit from the planning and zoning department.
All applications for permits shall be accompanied by a plat showing the size
and location of the existing buildings and buildings to be erected. The plat
shall also show the zone in which the plot or parcel of land is located.
Existing roads and lanes, roads or alleys to be constructed or utilized must
also be indicated and proof of property ownership. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
   B.   Exceptions: See title 7, chapter 3 of this code for possible
exceptions. (Ord. 173, 10-20-2004)
8-3-5: FEES:
The board may establish fees to defray the costs of processing applications for
public notice. Fees shall be payable at the time of application, and such funds
shall be deposited in the general fund and may be appropriated therefrom for
the purpose of the planning and zoning commission. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
8-3-6: RESERVED:
(Rep. by Ord. 231, 4-20-2012)
8-3-7: INJUNCTION:
In addition to any of the foregoing remedies, the board may institute any
appropriate action or preceding to prevent any unlawful action or construction,
to restrain, correct or abate any violation, or prevent any illegal act,
conduct, business or use in or about any premises. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
8-3-8: PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION:
The planning and zoning commission shall be known as the commission. The duties
and responsibilities of the planning and zoning commission are as follows:
   A.   Appointment; Terms Of Office: The board of county commissioners shall
appoint a planning and zoning commission and fill vacancies. The term of office
for each appointive member, as defined by Idaho Code, 67-6504, shall be no less
than three (3) years and no more than six (6) years. Vacancies occurring
otherwise than through the expiration of terms shall be filled by the board.
Members may be removed for cause by a majority vote of the governing body.
Legal advice shall be made available to the zoning commission by the
prosecuting attorney for any purpose pertaining to this title.
   B.   Organization: The members of the commission shall elect its own
chairman and create and fill such other offices as it may determine it
requires. Any expenditures of the commission shall, exclusive of gift or fees,
be within amounts appropriated and set aside by the county, for the purposes of
the commission as herein set forth. Within such limits, the commission is
authorized to employ such employees and technical advisers as are deemed
necessary for its work.
   C.   Meetings; Rules Of Order: The commission shall fix its place of meeting
and shall conduct at least one regular meeting each month; provided however,
that if no issues over which the commission has jurisdiction are pending on its
calendar, a meeting may be canceled; provided however, that in any event, one
regular meeting shall be held for each month for not less than nine (9) months
in each year. Other meetings of the Commission shall be held at the call of the
chairman and at such other times as the Commission may determine. The action of
the Commission at any meeting may be continued to the next regular meeting
without further notice being given.
      1.   Quorum: A majority of the appointive members of the Commission shall
be necessary to constitute a quorum at any meeting.
      2.   Open To Public: All meetings shall be open to the public.
      3.   Keeping Of Minutes: The Commission shall keep minutes of its
proceedings, shall keep records of its examinations, findings, recommendations
and all other official actions, and render a monthly report thereof to the
Board. The records herein referred to shall be a public record.
      4.   Rules Of Order: Written rules consistent with the laws of the State
for the transaction of business of the Commission shall be adopted. The
Commission shall proceed according to its own rules of order for the conduct of
business and shall file its rules of order with the County Clerk.
      5.   Written Report: In cases involving a hearing, the review of plats or
applications where a finding, determination, decision or recommendation has
been made on a subject which has been a matter of contest, then the Commission,
in addition to including the matter in its monthly report as prescribed, shall
file with the Clerk of the Board no later than ten (10) days after the
conclusion of such matter a written report stating the findings and action
taken by the Commission in the form of findings of fact and conclusions of law
that explain the criteria and standards considered relevant, state the fact
relied upon, and explain the justification for the decision based on the
criteria, standards and facts set forth.
      6.   Public Hearing Procedure:
         a.   Chairperson will open public hearing and read announcement.
         b.   Chairperson will call for staff report.
         c.   Planning and Zoning Commission members may ask questions. (Such
questions should be relevant, concise and based on the finding of fact.)
         d.   Chairperson asks applicant to come forward and state proposal.
         e.   Planning and Zoning Commission members may ask questions of
applicant.
         f.   Chairperson will call for testimony in support of proposal.
(Chairperson instructs those who wish to comment to state their name for the
record and to sign in.)
         g.   Planning and Zoning Commission members may ask questions after
each witness. (Such questions should be relevant, concise and based on the
findings of fact.)
         h.   Chairperson will call for testimony against the proposal.
(Chairperson instructs those who wish to comment to state their name for the
record and to sign in.)
         i.   Planning and Zoning Commission members may ask questions after
each witness. (Such questions should be relevant, concise and based on the
findings of fact.)
         j.   Chairperson will call for final comments by applicant.
         k.   Chairperson will close public hearing.
         l.   Chairperson will call for Planning and Zoning Commission members
discussion and motion.
   D.   Voting: The concurring vote of a majority of a quorum present shall be
necessary to sustain a finding, determination, recommendation or decision of
the Commission.
   E.   Jurisdiction And Authority: The Commission shall have jurisdiction and
authority in addition to the jurisdiction and authority granted elsewhere in
this Title as follows:
      1.   Land Usage Studies: Conduct studies pertaining to land usage within
the County.
      2.   Preparations And Recommendations: Prepare and recommend plans and
ordinances or amendments thereto to the Board.
         a.   Pursuant to a study of the County land use, traffic circulation
system, population trends and from time to time other pertinent factors and
subsequent to the holding of a public hearing thereon, the Commission shall
prepare and recommend to the Board a comprehensive plan and such amendments
thereto as may be deemed necessary for the unincorporated portions of the
County, taking into consideration the following factors to obtain a plan
designed to:
            (1)   Lessen congestion in the streets.
            (2)   Secure from fire, panic and other damages.
            (3)   Promote health and the general welfare.
            (4)   Provide adequate light and air.
            (5)   Prevent overcrowding of land.
            (6)   Avoid undue concentration of population.
            (7)   Facilitate adequate provisions for transportation, water,
sewage, schools, parks and other public requirements.
            (8)   Retain the aesthetic values and the natural beauty of the
County.
            (9)   Such plan shall be made with reasonable consideration, among
other things for the character of each district and its peculiar suitability
for particular uses, and with a view to conserving the value of buildings and
encouraging the most appropriate use of land throughout such areas.
         b.   Pursuant to study and the holding of hearings thereon and in
accordance with the General Plan, the Commission shall prepare and recommend to
the Board a zoning ordinance and such amendments thereto as may be necessary in
dividing the unincorporated portions of the County into districts of such
number, shape and area as may be deemed best suited to carry out the purpose of
this Title, and regulating or restricting the uniform use of land in each
district for trade, industry, residence or other purposes, as well as the
percentage of lot that may be occupied, and size of yards, courts and other
open spaces, and density of population and further regulate and restrict the
erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, repair or use of building,
and further regulate and restrict the height, number of stories and the size of
buildings and other structures.
      3.   Recommendations And Suggestions: Make recommendations and
suggestions to the Board.
         a.   In addition to the requirements that the Commission prepare and
recommend to the Board for adoption the comprehensive plan and a zoning
ordinance as herein above set forth, the Commission on its own initiative or
upon the request of the Board shall from time to time review said comprehensive
plan and zoning ordinance and recommend addition, amendments or repeal of such
plans, ordinance or regulations.
         b.   Furthermore, the Commission shall from time to time make
recommendations and suggestions to the Board concerning the future growth, and
development and beautification of the County in respect to its public
buildings, streets, parks, grounds, and lands consistent with future growth and
development of the County in order to promote the public health, morals, safety
and welfare of the inhabitants thereof.
      4.   Reclassification Recommendations: Make recommendations to the Board
as it pertains to reclassification of districts or zone change applications,
planned unit development applications, and conditional use applications
pertaining to subdivisions.
         a.   Any and all maps, plats, and replat of land which require the
approval of the Board, or any official or employee thereof, shall first be
submitted to the Commission for its suggestion and the Board within which to
examine such maps, plats or replat before resuming same with its suggestions.
      5.   Render Advice: Render advice to individuals, and to receive and act,
as a recommending body to the Board of County Commissioners, upon applications
as authorized and specified herein.
         a.   The Commission is further empowered to give suggestions and
advice to individuals concerning landscaping, or location of buildings,
structures or works to be erected, constructed or altered by or for such
individuals.
      6.   Receipt And Action Upon Applications As Authorized: The commission
upon the receipt of an application, shall process same and submit its findings,
determinations and/or recommendations to the board pertaining to said
application in accordance with the standards, rules and procedures herein
recited, as well as concerning such other applications which might be made
incidental to the enforcement and administration of this title. (Ord. 21, 12-1-
1998)
CHAPTER 4
SIGN REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-4-1: Purpose And Scope
8-4-2: Definitions
8-4-3: Procedures And Approval Process
8-4-4: Restrictions
8-4-5: Commercial And Industrial Districts
8-4-1: PURPOSE AND SCOPE:
   A.   Purpose: The provisions of this Chapter are intended to protect,
enhance, and maintain the visual quality of unincorporated lands through the
regulation of signs.
   B.   Scope: Signs are structures. These regulations are not intended to and
do not dictate, or limit the content of those signs allowed for general
advertising purposes. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
8-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this Chapter, the following words and terms shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this Section:
ATTACHED SIGN: A sign which is mounted to the walls of a building and may
either be flat against or projecting from the wall.
ENTRYWAY SIGN: A freestanding sign placed at the edge of a parking lot which
gives the name and logo of the business located at that site. Maximum height of
this sign is thirty inches (30") above grade and shall not obstruct vision of
motorists at driveways or street intersections.
FREESTANDING SIGN: A sign which is ground supported only and has no support
other than one or more columns placed on a foundation designed to withstand the
maximum "moment" developed by the sign in high wind without lateral bracing or
support.
ILLUMINATED SIGN: A sign which uses a light source to make its message readable
in darkness. This definition shall apply to all internally and externally
lighted signs and reflecting, glowing or radiating signs. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
8-4-3: PROCEDURES AND APPROVAL PROCESS:
   A.   A sign exempt from a Planning Department permit does not require
application with the County but shall conform to all other applicable
provisions of this Title.
   B.   A sign subject to Planning Department approval is a sign for which
approval will be granted, provided all approval conditions are satisfied and:
      1.   The Planning Department shall make the decision.
      2.   The decision may be appealed by the applicant to the Planning
Commission through the formal appeal procedure.
   C.   Time limit on sign approval:
      1.   Approval of a sign by the Planning Department shall be void after
ninety (90) days if:
         a.   The sign has not been installed within that ninety (90) day
period, or
         b.   The sign is a departure from the approved plan.
      2.   The Planning Director shall upon written request by the applicant,
grant an extension of the approval period not to exceed thirty (30) days,
provided that:
         a.   No changes are made on the original sign as approved by the
Director except as requested by him/her.
         b.   The applicant can show intent of initiating placement of the sign
on the site within the thirty (30) day extension period.
         c.   There have been no changes in the applicable policies and
ordinance provisions on which the approval was based. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
8-4-4: RESTRICTIONS:
Applying to all zones except Commercial and Industrial Zones.
   A.   Sign Regulations, Residential Uses:
      1.   Each dwelling may have one sign attached thereto or one yard sign.
Such sign shall state only the name and profession of the occupant.
      2.   "Attached" signs shall not exceed two (2) square feet in area, nor
project more than three feet (3') from the building.
      3.   "Yard signs" shall not exceed three (3) square feet in area, nor
measure more than three feet (3') in any direction and no part thereof shall
project beyond the property line.
      4.   Illuminated signs shall be nonflashing.
   B.   Sign Regulations, Nonresidential Use:
      1.   Buildings and premises used for other than residential use may have
one sign attached to the building and one sign detached from the building.
      2.   "Attached" signs shall not exceed thirty two (32) square feet in
area.
      3.   The advertising face of attached signs projecting from a building
and paralleling a side property line shall not be located closer than ten feet
(10') to said property line.
      4.   "Detached" signs shall not exceed thirty two (32) square feet in
area.
      5.   The advertising face of detached signs paralleling a side or side
street property line shall not be closer than ten feet (10') to said property
lines.
      6.   The requirement of subsection B5 of this Section, shall not apply to
detached signs where the advertising face of such sign parallels the front
property lines, provided, however, that no part of the sign including the
supporting element shall project beyond any property lines.
      7.   Detached signs may require a minimum clearance of nine feet (9')
aboveground and illuminated signs shall be nonflashing. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
8-4-5: COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS:
   A.   Individual Business And Governmental Facility Signs:
      1.   Total sign silhouette area shall not exceed one and one- half (11/2)
square feet of silhouette area for each lineal foot of exterior building
frontage. The total sign area shall not exceed sixty four (64) square feet for
the business property or leasehold.
      2.   Only one freestanding sign shall be permitted upon business property
or leasehold, limited to twenty four (24) square feet in silhouette area. Sign
height shall not exceed three feet (3') from grade.
      3.   Only automobile service stations may have one additional
freestanding changeable fuel price sign for the single purpose of advertising
the price of fuel, limited to twelve (12) square feet in silhouette area.
      4.   Signs shall be set back from the public right of way or frontage
lease line a minimum distance of five feet (5'), except where the building is
closer to the public right of way or frontage lease line than the five foot
(5') sign setback and another frontage location is not available for the sign.
      5.   Signs shall not project more than one and one-half feet (11/2') from
the surface of the building.
      6.   Freestanding identity signs shall not exceed three feet (3') in
height.
      7.   Wall signs shall not exceed twenty five feet (25') in height above
grade. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
CHAPTER 5
ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONES
SECTION:
8-5-1: County Divided Into Zones; Districts
8-5-2: Maps Adopted
8-5-3: Regulations
8-5-4: Boundaries Of Zones
8-5-5: Conformity Required
8-5-1: COUNTY DIVIDED INTO ZONES; DISTRICTS:
In order to accomplish more fully the objectives and purposes of this title,
Twin Falls County, is hereby divided into five (5) zones and four (4) overlay
districts which shall be known by symbols and/or names as follows:
Short Title Zones
Short Title Zones
ARP         Agricultural range preservation zone
A           Agricultural zone
RR          Rural residential zone
C           Commercial zone
I           Industrial zone
CR          Canyon Rim overlay district
AP          Airport overlay district
WPO         Wellhead protection overlay district
OR          Outdoor recreation overlay district
 
(Ord. 21, 12-1-1998; amd. Ord. 209, 9-22-2008)
8-5-2: MAPS ADOPTED:
   A.   Zone Map: The location and boundaries of each of the zones are shown on
the official zone map of Twin Falls County, Idaho, and all boundaries,
notations and other data shown thereon are as much a part of this title as if
fully described therein.
The zone map shall be identified by the signature of the chairman of the board
of county commissioners, attested by the clerk, and shall bear the following
words:
I hereby certify that this is the Official Zone Map of Twin Falls County, which
was adopted by the Board of County Commissioners on this                 day of
               .
B. Map Highway Designation:
1. Designation And Location: The designation and location of highways
classified as major collectors and minor collectors shall be shown on the
official highway designation map, and all boundaries, notation and other data
shown thereon are as much a part of this title as if fully described therein.
The highway map shall be identified by the signature of the president of the
board of highway district commissioners, attested by the district secretary,
and shall bear the following words:
I hereby certify that this is the Official Highway Designation Map of the
Highway District, which was adopted by the Board of said Highway District on
this                 day of                .
2. Special Road Classification: Whenever a permit is issued for construction,
reference shall be made to the current highway designation map. Highways
designated as major collectors and minor collectors shall be controlled access
facilities and the access to them shall be restricted or prohibited by the
board of highway district commissioners so as to best serve the traffic for
which such facility is intended. Yard setbacks shall be calculated on the basis
of eighty feet (80') from the centerline of the roads classified as "major
collectors". In the event such structure is to be located at the intersection
of two (2) such classified roads, the corresponding setbacks shall apply. (Ord.
21, 12-1-1998)
8-5-3: REGULATIONS:
Within each of the zones, the height, number of stories, and the size of
buildings and structures, and percentage of lot that may be occupied, the size
of yards, courts and other open spaces, the density of population and the
location and use of buildings, structures and land for trade, industry,
residence or other purposes are hereby regulated and restricted as set forth in
this Title or as may be amended. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
8-5-4: BOUNDARIES OF ZONES:
Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of zones, the following
rules shall apply:
A. Zone Boundaries: When indicated boundaries of the Zone Map are approximate
street or land survey lines, said street or land survey lines shall be
construed to be the zone boundaries.
B. Natural Features: Where the indicated boundaries are approximate canal,
natural streams or watercourses, or other clearly defined natural features, the
center line of said canal, natural stream, watercourse or natural feature shall
be construed to be the zone boundary.
C. Absence Of Feature Or Measurement: In the absence of any street, land
survey, canal, natural stream, watercourse or other natural feature or
measurement as forming the boundaries of any zone, the scale or measurement
shown on the Map shall be used to determine the zone boundary lines.
D. Classification Of Vacated Streets Or Alleys: Whenever a street is vacated,
and that street has not been given a zone classification, the land of the
vacated street shall have the same zone classification as the land adjacent or
abutting land owned or on the same side of the center line of former street to
whom such land reverts or in whom said land becomes vested by operation of law
or otherwise.
E. Disincorporation Or Errors In Legal Description: In every case where small
parcels of territory have not been specifically included within a district
through errors in legal description, or where territory becomes a part of the
unincorporated area of Twin Falls County by the disincorporation of any city,
such territory shall automatically retain its existing use classification until
otherwise classified but not to exceed a period of six (6) months following
discovery.
F. Conflicting Provisions, Map And Text: In case of conflict between the text
and the Maps of this Title, the Maps shall prevail. In case of a conflict
between the provisions of the various sections of the text of this Title, the
most stringent provisions shall prevail.
G. Other Uncertainty: Where other uncertainty exists, the Zoning Administrator
shall interpret the Map. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
8-5-5: CONFORMITY REQUIRED:
Except as otherwise provided herein, land, buildings and premises in any
district shall hereafter be used only in accordance with the regulations herein
established for that district and the following general provisions:
A. No building shall hereafter be erected, constructed, relocated or
structurally altered to have a greater height, proportion of coverage or
smaller yards or open spaces about it than permissible under the limitations
set forth herein for the district in which such buildings are located.
B. No yards, open spaces or off-street parking space or loading space existing
or provided hereafter about any building shall be reduced below the minimum
requirements hereinafter set forth for such open space, parking space or
loading space, or further reduced if already less than said minimum
requirements.
C. No open space, yard or off-street parking space or loading space existing or
hereafter provided for a building or use and necessary to meet or partially
meet the requirements of this Title shall be considered as all or part of the
yard, open space, off-street parking space or loading space required for any
other building or upon any other lot.
D. No lot held under one ownership at the effective date hereof shall be
reduced in dimension or area in relation to any building thereon so as to be
smaller than required by this Title, and if already less, the dimension or area
of such lot shall not be further reduced. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
CHAPTER 6
DISTRICTS OR ZONES
ARTICLE A. AGRICULTURAL RANGE PRESERVATION ZONE (ARP)
SECTION:
8-6A-1: Purpose; Interpretation
8-6A-2: Principal Permitted Uses
8-6A-3: Conditional Uses
8-6A-4: Restrictions Applicable
8-6A-5: Lot Requirements
8-6A-6: Accessory Use Buildings
8-6A-7: Eave Projection
8-6A-8: Off Street Parking
8-6A-1: PURPOSE; INTERPRETATION:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of the agricultural range preservation zone is to
protect the nonirrigated, high desert areas of Twin Falls County by preserving
both good and marginally productive lands in large and contiguous areas and by
allowing production of crops, other agricultural operations and small lot
residential uses in association with agricultural operations. Potential density
would be one dwelling unit per one hundred sixty (160) acres. Conditional use
permits may allow public uses, agricultural support activities and other uses
consistent with the agricultural character of this zone.
   B.   Agricultural Land: The requirements of this title shall not be
construed so as to deprive the owner of agricultural land of the full and
complete use of said land for the production of any agricultural products.
"Agricultural land" being herein defined as a tract of land containing not less
than one hundred sixty (160) acres in ARP zone including canal and railroad
right of way used exclusively for agricultural purposes. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
8-6A-2: PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES:
Permitted uses shall be subject to all other requirements of this title,
including chapters 17 and 18 of this title.
Aquaculture farms.
Farm labor dwelling units for any occupant(s) employed full time in connection
with the agricultural use of the land. Proof of full time employment with said
operation shall be provided to the zoning administrator upon request.
The full and complete use of agricultural land for production of any
agricultural product in compliance with Idaho Code section 67-6529.
LCOs/feedlots/stockyards.
Single-family dwellings (1 per 160 acres), accessory use buildings. (Ord. 21,
12-1-1998)
8-6A-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
These items may be approved as a conditional use provided they are determined
to be an appropriate use of land at the proposed location and provided they
will not have an adverse effect upon adjoining land. Conditions requiring
special or additional sanitation facilities, landscaping, developed recreation
facilities, reduced density, level of maintenance standards, parking, etc., may
be stipulated in the approval. Conditional uses shall be subject to all other
provisions of this title, including chapters 17 and 18 of this title.
Agricultural service or support businesses.
Aircraft landing fields or airports.
Animal clinics, animal hospitals, veterinary offices.
Commercial packing facilities.
Gravel pits, rock quarries, sand and clay cinder pits, soil sources.
Greenhouses and nurseries.
Public and quasi-public uses.
Radio and television towers.
Sanitary landfills.
Single-family dwellings together with accessory use buildings such as garages
or storage buildings for immediate family members on one acre, or larger, lots.
Any conditional use permit for such dwellings shall specify that the dwelling
cannot be sold or rented to someone outside of the immediate family for a
period of five (5) years.
Wastewater treatment systems.
Other uses compatible with and not less restrictive in character than the above
designated uses may be considered. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
8-6A-4: RESTRICTIONS APPLICABLE:
   A.   It is desirable that in this zone the principal designated uses
involving structures be serviced from public water and sewer facilities,
however, since such public facilities might not be reasonably available or
feasible throughout this zone, then the minimum lot requirements will be
controlled by the specific requirements as stated below or the requirements of
the health department whichever is greater.
   B.   In this zone, no building or premises not customarily incidental to
agricultural pursuits, as herein noted, shall be used, nor shall any building,
structure or land usage be hereafter erected or altered (unless otherwise
provided in this chapter) except for one or more of the above uses in
accordance with the following standards:
      1.   Dwelling units shall be laid out, to the greatest extent feasible,
to achieve the following objectives:
         a.   In areas determined to be infill which are unsuitable for growing
crops and on the least fertile soil for agricultural uses as those soils are
identified in the soil conservation service maps, and in a manner which
maximizes the usable area remaining for such agricultural use.
         b.   On the most suitable soils for subsurface septic disposal as
ascertained by the South Central health district.
         c.   In areas where basic services, such as public street access and
fire protection exist.
         d.   In locations where adequate water resources exist to meet
domestic needs as well as irrigation needs for the entire parcel of land.
         e.   In locations that are least likely to conflict with surrounding
agricultural activities.
         f.   In compliance with any wellhead protection districts.
         g.   With adequate roads for emergency vehicle access.
      2.   Owners or occupants of single-family homes shall specifically waive
any nuisance claims they have against agricultural operations existing at the
time said owners or occupants construct their homes, including claims against
livestock confinement operations. See nuisance waiver.
      3.   Single-family homes built subsequent to the date of adoption hereof
will not affect expansion of, or setbacks of any existing agricultural
operation or livestock confinement operation if located within the defined
setbacks of said operation. Mobile homes and manufactured homes shall be
considered single-family dwellings provided, however, that they meet the
minimum requirements specified in other parts of this code, have a HUD approval
sticker and a mobile home rehabilitation certification if the mobile home is
older than July 1, 1976, per chapter 25, title 44 Idaho Code.
      4.   Applicants for dwelling permits shall file with the director the
following documents:
         a.   The standard application demonstrating that, where applicable,
the proposed development meets all of the requirements of the board's
ordinance.
         b.   An environmental analysis, if required, under the board's rules
and regulations.
         c.   A site plan and map of the parcel drawn to scale showing the
proposed dwelling site.
         d.   Proof of ownership of the land.
         e.   Written approval of the South Central health district for a
subsurface disposal system.
         f.   Legal description of the proposed dwelling site.
         g.   Other items mandated by the comprehensive plan and adopted by
resolution of the board. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
8-6A-5: LOT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Lot Area:
      1.   Principal Uses: The lot area per dwelling unit and for all principal
uses in these zones shall be the area expressly allowed above, or if not set
out, the area shall not be less than one acre. The site shall be shown to have
sufficient space complying with the health department standards, for future
construction of a replacement sewage disposal system.
      2.   Other Uses: The area of each lot, dependent on individual water
supply and sewage disposal system, shall be as required by subsection A1 of
this section. Where a public sewer or community sewerage system and treatment
plan approved by the Idaho department of public health is available for lots,
the sewage disposal system of each lot shall be connected thereto.
   B.   Lot Frontage:
      1.   In all cases the minimum average lot width shall not be less than
eighty feet (80'). The minimum street frontage shall be sixty feet (60') except
in the case of lots abutting a cul-de-sac in which case the minimum frontage
shall be thirty feet (30'). Any other reduction in lot frontage must be
approved by the planning and zoning commission.
   C.   Lot Depth: No requirement.
   D.   Yards: Residential and other uses:
      1.   Front: A minimum front yard depth of thirty feet (30') shall be
provided for all buildings, except where a building exceeds a height of thirty
five feet (35'), the front yard shall be increased one foot (1') in depth for
each five feet (5') of height exceeding thirty five feet (35').
      2.   Side: A minimum side yard of seven feet (7') shall be provided on
each side of the main building located on an interior lot, except where a
building exceeds a height of thirty five feet (35'), the side yard shall be
increased one foot (1') for each five feet (5') of height exceeding thirty five
feet (35'). The side street yard of a building located on a corner lot shall
not be less than twenty five feet (25').
      3.   Rear: A minimum rear yard depth of thirty feet (30') shall be
provided for all buildings, except where a building exceeds a height of thirty
five feet (35'), the rear yard shall be increased one foot (1') in depth for
each five feet (5') of height exceeding thirty five feet (35'). (Ord. 21, 12-1-
1998)
8-6A-6: ACCESSORY USE BUILDINGS:
Detached accessory use buildings may be constructed on the rear yard area
provided that such buildings plus the principal building shall not occupy more
than thirty five percent (35%) of the total lot area nor be located closer than
three feet (3') to a side or rear property line of an interior yard except by
written, notarized and recorded permission of the adjoining property owner(s)
and appropriate firewall construction, nor closer than twenty five feet (25')
to the side street property line of a corner lot. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
8-6A-7: EAVES PROJECTION:
   A.   Eaves projecting from main buildings shall not be closer than thirty
inches (30") to a side or rear property line.
   B.   Eaves projecting from accessory use buildings shall not be closer than
twelve inches (12") to a side or rear property line. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
8-6A-8: OFF STREET PARKING:
Off street parking shall be as required by chapter 11 of this title. (Ord. 21,
12-1-1998)
ARTICLE B. AGRICULTURAL ZONE (A)
SECTION:
8-6B-1: Purpose; Interpretation
8-6B-2: Principal Permitted Uses
8-6B-3: Conditional Uses
8-6B-4: Restrictions Applicable
8-6B-5: Lot Requirements
8-6B-6: Accessory Use Buildings
8-6B-7: Eave Projection
8-6B-8: Off Street Parking
8-6B-1: PURPOSE; INTERPRETATION:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of the agricultural zone is to protect the
agricultural character and base of Twin Falls County and allow for limited
residential development consistent with the rural environment and by
identifying and delineating prime and poor croplands to determine suitability
for land uses. Toward this end, the creation of dwelling sites for residential
use, whether or not constituting a subdivision, shall only be encouraged on the
least fertile soils for agricultural uses and in areas where basic services,
such as public street access and fire protection exist. Potential density would
be one dwelling per forty (40) acres with subdivisions to be discouraged and
only allowable as PUDs, instead of strip residential development on county
roads. PUDs, to the extent they are allowed, should be located so that a buffer
zone exists between the PUD and any active farms.
   B.   Agricultural Land: The requirements of this title shall not be
construed so as to deprive the owner of agricultural land of the full and
complete use of said land for the production of any agricultural products.
"Agricultural land" being herein defined as a tract of land containing not less
than forty (40) acres in A zone including canal and railroad right of way used
exclusively for agricultural purposes. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
8-6B-2: PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES:
Permitted uses shall be subject to compliance with all other provisions of this
title including chapters 17 and 18 of this title.
Agricultural buildings 1 .
Farm labor dwelling units for any occupant(s) employed full time in connection
with the agricultural use of the land. Proof of full time employment with said
operation shall be provided to the zoning administrator upon request.
LCOs (livestock confinement operations) in compliance with this title.
One single-family dwelling together with accessory use buildings such as
garages or storage buildings for every forty (40) acres or more of contiguous
land held under a single ownership.
Private stables.
Public utility buildings and facilities.
Roadside stands or temporary structures used for the sale of farm products
raised on the premises, including signs advertising the sale of such products.
Such structures shall be located a minimum distance of twenty feet (20') from
the highway right of way line and provide not less than five (5) off street
parking spaces adjacent thereto.
The full and complete use of agricultural land for production of any
agricultural product in compliance with Idaho Code section 67-6529. (Ord. 21,
12-1-1998)
 
Notes
1 1. See definition of Agricultural Building, section
  8-2-2 of this title.
8-6B-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
These items may be approved as a conditional use provided they are determined
to be an appropriate use of land at the proposed location and provided they
will not have an adverse effect upon adjoining developed land. Conditions
requiring special or additional sanitation facilities, landscaping, developed
recreation facilities, reduced density, level of maintenance standards,
parking, etc., may be stipulated in the approval. Conditional uses shall be
subject to all other provisions of this title, including chapters 17 and 18 of
this title.
Agricultural support business/operation; i.e., sprinkler or pipe sales, tractor
repairs, welding shops, bean or grain warehouses, potato storage facilities,
and veterinary clinics.
Cemeteries, mausoleums and crematories.
Churches and monasteries.
Commercial advertising signs in compliance with the sign portion of this title.
Commercial stables.
Dwelling sites may be approved as a conditional use.
Fairgrounds and rodeo grounds.
Gravel, sand and clay pits.
Greenhouses or nurseries.
Group daycare homes.
Home occupations in compliance with chapter 10 of this title.
Hydroelectric power plants. (Impact study required.)
Kennels.
Mines, oil and gas wells.
Parking lots and accessory structures in connection with permitted or existing
uses.
Planned unit developments of twenty (20) acres or more, with minimum one acre
lots, in accordance with any applicable provisions of this title, provided they
are located one thousand three hundred twenty feet (1,320') or one-quarter (1/
4) mile from any livestock confinement operation's waste lagoon's closest
inside edge of the retaining wall, and at least four hundred feet (400') from
any livestock confinement operation's corral's outside edge unless a nuisance
waiver is signed. See chapters 17 and 18 of this title. Such developments
within a city area of impact or one mile of any city limits shall require the
approval of such city.
Public parks, public recreation grounds and buildings.
Radio, telephone, and television transmission towers.
Railroad tracks, spurs, switches and facilities.
Temporary living quarters.
Water reservoirs and facilities.
Other uses compatible with and not less restrictive in character than the above
designated uses may be considered. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
8-6B-4: RESTRICTIONS APPLICABLE:
   A.   It is desirable that in this zone the principal designated uses
involving structures be serviced from public water and sewer facilities,
however, since such public facilities might not be reasonably available or
feasible throughout this zone, then the minimum lot requirements will be
controlled by the specific requirements as stated below or the requirements of
the health department, whichever is greater.
   B.   In this zone, no building or premises not customarily incidental to
agricultural pursuits, as herein noted, shall be used, nor shall any building,
structure or land usage be hereafter erected or altered, unless otherwise
provided in this chapter, except for one or more of the conditional uses in
section
8-6B-3 of this article in accordance with the following standards:
      1.   Dwelling units shall be laid out, to the greatest extent feasible,
to achieve the following objectives:
         a.   In areas determined to be infill which are unsuitable for growing
crops and on the least fertile soil for agricultural uses as those soils are
identified in the soil conservation service maps, and in a manner which
maximizes the usable area remaining for such agricultural use.
         b.   On the most suitable soils for subsurface septic disposal as
ascertained by the South Central health district.
         c.   In areas where basic services, such as public street access and
fire protection exist.
         d.   In locations where adequate water resources exist to meet
domestic needs as well as irrigation needs for the entire parcel of land.
         e.   In locations that are least likely to conflict with surrounding
agricultural activities.
         f.   In compliance with any wellhead protection districts.
         g.   With adequate roads for emergency vehicle access.
      2.   Owners or occupants of single-family homes shall specifically waive
any nuisance claims they have against agricultural operations existing at the
time said owners or occupants construct their homes, including claims against
livestock confinement operations. See Nuisance Waiver.
      3.   Single-family homes built subsequent to the date of adoption hereof
will not affect expansion of, or setbacks of any existing agricultural
operation or livestock confinement operation if located within the defined
setbacks of said operation. Mobile homes and manufactured homes shall be
considered single-family dwellings provided, however, that they meet the
minimum requirements specified in other parts of this Code, have a HUD approval
sticker or a mobile home rehabilitation certification if the mobile home is
older than July 1, 1976, per chapter 25 title 44 Idaho Code.
      4.   Applicants for dwelling permits shall file with the Director the
following documents:
         a.   The standard application demonstrating that, where applicable,
the proposed development meets all of the requirements of the Board's
ordinance.
         b.   An environmental analysis, if required, under the Board's rules
and regulations.
         c.   A site plan and map of the parcel drawn to scale showing the
proposed dwelling site.
         d.   Proof of ownership of the land.
         e.   Written approval of the South Central Health District for a
subsurface disposal system.
         f.   Legal description of the proposed dwelling site.
         g.   Other items mandated by the Comprehensive Plan and adopted by
resolution of the Board. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
8-6B-5: LOT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Lot Area:
      1.   Principal Uses: The lot area per dwelling unit and for all principal
uses in this Zone shall be the area expressly allowed above, or if not set out,
the area shall not be less than one acre. The site shall be shown to have
sufficient space complying with the health department standards, for future
construction of a replacement sewage disposal system.
      2.   Other Uses: The area of each lot, dependent on individual water
supply and sewage disposal system, shall be as required by subsection A1 of
this Section. Where a public sewer or community sewerage system and treatment
plan approved by the Idaho Department of Public Health is available for lots,
the sewage disposal system of each lot shall be connected thereto.
   B.   Lot Frontage:
      1.   In all cases the minimum average lot width shall not be less than
eighty feet (80'). The minimum street frontage shall be sixty feet (60') except
in the case of lots abutting a cul- de-sac in which case the minimum frontage
shall be thirty feet (30'). Any other reduction in lot frontage must be
approved by the Planning and Zoning Commission. The minimum street frontage
shall not apply to those parcels or lots that are serviced by private
driveways.
   C.   Lot Depth: No requirement.
   D.   Yards: Residential and other uses:
      1.   Front: A minimum front yard depth of thirty feet (30') shall be
provided for all buildings, except where a building exceeds a height of thirty
five feet (35'), the front yard shall be increased one foot (1') in depth for
each five feet (5') of height exceeding thirty five feet (35').
      2.   Side: A minimum side yard of seven feet (7') shall be provided on
each side of the main building located on an interior lot, except where a
building exceeds a height of thirty five feet (35'), the side yard shall be
increased one foot (1') for each five feet (5') of height exceeding thirty five
feet (35'). The side street yard of a building located on a corner lot shall
not be less than twenty five feet (25').
      3.   Rear: A minimum rear yard depth of thirty feet (30') shall be
provided for all buildings, except where a building exceeds a height of thirty
five feet (35'), the rear yard shall be increased one foot (1') in depth for
each five feet (5') of height exceeding thirty five feet (35'). (Ord. 21, 12-1-
1998)
8-6B-6: ACCESSORY USE BUILDINGS:
Detached accessory use buildings may be constructed on the rear yard area
provided that such buildings plus the principal building shall not occupy more
than thirty five percent (35%) of the total lot area nor be located closer than
three feet (3') to a side or rear property line of an interior yard except by
written, notarized and recorded permission of the adjoining property owner(s)
and appropriate firewall construction, nor closer than twenty five feet (25')
to the side street property line of a corner lot. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
8-6B-7: EAVES PROJECTION:
   A.   Eaves projecting from main buildings shall not be closer than thirty
inches (30") to a side or rear property line.
   B.   Eaves projecting from accessory use buildings shall not be closer than
twelve inches (12") to a side or rear property line. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
8-6B-8: OFF STREET PARKING:
Off street parking shall be as required by chapter 11 of this title. (Ord. 21,
12-1-1998)
ARTICLE C. LIVESTOCK CONFINEMENT OPERATIONS 1
(Rep. by Ord. 158, 1-24-2002)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapters 17 and 18 of this title.
ARTICLE D. RURAL RESIDENTIAL ZONE (RR)
SECTION:
8-6D-1: Purpose
8-6D-2: Principal Designated Uses
8-6D-3: Conditional Uses
8-6D-4: Restrictions
8-6D-5: Lot Requirements
8-6D-6: Accessory Use Buildings
8-6D-7: Eave Projection
8-6D-8: Off Street Parking
8-6D-9: Existing Town Site Plats
8-6D-1: PURPOSE:
The rural residential zone is intended to direct residential development toward
identified, nonprime agricultural land. Potential density would be one dwelling
unit per one acre or greater if required by permitting agencies. Intensive
agricultural establishments would not be permitted. Special permits for uses
which may conflict with residential development shall be discouraged. (Ord. 21,
12-1-1998)
8-6D-2: PRINCIPAL DESIGNATED USES:
Accessory buildings.
Agricultural buildings 1 .
Farm labor dwelling units for any occupant(s) employed full time in connection
with the agricultural use of the land. Proof of full time employment with said
operation shall be provided to the zoning administrator upon request.
Home occupations in compliance with chapter 10 of this title.
Mobile homes in compliance with chapter 8 of this title.
Parking lots in connection with permitted uses or structures for this zone.
Public parks, public recreation grounds and buildings, public community centers
and swimming pools.
Single-family dwelling units.
Temporary structures used for the sale of farm products raised on the premises
including signs advertising the sale of such products. Such structures shall be
located a minimum distance of twenty feet (20') back of the highway right of
way line and provide not less than five (5) off street parking spaces adjacent
thereto.
Water reservoirs and facilities. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998; amd. Ord. 172, 10-20-
2004)
 
Notes
1 1. See definition of "agricultural building", section
  8-2-2 of this title.
8-6D-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
These uses may be granted by the commission after application and a formal
previously advertised public hearing. These items may be approved provided they
are determined to be an appropriate use of land at the proposed location and
provided they will not have an adverse effect upon adjoining developed land.
Conditions requiring special or additional sanitation facilities, landscaping,
developed recreation facilities, reduced density, level of maintenance
standards, parking, etc., may be stipulated in the approval.
Churches and parish halls. (Heights of buildings to be considered.)
Private noncommercial recreation areas including country clubs, racquet clubs
and golf courses.
Schools and private educational buildings having a curriculum similar to that
ordinarily given in public schools and colleges. (Minimum area shall be 10
acres.)
Subdivisions and planned unit developments, in accordance with any applicable
provisions of this title, provided they are located one thousand three hundred
twenty feet (1,320') or one-fourth (1/4) mile from any livestock confinement
operation's waste lagoon's closest inside edge of the retaining wall, and at
least four hundred feet (400') from any livestock confinement operation's
corral's outside edge. See chapters 17 and 18 of this title. Such developments
within a city area of impact or one mile of any city limits shall require the
approval of such city.
Three-family dwelling units.
Two-family dwelling units.
Other uses compatible with and not less restrictive in character than the above
designated uses may be considered. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
8-6D-4: RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   It is desirable that in this zone the principal designated uses
involving structures, be serviced from public water and sewer facilities,
however, since such public facilities might not be reasonably available or
feasible throughout the zone, then the minimum lot requirements will be
controlled by the specific requirements as stated in subsection B of this
section, or the requirements of the health department, whichever is greater.
   B.   In this rural residential zone (RR), no building or premises not
customarily incidental to allowed uses, as herein noted, shall be used, nor
shall any building, structure or land usage be hereafter erected or altered,
unless otherwise provided in this chapter, except for one or more of the
conditional uses in section
8-6D-3 of this article in accordance with the standards in section
8-6D-5 of this article. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
8-6D-5: LOT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Lot Area:
      1.   Water Supply And Sewage Disposal: The lot area per dwelling unit and
for all uses in an RR zone dependent on individual water supply and sewage
disposal systems shall be sufficient to permit proper location, installation
and operation of such systems plus future replacement systems in accordance
with Idaho department of health standards for subsurface sewage disposal
systems and shall not be less than one acre. In platted subdivisions one acre
minimum lot size may allow slight variation for inclusion of rights of way and
easements at health department discretion.
      2.   Minimum Lot Area: The minimum lot area per dwelling unit and for all
other uses in an RR zone served by a public sanitary sewer and water supply
system or a state health department approved private sanitary sewer system and
water supply system may be nine thousand (9,000) square feet if approved as
conditional use.
      3.   Public Sewer Unavailable: In areas not presently served by a public
sewer system, lots shall be shown on the plat to be resubdividable into lot
sizes permitted at such time as public sewer becomes available. (Ord. 21, 12-1-
1998)
      4.   Canal: (Rep. by Ord. 214, 3-2-2009)
      5.   Connection To Community Services Required: Any subdivision or
planned unit development located within one-half (1/2) mile of the incorporated
limits of a municipality shall be required at the developer's expense to
connect to that community's services (water and sanitary sewer) provided that
the community has the capacity and is willing to allow connection to its
services.
   B.   Lot Frontage: In all cases the minimum average lot width shall not be
less than eighty feet (80'). The minimum street frontage shall be sixty feet
(60') except in the case of lots abutting a cul-de-sac in which case the
minimum frontage shall be thirty feet (30'). Any other reduction in lot
frontage must be approved by the planning and zoning commission.
   C.   Lot Depth: No requirement.
   D.   Yards: Residential and other uses:
      1.   Front: A minimum front yard depth of thirty feet (30') shall be
provided for all buildings except where a building exceeds a height of thirty
five feet (35'), the front yard shall be increased one foot (1') in depth for
each five feet (5') of height exceeding thirty five feet (35').
      2.   Side: A minimum side yard depth of seven feet (7') shall be provided
on each side of the main building located on an interior lot except where a
building exceeds a height of thirty five feet (35'); the side yard shall be
increased one foot (1') for each five feet (5') of height exceeding thirty five
feet (35'). The side street yard of a building located on a corner lot shall
not be less than twenty five feet (25').
      3.   Rear: A minimum rear yard depth of thirty feet (30') shall be
provided for all buildings except where a building exceeds a height of thirty
five feet (35'), the rear yard shall be increased one foot (1') in depth for
each five feet (5') of height exceeding thirty five feet (35'). (Ord. 21, 12-1-
1998)
8-6D-6: ACCESSORY USE BUILDINGS:
Detached accessory use buildings may be constructed on the rear yard area
provided that such buildings plus the principal building shall not occupy more
than thirty five percent (35%) of the total lot area nor be located closer than
three feet (3') to a side or rear property line of an interior lot except by
written, notarized and recorded permission of the adjoining property owner(s)
and appropriate firewall construction, nor closer than twenty five feet (25')
to the side street property line of a corner lot. See subsections 8-12-1A and B
of this title. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
8-6D-7: EAVES PROJECTION:
   A.   Eaves projecting from main buildings shall not be closer than thirty
inches (30") to a side or rear property line.
   B.   Eaves projecting from accessory use buildings shall not be closer than
twelve inches (12") to a side or rear property line. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
8-6D-8: OFF STREET PARKING:
   A.   Off street parking shall be as required by chapter 11 of this title.
(Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
8-6D-9: EXISTING TOWN SITE PLATS:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose for this section is to provide minimum lot size in
existing town site plats for the purpose of development serviced by a public
water system and/or waste treatment system, to address existing nonconforming
lots, to safeguard life or limb, health, property and public welfare. This
section only applies to existing town site plats.
   B.   Minimum Lot Area: Minimum lot area shall be twelve thousand five
hundred (12,500) square feet when serviced by a public water system and nine
thousand (9,000) square feet when serviced by a public water system and a
wastewater system. A public water system is defined in IDAPA 58.01.08 as a
water system that supplies water to at least twenty five (25) people or has at
least fifteen (15) service connections.
   C.   Lot Frontage: In all cases, the minimum lot width shall not be less
than one hundred feet (100').
   D.   Lot Depth: In all cases, the minimum lot depth shall not be less than
one hundred feet (100').
   E.   Yard Requirements:
      1.   Front: A minimum yard depth of thirty feet (30') shall be maintained
for all structures.
      2.   Side: A minimum side yard depth of seven feet (7') for the main
structure located on an interior lot shall be maintained. The side street yard
of all structures located on a double frontage lot shall not be less than
twenty feet (20').
      3.   Rear: A minimum yard depth of thirty feet (30') for the main
structure and accessory use structures located less than six feet (6') from the
main structure shall be maintained.
      4.   Accessory Use Structures On Single Frontage Lots: Accessory use
structures on single frontage lots shall have a minimum side and rear yard
depth of seven feet (7'). The side street yard of all structures located on a
double frontage lot shall not be less than twenty feet (20').
   F.   Accessory Use Structures: Accessory use structures may be constructed
in the rear yard area, provided that the area of such structures combined with
the area of the main structure shall not occupy more than thirty five percent
(35%) of the total lot area or infringe upon the sanitary sewer system
including the replacement drain field area.
   G.   Nonconforming Lots: Any existing lot upon which a legally existing
structure is located may continue to be occupied and used in accordance with
section
8-9-1, "Nonconforming Use", of this title. When a legally existing
nonconforming structure is replaced, remodeled or repaired, equaling fifty
percent (50%) or more of its assessed value, it shall be brought into
compliance with the provisions of this chapter and shall not encroach upon road
and/or utility easements, shall conform to the setback requirements of this
section. (Ord. 205, 3-31-2008)
ARTICLE E. COMMERCIAL ZONE (C)
SECTION:
8-6E-1: Purpose
8-6E-2: Principal Designated Uses
8-6E-3: Conditional Uses
8-6E-4: Other Uses
8-6E-5: Restrictions
8-6E-6: Lot Requirements
8-6E-7: Accessory Use Buildings
8-6E-8: Eave Projection
8-6E-9: Off-Street Parking
8-6E-10: Sign Regulations
8-6E-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this Zone is to provide for areas that will fulfill the need for
travel-related services, retail sales and professional offices, neighborhood or
local commercial services throughout the County, and encourage the grouping
together of light industrial uses capable of being operated under such
standards as to location and appearance of buildings and the treatment of the
land about them, that they will be unobtrusive and not detrimental to
surrounding property owners. The zones are established to encourage the
development of shopping centers as they relate to the needs of the urban areas
throughout the County and servicing the major highways or arterials catering
both to local and travel- related services, retail sales and professional
offices. Areas set aside as C Zone may be classified as such in conformity with
the Comprehensive Plan, and where it is found that in the public interest there
is a need for light industrial activities with subsequent findings that light
industrial or commercial uses are the best use for the land involved. (Ord. 21,
12-1-1998)
8-6E-2: PRINCIPAL DESIGNATED USES:
Auto repair and garages, auto painting shops, auto upholstery shops, muffler
shops, automobile parts shops, and similar uses; provided storage of partly
dismantled automobiles shall be carried on within a completely enclosed
building.
Automobile parts.
Automobile sales and service establishments.
Bakeries, retail.
Barbershops and beauty shops.
Book and stationery stores.
Bowling alley, dance halls.
Branch banks.
Broadcasting buildings and facilities.
Business offices.
Candy stores.
Cocktail lounges, bars, beer parlors, nightclubs and liquor stores.
Confectionery stores.
Delicatessens.
Dog kennels and veterinary clinics.
Drugstores.
Dry-cleaning agencies and self-service laundries.
Family clothing stores.
Farm and garden supply stores.
Farm equipment and contractors' equipment sales and service.
Floral shops, nurseries.
Gift and greeting card shops.
Grocery stores, fruit, vegetable and meat markets.
Hobby shops and toy stores.
Home furnishings and accessories.
Ice skating rinks, rollerskating rinks, and swimming pools (see Section
8-9-6 of this Title, swimming pools).
Jewelry stores including the repairing of jewelry, watches and clocks.
Lumberyards and building material and supplies.
Medical and dental offices or clinics, pharmacies, and related services.
Mini-warehouse.
Motels, hotels and rooming halls.
Pawnshops.
Pet stores.
Professional offices.
Public service buildings, such as post offices and fire stations.
Public buildings and public utility structures.
Repair shops for radio, television and small appliances.
Restaurants, food drive-ins, refreshment stands.
Sale of hay, grain and bulk quantities of seed and agricultural supplies.
Service stations.
Shoe repair and shoeshine shops.
Stores selling a combination of items, provided only those items which are
commonly sold in the establishments listed herein.
Supermarkets.
Trade school.
Trailer sales or rental.
Variety stores.
Wedding chapels.
Wholesale of small items. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
8-6E-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
These uses may be granted by the Commission after an advertised public hearing.
These items may be approved provided they are determined to be an appropriate
use of land at the proposed location and provided they will not have an adverse
effect upon adjoining developed land. Conditions requiring special or
additional sanitation facilities, landscaping, developed recreation facilities,
reduced density, level of maintenance standards, parking, etc., may be
stipulated in the approval.
Assembly plant, light manufacturing, packaging plant, fabrication of goods and
merchandise, offices, bottling and distribution plants, light repair
facilities, and wholesale business. Other assembly of limited manufacturing or
industrial uses similar to those listed.
Auction establishments.
Sale of secondhand and salvage goods.
Transit or trucking terminal.
Woodworking, sheet metal, and contractor shops. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
8-6E-4: OTHER USES:
   A.   It is impossible to list all of the commercial, retailing and service
facilities that are compatible with this Zone. Any requested facility of a
compatible nature upon application for a building permit can be resolved by the
Zoning Administrator. If the Zoning Administrator is in doubt, then he should
submit the request to the Planning and Zoning Commission for resolution.
   B.   Other uses may be considered upon the filing of a conditional use
application, and application for a zone variance or a zone change. (Ord. 21,
12-1-1998)
8-6E-5: RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   It is desirable that in this Zone the principal designated uses
involving structures, be serviced from public water and sewer facilities,
however, since such public facilities might not be reasonably available or
feasible throughout the Zone, then the minimum lot requirements shall be
controlled by the specific requirements as stated in subsection B of this
Section, or the requirements of the health department, whichever is greater.
   B.   In this Commercial Zone (C), no buildings or premises not customarily
incidental to the allowed uses, as herein noted, shall be used, nor shall any
building, structure or land usage be hereafter erected or altered, unless
otherwise provided in this Article, except for one or more of the conditional
uses in Section
8-6E-3 of this Article, in accordance with the standards in Section
8-6E-6 of this Article.
   C.   Provisions for the on-site detention of storm water runoff shall be
provided for based on standard engineering practice and in compliance with all
local, State and Federal requirements.
   D.   All driveways entering and exiting the property shall be curbed and
conform to Highway Standards and Procedures for the Highway Districts of Twin
Falls County, Idaho 1994, or latest issue.
   E.   All outside storage or waste areas that may occur in this Zone shall be
totally enclosed as determined by the Commission. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
8-6E-6: LOT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Lot Area:
      1.   Individual Water And Sewer: The lot area for all uses dependent on
individual water supply and sewage disposal systems shall be sufficient to
permit proper location, installation and operation of such systems in
accordance with the Idaho Department of Health Standards for Subsurface Sewage
Disposal Systems.
      2.   Residential Uses: The provisions of the Rural Residential Zone shall
apply.
      3.   Nonresidential Uses: The area of each lot dependent on individual
water supply and sewage disposal system shall be as required by subsection A1
of this Section plus the total square feet of area required front, rear, and
side yards, off- street parking space and floor area of all buildings hereof.
   B.   Lot Frontage:
      1.   For residential uses the minimum average lot width shall not be less
than eighty feet (80'). The minimum street frontage shall be sixty feet (60')
except in the case of lots abutting a cul-de-sac in which case the minimum
frontage shall be thirty feet (30'). Any other reduction in lot frontage must
be approved by the Planning and Zoning Commission.
      2.   For nonresidential uses, the lot width shall be the combination of
structure width and required side yards.
   C.   Lot Depth: No requirement.
   D.   Setbacks:
      1.   Front: A minimum setback distance of fifty feet (50') from the
highway right of way to the wall of any structure upon the property shall be
required.
      2.   Minimum Distance: A minimum distance of ten feet (10') shall be
required between the highway right of way and any area to be used for the
display of any items for sale or trade. Parking is also prohibited in this
area. This area may be used for landscaping purposes which will not interfere
with sighting requirements which allow for the safe egress or ingress to the
property.
      3.   Rear: A minimum rear yard depth of five feet (5') shall be provided
for all buildings except where a building exceeds a height of thirty five feet
(35'), the rear yard shall be increased one foot (1') in depth for each five
feet (5') of height exceeding thirty five feet (35').
      4.   Side: A minimum side yard depth of ten feet (10') shall be provided
for all buildings. Buildings may share a common wall provided that it conforms
to the Uniform Building and Fire Codes. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
8-6E-7: ACCESSORY USE BUILDINGS:
Detached accessory use buildings may be constructed on the rear yard provided
that such buildings shall not occupy more than thirty five percent (35%) of the
rear yard area nor be located closer than three feet (3') to a side or rear
property line of an interior lot, nor closer than fifteen feet (15') to the
side property line of a corner lot. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
8-6E-8: EAVE PROJECTION:
   A.   Eaves projecting from a main building shall not be closer than thirty
inches (30") to a side or rear property line.
   B.   Eaves projecting from accessory use buildings shall not be closer than
twelve inches (12") to a side or rear property line. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
8-6E-9: OFF-STREET PARKING:
Off-street parking shall be as required by Chapter 11 of this Title. (Ord. 21,
12-1-1998)
8-6E-10: SIGN REGULATIONS:
Sign regulations shall be as required by Chapter 4 of this Title. (Ord. 21, 12-
1-1998)
ARTICLE F. INDUSTRIAL ZONE (I)
SECTION:
8-6F-1: Purpose
8-6F-2: Principal Designated Uses
8-6F-3: Conditional Uses
8-6F-4: Restrictions
8-6F-5: Lot Requirements
8-6F-6: Accessory Use Buildings
8-6F-7: Eave Projection
8-6F-8: Off-Street Parking
8-6F-9: Sign Regulations
8-6F-1: PURPOSE:
The I Zone is established to provide for the location of all industrial
activity compatible with plans for the development of the County including
those uses listed as permitted in the C Zone and, in addition, certain other
industrial uses are excluded from the C Zone. Areas set aside as I Zone may be
classified as such in conformity with the Comprehensive Plan and where it is
found that in the public interest there is a need for industrial activities
substantially free from residential or retail commercial activities with the
subsequent finding that industrial uses are the highest and best use for the
land involved. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
8-6F-2: PRINCIPAL DESIGNATED USES:
Principal and conditional uses as listed in the C Zone except residential uses.
Processing of candy, cosmetics, ceramics and similar products.
Processing of dairy products.
Public utility and public service installations, including repair and storage
facilities.
Warehouse. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
8-6F-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
   A.   These uses may be granted by the Commission after application and a
formal previously advertised public hearing provided they are determined to be
an appropriate use of land at the proposed location and provided they will not
have an adverse effect upon adjoining developed land. Conditions requiring
special or additional sanitation facilities, landscaping, developed recreation
facilities, reduced density, level of maintenance standards, parking, etc., may
be stipulated in the approval.
Acid manufacturing, pharmaceuticals and chemical processing.
Asphalt, lime, gypsum manufacturing.
Mixing plants, concrete or other odor-free plants.
Publicly owned refuse dumps, sanitary landfills or transfer facilities.
Recycling centers and facilities.
Salvage yards with sight-obscuring fences.
Stockyards, slaughterhouses.
   B.   It is impossible to list all of the industrial facilities that are
compatible with this Zone. Any requested facility of a compatible nature upon
application for a building permit can be resolved by the Zoning Administrator.
If a usage is requested which creates doubt in the mind of the Zoning
Administrator, then he should submit the request to the Planning and Zoning
Commission for resolution.
   C.   Other uses may be considered upon the filing of a conditional use
application, an application for a zone variance or a zone change. These uses
may be granted by the Commission after a formal previously advertised public
hearing provided they are determined to be an appropriate use of land at the
proposed location and provided they will not have an adverse effect upon
adjoining developed land. Conditions requiring special or additional sanitation
facilities, landscaping, developed recreation facilities, reduced density,
level of maintenance standards, parking, etc., may be stipulated in the
approval: salvage yards with sight-obscuring fences; refuse dumps; acid
manufacturing; asphalt, lime, gypsum manufacturing; animal byproducts plants;
milling or smelting of ores; stockyards, feed yards, slaughterhouses. (Ord. 21,
12-1-1998)
8-6F-4: RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   It is desirable that in this Zone the principal designated uses
involving structures, be serviced from public water and sewer facilities,
however, since such public facilities might not be reasonable, available or
feasible throughout the Zone, then the minimum lot requirements shall be
controlled by the specific requirements as stated in subsection B of this
Section, or the requirements of the health department, whichever is greater.
   B.   In this Industrial Zone (I), no buildings or premises not customarily
incidental to the allowed uses, as herein noted, shall be used, nor shall any
building, structure or land usage be hereafter erected or altered, unless
otherwise provided in this Article, except for one or more of the conditional
uses in Section
8-6F-3 of this Article in accordance with the above standards in Section
8-6F-5 of this Article.
   C.   All driveways entering and exiting the property shall be curbed and
conform to Highway Standards and Procedures for the Highway Districts of Twin
Falls County, Idaho 1994, or the latest issue. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
8-6F-5: LOT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Lot Area:
      1.   Individual Systems: The lot area for all uses dependent on
individual water supply and sewage disposal systems shall be sufficient to
permit proper location, installation and operation of such systems in
accordance with the Idaho Department of Health Standards for Subsurface Sewage
Disposal Systems.
      2.   Nonresidential Uses: The area of each lot dependent on individual
water supply and sewage disposal system shall be as required by subsection A1
of this Section plus the total square feet of area required front, rear, and
side yards, off- street parking space and floor area of all buildings hereof.
   B.   Lot Frontage:
      1.   For nonresidential uses, the lot width shall be the combination of
structure width and required side yards.
   C.   Lot Depth: No requirement.
   D.   Setbacks:
      1.   Front: A minimum setback distance of fifty feet (50') from the
highway right of way to the wall of any structure upon the property shall be
required.
      2.   Minimum Distance: A minimum distance of ten feet (10') shall be
required between the highway right of way and any area to be used for the
display of any items for sale or trade. Parking is also prohibited in this
area. This area may be used for landscaping purposes which will not interfere
with sighting requirements which allow for the safe egress or ingress to the
property.
      3.   Rear: A minimum rear yard depth of five feet (5') shall be provided
for all buildings except where a building exceeds a height of thirty five feet
(35'), the rear yard shall be increased one foot (1') in depth for each five
feet (5') of height exceeding thirty five feet (35').
      4.   Side: A minimum side yard depth of ten feet (10') shall be provided
for all buildings. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
8-6F-6: ACCESSORY USE BUILDINGS:
Detached accessory use buildings may be constructed on the rear yard provided
that such buildings shall not occupy more than thirty five percent (35%) of the
rear yard area nor be located closer than three feet (3') to a side or rear
property line of an interior lot, nor closer than fifteen feet (15') to the
side property line of a corner lot. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
8-6F-7: EAVE PROJECTION:
   A.   Eaves projecting from a main building shall not be closer than thirty
inches (30") to a side or rear property line.
   B.   Eaves projecting from accessory use buildings shall not be closer than
twelve inches (12") to a side or rear property line. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
8-6F-8: OFF-STREET PARKING:
Off-street parking shall be as required by Chapter 11 of this Title. (Ord. 21,
12-1-1998)
8-6F-9: SIGN REGULATIONS:
Sign regulations shall be as required by Chapter 4 of this Title. (Ord. 21, 12-
1-1998)
ARTICLE G. CANYON RIM OVERLAY DISTRICT (CR)
SECTION:
8-6G-1: Purpose
8-6G-2: Applicability
8-6G-3: Principal Permitted, Accessory And Conditional Uses
8-6G-4: Design And Development Standards
8-6G-5: Waiver Of Liability
8-6G-1: PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this article to protect and preserve the canyon lands and
areas in Twin Falls County. These assets have regional and national
significance. Because of the aesthetic quality and diversity of the resources
within the canyons, retaining them in their natural condition is a priority.
Furthermore, it is the intent of this article to protect the public from
possible hazards associated with the canyon. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
8-6G-2: APPLICABILITY:
The canyon rim overlay district shall apply to "canyon lands" as defined in
this title, and shall have the requirements as set forth in this article. (Ord.
21, 12-1-1998)
8-6G-3: PRINCIPAL PERMITTED, ACCESSORY AND CONDITIONAL USES:
All principal permitted, accessory and conditional uses permitted in the
underlying zoning district are permitted in the canyon rim overlay district to
the extent that such uses are consistent with the standards of this article.
(Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
8-6G-4: DESIGN AND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
The following design and development standards shall apply within the canyon
rim overlay district:
   A.   Yard Requirements: No dwelling may be constructed or placed within one
hundred feet (100') of a canyon rim located in Twin Falls County, the
measurement will begin at the structural wall of the dwelling closest to the
canyon rim. In case a question exists as to the exact location of the rim, the
zoning administrator will make the determination. Requests for a lesser setback
will require an application to the director, but in no case shall the setback
be less than fifty feet (50'). The following is required at the time of
application:
      1.   The name, address, and telephone number of the Idaho licensed
professional engineer responsible for preparation of the application.
      2.   A parcel map showing the parcel boundaries, the proposed canyon rim
setback, building envelope, or building location, the disposal facilities, any
watercourses or drainageways across or adjacent to the parcel.
      3.   Any other information required by the director that may clarify the
application and provide a basis for the findings. When all the above
information is submitted, the director shall submit the application to the
commission for a conditional use permit.
   B.   Determination Of Canyon Rim: Due to the unique features of canyons,
multiple canyon rims may meet the definition of "canyon rim". Therefore, the
location of the canyon rim for purposes of the setback requirements of the
canyon rim overlay zone shall be determined before any lesser setback is
approved or any development, including, but not limited to, excavation or
grading on a lot occurs. A property owner shall consult with the zoning
administrator to determine the canyon rim for the lot for purposes of
development and/or the lesser setback. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
   C.   Height Requirements: The maximum allowable structure height within the
canyon rim overlay district shall be thirty five feet (35') for any structure.
(Ord. 166, 3-8-2004)
   D.   Landscaping: Owner's option, unless the requirements have been placed
upon the planned unit development or subdivision of which the subject site is a
part. Those requirements shall be met as a part of the site's development.
   E.   Alteration Of The Natural Landscaping: Dumping of material along canyon
rims, into canyons, or anywhere in the County except for a designated landfill
or transfer station is prohibited. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
8-6G-5: WAIVER OF LIABILITY:
A waiver of liability for Twin Falls County shall be filed in conjunction with
the approval. A notarized signature is required and the form shall be filed
with the County Clerk and recorded with the deed. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
ARTICLE H. AIRPORT OVERLAY (AP)
SECTION:
8-6H-1: Purpose
8-6H-2: Principal Designated Uses
8-6H-3: Conditional Uses
8-6H-4: Restrictions
8-6H-5: Lot Requirements
8-6H-1: PURPOSE:
This district or zone is intended to prevent the encroachment of air space
required for flight safety and in doing so, to also consider the safety of
residential and other uses on the ground. Horizontal and vertical spacing is
generally based on federal aviation agency recommendations. Electromagnetic
restrictions are provided to prevent disorientation of electronic aviation
aids. Light, glare, and smoke requirements are intended to prevent visual loss
of contact with ground, structures, or other obstructions. This zone is applied
in conjunction with existing zone, but should the requirements or prohibitions
of the existing regular zones be determined to be less, then the provisions of
this zone will apply. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
8-6H-2: PRINCIPAL DESIGNATED USES:
Commercial uses, on the airport proper, will be determined by the governing
body.
Dude ranches.
The growing of soil crops including all farming, livestock and poultry raising
activities.
Home occupations, suburban, rural or external.
Livestock confinement operations, in compliance with chapters 17 and 18 of this
title.
Mobile homes on the specified minimum lot size of larger parcels.
One-family dwellings, accessory use buildings and farm labor dwelling units, as
related to the agricultural use of the land 1 .
Parks and golf courses, public parks, public recreation grounds and public
buildings 2 .
Stables, private or riding.
Temporary structures used for the sale of farm products raised on the premises
including signs advertising the sale of such products. Such structures shall be
located a minimum distance of twenty feet (20') back of the highway right of
way line and provide not less than five (5) off street parking spaces adjacent
thereto 3 .
Water reservoirs and facilities 4 .
Other uses compatible with the above designated uses may be considered upon the
filing of a conditional use application, and application for a zone variance or
a zone change. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection 8-6H-4E of this article.
2 2. See subsection 8-6H-4E of this article.
3 3. See subsection 8-6H-4E of this article.
4 4. See subsection 8-6H-4E of this article.
8-6H-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
These uses may be granted by the planning and zoning commission after a formal
previously advertised public hearing. These items may be approved provided they
are determined to be an appropriate use of the land at the proposed location
and provided they will not have an adverse effect upon adjoining developed
land. Conditions requiring special or additional sanitation facilities,
landscaping, developed recreation facilities, reduced density, level of
maintenance standards, parking, etc., may be stipulated in the approval.
Cemeteries.
Commercial advertising signs provided they are located not less than fifty feet
(50') back of any street or highway right of way lines provided however, that
signs along state and federal highways shall comply with the state
requirements.
Gravel, sand and clay pits.
Kennels.
Other uses compatible with and not less restrictive in character than the above
designated uses may be considered. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
8-6H-4: RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Lighting:
      1.   Any pulsating, flashing, rotating, oscillating, or other type of
lighting intended as an attention getting device is prohibited.
      2.   Floodlights, spotlights, or other lighting device shall be so
arranged or shielded as not to cast illumination in an upward direction above
an imaginary line extended from the light source parallel to the grounds.
   B.   Glare: Glare producing building materials shall not be allowed on any
structure or any other use of the land.
   C.   Electromagnetic: No use may be made of land which results in
electromagnetic radiation which interferes with radio communication between
aircraft, or between aircraft and airport, or interferes with established radio
navigation aids.
   D.   Smoke: No use may be made of land which emits smoke, dust or any
visible fumes or vapors into the atmosphere.
   E.   Building Height Limitations: The maximum building height shall be
thirty five feet (35'), provided, however, the zoning administrator may
authorize additional height for structures as provided in federal aviation
agency regulations part 77. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
8-6H-5: LOT REQUIREMENTS:
Lot requirements shall be as provided in the agricultural zone (A). (Ord. 21,
12-1-1998)
ARTICLE I. WELLHEAD PROTECTION OVERLAY ZONE (WPO)
SECTION:
8-6I-1: Short Title And Purpose
8-6I-2: Definitions
8-6I-3: Establishment Of District
8-6I-4: Principal Permitted Uses, Accessory Uses And Conditional Uses
8-6I-5: Prohibited Uses
8-6I-6: Notice Of Proposed Action To Operator Of Public Or Community Water
Supply
8-6I-7: Nonconforming Use
8-6I-8: Enforcement
8-6I-9: Amendments
8-6I-1: SHORT TITLE AND PURPOSE:
   A.   This Article shall be known as the WELLHEAD PROTECTION PLAN.
   B.   It is the purpose of this Article to promote the public health, safety,
and general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to
contamination of the public water supply, and to formalize ground water
protection/pollution abatement and control procedures. Specific goals are to:
      1.   Protect human life and health;
      2.   Ensure that the public is provided with a sustainable safe potable
water supply;
      3.   Minimize expenditure of public money for pollution remediation
projects;
      4.   Minimize regulations and land use; and
      5.   Minimize business interruptions. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
8-6I-2: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this Article, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings given in this Section:
AGRICULTURAL RUNOFF WASTEWATER: Water diverted for irrigation but not applied
to crops, or runoff of irrigation tail water from the cropland as a result of
irrigation.
AQUIFER REMEDIATION RELATED WELLS: These wells shall include those used to
prevent, control, or remediate aquifer pollution, including, but not limited
to, Superfund sites.
COMMUNITY WATER SYSTEM: A public system which serves at least fifteen (15)
service connections used by year-round residents or regularly serves at least
twenty five (25) year-round residents.
COMMUNITY WELLHEAD: The upper terminal of a well, including adapters, ports,
seals, valves and other attachments.
FACILITY: Refers to any business or corporation that is built, installed, or
established to serve a particular purpose.
HAZARDOUS WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITY: A hazardous waste treatment, storage, or
disposal facility which receives hazardous material as described in part 40
chapter 260.1 of the Code of Federal Regulations.
HAZARDOUS WASTE OR MATERIAL: Any waste or material which because of its
quantity, concentration, physical, chemical or infectious characteristics may:
   A.   Cause or significantly contribute to an increase in mortality or an
increase in serious irreversible or incapacitating reversible illness; or
   B.   Pose a substantial present or potential hazard to human health or to
the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported, disposed of or
otherwise managed; or
   C.   Any material or substance designated as a hazardous or toxic substance
defined by title 40 part 261.3 of the Code of Federal Regulations, or any
material or substance designated as a hazardous or toxic substance by the State
of Idaho, acting through the Division of Environmental Quality or any successor
agency.
INJECTION: The subsurface emplacement of fluids.
LIVESTOCK CONFINEMENT OPERATION: As defined elsewhere in this Zoning Ordinance.
NONCOMMUNITY WATER SYSTEM: A public water system that is not a community water
system.
PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM: A system that provides the public with piped water for
human consumption, if such system has at least fifteen (15) service connections
or regularly serves an average of at least twenty five (25) individuals daily
at least sixty (60) days out of the year. Such term includes:
   A.   Any collection, treatment, storage, and distribution facilities under
control of the operator of such system, and used primarily in connection with
such system; and
   B.   Any collection or pretreatment storage facilities not under such
control that are used primarily in connection with such system.
Public water system is either a "community water system" or a "noncommunity
water system".
SANITARY LANDFILL: A solid waste disposal operation where the wastes are spread
on land in thin layers, compacted to the smallest practical volume, and covered
with cover material once each day of operation in order to safeguard against
environmental pollution, nuisances, and health hazards.
STORM WATER RUNOFF: Water discharged as a result of rain, snow, or other
precipitation.
TIME OF TRAVEL DISTRICTS (TOT): The time required for a contaminant to move in
the ground from a specific point to a well.
UNDERGROUND INJECTION WELL: Any excavation or artificial opening into the
ground which meets the following three (3) criteria:
   A.   It is a bored, drilled or dug hole, or a driven mineshaft, or a driver
well point; and
   B.   It is deeper than its largest straight-line surface dimension; and
   C.   It is used for or intended to be used for injection.
WELLHEAD PROTECTION OVERLAY DISTRICT IA: A minimum fixed radius extending no
less than fifty feet (50') radially from the wellhead supplying potable water
to the public water supplies.
WELLHEAD PROTECTION OVERLAY DISTRICT IB: A three (3) year time of travel
district (TOT) as defined in this Section.
WELLHEAD PROTECTION OVERLAY DISTRICT II: A six (6) year time of travel district
(TOT) as defined in this Section.
WELLHEAD PROTECTION OVERLAY DISTRICT III: A ten (10) year time of travel
district (TOT) as defined in this Section.
WELLHEAD PROTECTION OVERLAY DISTRICT (WPO): A land use designation on the land
use map, or a zoning designation on a zoning map, that modifies the basic
underlying designation in some specific manner. The Wellhead Protection Overlay
District will also appear in the hazardous component of the Comprehensive Plan.
A map will define specific area districts centering around wells supplying
drinking water to a public water system. The map is delineated using one of the
following methods:
Calculated fixed radius;
Arbitrary fixed radius;
Simplified variable shapes;
Semi-analytical, and analytical methods;
Hydrogeologic mapping;
Numerical modeling;
and follow the guidelines established in the Idaho Wellhead Protection Plan.
(Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
8-6I-3: ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICT:
There is hereby established a Wellhead Protection Overlay District identified
and described as all the area within the ten (10) year TOT district around
public water supplies as shown on the Official Zoning Map. It is further
established that these areas be composed of four (4) districts, "Wellhead
Protection Overlay District IA", "Wellhead Protection Overlay District IB",
"Wellhead Protection Overlay District II", and "Wellhead Protection Overlay
District III" as they are defined in this Article. The city of Twin Falls may
record with the County Recorder's office a metes and bounds description of the
Wellhead Protection Overlay District. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
8-6I-4: PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES, ACCESSORY USES AND CONDITIONAL USES:
Principal permitted, accessory and conditional uses are those uses set forth in
the base zone except as may be restricted by the standards listed herein and
other sections of the Zoning Ordinance. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
8-6I-5: PROHIBITED USES:
   A.   Zone IA: Uses permitted within Zone IA shall be limited to necessary
public water supply wellhead equipment including the following: wellhead
facility buildings, water storage tanks, disinfection equipment, disinfection
chemical storage and approved landscaping. All other uses shall be prohibited.
   B.   Zone IB: The following uses or conditions shall be and are hereby
prohibited within Zone IB of the wellhead protection areas:
      1.   Sanitary landfills.
      2.   Livestock confinement operations.
      3.   Hazardous waste disposal facility.
      4.   Injection well is a prohibited use except for the following:
         a.   Closed systems.
      5.   All manufacturing or industrial businesses involving the collection,
handling, manufacture, use, storage, transfer or disposal of any hazardous
solid or liquid material or waste having potential impact on ground water.
      6.   Existing sewer lines shall not be closer than one hundred feet
(100') of a wellhead or of a new sanitary system and sewer lines shall not be
closer than one hundred fifty feet (150') of a wellhead.
      7.   Existing septic tanks or drain fields shall not be closer than one
hundred feet (100') of a wellhead and new installation of septic tanks or drain
fields shall not be closer than two hundred feet (200') away from the wellhead.
      8.   Junk or salvage yards.
      9.   Disposal of waste oil, oil filters, tires and all other petroleum
products.
      10.   Land use activities posing a hazard or threat to existing ground
water quality as deemed by the Zoning Administrator during review process of
applications.
   C.   Zone II: The following uses or conditions shall be and are prohibited
within Zone II of the wellhead protection area:
      1.   Sanitary landfills;
      2.   Hazardous waste disposal facility;
      3.   Injection well is a prohibited use except for the following:
         a.   Deep well injection (below 18 feet in depth):
            (1)   Geothermal heat;
            (2)   Heat pump return;
            (3)   Cooling water return;
         b.   Shallow well injection only (less than 18 feet in depth),
including:
            (1)   Storm runoff;
            (2)   Agricultural runoff wastewater;
            (3)   Special drainage water;
            (4)   Aquifer recharge;
            (5)   Aquifer remediation;
            (6)   Septic systems (general).
      4.   Land use activities posing a hazard or threat to existing ground
water quality as deemed by the Zoning Administrator during review process of
applications.
   D.   Zone III: The following uses or conditions shall be and are prohibited
within Zone III of the Wellhead Protection Overlay Zone:
      1.   Injection wells except for the following:
         a.   Deep well injection (below 18 feet in depth):
            (1)   Geothermal heat;
            (2)   Heat pump return;
            (3)   Cooling water return.
         b.   Shallow well injection only (less than 18 feet in depth):
            (1)   Storm runoff;
            (2)   Agricultural runoff wastewater;
            (3)   Special drainage water;
            (4)   Aquifer recharge;
            (5)   Aquifer remediation;
            (6)   Septic systems (general).
      2.   Land use activities posing a hazard or threat to existing ground
water quality as deemed by the Zoning Administrator during review process of
applications. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
8-6I-6: NOTICE OF PROPOSED ACTION TO OPERATOR OF PUBLIC OR COMMUNITY WATER
SUPPLY:
Whenever there is a request which requires approval from the Planning and
Zoning Commission for land lying within a wellhead protection overlay district,
written notice of the hearing shall be given to the entity operating the public
or community water supply within that overlay district. The Planning and Zoning
Commission may require a granting of easements for monitoring wells if the
Commission deems it appropriate for protection of the public water supply.
(Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
8-6I-7: NONCONFORMING USE:
Any legal use existing at the time of the adoption hereof and listed as a
prohibited use herein, shall become a legal nonconforming use and may not be
expanded or improved except as otherwise provided in the Zoning Ordinance.
(Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
8-6I-8: ENFORCEMENT:
It shall be unlawful for any person, corporation, government entity or business
to occupy or use the land within the area designated in the Wellhead Protection
Overlay District of Zone I, II, and III contrary to, or in violation of, any of
the provisions of this Article. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
8-6I-9: AMENDMENTS:
Proposed amendments will require approval from all of the counties and
municipalities that this Article affects. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
ARTICLE J. OUTDOOR RECREATION OVERLAY (OR)
SECTION:
8-6J-1: Purpose
8-6J-2: Principal Designated Uses
8-6J-3: Conditional Uses
8-6J-4: Restrictions
8-6J-5: Lot Requirements
8-6J-6: Accessory Use Buildings
8-6J-7: Eave Projection
8-6J-8: Off Street Parking
8-6J-1: PURPOSE:
This zone is intended to cover those areas of Twin Falls County which are
currently being used and have a potential for recreational usages. In
identifying these areas the general plan has provided for areas to be used for
recreational purposes for the enjoyment of the citizens of Twin Falls County as
well as extending certain areas into national tourist sites. Minimum lot size
shall be the same as the underlying zone. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
8-6J-2: PRINCIPAL DESIGNATED USES:
The growing of crops and raising of livestock and buildings related thereto
provided they do not exceed the animal unit restrictions as outlined in
chapters 17 and 18 of this title.
Hot road mix plants on a temporary basis for not more than the duration of
specific project's time frame.
One-family dwellings or mobile homes.
Private summer cottages and accessory buildings, hunting and fishing cabins,
and fisheries.
Public parks and playgrounds.
Water pumping plants, reservoirs, well and facilities, pipelines, public
utility buildings and structures. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
8-6J-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
These uses may be granted by the planning and zoning commission after a formal
previously advertised public hearing. These items may be approved provided they
are determined to be an appropriate use of land at the proposed location and
provided they will not have an adverse effect upon adjoining developed land.
Condition requiring special or additional sanitation facilities, landscaping,
parking, etc., may be stipulated in the approval. Impact study shall be
required.
Dude ranches.
Hydroelectric dams, power plants, transmission lines and stations.
Livestock confinement operations, in compliance with chapters 17 and 18 of this
title.
Planned unit developments provided they are located one thousand three hundred
twenty feet (1,320') or one-quarter (1/4) mile from a livestock confinement
operation's waste lagoon's closest inside edge; corral's outside edge. See
chapters 17 and 18 of this title.
Use of a recreational nature including sleeping accommodations, food
facilities, and other commercial, semicommercial, or organizational
enterprises.
Subdivisions, provided they are located one thousand three hundred twenty feet
(1,320') or one-quarter (1/4) mile from a livestock confinement operation's
waste lagoon's closest inside edge of the retaining wall and at least four
hundred feet (400') from a livestock confinement operation's corral's outside
edge. See chapters 17 and 18 of this title.
Other uses compatible with the above designated zone are subject to review
committee. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
8-6J-4: RESTRICTIONS:
The restrictions of the underlying zone shall apply in this zone. (Ord. 21, 12-
1-1998)
8-6J-5: LOT REQUIREMENTS:
The lot requirements of the underlying zone shall apply in this zone. (Ord. 21,
12-1-1998)
8-6J-6: ACCESSORY USE BUILDINGS:
The accessory use building provisions of the underlying zone shall apply in
this zone. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
8-6J-7: EAVE PROJECTION:
The eave projection provisions of the underlying zone shall apply in this zone.
(Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
8-6J-8: OFF STREET PARKING:
Off street parking shall be as required by chapter 11 of this title. (Ord. 21,
12-1-1998)
CHAPTER 7
CONDITIONAL USES
SECTION:
8-7-1: Intent
8-7-2: Application Required
8-7-3: Form, Scope And Content Of Application
8-7-4: Authority
8-7-5: Fees
8-7-6: Notice Of Hearing And Publication
8-7-7: Action By Planning And Zoning Commission
8-7-8: Conditional Use, Limitation
8-7-9: Modification, Extension, And Revocation
8-7-10: Appeal To Board Of County Commissioners
8-7-11: Action By Board
8-7-12: Application Resubmittal
8-7-13: Planned Unit Development
8-7-14: Subdivision Ordinances
8-7-1: INTENT:
The intention of a conditional use application is to consider a usage largely
suitable for the respective zone but possessing characteristics such as to
require review and appraisal by the planning and zoning commission. The review
and appraisal is to determine whether or not the proposed use can be made
compatible for the particular area in which it is intended or whether or not it
possesses characteristics for which special treatment may not satisfactorily
prevent damage, devaluation, hazard, nuisance, or other detriment to persons or
property in the vicinity. A conditional use permit or any part thereof, being
restrictive, is issued to the person and not the property, therefore cannot be
sold, leased, or transferred. A conditional use permit can only be used by the
person on the land for which the conditional use permit was originally
intended. A conditional use/land division provides for the one time division of
property, and is not to be confused with a subdivision (more than 3 divisions
of the same parcel of property). Applications that may be considered by the
planning and zoning commission are those which are specifically listed for its
consideration. Items which are of such nature as to change to a less
restrictive policy or precedent shall be considered by the planning commission.
(Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
8-7-2: APPLICATION REQUIRED:
Every person seeking a conditional use permit shall submit an application upon
a form prescribed by the commission, along with an impact study 1 , accompanied
by a filing fee as specified herein. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
 
Notes
  1. See sections
1 8-9-17 and
  8-9-18 of this title.
8-7-3: FORM, SCOPE AND CONTENT OF APPLICATION:
All applications for conditional use permits shall be accompanied by
appropriate architectural and site development plans to scale which shall show
building location; landscaping; prominent existing trees; ground treatment;
fences; off street parking and circulation; location and size of adjacent
streets; north arrow and property lines; drawings of the major exterior
elevations showing exterior building treatment; existing grade and proposed new
grades. Required landscaping plans shall be approved prior to occupancy of the
building. Such plans required for consideration of the planning and zoning
commission shall be prior to issuance of sign permits. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
8-7-4: AUTHORITY:
The zoning administrator shall have the authority to authorize a public
hearing. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
8-7-5: FEES:
The zoning administrator shall charge, demand, and receive, and the applicant
for conditional use shall pay, at the time of filing and receiving said
application, a filing fee as determined by the board of county commissioners
and posted in the office of the county zoning administrator. (Ord. 21, 12-1-
1998)
8-7-6: NOTICE OF HEARING AND PUBLICATION:
The commission and/or board may hold a public hearing and public notice of
hearing on every application for a conditional use shall be given in the same
form as required for reclassification of zoning or land use district, except
that the date for such hearing shall be set by the zoning administrator within
a reasonable time and in no case later than sixty (60) days after receipt of
the application and all necessary documents pertinent thereto. The applicant
shall be responsible for notification of the adjacent property owners within a
three hundred foot (300') radius, or as required by this title, of the exterior
boundary, by certified U.S. mail, proof of notification shall be presented to
the zoning administrator at least one week prior to the public hearing date. If
in the opinion of the commission hearing the facts from the applicant, the
decision is made that the request should not be carried to a public hearing,
the commission may reject the application at that point. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
8-7-7: ACTION BY PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION:
The planning and zoning commission, after investigating and hearing an
application for a conditional use permit, may either approve, condition, modify
or deny the application after hearing the evidence presented at the public
hearing giving consideration to the following:
   A.   The location of the proposed use is compatible to other land uses in
the general neighborhood and does not place undue burden on existing
transportation and service facilities in the vicinity.
   B.   The site is of sufficient size to accommodate the proposed use and all
yards, open spaces, walls, and fences, parking, loading, landscaping and such
other features as are required by this title and other county ordinances that
may apply have been met.
   C.   The site will be served by streets of sufficient capacity to carry the
traffic generated by the proposed use.
   D.   The proposed use, including any conditions required by the planning and
zoning commission, will not adversely affect other property in the vicinity.
   E.   The proposed use necessitates higher standards of site development than
listed specifically in this title in order for the proposed use to be
compatible with other property uses in the vicinity. If such determination is
made, the commission may specify all such standards so determined to be
necessary conditions to the conditional use and/or building permit. No
occupancy of any part of the site or facilities shall occur until all those
conditions have been complied with. (Ord. 164, 11-12-2003)
8-7-8: CONDITIONAL USE, LIMITATION:
It shall not be the intent of this chapter to restrict or specify as general
practice the particular architectural design proposed or to specify the
exterior detail or design, color or materials proposed by the applicant, except
as such detail is of such magnitude as to affect the general appearance and
compatibility of the development with its surroundings. The committee or
commission, in acting upon the application, shall provide that approval of a
permit shall be contingent upon acceptance and observance of specified
conditions, including, but not limited to, the following matters:
   A.   Conformity to approved plans and specifications.
   B.   Open spaces, buffer strips, walls, fences, advertising signs,
concealing hedges, landscaping, lighting.
   C.   Volume of traffic generated, requirements for off street parking,
vehicular movements within the site and points of vehicular ingress and egress.
   D.   Performance characteristics, related to the emission of noise,
vibration and other potentially dangerous or objectionable elements.
   E.   Limits on time of day for the conducting of specified activities.
   F.   Guarantees as to compliance with the terms of the approval.
   G.   Outdoor advertising, including the number, location, color, size,
height, lighting and landscaping of outdoor signs and structures as related to
creation of traffic hazards and appearance in harmony with surrounding
development and community objectives.
   H.   Street dedications and public improvements on property frontages. (Ord.
21, 12-1-1998)
   I.   Any person successful in obtaining a conditional use permit shall
commence operations within a specified time of one year. Any corporation or
entity successful in obtaining a conditional use permit shall commence
operations within a specified time of two (2) years. Electrical, telephone,
pipeline providers, and other utilities successful in obtaining a conditional
use permit shall commence operations within a specified time of ten (10) years.
A conditional use land division shall be recorded with the county recorder
within one year. Noncompliance with the above time limitations renders the
approval of said permit null and void. (Ord. 212, 1-5-2009)
8-7-9: MODIFICATION, EXTENSION, AND REVOCATION:
Upon request of the holder of a conditional use permit, the commission may
modify or extend the term, conditions and limitations of said permit in
accordance with the limitations and requirements of this title. The commission
may revoke or modify, upon notice and hearing, a conditional use permit for the
breach or violation of any condition or limitation of said permit. (Ord. 21,
12-1-1998)
8-7-10: APPEAL TO BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS:
   A.   An appeal may be made to the board regarding a decision of the
commission by any of the following persons:
      1.   Rejected applicant.
      2.   Anyone who personally appeared or filed a written comment or voiced
an opinion at the hearing.
      3.   Anyone within three hundred foot (300') radius of the exterior
boundary of subject property or as required by this title.
      4.   Anyone who has substantial information that may alter conditions
that were present at the hearing.
   B.   Appeals must be filed within twenty (20) calendar days. (Ord. 21, 12-1-
1998)
8-7-11: ACTION BY BOARD:
Within a reasonable time after receipt of an appeal, the board shall establish
a date for hearing such appeal and shall notify the affected parties of the
date, time, place and purpose thereof. Upon hearing the appeal, the board shall
consider the record and such additional evidence as may be offered and may
affirm, reverse or modify, in whole or in part, the order, requirement, permit,
decision, or determination appealed from, or make and substitute any additional
conditions which in its deliberations it may find warranted under the
provisions of this title, or may remand it back to the planning commission for
consideration. Nothing contained herein is intended to affect or alter any
party's right to appeal to a district court. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
8-7-12: APPLICATION RESUBMITTAL:
No application for a conditional use permit which has been denied by the
commission or the board, shall be resubmitted in either the same or
substantially the same form or with reference to substantially the same
premises for the same purpose in less than six (6) months from the date of
final action thereon. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
8-7-13: PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT:
Planned developments, as defined, are of such substantial different character
from zoned and special permit usages that specific and additional standards and
exceptions are required. The planned unit development may be superimposed upon
any or all zones where planned unit developments are allowable as a conditional
use, and shall be governed by the Twin Falls County planned unit development
provisions in title 10, chapter 3 of this code. Planned unit developments shall
be located one thousand three hundred twenty feet (1,320') or one-fourth (1/4)
mile from an existing livestock confinement operation's waste lagoon's closest
inside edge of the retaining wall and at least four hundred feet (400') from a
livestock confinement operation's 1  corral's outside edge. (Ord. 21, 12-1-
1998)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapters 17 and 18 of this title.
8-7-14: SUBDIVISION ORDINANCES:
   A.   Residential subdivisions may be permitted as listed in the RR zone upon
application and compliance with title 10 of this code. Other zones may be
considered by the planning commission.
   B.   Residential subdivisions shall be located one thousand three hundred
twenty feet (1,320') or one-fourth (1/4) mile from an existing livestock
confinement operation's waste lagoon's closest inside edge of the retaining
wall and at least four hundred feet (400') from a livestock confinement
operation's 1  corral's outside edge. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
 
Notes
1 2. See chapters 17 and 18 of this title.
CHAPTER 8
MOBILE HOMES AND/OR MANUFACTURED HOMES
SECTION:
8-8-1: Providing Service Without Building Permit Prohibited
8-8-2: Definitions
8-8-3: Application Required
8-8-4: Recreational Vehicles And Travel Trailer Parks
8-8-5: Mobile Home Parks
8-8-6: Temporary Travel Trailer Parking
8-8-1: PROVIDING SERVICE WITHOUT BUILDING PERMIT PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for a utility to provide any service to any building,
mobile home, or other structure outside the limits of any incorporated city in
Twin Falls County until such utility has been furnished with a copy of the
building permit which has been issued for such building, mobile home or other
structure.
It is illegal for any manufactured home and/or mobile home dealer, installer,
salesperson, contractor or any other such person to allow any home to be
occupied without first obtaining an occupancy permit from the County Building
Department. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
8-8-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this Chapter, the following words shall have the meanings
herein ascribed to them:
SERVICE: Providing, attaching, or hooking up to any building, mobile home, or
other structure any line or pipe which is intended to provide any of the
following services: telephone, gas, electricity, water or sewage disposal.
UTILITY: Any public or private corporation or company which supplies the public
or a group of individuals with the following commodity, service or both:
telephone, gas, electricity, water, or sewage disposal. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
8-8-3: APPLICATION REQUIRED:
The following uses of mobile homes and/or manufactured homes require the
acceptance and approval of an application by the County Building Department
(see Title 7, Chapter 1 of this Code):
   A.   Permitted Zones: Mobile homes or manufactured homes may be placed in
the Agricultural Range Preservation Zone (ARP), Agricultural Zone (A), Rural
Residential Zone (RR), and Outdoor Recreation Overlay District (OR) which allow
residential use with the following conditions:
      1.   The mobile home/manufactured home shall be located on a parcel of
land of the minimum lot size or larger in area of the applicable zone.
      2.   Comply with all area and yard requirements for a single- family
dwelling in the same zone.
      3.   The unit must provide for skirting and the skirting shall be to the
ground and be of similar material as the home or as provided for conventional
homes under the Uniform Building Code.
      4.   Footing and foundation must be provided to the manufacturer's
specifications.
      5.   The minimum dimension shall be twelve feet (12') with a minimum
square footage of one thousand (1,000) square feet.
      6.   Modifications may be made for additions, garages, carports, decks,
steps, or accessory use buildings. All uses shall be constructed in accordance
with the requirements of the Uniform Building Code as adopted by Twin Falls
County.
      7.   Shall have nonmetallic, wood, shake, or asphalt shingle roof with a
minimum slope of sixteen degrees (16°) (2:12), and a minimum eave of six inches
(6") attached to the perimeter of the roof.
      8.   Shall have horizontal aluminum, or simulated wood, or wood siding.
      9.   Shall be permanently affixed upon a foundation having an anchoring
system totally concealed under the structure and based on recommendation of the
manufacturer.
      10.   The manufactured or mobile home shall bear the HUD acceptance label
as authorized by the Idaho Department of Labor. Exception: all manufactured or
mobile homes manufactured before June 1976, must comply with Idaho Code,
chapter 25, title 44 and present a compliance certificate.
      11.   All health department, highway districts, and canal company
approvals must be secured.
   B.   Mobile Homes And/Or Manufactured Homes And Travel Trailer Parks: All
manufactured, mobile home parks and travel trailer parks will fall under a
conditional use and may be granted by the Commission after a formal, previously
advertised public hearing. Conditions requiring special or additional
sanitation facilities, landscaping, developed recreation facilities, reduced
density, parking, etc., may be stipulated in the approval. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
8-8-4: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES AND TRAVEL TRAILER PARKS:
   A.   At least one side of the park shall abut upon an improved collector or
greater capacity street.
   B.   The spaces in a travel trailer park shall be not less than one thousand
five hundred (1,500) square feet in area for trailers eight feet (8') or less
in width; three thousand two hundred (3,200) square feet in area for mobile
homes fourteen feet (14') or less in width; four thousand five hundred (4,500)
square feet in area for mobile homes greater than fourteen feet (14') in width.
   C.   Where adjacent to a residential zone the trailer park shall be screened
by a sight-obscuring fence constructed of wood or masonry or other material as
approved by the Zoning Board, not less than six feet (6') in height, beginning
at a point thirty feet (30') from the front property line and extending along
both side property lines and across the rear property line, or else a twenty
foot (20') landscaped strip of lawn and shrubs shall be installed.
   D.   Trees, shrubs, grass, or other forms of landscaping shall be provided
for each trailer space. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
8-8-5: MOBILE HOME PARKS:
   A.   Approval Required: The park shall require Board of County
Commissioners' signatures on the plat map following recommendation of approval
by the Planning and Zoning Commissioners.
   B.   Mobile Home Space: Space requirements shall be a size not less than
that required to provide for front, side and rear yard depths as provided by
this Section.
      1.   Mobile Home Park And Space Yard Setbacks: Each mobile home park
shall provide a twenty five foot (25') wide landscaped strip around the
perimeter of the park with the screening to be placed within the twenty five
foot (25') wide strip. Where a mobile home park is bounded by intersecting
public street, no wall, fence or other structure shall be erected, and no
hedge, shrub, tree or growth exceeding three feet (3') above the street grade
shall be maintained with the triangular area formed by the intersecting
property lines and a straight line joining said property line at points which
are thirty feet (30') distant from the point of intersection, measured along
said street lines.
      2.   Setback For Mobile Home Spaces:
Front Yard: Ten feet (10') from the mobile home park travel way.
Side Yards: Shall not be less than twenty feet (20') between adjacent sides of
mobile homes or permanent accessory buildings.
Rear Yards: Five feet (5') (except no additional rear yard setback shall be
required where adjacent to the 25 foot perimeter area).
   C.   Off-Street Parking: Two (2) vehicular parking spaces shall be provided
on each mobile home space.
   D.   Identification: One mobile home park sign not exceeding eighteen (18)
square feet in area. One nameplate or address sign for each mobile home space
of not more than one square foot in area.
   E.   Recreational Area: Each mobile home park shall provide a minimum of one
hundred (100) square feet for each trailer space for developed and maintained
recreational grounds for use by the occupants of said park.
   F.   Tenant Storage Space: Each mobile home park shall provide not less than
two hundred (200) square feet of substantially fenced storage space for each
mobile home space in the park. Such storage accommodations shall be so designed
that they can be closed and locked and each storage accommodation shall be made
available for reasonably convenient access from the mobile home space it is
intended to serve.
   G.   Service Building: There shall be located within two hundred feet (200')
of every temporary trailer parking area and at least fifteen feet (15') from
the nearest parking space, a service building containing these minimum
facilities for each fifteen (15) spaces provided for occupancy by dependent
travel trailers: two (2) flush type toilets for females, one flush type toilet
for males, one flush type urinal; two (2) lavatories and one shower for each
sex; one laundry tray and a wastewater sink. Toilet facilities for males and
females located in the same building shall be separated by a sound- resistant
wall.
   H.   Heating And Ventilating Service Buildings, Hot Water: Service buildings
shall have adequate heating facilities to maintain a temperature of seventy
degrees Fahrenheit (70°F) during cold weather and to supply a minimum of three
(3) gallons of hot water per hour per each temporary parking space during the
time of peak demands. All rooms in service buildings shall be well-ventilated
and openings shall be effectively screened.
   I.   Permanent Structures: Including carports, storage buildings, service
buildings and others shall be constructed in accordance with the requirements
of the Uniform Building Code. No permanent additions of any kind shall be built
onto, attached to or become a part of any mobile home. All mobile homes except
those temporarily parked shall be skirted with a material that is compatible in
appearance with the construction of the mobile home. The skirting may be in
contact with the ground but shall not attach the mobile home thereto.
   J.   General Layout, Utilities: Sufficient preliminary plans and
specifications for the complete construction of the mobile home park shall be
prepared by the developer and shall be presented to the Planning and Zoning
Commission for approval and acceptance.
   K.   Landscaping: Setbacks and recreational areas shall be landscaped with
lawn and shrubs and properly tended and maintained. Screening of the boundary
lines of the mobile home park shall consist of shrubs, which will within a
reasonable time, grow to a height of at least six feet (6') or decorative
fencing of wood or masonry at least six feet (6') in height. Screening shall be
of such density that visibility through said screening is or will be, within a
reasonable time, decreased by at least ninety percent (90%).
   L.   Approval: All sanitary facilities and layout shall have the approval of
the health department as a condition for submission to the Board.
   M.   Time Table: A time table for development shall accompany the
conditional use application.
   N.   Lighting: All driveways and walkways will be hard surfaced and shall be
lighted at night with adequate illumination.
   O.   Performance Guarantee: The developer shall provide proof of one of the
following:
      1.   Cash bond in the amount of the cost of paving the roads and any
other improvements identified in the development agreement.
      2.   Surety bond in the amount of the cost of paving the roads and other
improvements identified in the development agreement.
      3.   Letter of credit in the amount of the cost of paving the roads and
other improvements identified in the development agreement.
      4.   Escrow reserve account acceptable to Planning and Zoning Commission.
      5.   Upon completion of thirty percent (30%) of the first phase of the
project or within two (2) years from the start of construction, whichever
occurs first, the roads must be paved for that phase of the project. Each phase
thereafter must be completed in the same manner. If the developer fails to meet
this condition, the bond or other security may be forfeited at the County's
discretion.
   P.   Development Agreement: A development agreement must be provided and
approved by staff before the letter of approval is issued. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
8-8-6: TEMPORARY TRAVEL TRAILER PARKING:
One occupied travel trailer may be placed on a lot in any zone for a period of
time not to exceed ninety (90) days within any calendar year. Violation of the
ninety (90) day limitation shall be deemed a misdemeanor and shall be
punishable as provided in Chapter 16 of the Twin Falls County Zoning Ordinance.
(Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
CHAPTER 9
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
8-9-1: Nonconforming Use
8-9-2: Conformity Required
8-9-3: Yard Requirements
8-9-4: Sale Or Lease Of Required Space
8-9-5: Sale Of Lots Below Minimum Space Requirements
8-9-6: Swimming Pools
8-9-7: Concessions In Public Parks And Playgrounds
8-9-8: Land Previously Subdivided
8-9-9: Division Of Land
8-9-10: Permitted Land Splits
8-9-11: Location Of Gasoline Pumps
8-9-12: Gravel Pits
8-9-13: Public Utilities
8-9-14: Aircraft Landing Areas
8-9-15: Time Limitations
8-9-16: Nuisance
8-9-17: Impact Study
8-9-18: Negotiation Procedure
8-9-19: Area Of City Impact
8-9-1: NONCONFORMING USE:
   A.   Definitions:
    NONCONFORMING BUILDING: Any legally existing building which does not
conform to the "location and zone" regulation of this Title for the district in
which such "nonconforming building" is located, either at the effective date
hereof or as a result of subsequent amendments which may be incorporated into
this Title.
   NONCONFORMING USE: Any legally existing use, whether within a building or
other structure or on a tract of land, which does not conform to the "use"
regulations of this Title for the zone in which such "nonconforming use" is
located, either at the effective date hereof or as a result of subsequent
amendments which may be incorporated into this Title.
   B.   Conditions For Nonconforming Uses:
      1.   Continuation Of Use: A nonconforming use may be continued and a
nonconforming building may be continued to be occupied except as both of the
foregoing or otherwise provided for in this Chapter.
      2.   Change Of Use: A nonconforming use may be changed to a conforming
use by means of conditional use, it may be changed to another nonconforming use
provided the new use will be a substantial benefit to the area. Landscaping,
screening and architectural improvements may be made a condition of the
conditional use permit as well as criteria for maintenance and overall
appearance of the site.
      3.   Abandonment Of Use: If active and continuous operations are not
carried on in a nonconforming use during a continuous period of six (6) months,
the building, other structure or tract of land where such nonconforming use
previously existed shall thereafter be occupied and used only for a conforming
use. Intent to resume active operation shall not affect the foregoing.
      4.   Restoration: A nonconforming building or a building containing a
nonconforming use which has been damaged by fire or other causes may be
restored to its original condition provided such work is started within six (6)
months of such calamity and completed within one year of the time the
restoration is commenced.
      5.   Enlargement Of A Nonconforming Building Or A Nonconforming Use: A
nonconforming use shall not be enlarged or extended and a nonconforming
building shall not be enlarged or extended so as to increase the degree of
nonconformity.
      6.   Alteration Of A Nonconforming Building: A nonconforming building may
be structurally altered or repaired in any way permitted by this Chapter.
      7.   Structural Changes: Any building or other structure containing a
nonconforming use or any nonconforming building or portion thereof declared
unsafe by the Building Inspector may be strengthened or restored to a safe
condition.
      8.   Nonconforming Signs: All nonconforming signs, billboards, commercial
advertising structures shall be subject to the provisions of Chapter 4 of this
Title. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
8-9-2: CONFORMITY REQUIRED:
Except as otherwise provided herein, land, buildings and premises in any
district shall hereafter be used only in accordance with the regulations herein
established for that district and the following general provisions:
   A.   Building Construction: No building shall hereafter be erected,
constructed, relocated or structurally altered to have a greater height,
proportion of coverage or smaller yards or open spaces about it than
permissible under the limitations set forth herein for the district in which
such buildings are located.
   B.   Yards, Open Spaces And Off-Street Parking: No yards, open spaces or
off-street parking space or loading space existing or provided hereafter about
any building shall be reduced below the minimum requirements hereinafter set
forth for such open space, parking space or loading space, or further reduced
if already less than said minimum requirements.
   C.   Existing Spaces: No open space, yard or off-street parking space or
loading space existing or hereafter provided for a building or use and
necessary to meet or partially meet the requirements of this Title shall be
considered as all or part of the yard, open space, off-street parking space or
loading space required for any other building or upon any other lot.
   D.   Dimension: No lot held under one ownership at the effective date hereof
shall be reduced in dimension or area in relation to any building thereon so as
to be smaller than required by this Title, and if already less, the dimension
or area of such lot shall not be further reduced.
   E.   Sewage Disposal: All domestic and commercial sewage disposal facilities
must be approved by the health department.
   F.   Roadways And Curbs; Access To Property: Access to all property and
buildings shall be in accordance with the policies and regulations of the
highway districts in which the property is located. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
8-9-3: YARD REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Yard Space For One Building Only: No required or other open space
around the existing building or which is hereafter provided around any building
for the purpose of complying with the provisions of this Title shall be
considered as providing a yard or open space for any other building nor shall
any yard or any other required open space on an adjoining lot be considered as
providing the yard or open space whereon a building is to be created or
established.
   B.   Yards To Be Unobstructed: Every part of a required yard shall be open
to the sun and unobstructed, except for unenclosed porches, belt courses,
cornices and flues, and accessory buildings.
   C.   Salvage Yards: All salvage yards constructed after the effective date
hereof shall be constructed with a sight- obscuring baked enamel metal fence at
least eight feet (8') in height. It shall be constructed parallel to and at
least ten feet (10') back of the right of way of any public street or highway
for any auto wrecking yard and salvage yard. Said fence shall be constructed
along the entire premises devoted to such auto wrecking or salvage yard.
   D.   Clear View Of Intersecting Streets: In all zones which require a front
yard, no obstruction to view in excess of three feet (3') in height from the
road surface shall be placed on any corner lot within a triangular area formed
by the highway right-of-way lines and the line connecting them at points forty
five feet (45') from the intersection of the highway right-of-way lines.
   E.   Effect Of Official Map: Wherever a front yard is required for a facing
on a street for which no official map has been recorded in the office of the
County Recorder, the depth of such front yard shall be measured from the map
street line as shown on the Official Map or from the existing street right- of-
way line, whichever is the greater distance. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
8-9-4: SALE OR LEASE OF REQUIRED SPACE:
No space needed to meet the width, yard, area, coverage, parking or other
requirements of this Title for a lot or building may be sold or leased apart
from such lot or building unless other space so complying is provided. (Ord.
21, 12-1-1998)
8-9-5: SALE OF LOTS BELOW MINIMUM SPACE REQUIREMENTS:
After the effective date hereof, no parcel of land which has less than the
minimum width and area requirements for the zone in which it is located may be
cut off from a larger parcel of land for the purpose, whether immediate or
future, of building or development. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
8-9-6: SWIMMING POOLS:
Swimming pools not completely enclosed within a building having solid walls,
shall be set back at least five feet (5') from the property lines and shall be
completely surrounded by a fence or wall having a height of at least five feet
(5'). There shall be no opening larger than thirty six (36) square inches
except for gates which shall be equipped with self- closing and self-latching
devices. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
8-9-7: CONCESSIONS IN PUBLIC PARKS AND PLAYGROUNDS:
Concessions including, but not limited to, amusement services, recreational
buildings, and refreshment stands, shall be permitted on a public park or
playground when approved by the County Commissioners. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
8-9-8: LAND PREVIOUSLY SUBDIVIDED:
   A.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this Title any lot or parcel of
land which was on record at the effective date hereof may be used as a dwelling
site in any zone in which dwellings are listed as a permitted use provided the
front, side and rear yard requirements are complied with, and it is connected
to a public sewer system or is approved by the health department for an
individual sewage disposal system.
   B.   The provisions of this Section apply to miscellaneous plats or records
of survey, twenty (20) acres or less recorded, prior to November 8, 1979.
   C.   The following conditions must be met before residential buildings will
be allowed on these parcels:
      1.   Must meet one acre requirement per South Central District Health
Department for a sewage disposal system.
      2.   The owner must provide approved road access to all parcels.
      3.   All roads which may be presented to the respective highway district
in which the parcels are located, must conform to Highway Standards and
Development Procedures for the highway districts of Twin Falls County, Idaho.
      4.   Private driveways may service up to three (3) homes, after which it
becomes a road and shall meet the standards of the respective highway district.
Private roads provided by the owner must have a road maintenance agreement
which runs with the land until the road is accepted by the respective highway
district.
      5.   If water shares are available to the land, then the owner must
provide a written water use and maintenance agreement which shall run with the
land and conform to the requirements of the respective canal company.
      6.   All parcels must provide the necessary utility, road and irrigation
easement.
      7.   Plats must be recorded before any lots or parcels may be sold.
      8.   Plats showing all easements and roads must be recorded within three
(3) years of the effective date hereof or such lots or parcels will no longer
be recognized and all zoning restrictions shall apply.
      9.   Parcels which do not conform to the above requirements, shall
require approval by the Planning and Zoning Commission for any plat changes.
(Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
8-9-9: DIVISION OF LAND:
   A.   Subdivision: The result of an act of dividing an original lot, tract or
parcel of land into more than three (3) parts for the purpose of transfer of
ownership or development; which shall also include the dedication of public
streets and other rights of way and the addition to, or creation of, a
cemetery. Any division must be in compliance with applicable water/canal
companies. However, this title shall not apply to any of the following:
      1.   An adjustment of lot lines as shown on a recorded plat which does
not reduce the area, frontage, width, depth or building setback lines of each
building site below the minimum zoning requirements, and does not change the
original number of lots in a block of the recorded plat.
      2.   An allocation of land in the settlement of an estate of a decedent
or a court decree for the distribution of property, foreclosures, or other
legal actions.
      3.   The unwilling sale of land as a result of legal condemnation as
defined and allowed in the Idaho Code.
      4.   Widening of existing streets to conform to a comprehensive plan.
      5.   The acquisition of street rights of way by a public agency in
conformance with the comprehensive plan.
      6.   The exchange of land for the purpose of straightening property
boundaries which does not result in the change of the present land usage.
      7.   Land divided into parcels which meet applicable zone requirements.
      8.   All other divisions which create parcels less than applicable zone
requirements must file for a conditional use/land division.
   B.   Administration: The administration can approve the proposal after
receiving an application if it qualifies under the criteria as follows: (Ord.
21, 12-1-1998)
      1.   The division of property in order to secure long term financing for
the purpose of constructing or refinancing a home where both lots will remain
under one ownership. Bank verification will be required. Deeds recorded for
financial land divisions shall bear the following statement:
The Purpose of this deed is for a financial land division and cannot create
another parcel for sale.
Surveys recorded for financial land divisions shall bear the following
statement:
The Purpose of this survey is for a financial land division and cannot create
another parcel for sale.
(Ord. 227, 1-23-2012)
      2.   An agricultural property owner who is retiring or ceasing their
operation and wanting to divide the home from the farm land. The owner must
continue living in the home.
      3.   If not an existing home, the administration cannot approve the
division.
      4.   The zoning administrator can require planning and zoning commission
approval of any application if a question exists in regards to the request.
      5.   All requests for the division of property where there is an existing
dwelling to be sold or exchanged must be accompanied with a well and septic
survey.
      6.   In all cases of residential division the nuisance waiver will be
required to be recorded with the deed.
      7.   In all cases of land divisions, equal water shares must be
transferred to the land split off or the water must be in compliance with all
canal companies/water agencies. Provided that water shares were previously
available to the property.
   C.   Residential Subdivisions: Residential subdivisions are permitted with a
conditional use permit in the rural residential zone. Residential subdivisions
are permitted with a conditional use in the outdoor recreation overlay.
Residential subdivisions are not permitted in the agricultural range
preservation zone, agricultural zone, airport overlay district, commercial zone
and industrial zone.
   D.   Platted Subdivisions: In platted subdivisions one acre lot size may
allow slight variation for inclusion of right of way easements at health
department discretion.
   E.   Minimum Lot Description: A minimum lot description shall recognize a
plus or minus five percent (±5%) variation. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
8-9-10: PERMITTED LAND SPLITS:
The following conditions must be met:
   A.   One acre minimum or as required per South Central health district.
   B.   All necessary utility, road and irrigation easements providing access
for services to the parcel must be provided.
   C.   Private roads provided by the owner must have a road maintenance
agreement which runs with the land.
   D.   If water shares are available to the land then the owner must provide a
written water use and maintenance agreement which shall run with the land and
conform to the requirements of the respective canal company or district.
   E.   A copy of the deed must be submitted to the Planning and Zoning
Department showing the above easements along with copies of any of the above
agreements. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
8-9-11: LOCATION OF GASOLINE PUMPS:
Gasoline pumps shall be set back not less than twenty feet (20') from any
street line to which the pump island is at right angles and fifteen feet (15')
from any street line to which the pump island is parallel and not less than
twenty feet (20') from any residential zone boundary line. If the pump island
is set on an angle on the property with respect to the street, it shall be so
located that automobiles stopped for service will not extend over the property
line. In no case shall gasoline pumps be set closer than fifteen feet (15')
from any street line. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
8-9-12: GRAVEL PITS:
Topsoil will be removed and stockpiled to recondition the area at the
termination of operation as a gravel pit. All debris and waste material shall
be removed from the premises of the gravel pit and the banks of said pit shall
be recontoured so as to encourage revegetation of the premises by artificially
introduced plants or with natural vegetation. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
8-9-13: PUBLIC UTILITIES:
Nothing contained in this Zoning Ordinance shall be deemed to specify or
regulate the type or location of any pole, wires, aboveground cable or
conduits, or any other similar aboveground distributing equipment of a public
utility, except as would affect airport operations.
   A.   Utility Provision: Utility companies shall be prohibited from providing
any service to any structure until the utility has been provided with a
building permit.
   B.   Providing Service Without Building Permit Prohibited: It shall be
unlawful for utility to provide any service to any building, mobile home, or
other structure outside the limits of any incorporated city in Twin Falls
County until such utility has been furnished with a copy of the building permit
which has been issued for such building, mobile home or other structure.
   C.   Issuance Of Copies: When a building permit is issued pursuant to the
County Zoning Ordinance, the issuer shall furnish to the successful applicant
copies in an amount sufficient for said successful applicant to furnish all
utilities with a copy. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
8-9-14: AIRCRAFT LANDING AREAS:
In any zone classified as residential, Commercial or Industrial, and except for
emergencies, the landing or taking off of aircraft shall be prohibited within
the County at other than airports authorized by the State or the Federal
Aviation Administration. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
8-9-15: TIME LIMITATIONS:
Where a project requiring Commission action has been authorized, such project
or development including conditional use, PUDs, mobile home parks, or
subdivisions shall commence within one year of authorization and shall be
diligently prosecuted to completion. Failure to commence the project within
this time limitation shall void the Commission authorization. In the event
there shall be a suspension of activity on said project(s) for ninety (90)
days, the Commission shall issue a "show cause" order to the developer, and
may, as a result of evidence presented, void the previously issued permit, or
may establish a new time limitation. Reinstatement of a permit for a project
voided for failure to commence within one year, shall require a new application
with the Commission. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
8-9-16: NUISANCE:
   A.   Definition Of Nuisance 1 : That which is generally objectionable to the
public and which may be considered a safety, fire, health or traffic hazard.
Examples of situations which may be nuisances include, but are not limited to:
excessive accumulation of trash in which insects (flies, mosquitoes, etc.) may
breed or rodents may live; any condition or use of property which creates a
safety, fire, health or traffic hazard. However, no act which is done or
maintained under the express authority of a statute or ordinance can be deemed
a nuisance, unless the statute or ordinance so allows.
   B.   Persons Responsible For Nuisance Defined: Any person who creates,
causes, maintains or knowingly allows to exist a nuisance on any premises or
real property which the person owns, rents, leases, or has charge or possession
of in Twin Falls County. Successive owners shall be responsible in the same
manner as prior owners if the successive owner neglects to abate a continuing
nuisance which was originally caused by a former owner.
   C.   Actions For Nuisance: The Prosecutor for Twin Falls County, or a deputy
prosecutor, may file an action to enjoin or abate a nuisance and may seek civil
and/or criminal penalties for the nuisance.
   D.   Enforcement Procedure: When a nuisance is suspected to exist within
Twin Falls County:
      1.   A written notice that a nuisance exists shall be served upon the
owner, if known, and the person responsible for the nuisance. If possible,
service shall be by personal service or certified mail directed to the last
known address. If such service is not possible, then the notice shall be posted
on a building or other place on the premises where people can be reasonably
expected to see it.
      2.   The notice shall describe the nuisance, advise that the nuisance
must be abated within fifteen (15) days of the notice, advise that civil
proceedings and/or criminal proceedings may be initiated if the nuisance is not
abated, advise that costs of the court proceedings and the nuisance abatement
may be assessed against the owner and/or the persons responsible for the
nuisance. An extension of time may be granted if due diligence and substantial
progress has been made to abate the nuisance.
      3.   In cases where irreparable injury may occur if the nuisance is
allowed to continue, a temporary injunction may be issued notwithstanding the
notice provision.
      4.   In cases where a nuisance is occurring which constitutes an
immediate and emergent threat to public health, safety, welfare or environment,
the County may summarily and without notice abate the condition. Notice of such
abatement, including the reason for it, shall be given to the owner and person
responsible for the nuisance as soon as reasonably possible after the
abatement. Costs of the abatement shall be charged to the owner, or person
responsible for the nuisance.
   E.   Abatement And Penalties: If the owner, or person responsible for the
nuisance does not abate the nuisance within the time allowed, they may be
proceeded against either civilly or criminally.
The expenses of abatement and abatement proceedings, including any expenses
arising from contractors hired by the County to perform the abatement and any
investigatory costs, shall be charged to the owner, or person responsible for
the nuisance. The expenses and costs may attach as a lien upon the subject
property, if unpaid. It shall be a separate offense for each date that a
nuisance is maintained, kept or allowed to exist.
   F.   Interference With Enforcement Or Investigation: It shall be unlawful
and shall be a misdemeanor to interfere with any law enforcement officer,
health protection officer, zoning department employee, weed control personnel,
fire district personnel, or any other person in the performance of their duties
connected with the enforcement or investigation of any possible violation of
this Chapter. Such interference shall include, but not be limited to, removal
of notices posted on the property prior to the notices having been left in
place for one hundred twenty (120) hours. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
 
Notes
1 1. See also Section
  8-2-2 of this Title, definition of Nuisance.
8-9-17: IMPACT STUDY:
Each applicant, owner, or developer proposing a conditional use, variance, zone
change, subdivision, planned unit development, or mobile home park shall
prepare and present to the Administrator an impact study, which shall show the
potential effects of the proposed development upon the County both in terms of
economics and environment.
   A.   It must be shown that the proposed development is not harmful to the
environment, that adequate transportation, fire and police protection,
pollution control, and other factors which may be of concern to the County and
its residents are considered. If in the judgment of the Commission, the
proposal would have little or no impact upon such factors, the Commission may
waive the requirement of an impact study except in the case of such request for
development within the outdoor recreation zone.
   B.   The impact study shall include, but may not be limited to, a study of
the potential impact upon:
      1.   Drainage.
      2.   Grading of slopes.
      3.   Utilities.
      4.   Vegetation impact and influence.
      5.   Air quality.
      6.   Water quality.
      7.   Public and wildlife easements.
      8.   Geological impact.
      9.   Water sources.
      10.   Sewerage facilities.
      11.   Transportation.
      12.   Fire protection and firebreaks.
      13.   Police protection.
      14.   Solid waste.
      15.   Schools.
      16.   Recreation.
      17.   Aesthetic value.
   C.   When the applicant owns or controls more contiguous or adjacent land
that is not included in the proposal, the Commission or Board may require that
he submit an overall plan for development of the entire tract, which plan shall
show the manner in which the entire property is to be developed. If no further
land is owned, nor any further plan of development, a written statement shall
be made.
The Commission or Board may require the applicant supply the additional
information on any of the factors or criteria of the study. (Ord. 21, 12-1-
1998)
8-9-18: NEGOTIATION PROCEDURE:
   A.   The governing body of Twin Falls County and each city therein may adopt
by ordinance following the notice and hearing procedures provided in section
67-6509, Idaho Code, a map identifying an area of city impact with the
unincorporated area of the County. The ordinance identifying an area of city
impact shall provide for one of the following:
      1.   Application of the city plan and ordinances adopted under this
Chapter to the area of city impact; or
      2.   Application of the County plan and ordinances adopted under this
Chapter to the area of city impact; or
      3.   Application of any mutually agreed upon plan and ordinances adopted
under this Chapter to the area of city impact.
   B.   If the respective advisory committee representing the County and the
city concerned cannot agree upon all details of the area of impact, the County
Commissioners for the County concerned, together with three (3) elected city
officials designated by the mayor of the city and confirmed by the County,
shall, within thirty (30) days, select three (3) city or County residents.
These nine (9) persons shall, by majority vote, recommend to the city and
County governing boards an area of city impact together with plan and ordinance
requirements. The recommendations shall be acted upon by the governing boards
within sixty (60) days of receipt. If the city or County fails to enact
ordinances providing for any area of city impact, plan, and ordinance
requirements, the city or County may seek a declamatory judgment from the
District Court identifying the area of city impact, the following factors shall
be considered: 1) trade area; 2) geographic factors; and 3) areas that can
reasonably be expected to be annexed to the city in the future.
   C.   If areas of city impact overlap, the cities involved shall negotiate
boundary adjustments to be recommended to the respective city councils. If the
cities cannot reach agreement, the Board of County Commissioners shall, upon a
request from either city, within thirty (30) days, recommend adjustments to the
areas of city impact which shall be adopted by ordinance by the cities
following the notice and hearing procedures provided in section 67-6509, Idaho
Code. If any city objects to the recommendation of the Board of County
Commissioners, the city shall, within sixty (60) days from receipt of the
recommendation, seek a declamatory judgment from the District Court adjusting
the areas of city impact.
   D.   Areas of city impact, plan, and ordinance requirements shall remain
fixed until both governing boards agree to renegotiate. In the event the city
and County cannot agree, the judicial review process of subsection B of this
Section shall apply. Renegotiations shall begin within thirty (30) days after
written request by the city or county and shall follow the procedures for
original negotiation provided in this section.
   E.   Prior to negotiation or renegotiation of areas of city impact, plan,
and ordinance requirements, the governing boards shall submit the questions to
the planning, zoning, or planning and zoning commission for recommendation.
Each commission shall have a reasonable time fixed by the governing board to
make its recommendations to the governing board.
   F.   This section shall not preclude growth and development in areas of the
county which are not within the areas of city impact provided for herein. (Ord.
21, 12-1-1998)
8-9-19: AREA OF CITY IMPACT:
   A.   Kimberly, Idaho:
      1.   Integration of Recitals: The recitals in the ordinance are
incorporated in this chapter and by this reference made a part hereof.
      2.   Geographic Area of City Impact:
         a.   The agreed upon Kimberly Area of City Impact, shall be as
depicted on the current adopted Kimberly Zoning/ Area of City Impact map,
adopted per Kimberly Ordinance No. 659, dated 12-10-2019 and the Kimberly
Comprehensive map, adopted per Kimberly Resolution No. 364, dated 10-22-2019 or
as herein after modified by the parties.
      3.   Governing Plan and Ordinance:
         a.   Per the adopted Resolution No. 634, dated 10-22-2019, City of
Kimberly comprehensive plan and Kimberly, Idaho, revised area of impact and
comprehensive plan land use map, together with the City of Kimberly zoning and
subdivision regulations contained in Kimberly City Code title 17, and Kimberly
Zoning/ Area of City Impact map, adopted per Ordinance No. 659, dated 12-10-
2019 are hereby adopted by reference by the County of Twin Falls to be in full
force and effect in the area of City impact or as herein later modified.
         b.   Within the area of City impact, no provision of this subsection
shall apply to any parcel of land twenty (20) acres or larger used solely for
agricultural purposes. Within the area of City impact, this subsection shall
apply to any parcel of land proposed to be used for nonagricultural purposes.
      4.   Administration:
         a.   The Board of Commissioners for Twin Falls County hereby appoints
the County Planning Administrator to administer the provisions of title 17 of
the Kimberly City Code, as adopted by reference herein for the area of City
impact, to provide assistance and guidance to the County Planning and Zoning
Commission, and to perform the same duties for the area of City impact that are
performed for the County of Twin Falls.
         b.   The Board of Commissioners of Twin Falls County hereby appoints
and authorizes the County of Twin Falls and its agents and employees to issue
zoning and building permits required by the regulations adopted herein, and to
charge and collect fees for such administrative duties. The building permit
fees for the area of impact shall be the same as established for the County.
         c.   The Board of Commissioners of Twin Falls County hereby appoints
the Twin Falls County Planning and Zoning Commission to administer the area of
City impact.
         d.   All applications for preliminary and final plats of subdivisions,
vacations, zoning compliance permits, rezones, special use permits and
variances shall be submitted to the Twin Falls County Planning and Zoning
Administrator, Planning and Zoning Commission or County Commissioners. The
County shall provide the City with notice and an opportunity to provide comment
on these applications pursuant to the standards provided within Idaho Code §67-
6509. The County Planning and Zoning Commission may approve the application as
commented on by the city council, deny the application, modify or condition the
application, or request further proceedings.
         e.   Any person, including the City of Kimberly, directly aggrieved
and affected by a final decision of the Twin Falls County Planning and Zoning
Administrator, Planning and Zoning Commission or County Commissioners regarding
property located within the area of impact may appeal to the Board of County
Commissioners or applicable courts of law. All appeal hearings shall be based
upon the record established by the Twin Falls County Planning and Zoning
Commission.
      5.   Enforcement: The Twin Falls County Board of County Commissioners
appoints and authorizes the County of Twin Falls and its employees and agents
to enforce compliance with the provision so this subsection and regulations
adopted herein, and to institute civil action in district court on behalf of
Twin Falls County.
      6.   Renegotiation: The area of City impact may be reviewed and
renegotiated at any time upon written request of either party hereto. In any
event, pursuant to Idaho Code 67-6526(e), the governing boards shall undertake
a review at least every ten (10) years of the city impact plan and ordinance
requirements to determine whether renegotiations are in the best interest of
the citizenry.
      7.   Repeal of Conflicting Provisions: All ordinances and resolutions or
parts thereof in conflict herewith are hereby repealed and rescinded.
      8.   Severability: If any section, paragraph, sentence or provision
hereof or the application thereof to any particular circumstances shall ever be
held invalid or unenforceable, such holding shall not affect the remainder
hereof, which shall continue in full force and effect and applicable to all
circumstances to which it may validly apply.
      9.   Effective Date: This ordinance shall be in full force and effect
after its passage and publication date of February 4, 2021. (Ord. 262, 1-28-
2021)
   B.   Twin Falls, Idaho:
      1.   Integration Of Recitals: The recitals set forth in this subsection
are incorporated in this chapter and by this reference made a part hereof.
      2.   Geographic Area Of City Impact: The agreed upon area of City impact
is as shown on the City of Twin Falls, Idaho, area of impact and zoning
districts map.
      3.   Governing Plan And Ordinance:
         a.   The City of Twin Falls comprehensive plan and Twin Falls, Idaho,
revised area of impact and comprehensive plan land use map, together with the
City of Twin Falls zoning and subdivision regulations contained in Twin Falls
City Code title 10, and the City of Twin Falls, Idaho, area of impact and
zoning districts map, are hereby adopted by reference by the County of Twin
Falls to be in full force and effect in the area of City impact.
         b.   Within the area of City impact, no provision of this subsection
shall apply to any parcel of land twenty (20) acres or larger used solely for
agricultural purposes. Within the area of City impact, this subsection shall
apply to any parcel of land proposed to be used for nonagricultural purposes.
      4.   Administration:
         a.   The Board of Commissioners for Twin Falls County hereby appoints
the County Planning Administrator to administer the provisions of title 10 of
the Twin Falls City Code, as adopted by reference herein for the area of City
impact, to provide assistance and guidance to the County Planning and Zoning
Commission, and to perform the same duties for the area of City impact that are
performed for the County of Twin Falls.
         b.   The Board of Commissioners of Twin Falls County hereby appoints
and authorizes the County of Twin Falls and its agents and employees to issue
zoning and building permits required by the regulations adopted herein, and to
charge and collect fees for such administrative duties. The building permit
fees for the area of impact shall be the same as established for the County.
         c.   The Board of Commissioners of Twin Falls County hereby appoints
the Twin Falls County Planning and Zoning Commission to administer the area of
City impact.
         d.   All applications for preliminary and final plats of subdivisions,
vacations, rezones, special use permits, and variances shall be submitted to
the County Planning and Zoning Commission. The County shall provide the City
with notice and an opportunity to provide comment on these applications
pursuant to the standards provided within Idaho Code § 67-6509. The County
Planning and Zoning Commission may approve the application as recommended, deny
the application, modify or condition the application, or request further
proceedings.
         e.   Any person, including the City of Twin Falls, directly aggrieved
and affected by a final decision of the Planning and Zoning Commission
regarding property located within the area of city impact may appeal to the
Board of County Commissioners. All appeal hearings shall be based upon the
record established by the Planning and Zoning Commission.
      5.   Enforcement: The Board of Commissioners of Twin Falls County
appoints and authorizes the County of Twin Falls and its employees and agents
to enforce compliance with the provisions of this subsection and the
regulations adopted herein, and to institute civil action in district court on
behalf of Twin Falls County.
      6.   Renegotiation: The area of city impact may be reviewed and
renegotiated at any time upon the request of either party hereto. (Ord. 169, 7-
12-2004; amd. Ord. 204, 3-31-2008; Ord. 249, 4-3-2018; Ord. 253, 8-9-2019)
   C.   Filer, Idaho:
      1.   Integration Of Recitals: The recitals set forth in this subsection
are incorporated in this chapter and by this reference made a part hereof.
      2.   Geographic Area Of City Impact: The agreed upon area of city impact
is established and set forth therein as the city of Filer, Idaho, area of
impact and described as all the area bordered on the north by 4100 North, on
the south by 3800 North, on the east by 2400 East, and on the west by Cedar
Draw.
      3.   Governing Plan And Ordinance:
         a.   The city of Filer comprehensive plan, comprehensive plan land use
map, zoning districts map, area of impact map, and Filer city code title 9 and
10 shall comprise the governing plan and ordinance.
         b.   Within the area of city impact, any parcel of land used solely
for agricultural purposes, may continue said use until a change of use occurs.
      4.   Administration:
         a.   The board of commissioners of Twin Falls County hereby appoints
and authorizes the city of Filer, its agents and employees to enforce and
administer the provisions of title 9 and 10 of the Filer city code, to charge
and collect fees for such administrative duties as adopted by reference herein
for the area of city impact.
         b.   The city of Filer accepts the appointment and authorization.
         c.   The board of commissioners of Twin Falls County hereby appoints
the Filer city council as the area of city impact commission to administer
title 9 and 10 of the Filer city code in the area of city impact. The city of
Filer accepts the appointment. Two (2) of the area of city impact commission
members shall serve as representatives of the area of impact. The two (2) area
of impact members, as well as an area of impact alternate, shall be appointed
by the board of county commissioners with the concurrence of the Filer city
council.
         d.   The two (2) area of impact members and the area of impact
alternate so appointed shall serve a term of three (3) years and may succeed
themselves for one full term. A county appointee appointed to fill a vacated,
but unexpired term, shall serve the balance of the term of three (3) years.
Members appointed by the county commissioners shall be residents within the
area of impact, residing outside the city limits, and shall vote on all area of
impact zoning and subdivision issues coming before the Filer city council.
         e.   All applications for preliminary plats of subdivisions,
vacations, rezones, special use permits, variances, and other such permits
shall be submitted to the city in accordance with the provisions of Filer city
code. All applications for final plats of subdivisions, for vacations and
rezones shall be submitted to the city council for their recommendation and
action, prior to submission to the board of county commissioners. The board of
county commissioners may approve, deny or remand the application.
         f.   Any person directly aggrieved and affected by a final decision of
the city of Filer city council regarding property located within the area of
city impact may appeal to the board of county commissioners.
      5.   Enforcement:
         a.   The board of commissioners of Twin Falls County appoints and
authorizes the city of Filer and its employees and agents to enforce compliance
with the provisions of this chapter and the regulations adopted herein, and to
institute civil action in district court on behalf of Twin Falls County,
provided that the city pays all costs associated with such enforcement action
initiated by the city.
         b.   The city of Filer accepts the appointment and authorization.
      6.   Renegotiation: The area of city impact may be reviewed and
renegotiated at any time upon written request of either party hereto. In any
event, pursuant to Idaho Code 67-6526(e), the city and the county shall review
the agreement every ten (10) years. (Ord. 216, 6-1-2010)
   D.   Hollister, Idaho: The officially adopted and agreed upon "area of city
impact for Hollister, Idaho", is established by ordinance 135, Hollister,
Idaho, and by Twin Falls County, Idaho, and is set forth therein on the map on
file in the office of the clerk of the county commissioners entitled "Area of
City Impact for Hollister, Idaho", dated January 9, 1995, and marked exhibit A.
Legal description is attached as exhibit B.
      1.   Comprehensive Plan: The comprehensive plan and subsequent amendments
thereto as officially adopted by the county of Twin Falls, Idaho, shall apply
to the area of city impact within the unincorporated area of Twin Falls County,
Idaho. Both the city of Hollister and Twin Falls County shall amend their
comprehensive plans to be consistent with this agreement, if required.
      2.   Subdivision Ordinance: The subdivision ordinance and subsequent
amendments thereto as officially adopted by the city of Hollister, in
accordance with Idaho Code 50-1306 shall apply within one mile of city limits
including the area of city impact within the unincorporated area of Twin Falls
County, Idaho. The subdivision ordinance of the city of Hollister shall also
prevail over any county ordinances pertaining to the division of original
parcels of record, plat amendments, lot line adjustments, minor subdivision,
short plats, or administrative lot splits.
      3.   Zoning Ordinance: The zoning ordinance, zoning map and subsequent
amendments thereto as officially adopted by the county shall apply to the area
of city impact within the unincorporated area of Twin Falls County, Idaho.
      4.   Code And Ordinance Administration And Enforcement:
         a.   The county shall be responsible for the administration and
enforcement of the county's ordinances listed in subsections A, B, and C of
this section and shall receive all permit fees for inspection performed to
recapture direct costs of inspections, administration, legal publications, and
other costs arising from the process.
         b.   Amendments to the county of Twin Falls comprehensive plan,
requests for preliminary and final plats or the vacation thereof, and requests
for zone changes involving property located in the area of city impact within
the unincorporated area of Twin Falls County or development applications being
proposed for nonagricultural development which definition shall include
residential development requiring subdivision, commercial or industrial
development activity of any type shall be reviewed by the city council, who
shall then make a recommendation to the county for approval, denial, or
approval with the placement of special conditions in accordance with title 67,
chapter 65, and title 50, Idaho Code. It shall be the applicant's
responsibility to notify the city prior to the application process by the
county. The city agrees to return a written recommendation within thirty (30)
days of receipt of notice. The county agrees to consider such recommendation in
its deliberation and decision making process.
         c.   Maintenance of public streets located in the area of city impact
shall be the exclusive responsibility of the Twin Falls highway district unless
otherwise stipulated by written agreement between the highway district and the
city of Hollister.
         d.   Law enforcement and fire services in the area of city impact
shall remain the responsibility of Twin Falls County and the Salmon Tract fire
district unless otherwise stipulated by written agreement between the county
and/or fire district and the city of Hollister.
      5.   Renegotiation: The area of city impact agreement shall be reviewed
by the city of Hollister and Twin Falls County at least once every five (5)
years and shall be renegotiated at any time upon the request of either party
hereto. Renegotiation shall begin thirty (30) days after written request by
either the city or county and shall follow procedures for the original
negotiation, as set forth in Idaho Code, section 67-6526. (Ord. 135, 12-11-
1995)
   E.   Murtaugh, Idaho:
      1.   Integration of Recitals: The recitals set forth in this Ordinance
are incorporated herein and by this reference made a part hereof as though set
forth in full herein.
      2.   Geographic Area of City Impact: The agreed upon area of Murtaugh
city impact is established by this CITY OF MURTAUGH IMPACT AREA AGREEMENT
ordinance of the county of Twin Falls, Idaho, and is set forth on the map
identified as the City of Murtaugh Future Land Use Map, dated 9/2/2020, and is
on file in the office of the Board of County Commissioners.
      3.   Governing Plan and Adoption of City of Murtaugh Ordinance:
         a.   The comprehensive plan, zoning ordinance, subdivision ordinance
and building codes of the city of Murtaugh, is hereby adopted by the county as
an "overlay" ordinance taking precedence and having full force and effect over
the same types of county regulations for the period of time that the Murtaugh
impact area is in effect over that portion of Twin Falls County designated on
the Murtaugh area of impact map established herein. The city of Murtaugh shall
file a copy of said ordinances herein referred to, with the county recorder for
public inspection. By reference, the county hereby adopts the subject city of
Murtaugh ordinances as "overlay" regulations within the area of impact.
         b.   Within the area of impact, no provision of the adopted ordinance
shall apply to any parcel of land twenty (20) acres or larger used solely for
agricultural purposes. Those lands shall remain in the jurisdiction of the
underlying county ordinances.
         c.   In the event that any listed Murtaugh ordinance is repealed or is
otherwise not in effect, the Twin Falls County ordinance dealing with the same
subject matter shall be fully in effect within the city impact area.
      4.   Administration of Area of Impact:
         a.   The area of city impact shall be administered through the regular
city of Murtaugh administrative processes, particularly those of the planning
and zoning commission who shall serve terms in office according to the bylaws
for the city planning and zoning commission. The commission shall consist of
one (1) additional member to be appointed by the county commissioners. That
member so appointed shall serve a term of three (3) years and may succeed to a
second consecutive full term. A county appointee appointed to fill a vacated
but unexpired term shall serve the balance of the term remaining and may
continue in office for one additional full term of three (3) years. A former
member may again serve two (2) consecutive terms provided there is at least a
full one (1) year separation between appointments. Members appointed by the
county commissioners shall be owner residents within or adjoining the area of
impact, residing outside of the city limits.
         b.   Any person directly aggrieved and affected by a final decision of
the city planning and zoning commission on land in the impact area, may appeal
to a board of appeals consisting of five (5) persons. Two (2) of said persons
shall be regularly appointed or elected members of the Murtaugh city council
and appointed by said council; and two (2) members shall be duly elected or
appointed by the county commissioners, and the fifth person may come from any
area within the boundaries of the county and shall be agreed upon and jointly
appointed by the county commissioners and the city council.
         c.   The appeals board shall hold a public hearing to consider the
appeal of the aggrieved party and such hearing shall be held upon such terms
and conditions and pursuant to such notice to affected persons as the appeals
board shall deem just and appropriate. Upon hearing the matter, the appeals
board shall decide the matter by majority vote, reduce its decision to writing
and shall provide a copy of the same to the appellant. The decision of the
appeals board shall be final. In the event the appeals board is unable to
decide the matter by a majority vote, and the board is deadlocked, the decision
appealed from shall remain in full force and effect and all administrative
remedies shall be deemed exhausted.
         d.   The parties hereto shall review and renegotiate the area of
impact at any time upon the request of either party hereto. Said reviews and
renegotiations shall be in conformance with Idaho Code section 67-6526. This
section and the agreed upon area of impact and rules governing the same shall
be automatically amended to conform to any federal or state requirements and
the respective governing boards shall take all action necessary to amend this
agreement accordingly. (Ord. 146, 1-26-1998; amd. Ord. 263, 1-28-2021)
   F.   Buhl, Idaho:
      1.   Buhl Area Of City Impact Boundary: The agreed upon area of city
impact for the city of Buhl is established and set forth herein and described
as: the current adopted Buhl Zoning/Area of City Impact map, adopted per Buhl
Ordinance No. 2024-2, dated 2-12-2024 and the Buhl Comprehensive map, adopted
per Buhl Ordinance No. 2024-3 dated 2-12-2024 or herein after modified by the
parties ("Area of City Impact").
      2.   Standards: The following standards shall apply whenever an agency,
planning and/or zoning commission, hearing examiner, or governing body of the
city of Buhl or Twin Falls County considers a zone change, comprehensive plan
change or request of any real property, planned unit development, vacations,
rezones, special use permits, variances, and other such land use permit
applications within the Area of City Impact which is subject to this section:
         a.   The city of Buhl Comprehensive Plan;
         b.   The zoning and subdivision regulations set forth in Title 9 of
the Buhl City Code;
         c.   Except as set forth above, all other applicable standards set
forth in this code; and
         d.   Except as set forth above, all other standards for any
subdistricts or overlay districts applicable within the Area of City Impact.
      3.   Governing Plan, Policies, And Ordinances:
         a.   Governing Plan: The city of Buhl Comprehensive Plan,
Comprehensive Plan Land Use Map, Zoning Districts Map, Area of Impact Map, and
Title 9 of the Buhl City Code shall comprise the governing plan and ordinance
for the Buhl Area of City Impact except as provided in subsection 10-1-3(B)
below.
         b.   Within the Area of City Impact, any parcel of land used solely
for agricultural uses and in excess of twenty (20) acres may continue said use
until a change of use occurs.
      4.   Administration Of the Buhl Area Of City Impact:
         a.   Administration:
         (1)   The Board of Commissioners of Twin Falls County hereby appoints
and authorizes the Twin Falls County Community Development Services Director,
its agents and employees, to enforce and administer the provisions of Title 9
of the Buhl City Code and to charge and collect fees for such administrative
duties as adopted by reference herein for the Area of City Impact.
         (2)   The Twin Falls County Community Development Services Director
accepts the appointment and authorization.
         b.   Commission:
         (1)   The Board of Commissioners of Twin Falls County hereby appoints
the Twin Falls County Planning and Zoning Commission to administer Title 9 of
the Buhl City Code in the Area of City Impact.
         (2)   All applications for preliminary plat of subdivisions,
vacations, rezones, special use permits, variances, and other such permit shall
be submitted to the County Planning and Zoning Commission. All applications for
final plat of subdivisions, for vacations and rezones shall be submitted to the
County Planning and Zoning Commission for their recommendation and action,
prior to submission to the Board of County Commissioners. The Board of County
Commissioners may approve, deny, or remand the application. The county shall
provide the city with notice and opportunity to provide comment on these
applications pursuant to the standards provided within Idaho Code § 67-6509.
      5.   Enforcement Within The Buhl Area Of City Impact:
         a.   Twin Falls County shall be responsible for the administration and
enforcement of the city of Buhl ordinances listed in subsections 10-1-2 A
through D of this section within the Area of City Impact and shall receive all
permit fees for inspections performed to recapture direct costs of inspections,
administration, legal publications, any development fees or other costs arising
from fulfilling the terms of each ordinance or regulation.
         b.   Building Code Enforcement Program: The Board of Commissioners of
Twin Falls County hereby appoints and authorizes the Twin Falls County
Community Development Services Director to contract, subject to the Board's
approval, with a public or private entity to administer the Twin Falls County
building code enforcement program within the Area of City Impact pursuant to
Idaho Code § 39-4116.
      6.   Annexation:
         a.   Annexation by the city of Buhl shall be compliant with Idaho Code
§§ 67-6509, 67-6526 and 50-222. Upon annexation, the provisions of this
article, which is the agreement between the city of Buhl and Twin Falls County,
shall no longer apply to the annexed area.
         b.   The city of Buhl shall send notice of all annexations, de-
annexations, amendments, changes and updates to Title 9 of the Buhl City Code
and the Comprehensive Plan along with maps to the Twin Falls County Community
Development Services office.
         c.   All applications and requests to Twin Falls County for
subdivision of any real property, planned unit development, vacations, rezones,
special use permits, variances, and other such land use permit applications and
public notices within the Buhl Area of City Impact shall be provided to the
city of Buhl with notice and an opportunity to provide comment on these
applications pursuant to the notice standards provided within Idaho Code § 67-
6509.
      7.   Renegotiation Of This Chapter:
         a.   Renegotiation: The Area of City Impact may be reviewed and
renegotiated at any time upon written request of either party hereto. In any
event, pursuant to Idaho Code § 67-6526(e), the city and the county shall
review the agreement every ten (10) years.
         b.   While renegotiation is occurring, all provisions of this chapter
shall remain in effect until this chapter is amended or a substitute ordinance
is adopted by the city of Buhl and Twin Falls County, in accordance with the
notice and hearing procedures provided in title 67, chapter 65 of Idaho Code,
or until declaratory judgment from the District Court is final pursuant to
Idaho Code § 67-6526(b). Provided, however, that this chapter or stipulated
portions thereof shall be of no further force and effect if both jurisdictions
so agree by mutually adopted ordinance.
         c.   Repeal Of Conflicting Provisions: All ordinances and code
sections or parts thereof in conflict with this subsection are hereby repealed.
(Ord. 200, 11-13-2007; amd. Ord. 230, 4-6-2012; Ord. 234, 5-23-2013)
   G.   Hansen, Idaho:
      1.   Geographical Area Of City Impact: There is hereby established and
adopted a geographical area of city impact as shown on the map, attached to the
ordinance codified herein, entitled "area of city impact for the city of
Hansen, Idaho", which map is attached to the ordinance codified herein, and
incorporated herein as if the same were set out in full and is hereby adopted
as the official area of impact map. (Ord. 72, 10-5-1981)
CHAPTER 10
HOME OCCUPATIONS
SECTION:
8-10-1: Approval
8-10-2: Definition
8-10-3: Requirements
8-10-1: APPROVAL:
Home occupations may be approved by the Zoning Administrator or may be
scheduled for public hearing if the nature of the home occupation is deemed to
be of a sensitive nature, i.e., gun shops, daycare, auto repair or parts, or
other similar business ventures. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
8-10-2: DEFINITION:
A "home occupation" is any operation, profession or craft, which is incidental
to or conducted in a dwelling place and the use is clearly incidental and
secondary to the use of the dwelling, and the operation is conducted only by
immediate members of the family residing within the dwelling. (Ord. 21, 12-1-
1998)
8-10-3: REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   No external alterations or construction features not customarily in
dwellings is involved and no external indication of said home occupations
except for signs as provided in this Title.
   B.   Articles manufactured and/or sold or offered for sale must be kept
within a structure or other enclosure so as not to be visible.
   C.   The use does not change the character of the dwelling or adversely
affect other uses in the zone.
   D.   Adequate off-street parking must be provided.
   E.   No excessive traffic noise or odors shall be created by the use.
   F.   Sign placement shall be as specified for residential use.
   G.   Adequate disposal of waste and salvage materials. "Adequate disposal"
shall mean no unsanitary accumulation of any type and shall also mean no
visible evidence of the collection of wastes or salvage parts or materials, or
more than three (3) vehicles being worked upon.
   H.   The accessory building or the enclosure used shall not exceed one
thousand six hundred (1,600) square feet in size. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
CHAPTER 11
OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING
SECTION:
8-11-1: Parking And Loading
8-11-2: Off-Street Parking Required
8-11-3: Off-Street Truck Loading Space
8-11-1: PARKING AND LOADING:
The intent of this Chapter is to encourage the parking of vehicles off the
public streets and highways so as to improve safety, reduce congestion and
facilitate street maintenance and traffic circulation. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
8-11-2: OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIRED:
In all zones there shall be constructed at the time of the erection of any
building, or at the time any main building is enlarged or increased in
capacity, minimum off-street parking space of nine feet by twenty feet (9' x
20') with adequate provision for ingress and egress from the street to each
parking space by standard size automobiles as follows:
                Minimum Number Of Off- Street Minimum Number Of Off- Street
                Parking Spaces For Employees  Parking Spaces
   Type Of Use                              For Customers
                          Minimum Number Of Off-    Minimum Number Of Off-
                          Street Parking Spaces For Street Parking Spaces
   Type Of Use          Employees                 For Customers
Grocery stores,                                      3 square feet of parking
drugstores, bakeries and   1 for each 2 employees    lot area for each square
similar retail                                       foot of building
establishments
Barbershops                1 for each employee       2 for each chair
Beauty shops               1 for each employee       2 for each chair
Pickup stations            1 for each employee       2 spaces
Collection offices         1 for each employee       2 spaces
Gift and flower shops      1 for each employee       1 for each 125 square feet
                                                     of sales area
                                                     2 for each professional
Professional offices       1 for each employee       person located in the
                                                     building
                                                     2 for each professional
Real estate offices        1 for each employee       person located in the
                                                     building
Restaurants                1 for each employee       1 for each 4 seats or 30"
                                                     of seating capacity
Drive-ins                  1 for each employee       12 spaces
Plant nurseries where      1 for each employee       10 spaces
goods are sold on-premises
                                                     1 space for each 4 seats
                                                     or each 80" of benches in
                                                     the chapel or auditorium,
Mortuaries                                          plus 1 space for each
                                                     employee resident on the
                                                     premises, plus 1 space for
                                                     each 2 employees not
                                                     resident on the premises
Dwellings                                           2 spaces for each dwelling
                                                     unit
Motels and tourist courts                           1 space for each rental
                                                     unit
                                                     Not less than the number
                                                     of spaces equaling 60% of
Hotels                                              the number of rooms to be
                                                     occupied by tenants or
                                                     guests
Lodge halls, clubhouses,
institutions for                                    Not less than 20% of the
philanthropic and                                    total membership
eleemosynary purposes
                                                     1 space for each 4 seats
                                                     or each 80" of benches,
                                                     plus 1 space for each
Churches                                            church official resident
                                                     of the premises, plus
                                                     spaces equal in number to
                                                     50% of the number of
                                                     employees
                                                     A minimum of 1 off-street
Industrial                                          parking space for each 2
                                                     employees
 
   A.   Other Uses: Off-street parking space for uses not mentioned shall be
determined by the Zoning Commission under authority delegated to it as set
forth in this Title.
   B.   Collection Provision: Parking space for two (2) or more buildings as
required in this Chapter may be combined into one lot and may be located on a
lot adjacent to the building, provided the number of parking spaces is at least
equal to the number required when computed separately. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
8-11-3: OFF-STREET TRUCK LOADING SPACE:
Off-street loading and unloading space shall be provided on the same lot for
every building used for manufacturing, storage, warehousing, goods display,
department store, grocery, hotel, hospital, mortuary, laundry, dry-cleaning or
other use similarly involving the receipt or distribution of vehicle or
material or merchandise. Such space, unless otherwise adequately provided,
shall include a minimum ten feet by twenty five feet (10' x 25') loading space
with a minimum fourteen feet (14') height clearance, for every twenty thousand
(20,000) square feet of floor space in the building or fraction thereof. (Ord.
21, 12-1-1998)
CHAPTER 12
SPECIAL PROVISIONS AND EXCEPTIONS
SECTION:
8-12-1: Special Provisions
8-12-2: Temporary Uses
8-12-3: Tract Sales Offices
8-12-4: Uses Incidental To Construction
8-12-5: Dwellings
8-12-6: Heavy Industrial Site Exemption
8-12-7: Yard Modification
8-12-8: Conditional Use/Land Division In Agricultural Zone
8-12-1: SPECIAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Accessory Uses And Buildings:
      1.   Definition: An "accessory building and use" is a subordinate use of
a building, other structure or tract of land, or a subordinate to the use of
the principal building, other structure, or use of land; which is customary in
connection with the principal building, other structure or use of land; which
is ordinarily located on the same lot with the principal building, other
structure or use of land in zones where not a principal use.
      2.   Use Included: "Accessory buildings and uses" include, but are not
limited to, the following:
         a.   Signs;
         b.   Off-street loading areas;
         c.   Off-street parking space;
         d.   Fences, hedges and walls;
         e.   Private greenhouse in residential zone;
         f.   Private swimming pool;
         g.   Enclosed storage of merchandise in Commercial Zones and outdoor
storage in Industrial Zone;
         h.   Fallout shelters;
         i.   Cultivation, storage and sale of crops, vegetables, plants, and
flowers produced on the premises in agricultural and residential zones;
         j.   Private shops;
         k.   Private storage buildings.
   B.   Accessory Building In Agricultural And Residential Zones:
      1.   Accessory Buildings: An accessory building may be erected detached
from the principal building, or may be erected as an integral part of the
principal building, or it may be connected thereto by a breezeway or similar
structure.
      2.   Yard And Courts: An accessory building shall be placed as to meet
all yard and court requirements for a principal building including height and
other dimensions.
      3.   Requirements: If located in a rear yard, both detached and integral
or connected accessory structures shall be subject to the requirements set
forth in the following subsections:
         a.   The height of such accessory buildings shall not exceed one story
and the distance of such buildings from other separate buildings or structures
on the same lot shall be at least six feet (6') except that a breezeway, at
least six feet (6') in length, may connect an accessory with a principal
building.
      4.   Prohibited: No building accessory to a main building shall occupy
the portion of any lot in front of the main building except for a residential
garage which is integral with the dwelling by architectural design.
      5.   Acceptance: Commercial variations may request planning and zoning
commission acceptance. The area of underground shelters shall not be computed
in maximum coverage requirements.
      6.   Depth Requirement: Where a corner lot adjoins in the rear, either
directly or across the alley, a lot located in any residential zone, no part of
an accessory building located in a rear yard within twenty five feet (25') of
the common lot line or center of the alley shall be nearer the side lot line
than the least depth of the front yard existing or required along such side
street for a building on such accessory building project into the side or front
yard required for the principal building to which it is accessory.
      7.   Coverage: Combined coverage of the property by the primary and
accessory buildings shall not exceed thirty five percent (35%). (Ord. 21, 12-1-
1998)
      8.   Size Limitations:
         a.   Agricultural Range Preservation Zone: On parcels containing less
than applicable zone acreage requirements, the building square footage is
restricted to a maximum size of three thousand two hundred (3,200) square feet.
On parcels meeting zoning requirements, the building square footage is
restricted to a maximum size of five thousand (5,000) square feet. A
conditional use permit shall be required for any construction proposed over the
maximum square footage.
         b.   Agricultural Zone: On parcels containing less than applicable
zone acreage requirements, the building square footage is restricted to a
maximum size of two thousand four hundred (2,400) square feet. On parcels
meeting zoning requirements, the building square footage is restricted to a
maximum size of three thousand two hundred (3,200) square feet. A conditional
use permit shall be required for any construction proposed over the maximum
square footage.
         c.   Residential Zone: The building square footage is restricted to a
maximum size of two thousand (2,000) square feet. A conditional use permit
shall be required for any construction proposed over the maximum square
footage.
         d.   Enforcement: Violation of any of the provisions of this
subsection B8 or failure to comply with any of its requirements constitute a
misdemeanor and is punishable by up to six (6) months in jail and up to a three
hundred dollar ($300.00) fine or both. Each day such violation continues shall
be considered a separate offense.
         e.   Severability: Irrespective of the basis of the invalidity, if any
term or condition of this subsection B8 is invalid, the remaining terms and
conditions of this subsection B8 are severable. (Ord. 155, 3-14-2001)
8-12-2: TEMPORARY USES:
   A.   General: The board of county commissioners or the planning and zoning
commission may issue permits for lawful temporary uses of property. Approval
will be contingent upon such conditions and time limitations as are reasonable
and necessary to secure public health, safety and community welfare. Violation
of any such conditions shall be grounds for revocation of the certificate and
of any permit or license issued. The board of county commissioners or the
planning and zoning commission may require guarantees to assure removal of the
temporary use and of any debris or refuse resultant therefrom, so as to restore
the premises to its prior condition and may establish the date of such removal.
   B.   Hardship: Provides for the temporary placement of a manufactured or
mobile home on the property when a hardship exists which makes it necessary to
have someone living in close proximity for providing care for: elderly person
(s), person(s) with mental or physical disability or a person(s) with a medical
condition which requires assisted living.
      1.   The approval will be subject to the following stipulations:
         a.   Sewer System Approval: Approval for manufactured or mobile home
to be connected to the sanitary sewer system currently available on the
property in accordance with the South Central district health department.
         b.   Highway Approval: Approval from applicable highway district.
         c.   Fire Department Approval: Approval from the fire department.
         d.   Site Plan: All applications require a site plan, inclusive of
property lines, road names and locations, location of all buildings, distance
to all property lines, roads, buildings, wells, septic systems, etc., by scale.
Show north orientation.
         e.   Proof Of Hardship: The planning and zoning department may require
a doctor's certificate or other proof.
         f.   Minimum Square Footage: The minimum square footage for a
manufactured or mobile home is five hundred thirty three feet (533').
         g.   Standards: Manufactured or mobile homes shall meet HUD standards.
         h.   Application Required: A completed application must be filed with
the planning and zoning department before any request will be considered.
         i.   Annual Report: The applicant will report annually to the planning
and zoning department on the condition of the hardship.
         j.   Removal Of Use: The manufactured or mobile home will be removed
from the property upon termination of the hardship condition and disconnected
from the sanitary sewer system in accordance with the regulations of the South
Central district health department.
      2.   Upon receiving a completed application the zoning administrator will
review the application and either approve, approve with conditions or deny the
application. The zoning administrator will inform the applicant within ten (10)
working days of the decision in writing.
      3.   The decision of the zoning administrator may be appealed to the
board of county commissioners within ten (10) days of the zoning
administrator's decision.
   C.   Enforcement: Violation of any of the provisions of this section or
failure to comply with any of its requirements shall constitute a misdemeanor
and is punishable by up to six (6) months in jail and up to a three hundred
dollar ($300.00) fine or both. Each day such violation continues shall be
considered a separate offense.
   D.   Severability: Irrespective of the basis of the invalidity, if any term
or condition of this section is invalid the remaining terms and conditions of
this section are severable. (Ord. 156, 3-14-2001)
8-12-3: TRACT SALES OFFICES:
A temporary permit may be issued upon application, for a tract and sales office
in a residential zone during the period of construction or sale of homes in a
new subdivision, located either in a dwelling or in a temporary structure
located not less than twenty feet (20') from any other structure. Such office
or temporary structure shall be removed, and the entire premises shall be
restored to conform to the district regulations within ten (10) days after the
expiration of the period of time specified in the permit. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
8-12-4: USES INCIDENTAL TO CONSTRUCTION:
The zoning administrator may issue permits for temporary buildings and uses
incidental to the construction of a building or group of buildings on the same
or adjacent premises. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
8-12-5: DWELLINGS:
   A.   Conversion Of Dwelling To Multi-Family Use: The conversion of any
building into a dwelling, or the conversion of any dwelling so as to
accommodate an increased number of dwelling units or families, shall be
permitted only within a zone in which a new building or similar occupancy would
be permitted under this title, and only when the resulting occupancy will
comply with the requirements governing new construction in such zones, after
proper application of a building permit.
   B.   Rear Dwellings: No building in the rear of a principal building on the
same lot shall be built or converted to be used for residential purposes.
   C.   Dwelling Sanitation: All residential dwelling units shall have provided
sewage disposal facilities and domestic facilities which meet the approval of
the health department or district sanitarian. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
8-12-6: HEAVY INDUSTRIAL SITE EXEMPTION:
Nothing in this title shall be interpreted to prohibit or restrict the
continuance or expansion of the industrial use on any heavy industry site as
proved in Idaho Code 67-6502. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
8-12-7: YARD MODIFICATION:
   A.   Double Frontage Lots: Buildings on lots having frontage at intersecting
streets need not have a rear yard greater than the required side yard of the
zone if an equivalent open space is provided on the lot in lieu of such
required rear yard; applicable front yards must be provided, however, on both
streets. No structure may extend beyond the building line established by the
front yard requirements of the area. Locations of lots with frontage on more
than two (2) streets shall require decision of the planning and zoning
commission.
   B.   Modification: No modification will be permitted without approval of the
highway district in which the property is located. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
8-12-8: CONDITIONAL USE/LAND DIVISION IN AGRICULTURAL ZONE:
Divisions of land less than forty (40) acres in the agricultural zone may be
allowed as a conditional use provided that the parcel under consideration meets
the "infill" definition: areas consisting of outcrops and poor ground that
cannot be farmed. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
CHAPTER 13
RECLASSIFICATION OF DISTRICT OR ZONE CHANGE
SECTION:
8-13-1: Reclassification
8-13-2: Application Required
8-13-3: Fees
8-13-4: Hearing
8-13-5: Notice And Publication Of Hearings
8-13-6: Action By Commission
8-13-7: Action By Board
8-13-8: Ordinance Required
8-13-9: Resubmittal
8-13-1: RECLASSIFICATION:
Any change, modification, or reclassification of zoning districts and land use
classifications may be initiated by a resolution of the Board, or by the
Commission, or by application of one or more property owners or holders of
valid options to purchase property. When the application for change,
modification or reclassification is initiated by a property owner or holders of
valid options to purchase property, the procedure set forth herein shall be
followed, except that the Commission may, subject to the provisions for notice
and publication of hearing, enlarge, expand and amplify a petition for change
in reclassification of a zoning district or a land use classification. (Ord.
21, 12-1-1998)
8-13-2: APPLICATION REQUIRED:
Every person seeking a reclassification of any land regulated by this Chapter
shall file with the Zoning Administrator an application therefor, upon a form
prescribed by the Commission, accompanied by a filing fee as specified herein.
   A.   Form And Scope: The Commission shall prescribe the form, scope, and
content of such application, and the data required to be furnished in
connection therewith. Each such application shall include a map showing the
lots and parcels of land within three hundred feet (300') of the exterior
boundaries thereof, or as required by this Title, together with the list of the
names and addresses of the last known owners of each lot or parcel, insofar as
they are of public record.
   B.   Content: Every application shall contain or be accompanied by all
information, plans, and maps to scale and other data necessary to assure full
presentation of pertinent facts for the records and to assist in making a
determination in harmony with the objectives of this Title. No application
shall be accepted by the Zoning Administrator unless it is complete and in
compliance with all such requirements. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
8-13-3: FEES:
The applicant shall upon filing the application with the Zoning Administrator
pay an application fee as determined by the Board of County Commissioners, and
posted in the office of the Zoning Administrator. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
8-13-4: HEARING:
The Commission may hold at least one public hearing and give public notice on
every application, and the enlargement, expansion and amplification thereof by
the Commission, for a change, modification or reclassification of property,
zoning district or land use classification. The date for such public hearing
shall be fixed by the Commission within a reasonable time. If in the opinion of
the Commission, and after hearing the facts from the applicant, the decision is
made that the request should not be carried to a public hearing, the Commission
may reject the application at that point. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
8-13-5: NOTICE AND PUBLICATION OF HEARINGS:
Notice of time, place and purpose of each public hearing held by the Commission
shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the County at least
fifteen (15) days prior to such hearing. When the public hearing is before the
Commission on a proposed change, modification, or reclassification and the
enlargement, expansion and amplification thereof, notice shall be given by the
applicant by certified U.S. mail to each property owner whose name and address
appears on the list accompanying such application. When notice is required to
two hundred (200) or more property owners or residents, alternate forms of
procedures which would provide adequate notice may be provided in lieu of
mailed notice. In the event the Commission originates, enlarges, extends and
amplifies the application for the change, modification or reclassification of
property, zoning district or land use classification, the Zoning Administrator
shall be required to ascertain the names and addresses of the last known owners
of each latter parcel of land within three hundred feet (300'), or as required
by this Title, of the exterior boundaries of the land area sought to be
enlarged, extended or amplified. The notice shall give the date, time and place
of hearing, the name of the applicant, the relief sought, and identification of
the property, and such other facts as may be prescribed by the Commission. The
Zoning Administrator may, in lieu of notice by mail, order three (3) additional
publications, the last publication of such notice must be at least ten (10)
days before the date set for such hearings. In any public hearing the presiding
officer may order the hearing to be continued by publicly announcing the time
and place of continuance, and no further notice thereof shall be required. Time
limit for a continuance shall be up to six (6) months. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
8-13-6: ACTION BY COMMISSION:
At every hearing before the Commission, the Commission shall hear all persons
interested in the subject matter. No later than ten (10) working days after the
conclusion of the hearing, the Commission shall file a report stating the
action taken by the Commission at such hearing and its recommendation to the
Board. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
8-13-7: ACTION BY BOARD:
The Board shall either approve, disapprove, remand back to or modify the
recommendation of the Commission. The Board may for good cause issue a stay
upon a decision made by the Commission upon request by the appellant. (Ord. 21,
12-1-1998)
8-13-8: ORDINANCE REQUIRED:
In the event the Board shall have approved or modified the recommendation of
the Commission, the Board shall cause to be prepared the appropriate ordinance
of amendment. However, no ordinance amending this Zoning Ordinance shall become
effective until a public hearing has been held for which fifteen (15) days'
notice of the time and place of such hearing shall be published in the
newspapers of the County. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
8-13-9: RESUBMITTAL:
No application for the change or reclassification of any property, zoning
district or land use classification, which has been denied by the Board shall
be resubmitted in either the same or substantially the same form, with
reference to substantially the same premises or the same purpose, within one
year from the date of final action thereon. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
CHAPTER 14
VARIANCES
SECTION:
8-14-1: Definition
8-14-2: Authority
8-14-3: Application
8-14-4: Public Hearing And Notice
8-14-5: Action By The Commission
8-14-6: Appeals To The Board
8-14-7: Reapplication
8-14-1: DEFINITION:
A "variance" is a modification of the bulk and placement requirements of this
code as to lot size, lot coverage, width, depth, front yard, side yard, rear
yard, setbacks, parking space, height of buildings, or other ordinance
provision affecting the size or shape of a structure, or the placement of the
structure on lots, or the size of lots. (Ord. 229, 3-28-2012)
8-14-2: AUTHORITY 1 :
The commission may authorize such variance from the terms of the zoning
ordinance only if it meets all requirements of subsections 8-14-5A and B of
this chapter. (Ord. 229, 3-28-2012)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 67-6516.
8-14-3: APPLICATION:
Applications shall be filed with the planning and zoning department on an
application form with the required documentation and fees. After the
administrator has determined an application is complete, a public hearing
before the commission will be scheduled. The application, at a minimum, shall
include the following:
   A.   Name and address of the applicant. If the applicant is not the owner of
the property, the name and address of the owner shall be supplied along with
proof of authorization from the owner to apply for the variance. Proof of
ownership must accompany the application.
   B.   A statement describing the reason for the variance request, including
the nature of the special conditions on the property, and the hardship the
applicant will experience if the variance is not granted.
   C.   Any additional information or plans which may be required by the
administrator and/or the commission. (Ord. 229, 3-28-2012)
8-14-4: PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE:
   A.   The commission shall hold at least one public hearing on the
application. Prior to the public hearing, notice shall be provided by the
applicant in accordance with the requirements of this code and Idaho Code.
(Ord. 229, 3-28-2012)
8-14-5: ACTION BY THE COMMISSION:
   A.   A variance shall not be considered a right or special privilege, but
may be granted to an applicant only upon a showing of undue hardship because of
the characteristics of the site and that the variance is not in conflict with
the public interest. No variance in use from the allowed uses on the property
or variance based upon self-imposed hardship shall be granted.
   B.   A variance may be granted only if the commission finds that:
      1.   Not granting the variance creates an undue hardship on the applicant
because of the characteristics of the site; and
      2.   The hardship is not self-imposed; and
      3.   Granting the variance is not in conflict with the purpose and intent
of the Twin Falls County zoning ordinances or the public interest.
   C.   A variance, if granted, is issued to the property and shall be required
to be recorded with the county assessor and recorder on the property deed
within one year. Failure to properly record the variance renders the approval
of the variance void.
   D.   When granting or denying an application, the governing board or
commission, shall specify the ordinance standards used in evaluating the
application, the reasons for approval or denial, and the actions, if any, that
the applicant could take to obtain approval.
   E.   Every final decision rendered shall be accompanied by notice to the
applicant regarding the applicant's right to request a regulatory taking
analysis pursuant to Idaho Code section 67-8003. (Ord. 229, 3-28-2012)
8-14-6: APPEALS TO THE BOARD:
Appeals to the board of county commissioners shall be in accordance with the
provisions of this code. (Ord. 229, 3-28-2012)
8-14-7: REAPPLICATION:
Where a variance or appeal has been denied, no application for a variance or
appeal for the same or substantially the same issue on the same or
substantially the same site shall be filed within one hundred eighty (180) days
from the date of denial. (Ord. 229, 3-28-2012)
CHAPTER 15
ENFORCEMENT, VIOLATION AND PENALTY
(Rep. by Ord. 231, 4-20-2012)
CHAPTER 16
TELECOMMUNICATIONS TOWERS, ANTENNAS AND RELATED FACILITIES
SECTION:
8-16-1: Purpose
8-16-2: Definitions
8-16-3: Exempt From County Review
8-16-4: Areas Permitting Telecommunication Facility Location By Conditional Use
Or Administrative Approval
8-16-5: Areas Limiting Telecommunication Facility Location
8-16-6: Areas Prohibiting Telecommunication Facility Location
8-16-7: Telecommunications Facilities One Hundred Twenty Five Feet Or Less In
Height
8-16-8: Conditional Use
8-16-9: Annual Information Report
8-16-10: Removal/Security For Removal
8-16-11: Preexisting Telecommunication Towers
8-16-12: Compliance
8-16-13: Structural, Design And Environmental Standards
8-16-14: Separations And Setback Requirements
8-16-15: Permits
8-16-16: Violations
8-16-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide a set of standards for the
development and installation of telecommunication towers, antennas and related
facilities. The regulations contained herein are designed to protect and
promote public health, safety and the community welfare of Twin Falls County,
and to encourage managed development of telecommunications infrastructure,
while not unduly restricting the development of needed telecommunications
facilities.
The county shall apply these regulations to accomplish the following:
   A.   Minimize adverse visual effects of telecommunication towers, antennas
and related facilities through design and siting standards.
   B.   Maintain and ensure that a nondiscriminatory, competitive and broad
range of telecommunications services and high quality telecommunications
infrastructure consistent with the federal telecommunications act of 1996 are
provided to serve the community.
   C.   Provide a process for obtaining necessary permits for
telecommunications facilities while at the same time protecting the interests
of the Twin Falls County citizens.
   D.   Protect environmentally sensitive areas of Twin Falls County by
regulating the location, design and operation of telecommunication facilities.
   E.   Encourage the use of alternative support structures, colocation of new
antennas on existing telecommunication towers, camouflaged towers, and
construction of towers with the ability to locate more than one provider.
Furthermore, this chapter is not intended to regulate residential satellite
dishes or residential television antennas that are used privately. Additionally
it is not intended to regulate satellite dishes/antennas whose regulation is
prohibited by Idaho statutes or as preempted by federal law. (Ord. 161, 6-9-
2003)
8-16-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms and phrases shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section:
ALTERNATIVE SUPPORT STRUCTURE: Clock towers, steeples, silos, light poles,
water towers, buildings or similar structures that may support
telecommunication facilities.
ANTENNA: Any system of wires, poles, rods, reflecting discs, or similar devices
used for the transmission or reception of electromagnetic waves when such
system is either external to or attached to the exterior of a structure.
Antennas shall include devices having active elements extending in any
direction, and directional beam type arrays having elements carried by and
disposed from a generally horizontal boom that may be mounted upon and rotated
through a vertical mast or tower interconnecting the boom and antenna support,
all of which elements are deemed to be a part of the antenna.
ANTENNA, BUILDING MOUNTED: Any antenna, other than an antenna with its supports
resting on the ground, directly attached or affixed to a building.
ANTENNA, GROUND MOUNTED: Any antenna with its base placed directly on the
ground.
BUILDING: Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls and
intended for the shelter, housing, or enclosure of any individual, animal,
process, equipment, goods, or materials of any kind.
CAMOUFLAGED TOWER: Any telecommunication tower that due to design or appearance
entirely hides, obscures, or conceals the presence of the tower and antennas.
CARRIER: Any company, corporation, firm or individual who provides or supplies
wireless telecommunication service. For the purpose of this chapter, provider
shall have the same meaning as carrier.
GUYED TOWER: A telecommunications tower that is supported in whole or in part
by guy wires and ground anchors or other means of support besides the
superstructure of the tower itself.
HEIGHT, TELECOMMUNICATIONS TOWER: The distance measured from the original grade
at the base of the tower to the highest point of the tower. This measurement
excludes any attached antennas, protection devices (e.g., lightning rods) and
lighting.
LATTICE TOWER: A telecommunication tower that consists of vertical and
horizontal supports and crossed metal braces.
MONOPOLE: A telecommunication tower of a single pole design.
NAVIGABLE STREAM OR LAKE: As designated on the United States geological survey
(USGS) map and/or the Twin Falls County zoning map.
NONCONFORMING: Any preexisting telecommunications facility that was in
existence prior to the adoption of this chapter and that has not been issued a
conditional use permit or was issued a conditional use permit prior to the
adoption date hereof.
OPERATION: Other than nominal use; when a facility is used regularly as an
integral part of an active system of telecommunications it shall be deemed in
operation.
PLATFORM: A support system that may be used to connect antennas and antenna
arrays to telecommunication towers or alternative support structures.
SATELLITE DISH: A device incorporating a reflective surface that is solid, open
mesh, or bar configured that is shallow dish, cone, horn, or cornucopia shaped
and is used to transmit and/or receive electromagnetic signals. This definition
is meant to include, but is not limited to, what are commonly referred to as
satellite earth stations, TVROs (satellite television receive only) and
satellite microwave antennas.
TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITY: A facility, site, or location that contains one or
more antennas, telecommunication towers, alternative support structures,
satellite dish antennas, other similar communication devices, and support
equipment, which is used for transmitting, receiving, or relaying
telecommunications signals.
TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITY COLOCATED: A telecommunication facility comprised of
a single telecommunication tower or building supporting multiple antennas,
dishes, or similar devices owned or used by more than one public or private
entity.
TELECOMMUNICATION SUPPORT FACILITY: The telecommunication equipment buildings
and equipment cabinets.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS TOWER: Any structure that is designed and constructed
primarily for the purpose of supporting one or more antennas, including
camouflaged towers, lattice towers, guyed towers, or monopole towers. This
includes radio and television transmission towers, microwave towers, and common
carrier towers.
UTILITY POLE MOUNTED ANTENNA: An antenna attached, without regard to mounting,
to or upon an existing or replacement electric transmission or distribution
pole, streetlight, traffic signal, athletic field light, utility support
structure or other similar structure approved by the Twin Falls County planning
and zoning department.
ZONING ADMINISTRATOR: The official appointed by the board of county
commissioners to administer the Twin Falls County zoning ordinance. (Ord. 161,
6-9-2003)
8-16-3: EXEMPT FROM COUNTY REVIEW:
The following shall be permitted without county approvals:
   A.   Accessory Use Antennas: The use of all television antennas, satellite
dishes and receive only antennas, provided that the primary use of the property
is not a telecommunications facility and that the antenna use is accessory to
the primary use of the property.
   B.   Amateur Radio: This chapter shall not govern the installation of any
antenna and its supporting towers, poles and masts that is owned and/or
operated by a federally licensed amateur radio operator, or is used exclusively
for receive only antennas.
   C.   Temporary Mobile Services: Mobile services providing public information
coverage of new events of a temporary or emergency nature.
   D.   Freestanding Antennas: Freestanding (ground mounted antenna) antennas
(not supported on or attached to a building) and their supporting towers, poles
or masts and their equipment buildings one hundred twenty (120) square feet or
less in size, may be installed without a zoning permit when the overall height
of the antennas and their supporting structures do not exceed a height of
twenty feet (20') above the original grade at the site of the installation.
   E.   Building, Tower Or Structure Mounted Antennas: Antennas installed on,
or attached to, any existing building (building mounted antenna), an existing
telecommunication tower, or alternative support structure and their equipment
buildings one hundred twenty (120) square feet or less in size, when the height
of the antenna and its supporting tower, pole or mast is twenty feet (20') or
less above the highest part of the building or alternative support structure to
which it is attached. Antennas installed on, or attached to, any existing
building, an existing telecommunication tower, or alternative support structure
and their equipment buildings.
   F.   Utility Pole Mounted Antennas: Utility pole mounted antennas if the
height of the antenna is twenty feet (20') or less above the highest part of
the utility pole. (Ord. 161, 6-9-2003)
8-16-4: AREAS PERMITTING TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITY LOCATION BY CONDITIONAL USE
OR ADMINISTRATIVE APPROVAL:
Telecommunications facilities may be permitted in the following zones, subject
to the provisions of this chapter:
   A.   Agricultural range preservation zone.
   B.   Agricultural zone.
   C.   Rural residential zone.
   D.   Commercial zone.
   E.   Industrial zone. (Ord. 161, 6-9-2003)
8-16-5: AREAS LIMITING TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITY LOCATION:
Telecommunication facilities may be permitted in the following areas, subject
to the provisions of this chapter and are subject to review and approval of the
federal aviation administration (FAA) and other appropriate agencies, if
applicable:
   A.   Two (2) mile radius from heliports.
   B.   One mile radius from private airport runway(s).
   C.   Three (3) mile radius from public use airport runway(s). (Ord. 161, 6-
9-2003)
8-16-6: AREAS PROHIBITING TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITY LOCATION:
No telecommunications facilities will be allowed in the following areas:
   A.   Historic sites, as defined by state and/or federal regulation.
   B.   Critical species habitats, as defined by state and/or federal
regulation.
   C.   Wetlands, as defined by state and/or federal regulation.
   D.   Floodplains, as defined by state and/or federal regulation. (Ord. 161,
6-9-2003)
8-16-7: TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES ONE HUNDRED TWENTY FIVE FEET OR LESS IN
HEIGHT:
Locating and constructing telecommunication facilities or a new alternative
support structure, including the buildings or other supporting equipment used
in connection with said facilities, one hundred twenty five feet (125') or less
in height shall require, except for exempt facilities, approval by the planning
and zoning department. The zoning administrator shall have the authority to
approve or deny permits for telecommunications facilities in this category.
   A.   Application Review And Processing: The applicant shall submit an
application to the planning and zoning department for review on a form
prescribed by the county and shall include the information required in section
8-16-8 of this chapter. The zoning administrator shall review the application
for completeness. Upon determination the application is complete, the process
will proceed as follows:
      1.   The planning and zoning department will notify the applicant to
proceed with notification as required by this chapter.
      2.   The applicant shall notify any property owner(s) within three
hundred feet (300') of the proposed location by first class mail and provided
proof of mailing to the planning and zoning department within five (5) days of
mailing.
      3.   The planning and zoning department shall accept written comment for
fifteen (15) days after date of mailing.
      4.   The zoning administrator shall then produce a report, which includes
a summary of such comment or evidence submitted, a reasoned explanation of the
grounds for his decision and a final order granting or denying the permit,
setting forth any conditions that the zoning administrator might deem
appropriate. Such report shall be filed at the planning and zoning department
within twenty eight (28) calendar days after the closing date for accepting
written comment, unless additional time for filing such report is granted by
the board of county commissioners upon request of the zoning administrator.
Notice of such filing shall be provided in writing to the applicant and to all
parties entitled to notice by this chapter.
      5.   The decision of the zoning administrator may be appealed to the
board of county commissioners in accordance with the provisions of Twin Falls
County ordinance. (Ord. 161, 6-9-2003)
8-16-8: CONDITIONAL USE:
Locating and constructing telecommunication facilities or a new alternative
support structure, including the buildings or other supporting equipment used
in connection with said facilities shall require a conditional use permit for
telecommunications facilities over one hundred twenty five feet (125') in
height.
   A.   Submittal Information: For all telecommunication facilities, the
planning and zoning department shall require the following information to
accompany every application. Said information shall include, but may not be
limited to:
      1.   Completed conditional use application.
      2.   Original signature of applicant and landowner (if the
telecommunication facility is located in an easement or pursuant to a ground
lease, the beneficiaries of the easement or ground lease and underlying
property owner must authorize the application).
      3.   The identity of the carrier, provider, applicant, landowner and
service provider and their legal status.
      4.   The name, address and telephone number of the officer, agent and/or
employee responsible for the accuracy of the application.
      5.   A plat of survey, showing the parcel boundaries, tower, facilities,
location, access, landscaping and fencing.
      6.   A written legal description of the site.
      7.   In the case of a leased site, a lease agreement or binding lease
memorandum, which shows on its face that it does not preclude the tower owner
from entering into leases on the tower with other provider(s) and the legal
description and amount of property leased.
      8.   A description of the telecommunications services that the applicant
offers or provides, to persons, firms, businesses or institutions.
      9.   Federal communication commission (FCC) license numbers and
registration numbers, if applicable.
      10.   Copies of finds of no significant impacts (FONSI) statement from
the federal communication commission (FCC) or environmental impact study (EIS),
if applicable.
      11.   An alternatives analysis prepared by the applicant or on behalf of
the applicant by its designated technical representative, subject to the review
and approval of the planning and zoning commission, which identifies all
reasonable, technically feasible, alternative locations and/or facilities which
could provide the proposed telecommunication service. The intention of the
alternatives analysis is to present alternative strategies which could minimize
the number, size, and adverse environmental impacts of facilities necessary to
provide the needed services to the county. The analysis shall address
justification for proposed height, alternative sites, potential for colocation
and potential to locate facilities as close as possible to the intended service
area. It shall also explain the rationale for selection of the proposed site in
view of the relative merits of any of the feasible alternatives. Approval of
the project is subject to the review and approval of the planning and zoning
commission. The county may require independent verification of this analysis at
the applicant's expense; the consultant will be chosen by the planning and
zoning department from a list mutually agreed upon by the county and the
applicant.
      12.   Plans indicating security measures (e.g., access, fencing,
lighting, etc.).
      13.   A tabular and map inventory of all of the applicant's existing
telecommunications towers that are located within Twin Falls County and
including all of the applicant's existing towers within one thousand five
hundred feet (1,500') of the county boundary; this information need not be
resubmitted if already on file with the Twin Falls County planning and zoning
department. The inventory shall specify the location, height, type, and design
of each of the applicant's existing telecommunication towers, and the ability
of the tower or antenna structure to accommodate additional colocation
antennas.
      14.   A report prepared by an engineer licensed by the state of Idaho
certifying the structural design of the tower and its ability to accommodate
additional antennas.
      15.   Proof of liability coverage.
      16.   Such other information as the planning and zoning commission may
require.
      17.   Proof of notification indicating that the airport operator and
airport property owner(s) within the areas limiting telecommunication facility
locations have been notified.
      18.   Speculative tower builders shall provide proof of a carrier to
locate on the proposed facility before consideration shall be given to the
application.
   B.   Colocation: All tower owners shall make available unused space for
colocation of other telecommunication facilities, including space for those
entities providing similar, competing services. Colocation is not required if
the host facility can demonstrate that the addition of the new service or
facilities would impair existing service. All colocated and multiple user
telecommunication support facilities shall be designed for compatible joining
to facilitate site sharing.
   C.   Technical Review: The planning and zoning department, upon direction of
the Twin Falls County planning and zoning commission, shall employ on behalf of
the county an independent technical expert to review materials submitted. The
consultant will be chosen from a list mutually agreed upon by the county and
the applicant. The applicant shall pay all the costs of said review. The
payment to the planning and zoning department shall be due upon receipt of the
invoice. All fees and charges accumulated for the technical review must be paid
in full prior to the issuance of the conditional use permit.
   D.   Submittals Required Following The Conditional Use Approval: For each
conditional use permit approved by the Twin Falls County planning and zoning
commission the applicant shall submit the following before the conditional use
permit will be issued:
      1.   Copies of the determination of no hazard from the federal aviation
administration (FAA) including any aeronautical study determination or other
findings and other agencies, if applicable.
      2.   Copies of any environmental assessment (EA) reports on form 600 or
form 854 submitted to the federal communication commission (FCC), if
applicable.
      3.   Copies of any filings submitted to the federal communication
commission (FCC) shall be submitted within thirty (30) days of filing, subject
to the review of the zoning administrator.
      4.   Proof of bond as security for removal.
   E.   Notices And Hearing Process:
      1.   Application Review: The applicant shall submit the application to
the zoning administrator for review; upon determination by the zoning
administrator that the application is complete it will be scheduled for public
hearing before the planning and zoning commission.
      2.   Hearing Notice: Notice of time, place and purpose of the public
hearing shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the county
at least fifteen (15) days prior to such hearing. Notice shall also be posted
on the property not less than one week prior to the public hearing. The
applicant shall notify any property owner(s) within one mile of the proposed
location by first class mail at least fifteen (15) days prior to such hearing.
The applicant shall provide proof of mailing ten (10) days prior to the public
hearing. The proof of mailing shall be either copies of registered mail
receipts or an affidavit that the notice was mailed. When notice is required to
two hundred (200) or more property owners, the applicant may request that the
following alternate form of notice be followed: The board of county
commissioners may order that the notice be published three (3) times in a
newspaper of general circulation in the county, the last publication of such
notice shall be at least ten (10) days before the date set for the public
hearing. The notice shall give the date, time and place of hearing, the name of
the applicant, identification of the property and such other facts as required
by Twin Falls County ordinance(s).
   F.   Planning And Zoning Commission: The planning and zoning commission will
hear the application in accordance with the provisions of Twin Falls county
ordinance(s) and may give consideration to all reasonable, technically
feasible, alternative locations and/or facilities which could provide the
proposed service. The planning and zoning commission after hearing the
application, will approve, approve with conditions or deny the application
after giving consideration to the requirements of the ordinance and any such
evidence that may be presented at the hearing. (Ord. 161, 6-9-2003)
8-16-9: ANNUAL INFORMATION REPORT:
The purpose of the annual review report is to provide the county with accurate
and current information concerning the telecommunications tower owners and
providers who offer or provide telecommunications services within the county,
to assist the county in enforcement of this chapter, and to assist the county
in monitoring compliance with the conditional use permit.
   A.   Owner's Annual Report: All telecommunications tower owners of any new
or existing telecommunication tower shall submit annually on or before January
31 of each year, to the planning and zoning department a telecommunications
facility annual information report. The annual report shall include the tower
owner name(s), address(es), phone number(s), contact person(s), location(s) of
facilities, annual review fee, and proof of bond as security for removal. The
tower owner shall supply the tower height and current occupancy (if
applicable). This information shall be submitted to the county and shall become
evidence of compliance.
   B.   Provider's Annual Report: All telecommunications providers shall submit
annually on or before January 31 of each year, to the planning and zoning
department a telecommunications facility annual information report. The annual
report shall include the providers' name(s), address(es), phone number(s),
contact person(s), location(s) of facilities and annual report fee.
   C.   Annual Report Fee: Following the conditional use approval, every year
thereafter the tower owner shall submit, on or before January 31 of each year,
to the planning and zoning department an annual report fee of one hundred fifty
dollars ($150.00) for each tower site. The fee submittal is the responsibility
of each tower owner. Failure to provide this information shall be a violation
of this chapter and shall be dealt in accordance with section
8-16-16, "Violations", of this chapter. (Ord. 161, 6-9-2003)
8-16-10: REMOVAL/SECURITY FOR REMOVAL:
   A.   Removal Required: It is the express policy of Twin Falls County that
telecommunications facilities be removed once they are no longer in use and not
a functional part of providing telecommunications service and that it is the
telecommunications tower owner's responsibility to remove such facilities and
restore the site to its original condition or a condition approved by the Twin
Falls County planning and zoning department. This restoration shall include
removal of any subsurface structure or foundation, including concrete, used to
support the telecommunications facility down to five feet (5') below the
surface. After a telecommunications facility is no longer in operation, the
tower owner shall have ninety (90) days to effect removal and restoration
unless weather prohibits such efforts.
   B.   Security For Removal: The telecommunications tower owner shall provide
to Twin Falls County, prior to the issuance of the conditional use permit or
the issuance of a zoning permit, a performance bond in the amount of twenty
thousand dollars ($20,000.00) or a bond equal to a written estimate from a
qualified tower removal contractor to guarantee that the telecommunications
facility will be removed when no longer in operation. Twin Falls County will be
named as obligee in the bond and must approve the bonding company. (Ord. 161,
6-9-2003)
8-16-11: PREEXISTING TELECOMMUNICATION TOWERS:
   A.   Nonconforming And Conforming: Telecommunication towers and facilities
may add to, move or replace the tower and facilities upon approval of the Twin
Falls County planning and zoning department. An existing tower may be increased
in height a maximum of fifty feet (50'), relocated or reconstructed within
fifty feet (50') of its existing location to accommodate colocation subject to
meeting all the other sections of this chapter except sections
8-16-7 and
8-16-8 of this chapter. Routine maintenance and repair on telecommunications
facilities is permitted.
   B.   Existing Use Review:
      1.   Existing Use Review For Those Towers Structurally Capable To
Colocate: Beginning July 1, 2000, all telecommunications tower owners,
applicable to the requirements of this chapter operating in Twin Falls County
prior to the adoption of this chapter, shall provide the information required
under section
8-16-9 of this chapter (except proof of bond and proof of insurance), and pay
an annual fee of one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) per tower site on or
before January 31 of each year. Failure to provide this information shall be a
violation of this chapter and shall be dealt in accordance with section
8-16-16, "Violations", of this chapter.
      2.   Existing Use Review For Those Towers Structurally Incapable For
Colocation: Beginning July 1, 2000, all telecommunications tower owners,
applicable to the requirements of this chapter operating in Twin Falls County
prior to the adoption of this chapter, shall provide the information required
under section
8-16-9 of this chapter (except proof of bond and proof of insurance), and
submit documents that the tower is structurally incapable of colocation, and
pay a one time fee of one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) per tower site on or
before January 31. Failure to provide this information shall be a violation of
this chapter and shall be dealt in accordance with section
8-16-16, "Violations", of this chapter. (Ord. 161, 6-9-2003)
8-16-12: COMPLIANCE:
   A.   Revocation: Grounds for revocation of the conditional use permit shall
be limited to one of the following findings:
      1.   The owner of such site, service provider and/or tower owner fails to
comply with the requirements of this chapter.
      2.   The permittee has failed to comply with the conditions of approval
imposed.
      3.   The facility has not been properly maintained.
   B.   Revocation Process:
      1.   The owner of such site, service provider and/or tower owner shall be
notified by certified mail of noncompliance by the Twin Falls County planning
and zoning department.
      2.   The owner shall comply with such notice within thirty (30) days to
the satisfaction of the Twin Falls County planning and zoning department.
      3.   If compliance is not obtained within thirty (30) days, the Twin
Falls County planning and zoning department shall notify the Twin Falls County
prosecutor of the noncompliance and proceed with the revocation process. (This
time period may be extended by staff to adjust for seasonal limitations.)
   C.   Abandonment: Any antenna or tower that is not operated for a continuous
period of twelve (12) months shall be considered abandoned. Time may be
extended upon review and approval of the Twin Falls County planning and zoning
department, if the tower owner demonstrates a good faith effort to secure new
tenants. In such circumstances, the following shall apply:
      1.   The owner of such antenna or tower shall remove said antenna and/or
tower including all supporting equipment and building(s) within ninety (90)
days of receipt of notice from the planning and zoning department notifying the
owner of such abandonment. If removal to the satisfaction of the planning and
zoning department does not occur within said ninety (90) days, the Twin Falls
County board may order removal utilizing the established bond and salvage said
antenna or tower and all supporting equipment and building(s). If there are two
(2) or more users of a single tower, then this provision shall not become
effective until all operations of the tower cease.
      2.   The recipient of a conditional use permit for a telecommunications
facility under this chapter shall notify the planning and zoning department
when the facility is no longer in operation. (Ord. 161, 6-9-2003)
8-16-13: STRUCTURAL, DESIGN AND ENVIRONMENTAL STANDARDS:
   A.   Tower, Antenna And Facilities Requirements: All telecommunication
facilities shall be designed to blend into the surrounding environment to the
greatest extent feasible. To this end, all of the following measures shall be
implemented:
      1.   All telecommunication facilities shall comply at all times with all
federal communication commission (FCC) rules, regulations, and standards. To
that end no telecommunication facility or combination of facilities shall
produce at any time power densities in any inhabited area that exceed the
federal communication commission (FCC) adopted standard for human exposure, as
amended, or any more restrictive standard subsequently adopted or promulgated
by the federal government. All telecommunication towers and antennas shall meet
or exceed the standards and regulations, in place at the time of the issuance
of the conditional use permit, of the federal aviation administration (FAA),
the Idaho state bureau of aeronautics, Occupational Safety And Health
Association (OSHA), the federal communication commission (FCC) and authority to
regulate towers and antennas.
      2.   Telecommunication towers shall be constructed out of metal or other
nonflammable material, unless specifically permitted.
      3.   All ground mounted telecommunication towers shall be self-
supporting monopoles or lattice towers except where satisfactory evidence is
submitted to the planning and zoning commission that a guyed tower is required.
      4.   Satellite dish and parabolic antennas shall be situated as close to
the ground as possible to reduce visual impact without compromising their
function.
      5.   Telecommunication support facilities (e.g., equipment rooms,
utilities, and equipment enclosures) shall be constructed out of nonreflective
materials (visible exterior surfaces only). Telecommunication support
facilities shall be no taller than one story, fifteen feet (15') in height,
measured from the original grade at the base of the facility to the top of the
structure, and shall be designed to blend with existing architecture in the
area or shall be screened from sight by mature landscaping, and shall be
located or designed to minimize their visibility.
      6.   Telecommunications towers, facilities and antennas shall be designed
and constructed in accordance with the international building code, other
applicable state and federal requirements.
      7.   The maximum height of an antenna platform located on a rooftop shall
be twenty feet (20') above the roof.
      8.   Telecommunication facilities shall not interfere with or obstruct
existing or proposed public safety, fire protection or supervisory controlled
automated data acquisition (SCADA) operation telecommunication facilities. The
applicant at no cost to the county shall correct any actual interference and/or
obstruction.
   B.   Height: The height of a telecommunication tower shall be measured from
the original grade at the base of said tower to the highest part of the tower
itself. In the case of building mounted towers the height of the tower includes
the height of the portion of the building on which it is mounted. In the case
of "crankup" or other similar towers whose height can be adjusted, the height
of the tower shall be the maximum height to which it is capable of being
raised.
   C.   Lighting: Telecommunication towers shall not be artificially lighted
unless required by the federal aviation administration (FAA) or other
applicable regulatory authority.
   D.   Site Development, Roads And Parking:
      1.   A leased parcel intended for the location of new telecommunication
tower(s) and equipment building(s) shall maintain a minimum parcel size of two
thousand five hundred (2,500) square feet. The Twin Falls County planning and
zoning commission may modify the leased parcel size requirement after public
hearing and review.
      2.   A parcel owned by the telecommunication carrier and/or provider and
intended for the location of new telecommunication tower(s) and equipment
building(s) shall meet the minimum size requirement of this chapter.
      3.   All sites must be served by a minimum twenty five foot (25') wide
easement with a turnaround. The Twin Falls County planning and zoning
commission may modify the easement and turnaround requirement after public
hearing and review. All sites shall use existing access points and roads
whenever possible. The respective county highway district or the applicable
road jurisdiction shall approve the access point to the site.
   E.   Vegetation Protection And Facility Screening:
      1.   All telecommunications facilities shall be installed in such a
manner so as to minimize disturbance to existing native vegetation and shall
include suitable mature landscaping to screen the facility, where necessary.
For purposes of this section, "mature landscaping" shall mean trees, shrubs or
other vegetation of a size that will provide the appropriate level of visual
screening immediately upon installation.
      2.   Upon project completion, the owner(s)/operator(s) of the facility
shall be responsible for maintenance and replacement of all required
landscaping.
      3.   Facility structures and equipment, including supporting structures,
shall be located, designed and screened to blend with the existing natural or
built surroundings, so as to reduce visual impacts.
   F.   Fire Prevention: All telecommunication facilities shall be designed and
operated in accordance with all applicable codes regarding fire prevention.
   G.   Noise And Traffic: All telecommunication facilities shall be
constructed and operated in such a manner as to minimize the amount of
disruption caused to nearby properties. To that end all the following measures
shall be implemented for telecommunication facilities:
      1.   Noise producing construction activities shall only take place Monday
through Saturday, (nonholidays) between the hours of six o'clock (6:00) A.M.
and six o'clock (6:00) P.M., except in times of emergency repair.
      2.   Backup generators shall only be operated during power outages and
for testing and maintenance purposes. (Ord. 161, 6-9-2003)
8-16-14: SEPARATIONS AND SETBACK REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Minimum Separation: Minimum separation between telecommunication towers
(by tower type):
 
                                        Monopole -
Proposed                                 85 Feet In
Tower Types          Lattice    Guyed      Height Or Greater
Lattice              1,500 feet 1,500 feet 750 feet
Guyed                1,500 feet 1,500 feet 750 feet
Monopole - 85 feet   750 feet   750 feet   750 feet
in height or greater
 
   B.   Exceptions:
      1.   Two (2) towers may be permitted to be located within one hundred
feet (100') of each other subject to approval of the Twin Falls County planning
and zoning commission.
      2.   Three (3) towers may be located within one hundred feet (100') of
each other permitted subject to approval of the Twin Falls County planning and
zoning commission.
      3.   Camouflaged towers are exempt from separation between tower
requirements listed above.
   C.   Setbacks: All setbacks shall be measured from the base of the tower or
structure.
      1.   Setbacks From All Habitable Residential Buildings, Except Buildings
Located On The Subject Parcel: All new towers shall be set back a distance
equal to one hundred twenty five percent (125%) of the height of the tower.
      2.   Setbacks From All Historic Sites And Districts: All new towers shall
be set back a distance equal to one hundred twenty five percent (125%) of the
height of the tower from historic sites and districts.
      3.   Setbacks From Property Lines: All new towers shall be set back a
minimum of fifty feet (50') from all property lines. (This requirement does not
apply to the boundary of the leased parcel unless the leased parcel boundary is
also a property line.) The Twin Falls County planning and zoning commission may
modify this setback requirement after public hearing and review.
      4.   Setback From The Ordinary High Water Mark (OHWM): All new towers
shall be set back a minimum of seventy five feet (75') from the ordinary high
water mark (OHWM) of a navigable stream and a minimum one hundred twenty five
percent (125%) of the tower height from the ordinary high water mark (OHWM) of
a navigable lake.
      5.   Guy Wire Anchor Setback: All guy wire anchors shall be at least
twenty five feet (25') from all property lines. The Twin Falls County planning
and zoning commission may modify this setback requirement after public hearing
and review.
      6.   Power Poles Exempt: Power pole change outs are exempt from setback
requirements. (Ord. 161, 6-9-2003)
8-16-15: PERMITS:
A conditional use permit is required for the location of all telecommunication
facilities in Twin Falls County. Proposed colocation on facilities previously
approved by Twin Falls County planning and zoning commission shall be approved
administratively by the Twin Falls County planning and zoning department,
provided that the applicant complies with the provisions of this chapter and
provides a completed application and permit fee. (Ord. 161, 6-9-2003)
8-16-16: VIOLATIONS:
Violations of any of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with
any of its requirements may be dealt with in the following manner: Each day
such violation continues shall be considered a separate offense, and shall
constitute a misdemeanor as defined by Idaho Code and is punishable by up to
six (6) months in jail and up to a three hundred dollar ($300.00) fine, or
both; the county may seek civil penalties and forfeitures to the maximum extent
allowed by law. (Ord. 161, 6-9-2003)
CHAPTER 17
SMALL ANIMAL FEEDING OPERATIONS
SECTION:
8-17-1: Purpose
8-17-2: Definitions
8-17-3: Animal Unit Equivalency
8-17-4: Zoning Of Areas Allowing Animal Feeding Operations
8-17-5: Siting Permits
8-17-6: Permit Required
8-17-7: Permit Application Requirements
8-17-8: Setback Requirements For AFOs
8-17-9: Appeals
8-17-10: Existing Animal Feeding Operations
8-17-11: Variances
8-17-12: Building Permits And Certificate Of Occupancy
8-17-13: Violations
8-17-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide regulations and standards for the
siting of new and expanding animal feeding operations in Twin Falls County. The
regulations and standards contained herein are designed to protect and promote
the public health, safety and community welfare of Twin Falls County and to
encourage and promote proper location of development of new and expansion of
existing small animal feeding operations.
The purposes of the zoning requirements established hereby are intended to
accomplish the following:
   A.   Minimize the effects of animal feeding operations through design and
siting standards.
   B.   Provide a process for applicants to obtain necessary permits for animal
feeding operations, which also protects the interests of the Twin Falls County
citizens.
   C.   Protect environmentally sensitive areas of Twin Falls County by
regulating the location of animal feeding operations.
   D.   Encourage the use of effective technologies concerning the design and
operation of animal feeding operations. (Ord. 157, 1-24-2002)
8-17-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall govern application and interpretation of this
chapter:
ADMINISTRATOR: The official appointed by the board of county commissioners to
administer the Twin Falls County zoning ordinance.
AFFECTED PERSON: As used herein, an affected person shall mean one having an
interest in real property, which may be materially affected by the issuance or
denial of a permit authorized by this chapter.
ANIMAL FEEDING OPERATION (AFO), SMALL: A small animal feeding operation means a
lot or facility (other than an aquatic animal production facility) to which the
following descriptive conditions apply:
   A.   Consists of one hundred (100) to nine hundred ninety nine (999) animal
units (other than aquatic animals) that have been, are, or will be stabled or
confined and fed or maintained for a total of one hundred eighty (180) days or
more in any twelve (12) month period excluding any portion thereof upon which
crops, vegetation, forage growth, or postharvest residues are sustained during
the normal growing season, or
   B.   Two (2) or more animal feeding operations under common ownership are
considered, for the purposes of this chapter, to be a single animal feeding
operation if they adjoin each other or if they use a common area or system for
the disposal of wastes. Components of a single lot or facility area shall be
considered contiguous when separated by county roads or if they are not
adjacent, but have any of the above referenced facilities located on the
property that are used as part of a consolidated operation.
   C.   Included as part of an animal feeding operation are all barns, stalls,
corrals, feed stalls, feed storage areas, waste lagoons, storm runoff
containment, waste storage areas and truck/motor vehicle parking areas used in
conjunction with the operation.
APPLICANT: A person or legal entity seeking approvals or permits pursuant to
this chapter which has an ownership interest in real property of a nature
sufficient to require the use to which real property will be put as proposed in
the applications for approvals or permits.
BOARD: The board of county commissioners.
SITE ADVISORY TEAM: The "CAFO site advisory team" as defined in the local land
use planning act.
ZONING OFFICIAL: The zoning administrator or his authorized representative.
(Ord. 157, 1-24-2002)
8-17-3: ANIMAL UNIT EQUIVALENCY:
To determine applicability of this chapter, the following standards shall be
applied to determine if any facility(ies) or parcel(s) constitute an AFO.
Multiply the number of animals by the animal equivalency factor to determine
animal units:
Animal Types Animal Equivalency Factor
Animal Types                                        Animal Equivalency Factor
Dairy cattle
Holsteins:        Milking and dry cows              1.4   animal units
Jerseys:          Milking and dry cows              1.0   animal units
Others:           1,000 pounds of live body weight  1.0   animal units
Heifers:          100 pounds to 300 pounds          0.2   animal units
                  300 pounds to 500 pounds          0.4   animal units
                  500 pounds to 700 pounds          0.6   animal units
                  700 pounds to 900 pounds          0.8   animal units
                  900 pounds to 1,000 pounds        1.0   animal units
Beef cattle
Slaughter/feeder:
                  100 pounds to 300 pounds          0.2   animal units
                  300 pounds to 500 pounds          0.4   animal units
                  500 pounds to 700 pounds          0.6   animal units
                  700 pounds to 900 pounds          0.8   animal units
                  900 pounds to 1,000 pounds        1.0   animal units
Swine
Boars:                                              0.5   animal units
Sows:                                               0.5   animal units
Pigs:             55 pounds to market               0.4   animal units
Pigs:             Up to 55 pounds                   0.10  animal units
Sheep/lambs       Each                              0.1   animal units
Horse             Each                              2.0   animal units
Chickens
Layers            Each                              0.033 animal units
Broilers          Each                              0.033 animal units
Turkeys           Each                              0.18  animal units
Ducks             Each                              0.02  animal units
For species not specifically identified:
1,000 pounds of live body weight = 1.0 animal units
 
(Ord. 157, 1-24-2002)
8-17-4: ZONING OF AREAS ALLOWING ANIMAL FEEDING OPERATIONS:
Small animal feeding operations are permitted only in the following zones,
subject to the provisions of this chapter:
   A.   Agricultural zone.
   B.   Agriculture range preservation zone. (Ord. 157, 1-24-2002)
8-17-5: SITING PERMITS:
A permit for small AFOs shall also address the following characteristics or
conditions:
   A.   Full compliance with any state regulations, recommendations and
guidelines.
   B.   Full compliance with any state or local regulations concerning animal
or human health.
   C.   Site recognizes prevailing climatic conditions to minimize potential
adverse effects on residential or agricultural environment.
   D.   Facility design and location will not adversely affect the use and
peaceful enjoyment of nearby lands for lawful purposes.
   E.   Evidence certified by a qualified or licensed professional that all
outdoor lighting will be fully shielded and maintained to eliminate direct
glare from properties outside the AFO and to keep direct lighting within the
property boundaries. Direct glare is caused when the lamp can be seen in the
fixture as opposed to being able to see the light from the fixture. The
lighting system shall be designed using full cutoff - fully shielded fixtures
which are designed to control the light distribution to eliminate direct glare
and no light is emitted above an angle of eighty five degrees (85°) from a
point directly below the fixture. No lighting fixtures shall be installed
higher than thirty five feet (35').
   F.   Effective buffers against material adverse environmental conditions on
nearby lands must be installed and maintained. (Ord. 157, 1-24-2002)
8-17-6: PERMIT REQUIRED:
A permit for a small AFO is required prior to:
   A.   Commencing construction of a new small AFO.
   B.   Increasing animal units above authorized numbers for an existing
permitted confined animal feeding facility such that it would become a small
AFO.
   C.   Commencing construction of improvements to expand the capacity of an
existing operation such that it would become an AFO.
   D.   Constructing or modifying a significant component of an AFO, such as a
waste treatment system change of location or capacity.
   E.   Changing an AFO from one species to another: example from cows to pigs.
   F.   Repairing an existing AFO, which repair would result in a change of
location, capacity or increased loading of a significant component of an AFO.
(Ord. 157, 1-24-2002)
8-17-7: PERMIT APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Application: An application for a permit to establish an AFO shall not
be deemed complete and shall not be scheduled for further processing unless it
contains the following information:
      1.   Name, address, and telephone number of applicant.
      2.   Legal description and address of proposed operation.
      3.   Total acreage and zoning district in which the operation will be
located.
      4.   The animal unit capacity of the operation.
      5.   The type of animals to be confined.
      6.   Evidence that a valid water right exists or a copy of an application
to appropriate water or an application to change the point of diversion, place,
and/or nature of use of an existing water right that has been filed with the
Idaho department of water resources, which, if approved, would provide an
adequate supply for the operation. (Ord. 157, 1-24-2002)
      7.   Vicinity map a minimum size of twenty four inches by thirty six
inches (24" x 36") with a minimum scale of one inch equals one thousand feet
(1" = 1,000') showing the following information which occurs within a one mile
radius of the proposed operation: (Ord. 244, 1-21-2016)
         a.   Building locations and uses.
         b.   Waste storage facilities.
         c.   Areas for land application of solid and liquid waste.
         d.   Flood zones or flood data for site and land application sites.
         e.   Private domestic wells.
         f.   Public water supply wells.
         g.   Irrigation wells.
         h.   Existing monitoring or injection wells.
         i.   Irrigation canals and laterals.
         j.   Rivers, streams, springs, reservoirs and wetlands.
         k.   Animal feeding operations.
         l.   Sinkholes of record.
         m.   Seep tunnels of record.
         n.   Topography at intervals of twenty feet (20').
      8.   It is the responsibility of the applicant to show compliance with
any state regulations, recommendations and guidelines.
   B.   Site Plan: A registered surveyor or a civil engineer licensed in the
state of Idaho shall be required to prepare and certify the site plan as
accurate. The site plan will be a minimum size of eighteen inches by twenty
four inches (18" x 24") with a minimum scale of one inch equals one hundred
feet (1" = 100') showing the following:
      1.   Topography at intervals of twenty feet (20').
      2.   Dimensions, size and location of existing improvements, if any,
including setbacks.
      3.   Dimensions, size and location of proposed improvements, including,
but not limited to, feed storage areas, confinement areas, waste storage areas,
lagoons, treatment systems, truck/motor vehicle parking areas, etc.
      4.   Show compliance with setback requirements in section
8-17-8 of this chapter.
      5.   Existing and proposed wells.
      6.   Spring(s) and surface watercourse(s).
      7.   Traffic access: Ingress, egress, and road widths to conform to
uniform fire code twenty feet (20') minimum for emergency access.
      8.   Public thoroughfares.
      9.   Outdoor lighting.
      10.   Surveyor's or engineer's stamp and signature.
      11.   Sound, sight, odor and other environmental buffers between the site
and nearby lands.
      12.   A written description of the waste treatment system, including site
criteria for land where the wastewater will be stored and/or applied, submitted
by a registered professional engineer.
      13.   Letter from canal company or water district relative to the
proposed operation.
      14.   Letter from local fire protection district addressing its ability
to provide fire protection services.
      15.   Letter from local highway district approving ingress and egress
points on site plan and addressing the adequacy of public roads to serve the
proposed facility.
      16.   Preliminary nutrient management plan.
      17.   Any additional information required for the siting advisory team
review.
      18.   A characterization of proposed operation including estimated amount
of water per animal unit required and any land application site(s) owned,
leased, operated or contracted by the applicant, which land is part of the
nutrient management plan and includes the following information:
         a.   Annual precipitation as contained in the Idaho waste management
guidelines.
         b.   Soil characteristics from natural resources conservation service.
         c.   Hydrogeological factors from Idaho department of water resources,
Idaho state department of agriculture and U.S. geological survey including:
            (1)   Depth to first water yielding zone and first encountered
water;
            (2)   Direction of ground water movement and gradient;
            (3)   Sources and estimates of recharge;
            (4)   Seasonal variations in water level and recharge
characteristics;
            (5)   Susceptibility to contamination; and
            (6)   Ground water/surface water relationships.
         d.   Water quality data from Idaho department of environmental
quality, Idaho state department of agriculture, and U.S. geological survey
including:
            (1)   Microorganisms (bacteria or single cell);
            (2)   Nutrients, including, but not limited to, nitrates and
phosphorous;
            (3)   Pharmaceuticals and organic compounds.
      19.   Monthly prevailing winds information for a minimum of twelve (12)
months.
      20.   The applicant shall submit with the application a fee in the amount
set by resolution of the Twin Falls board of county commissioners.
   C.   Application Review And Processing: The zoning official shall review the
small AFO application for completeness. Upon determining that the application
is complete, the zoning official shall submit the application to the siting
advisory team. The siting advisory team will be asked to review the application
and submit a report to the county in accordance with state statutes or other
applicable agreements or standards. Upon receiving a fully completed
application and any review of the site advisory team, the application process
will proceed as follows:
      1.   The zoning official will notify the applicant that the application
is complete, that the site advisory team report has been received and to
proceed with notification as required by this chapter.
      2.   The applicant shall notify any property owner(s) within one mile of
the proposed location by first class mail and provide proof of mailing to the
zoning official within five (5) days of mailing.
      3.   The zoning official shall accept written comment for fifteen (15)
days after date of mailing.
      4.   The zoning official shall then produce a report, which includes a
summary of such comment or evidence submitted, a reasoned explanation of the
grounds for his decision and a final order granting or denying the permit,
setting forth any conditions that the zoning official might deem appropriate.
Such report shall be filed at the planning and zoning department office within
twenty eight (28) calendar days after the closing date for accepting written
comment, unless additional time for filing such report is granted by the board
of county commissioners upon request of the zoning official. Notice of such
filing shall be provided in writing to the applicant and to all parties
entitled to notice by this chapter. (Ord. 157, 1-24-2002)
8-17-8: SETBACK REQUIREMENTS FOR AFOs:
   A.   Setback Requirements For Expanding AFOs:
      1.   For AFOs expanding to between one hundred (100) and nine hundred
ninety nine (999) animal units:
         a.   Existing operations can be expanded in their current location up
to nine hundred ninety nine (999) animal units so long as setbacks are not
reduced from the operator's existing setbacks at the time of the application.
         b.   Setbacks from the Snake River Canyon Rim and Salmon Falls Canyon
Rim shall be one mile.
      2.   For AFOs expanding to one thousand (1,000) animal units or more:
         a.   General setbacks for lagoons, waste treatment, and land
application of waste are one-fourth (1/4) mile from residences and three
hundred feet (300') from property lines and wells. Other facilities setbacks
are three hundred feet (300') from residences and property lines. Land
application setbacks, except near streams, can be reduced through the use of
drop hose irrigation, nonaerosol or other odor control technology methods.
Additional setbacks for more than one thousand (1,000) animal unit operations
is 0.5 feet from any residence for each animal unit.
         b.   AFO separation is two (2) miles. This separation may be reduced
if the applicant can demonstrate synergy with other operations through a common
digester or other joint operations.
         c.   Setbacks from streams shall be one-half (1/2) mile. Except,
setbacks for facilities and land application of waste from streams shall be
one-fourth (1/4) mile.
         d.   Setbacks from the Snake River Canyon Rim and Salmon Falls Canyon
Rim shall be one mile.
   B.   Setback Requirements For New AFOs:
      1.   For new AFOs between one hundred (100) and nine hundred ninety nine
(999) animal units:
         a.   General setbacks for lagoons, waste treatment, and land
application of waste are one-fourth (1/4) mile from residences and three
hundred feet (300') from property lines and wells. Other facilities setbacks
are three hundred feet (300') from residences and property lines. Land
application setbacks, except near streams, can be reduced through the use of
drop hose irrigation, nonaerosol or other odor control technology methods.
         b.   AFO separation is one mile.
         c.   Setbacks from streams shall be one-fourth (1/4) mile.
         d.   Setbacks from the Snake River Canyon Rim and Salmon Falls Canyon
Rim shall be one mile.
      2.   For new AFOs one thousand (1,000) animal units or more:
         a.   General setbacks for lagoons, waste treatment, and land
application of waste are one-fourth (1/4) mile from residences and three
hundred feet (300') from property lines and wells. Other facilities setbacks
are three hundred feet (300') from residences and property lines. Land
application setbacks, except near streams, can be reduced through the use of
drop hose irrigation, nonaerosol or other odor control technology methods.
Additional setbacks for more than one thousand (1,000) animal unit operations
is 0.5 feet from any residence for each animal unit.
         b.   AFO separation is two (2) miles. This separation may be reduced
if the applicant can demonstrate synergy with other operations through a common
digester or other joint operations.
         c.   Setbacks from streams shall be one-half (1/2) mile. Except,
setbacks for facilities and land application of waste from streams shall be
one-fourth (1/4) mile.
         d.   Setbacks from the Snake River Canyon Rim and Salmon Falls Canyon
Rim shall be one mile. (Ord. 157, 1-24-2002)
8-17-9: APPEALS:
Appeals will be conducted in accordance with chapter 20 of this title. (Ord.
157, 1-24-2002)
8-17-10: EXISTING ANIMAL FEEDING OPERATIONS:
   A.   Nonconforming Operations: Nonconforming (grandfathered) small animal
feeding operations shall be allowed to remain and operate under the following
conditions:
      1.   For the purpose of this chapter, an existing, nonconforming small
animal feeding operation shall be one that does not conform to the regulations
of this chapter in its entirety, but which was lawfully in existence at the
time that this chapter went into effect. Such existing nonconforming small
animal feeding operations that are operating under their current permitted
number of animal units on file with the county may operate up to their
permitted numbers, provided they are in compliance with the provisions of the
previous county ordinances 21 and 153.
      2.   A nonconforming animal feeding operation may be changed to a
conforming use by meeting the requirements of this chapter.
      3.   An existing nonconforming animal feeding operation may make
improvements to corral(s), lagoon(s), storm runoff containment(s), barns, etc.,
provided that the general location of specific facilities is not changed, that
setbacks will not be reduced and that the number of animal units will not
increase above those permitted by the prior ordinance requirements.
      4.   Any animal feeding operation existing as of the effective date of
this chapter, which has not previously registered with the county, shall have
one hundred eighty (180) days after the effective date hereof to obtain an
operating permit from the county. The owner must provide proof that the
operation has been active in the last two (2) years, has a valid water right
for the number of animal units at the facility and is in compliance with the
requirements of the appropriate state and federal agencies. Any existing animal
feeding operation which has not complied with this provision within the time
provided shall not be recognized as an authorized or permitted animal feeding
operation, and shall not be recognized as having vested rights that would be
transferable to a subsequent owner or operator.
   B.   Expansion Of Existing Animal Feeding Operations: Existing,
nonconforming animal feeding operations shall not increase in size or capacity
beyond permitted numbers without first conforming to the requirements of this
chapter and obtaining a permit as provided by this chapter. In areas
prohibiting animal feeding operations, existing operations shall not be
eligible for expansion. A permit is required before any increase in animal
units and/or construction takes place. (Ord. 157, 1-24-2002)
   C.   Milking Facilities: An existing cow milking AFO approved in accordance
with the requirements of this chapter, may convert from milking cows to milking
goats by making application to the planning and zoning administration.
      1.   The application will include the name and address of the AFO, the
contact information of the owner/operator, the total number of goats, the
average weight and conversion ratio, the written description of any proposed
improvements, and the site plan showing proposed improvements imposed on the
approved site plan.
      2.   Approval criteria: The existing AFO must be a milking facility,
currently in operation, approved after January 2002, and in compliance with the
requirements of this chapter. Improvements to items including, but not limited
to, corral(s), lagoon(s), and stormwater runoff containment(s) and barn(s) may
be made, provided, however that the general location of specific facilities is
not changed and setbacks are not reduced and stay within the approved footprint
of the facility. Animal units shall not increase above those permitted.
      3.   Upon receipt of the application the planning and zoning
administration review the application for compliance with requirements of this
chapter, and issue a written decision on the application. The administration
either may approve or deny the permit.
      4.   Any appeal of the decision will be in accordance with the
requirements of this code. (Ord. 244, 1-21-2016)
8-17-11: VARIANCES:
An applicant may request a variance concerning any applicable bulk or placement
requirement in accordance with chapter 14, "Variances", of this title. A
variance is not considered a right or special privilege, but may be granted to
an applicant only upon showing of undue hardship because of characteristics of
the site not created by any actions of the applicant and that the variance is
not in conflict with the public interest. (Ord. 157, 1-24-2002)
8-17-12: BUILDING PERMITS AND CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY:
   A.   Building permit(s) are required before construction may commence on new
or expanding AFO facilities. Prior to the occupancy and/or use of expanded or
new facilities by livestock, swine, poultry or other animals the owner shall
obtain a certificate of occupancy. The owner shall document compliance with all
provisions of this chapter, compliance with conditions of approval established
by the county and other public agencies, compliance with terms of the submitted
application and compliance with the representations of the submitted
application, as modified. Upon completion and final inspection of the
facilities authorized by the permit(s) and upon compliance with the provisions
of this chapter, the zoning official or building inspector shall issue a
certificate of occupancy to the owner. The certificate shall certify that all
facilities have been inspected and conform to the terms of the permit(s), are
in compliance with the provisions of Twin Falls County ordinances and the owner
is fully authorized to occupy and operate the AFO.
   B.   Construction of an AFO pursuant to a building permit issued by the
county must be commenced within two (2) years of the date of the final decision
approving a permit. Construction will be governed by applicable building
regulations and the terms of the issued permit. Failure to commence
construction as required under this subsection shall void the AFO permit. (Ord.
157, 1-24-2002)
8-17-13: VIOLATIONS:
Violations of any of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with
any of its requirements may be dealt with in the following manner: Each day
such violation continues shall be considered a separate offense, and shall
constitute a misdemeanor as defined by Idaho Code and is punishable by up to
six (6) months in jail and up to a three hundred dollar ($300.00) fine, or
both; the county may seek civil penalties and forfeitures to the maximum extent
allowed by law. Additionally, the county may seek an injunction to restrain
violation and/or the county may revoke the permit. In the event that a
violation threatens the public health, safety and/or general welfare of the
citizens of Twin Falls County, the board of county commissioners may take any
lawful action it deems necessary to abate such violation. (Ord. 157, 1-24-2002)
CHAPTER 18
LARGE ANIMAL FEEDING OPERATIONS
SECTION:
8-18-1: Purpose
8-18-2: Definitions
8-18-3: Animal Unit Equivalency
8-18-4: Zoning Of Areas Allowing Animal Feeding Operations
8-18-5: Special Use Permit
8-18-6: Special Use Permit Required
8-18-7: Permit Application Requirements
8-18-8: Setback Requirements For AFOs
8-18-9: Appeals
8-18-10: Existing Animal Feeding Operations
8-18-11: Variances
8-18-12: Building Permits And Certificate Of Occupancy
8-18-13: Violations
8-18-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide regulations and standards for the
siting of animal feeding operations one thousand (1,000) animal units and over
in Twin Falls County. The regulations and standards contained herein are
designed to protect and promote public health, safety and community welfare of
Twin Falls County and to encourage and promote proper location of development
of new and expansion of existing animal feeding operations.
The purposes of the zoning requirements established hereby are intended to
accomplish the following:
   A.   Minimize the effects of animal feeding operations through design and
siting standards.
   B.   Provide a process for applicants to obtain necessary permits for animal
feeding operations, which also protects the interests of the Twin Falls County
citizens.
   C.   Protect environmentally sensitive areas of Twin Falls County by
regulating the location of animal feeding operations.
   D.   Encourage the use of effective technologies concerning the design and
operation of animal feeding operations. (Ord. 158, 1-24-2002)
8-18-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall govern application and interpretation of this
chapter:
ADMINISTRATOR: The official appointed by the board of county commissioners to
administer the Twin Falls County zoning ordinance.
AFFECTED PERSON: As used herein, an affected person shall mean one having an
interest in real property, which may be materially affected by the issuance or
denial of a permit authorized by this ordinance.
ANIMAL FEEDING OPERATION (AFO): Animal feeding operation means a lot or
facility (other than an aquatic animal production facility) to which the
following descriptive conditions apply:
   A.   Consists of one hundred (100) to nine hundred ninety nine (999) animal
units (other than aquatic animals) that have been, are, or will be stabled or
confined and fed or maintained for a total of one hundred eighty (180) days or
more in any twelve (12) month period excluding any portion thereof upon which
crops, vegetation forage growth, or postharvest residues are sustained during
the normal growing season, or
   B.   Consists of one thousand (1,000) animal units (other than aquatic
animals) or more that have been, are, or will be stabled or confined and fed or
maintained for a total of forty five (45) days or more in any twelve (12) month
period excluding any portion thereof upon which crops, vegetation forage
growth, or postharvest residues are sustained during the normal growing season.
   C.   Two (2) or more animal feeding operations under common ownership are
considered, for the purposes of this chapter, to be a single animal feeding
operation if they adjoin each other or if they use a common area or system for
the disposal of wastes. Components of a single lot or facility area shall be
considered contiguous when separated by county roads or if they are not
adjacent, but have any of the above referenced facilities located on the
property that are used as part of a consolidated operation.
   D.   Included as part of an animal feeding operation are all barns, stalls,
corrals, feed stalls, feed storage areas, waste lagoons, storm runoff
containment, waste storage areas and truck/motor vehicle parking areas used in
conjunction with the operation.
APPLICANT: A person or legal entity seeking approvals or permits pursuant to
this chapter which has an ownership interest in real property of a nature
sufficient to require the use to which real property will be put as proposed in
the applications for approvals or permits.
BOARD: The board of county commissioners.
LARGE AFO: Any AFO which consists of one thousand (1,000) or more animal units.
SITE ADVISORY TEAM: The "CAFO site advisory team" as defined in the local land
use planning act.
ZONING OFFICIAL: The zoning administrator or his authorized representative.
(Ord. 158, 1-24-2002)
8-18-3: ANIMAL UNIT EQUIVALENCY:
To determine applicability of this chapter, the following standards shall be
applied to determine if any facility(ies) or parcel(s) constitute an AFO:
Multiply the number of animals by the animal equivalency factor to determine
animal units:
Animal Types Animal Equivalency Factor
Animal Types                                        Animal Equivalency Factor
Dairy cattle
Holsteins:        Milking and dry cows              1.4   animal units
Jerseys:          Milking and dry cows              1.0   animal units
Others:           1,000 pounds of live body weight  1.0   animal units
Heifers:          100 pounds to 300 pounds          0.2   animal units
                  300 pounds to 500 pounds          0.4   animal units
                  500 pounds to 700 pounds          0.6   animal units
                  700 pounds to 900 pounds          0.8   animal units
                  900 pounds to 1,000 pounds        1.0   animal units
Beef cattle
Slaughter/feeder:
                  100 pounds to 300 pounds          0.2   animal units
                  300 pounds to 500 pounds          0.4   animal units
                  500 pounds to 700 pounds          0.6   animal units
                  700 pounds to 900 pounds          0.8   animal units
                  900 pounds to 1,000 pounds        1.0   animal units
Swine
Boars:                                              0.5   animal units
Sows:                                               0.5   animal units
Pigs:             55 pounds to market               0.4   animal units
Pigs:             Up to 55 pounds                   0.10  animal units
Sheep/lambs       Each                              0.1   animal units
Horse             Each                              2.0   animal units
Chickens
Layers            Each                              0.033 animal units
Broilers          Each                              0.033 animal units
Turkeys           Each                              0.18  animal units
Ducks             Each                              0.02  animal units
For species not specifically identified:
1,000 pounds of live body weight = 1.0 animal units
 
(Ord. 158, 1-24-2002)
8-18-4: ZONING OF AREAS ALLOWING ANIMAL FEEDING OPERATIONS:
Animal feeding operations are permitted by special use permit only in the
following zones, subject to the provisions of this chapter:
   Agricultural zone.
   Agriculture range preservation zone. (Ord. 158, 1-24-2002)
8-18-5: SPECIAL USE PERMIT:
The intention of the special use permit is to consider a usage, which may be
suitable for the respective zone, but possessing such characteristics as to
require review and appraisal to mitigate potential impacts. The review and
appraisal is to determine whether or not the proposed use can be made
compatible for the particular area in which it is intended or whether or not it
possesses characteristics for which special treatment may not satisfactorily
prevent damage, devaluation, hazard, nuisance, or other detriment to persons or
property in the vicinity. The special use permit is issued to the AFO on the
land it is to be sited and can only be used on the land for which the permit
was originally issued and is not transferable to another property. In the event
that the property is sold or transferred, the conditions of the special use
permit still apply to the property.
   A.   The special use permits shall address the following characteristics or
conditions:
      1.   Full compliance with any state or local regulations, recommendations
and guidelines.
      2.   Full compliance with any state or local regulations concerning
animal or human health.
      3.   Site recognizes prevailing climatic conditions to minimize potential
adverse effects on residential or agricultural environment.
      4.   Facility design and location will not adversely affect the use and
peaceful enjoyment of nearby lands for lawful purposes.
      5.   Evidence certified by a qualified or licensed professional that all
outdoor lighting will be fully shielded and maintained to eliminate direct
glare from properties outside the AFO and to keep direct lighting within the
property boundaries. Direct glare is caused when the lamp can be seen in the
fixture as opposed to being able to see the light from the fixture. The
lighting system shall be designed using full cutoff – fully shielded fixtures
which are designed to control the light distribution to eliminate direct glare
and no light is emitted above an angle of eighty five degrees (85°) from a
point directly below the fixture. No lighting fixtures shall be installed
higher than thirty five feet (35').
      6.   Effective buffers against material adverse environmental conditions
on nearby lands must be installed and maintained.
      7.   The site will be served by roads of capacity sufficient to carry the
traffic generated by the AFO and does not place an undue burden on existing
transportation and service facilities in the area.
      8.   The site is of sufficient size to accommodate the AFO, including,
but not limited to, vehicular and equipment movement within the site, parking,
feeding, storage areas, corrals, etc.
   B.   Upon the granting of a special use permit, conditions may be attached
to a special use permit including, but not limited to, those items listed in
Idaho Code sections 67-6512(d)(1–8) and (e). (Ord. 158, 1-24-2002)
8-18-6: SPECIAL USE PERMIT REQUIRED:
A special use permit for an AFO is required prior to:
   A.   Commencing construction of a new AFO.
   B.   Increasing animal units above authorized numbers for an existing
permitted confined animal facility such that it would become an AFO.
   C.   Commencing construction of improvements to expand the capacity of an
existing operation such that it would become an AFO.
   D.   Constructing or modifying a significant component of an AFO, such as a
waste treatment system change of location or capacity.
   E.   Changing an AFO from one species to another, such as from cows to pigs.
   F.   Repairing an existing AFO, which repair would result in a change of
location, capacity or increased loading of a significant component of an AFO.
(Ord. 158, 1-24-2002)
8-18-7: PERMIT APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Application: An application for a special use permit to establish an
AFO shall not be deemed complete and shall not be scheduled for further
processing unless it contains the following information:
      1.   Name, address, and telephone number of applicant.
      2.   Legal description and address of proposed operation.
      3.   Total acreage and zoning district in which the operation will be
located.
      4.   The animal unit capacity of the operation.
      5.   The type of animals to be confined.
      6.   Evidence that a valid water right exists or a copy of an application
to appropriate water or an application to change the point of diversion, place,
and/or nature of use of an existing water right that has been filed with the
Idaho department of water resources, which, if approved, would provide an
adequate supply for the operation. (Ord. 158, 1-24-2002)
      7.   Vicinity map a minimum size of twenty four inches by thirty six
inches (24" x 36") with a minimum scale of one inch equals one thousand feet
(1" = 1,000') showing the following information which occurs within a one mile
radius of the proposed operation: (Ord. 245, 1-21-2016)
         a.   Building locations and uses.
         b.   Waste storage facilities.
         c.   Areas for land application of solid and liquid waste.
         d.   Flood zones or flood data for site and land application sites.
         e.   Private domestic wells.
         f.   Public water supply wells.
         g.   Irrigation wells.
         h.   Existing monitoring or injection wells.
         i.   Irrigation canals and laterals.
         j.   Rivers, streams, springs, reservoirs and wetlands.
         k.   Animal feeding operations.
         l.   Sinkholes of record.
         m.   Seep tunnels of record.
         n.   Topography at intervals of twenty feet (20').
   B.   Site Plan: A registered surveyor or a civil engineer licensed in the
state of Idaho shall be required to prepare and certify the site plan as
accurate. The site plan will be a minimum size of eighteen inches by twenty
four inches (18" x 24") with a minimum scale of one inch equals one hundred
feet (1" = 100') showing the following:
      1.   Topography at intervals of twenty feet (20').
      2.   Dimensions, size and location of existing improvements, if any,
including setbacks.
      3.   Dimensions, size and location of proposed improvements, including,
but not limited to, feed storage areas, confinement areas, waste storage areas,
lagoons, treatment systems, truck/motor vehicle parking areas, etc.
      4.   Show compliance with setback requirements in section
8-18-8 of this chapter.
      5.   Existing and proposed wells.
      6.   Spring(s) and surface watercourse(s).
      7.   Traffic access: Ingress, egress, and road widths to conform to
uniform fire code twenty feet (20') minimum for emergency access.
      8.   Public thoroughfares.
      9.   Outdoor lighting.
      10.   Surveyor's or engineer's stamp and signature.
      11.   Sound, sight, odor and other environmental buffers between the site
and nearby lands.
      12.   A written description of the waste treatment system, including site
criteria for land where the wastewater will be stored and/or applied, submitted
by a registered professional engineer.
      13.   Letter from canal company or water district relative to the
proposed operation.
      14.   Letter from local fire protection district addressing its ability
to provide fire protection services.
      15.   Letter from local highway district approving ingress and egress
points on site plan and addressing the adequacy of public roads to serve the
proposed facility.
      16.   Preliminary nutrient management plan.
      17.   Any additional information required for the siting advisory team
review.
      18.   A characterization of proposed operation including estimated amount
of water per animal unit required and any land application site(s) owned,
leased, operated or contracted by the applicant, which land is part of the
nutrient management plan and includes the following information:
         a.   Annual precipitation as contained in the Idaho waste management
guidelines.
         b.   Soil characteristics from natural resources conservation service.
         c.   Hydrogeological factors from Idaho department of water resources,
Idaho state department of agriculture and U.S. geological survey including:
            (1)   Depth to first water yielding zone and first encountered
water;
            (2)   Direction of ground water movement and gradient;
            (3)   Sources and estimates of recharge;
            (4)   Seasonal variations in water level and recharge
characteristics;
            (5)   Susceptibility to contamination; and
            (6)   Ground water/surface water relationships.
         d.   Water quality data from Idaho department of environmental
quality, Idaho state department of agriculture, and U.S. geological survey
including:
            (1)   Microorganisms (bacteria or single cell);
            (2)   Nutrients, including, but not limited to, nitrates and
phosphorous;
            (3)   Pharmaceuticals and organic compounds.
      19.   Monthly prevailing winds information for a minimum of twelve (12)
months.
      20.   Such other information as might be required by state law, federal
law or specifically requested by the siting review team of the state of Idaho.
      21.   The applicant shall submit with the application a fee in the amount
set by resolution of the Twin Falls board of county commissioners.
   C.   Application Review And Processing: The zoning official shall review the
AFO application for completeness. Upon determining that the application is
complete, the zoning official shall submit the application to the siting
advisory team. The siting advisory team will review the application and submit
a report to the county in accordance with state statutes or other applicable
agreements or standards. Upon receiving a fully completed application and the
review of the site advisory team, the zoning official shall schedule the AFO
request for a public hearing before the Twin Falls County planning and zoning
commission or as otherwise required by state law and the Twin Falls County
zoning ordinance.
   D.   Hearing Notice: Notice of time, place and purpose of the public hearing
shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the county at least
fifteen (15) days prior to such hearing. Notice shall also be posted on the
property not less than one week prior to the hearing. The applicant shall
notify any property owner(s) within one mile of the proposed location by first
class mail. The applicant shall provide proof of mailing ten (10) days prior to
the public hearing. The proof of mailing shall be either copies of registered
mail receipts or an affidavit that the notice was mailed. When notice is
required to two hundred (200) or more property owners, the applicant may
request that the following alternate form of notice be followed: The board of
county commissioners may order that the notice be published three (3) times in
a newspaper of general circulation in the county, the last publication of such
notice shall be at least ten (10) days before the date set for the public
hearing. The notice shall give the date, time and place of hearing, the name of
the applicant, identification of the property and such other facts as required
by Twin Falls County ordinance(s).
   E.   Report Of Hearing: The hearing shall be conducted in accordance with
the provisions of this title or other appropriate county ordinance(s). At the
completion of the hearing, the planning and zoning commission shall produce a
report, which includes a summary of such testimony or evidence as presented, a
reasoned explanation of the grounds for his decision and a final order granting
or denying the permit, setting forth any conditions that the planning and
zoning commission might deem appropriate. Such report shall be filed at the
planning and zoning department within twenty eight (28) calendar days after the
close of the hearing, unless additional time for filing such report is granted
by the board of county commissioners upon request of the planning and zoning
commission. Notice of such filing shall be provided in writing to the applicant
and to all parties entitled to notice by this chapter. (Ord. 158, 1-24-2002)
8-18-8: SETBACK REQUIREMENTS FOR AFOs:
   A.   Setback Requirements For Expanding AFOs:
      1.   For AFOs expanding to between one hundred (100) and nine hundred
ninety nine (999) animal units:
         a.   Existing operations can be expanded in their current location up
to nine hundred ninety nine (999) animal units so long as setbacks are not
reduced from the operator's existing setbacks at the time of the application.
         b.   Setbacks from the Snake River Canyon Rim and Salmon Falls Canyon
Rim shall be one mile.
      2.   For AFOs expanding to one thousand (1,000) animal units or more:
         a.   General setbacks for lagoons, waste treatment, and land
application of waste are one-fourth (1/4) mile from residences and three
hundred feet (300') from property lines and wells. Other facilities setbacks
are three hundred feet (300') from residences and property lines. Land
application setbacks, except near streams, can be reduced through the use of
drop hose irrigation, nonaerosol or other odor control technology methods.
Additional setbacks for more than one thousand (1,000) animal unit operations
is 0.5 feet from any residence for each animal unit.
         b.   AFO separation is two (2) miles. This separation may be reduced
if the applicant can demonstrate synergy with other operations through a common
digester or other joint operations.
         c.   Setbacks from streams shall be one-half (1/2) mile. Except,
setbacks for facilities and land application of waste from streams shall be
one-fourth (1/4) mile.
         d.   Setbacks from the Snake River Canyon Rim and Salmon Falls Canyon
Rim shall be one mile.
   B.   Setback Requirements For New AFOs:
      1.   For new AFOs between one hundred (100) and nine hundred ninety nine
(999) animal units:
         a.   General setbacks for lagoons, waste treatment, and land
application of waste are one-fourth (1/4) mile from residences and three
hundred feet (300') from property lines and wells. Other facilities setbacks
are three hundred feet (300') from residences and property lines. Land
application setbacks, except near streams, can be reduced through the use of
drop hose irrigation, nonaerosol or other odor control technology methods.
         b.   AFO separation is one mile.
         c.   Setbacks from streams shall be one-fourth (1/4) mile.
         d.   Setbacks from the Snake River Canyon Rim and Salmon Falls Canyon
Rim shall be one mile.
      2.   For new AFOs one thousand (1,000) animal units or more:
         a.   General setbacks for lagoons, waste treatment, and land
application of waste are one-fourth (1/4) mile from residences and three
hundred feet (300') from property lines and wells. Other facilities setbacks
are three hundred feet (300') from residences and property lines. Land
application setbacks, except near streams, can be reduced through the use of
drop hose irrigation, nonaerosol or other odor control technology methods.
Additional setbacks for more than one thousand (1,000) animal unit operations
is 0.5 feet from any residence for each animal unit.
         b.   AFO separation is two (2) miles. This separation may be reduced
if the applicant can demonstrate synergy with other operations through a common
digester or other joint operations.
         c.   Setbacks from streams shall be one-half (1/2) mile. Except,
setbacks for facilities and land application of waste from streams shall be
one-fourth (1/4) mile.
         d.   Setbacks from the Snake River Canyon Rim and Salmon Falls Canyon
Rim shall be one mile. (Ord. 158, 1-24-2002)
8-18-9: APPEALS:
Appeals will be conducted in accordance with chapter 20 of this title. (Ord.
158, 1-24-2002)
8-18-10: EXISTING ANIMAL FEEDING OPERATIONS:
   A.   Nonconforming Operations: Nonconforming (grandfathered) animal feeding
operations shall be allowed to remain and operate under the following
conditions:
      1.   For the purpose of this chapter an existing, nonconforming animal
feeding operation shall be one that does not conform to the regulations of this
chapter in its entirety, but which was lawfully in existence at the time that
this chapter went into effect. Such existing nonconforming animal feeding
operations that are operating under their current permitted number of animal
units on file with the county may operate up to their permitted numbers,
provided they are in compliance with the provisions of the previous county
ordinances 21 and 153.
      2.   A nonconforming animal feeding operation may be changed to a
conforming use by meeting the requirements of this chapter.
      3.   An existing nonconforming animal feeding operation may make
improvements to corral(s), lagoon(s), storm runoff containment(s), barn(s),
etc., provided that the general location of specific facilities is not changed,
that setbacks will not be reduced and that the number of animal units will not
increase above those permitted by the prior ordinance requirements.
      4.   Any animal feeding operation existing as of the effective date of
this chapter, which has not previously registered with the county, shall have
one hundred eighty (180) days after the effective date hereof to obtain a
siting permit from the county. The owner must provide proof that the operation
has been active in the last two (2) years, has a valid water right for the
number of animal units at the facility and is in compliance with the
requirements of the appropriate state and federal agencies. Any existing animal
feeding operation which has not obtained a siting permit within the time
provided shall not be recognized as an authorized or permitted animal feeding
operation, and shall not be recognized as having vested rights that would be
transferable to a subsequent owner or operator.
   B.   Expansion Of Existing Animal Feeding Operations: Existing,
nonconforming animal feeding operations shall not increase in size or capacity
beyond the permitted numbers without first conforming to the requirements of
this chapter and obtaining a special use permit as provided by this chapter. In
areas prohibiting animal feeding operations, existing operations shall not be
eligible for expansion. A special use permit is required before any increase in
animal units and/or construction takes place. (Ord. 158, 1-24-2002)
   C.   Milking Facilities: An existing cow milking AFO approved in accordance
with the requirements of this chapter, may convert from milking cows to milking
goats by making application to the planning and zoning administration.
      1.   The application will include the name and address of the AFO, the
contact information of the owner/operator, the total number of goats, the
average weight and conversion ratio, the written description of any proposed
improvements, and the site plan showing proposed improvements imposed on the
approved site plan.
      2.   Approval criteria: The existing AFO must be a milking facility,
currently in operation, approved after January 2002, and in compliance with the
requirements of this chapter. Improvements to items including, but not limited
to, corral(s), lagoon(s), and stormwater runoff containment(s) and barn(s) may
be made, provided, however that the general location of specific facilities is
not changed and setbacks are not reduced and stay within the approved footprint
of the facility. Animal units shall not increase above those permitted.
      3.   Upon receipt of the application the planning and zoning
administration review the application for compliance with requirements of this
chapter, and issue a written decision on the application. The administration
either may approve or deny the permit.
      4.   Any appeal of the decision will be in accordance with the
requirements of this code. (Ord. 245, 1-21-2016)
8-18-11: VARIANCES:
An applicant may request a variance concerning any applicable bulk or placement
requirement in accordance with chapter 14, "Variances", of this title. A
variance is not considered a right or special privilege, but may be granted to
an applicant only upon showing of undue hardship because of characteristics of
the site not created by any actions of the applicant and that the variance is
not in conflict with the public interest. (Ord. 158, 1-24-2002)
8-18-12: BUILDING PERMITS AND CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY:
   A.   Building permit(s) are required before construction may commence on new
or expanding AFO facilities. Prior to the occupancy and/or use of expanded or
new facilities by livestock, swine, poultry or other animals, the owner shall
obtain a certificate of occupancy. The owner shall document compliance with all
provisions of this chapter, compliance with conditions of approval established
by the county and other public agencies, compliance with terms of the submitted
application and compliance with the representations of the submitted
application, as modified. Upon completion and final inspection of the
facilities authorized by the permit(s), and upon compliance with the provisions
of this chapter, the zoning official or building inspector shall issue a
certificate of occupancy to the owner. The certificate shall certify that all
facilities have been inspected and conform to the terms of the permit(s), are
in compliance with the provisions of Twin Falls County ordinances and the owner
is fully authorized to occupy and operate the AFO.
   B.   Construction of an AFO pursuant to a building permit issued by the
county must be commenced within two (2) years of the date of the final decision
approving a special use permit. Construction will be governed by applicable
building regulations and the terms of the issued special use permit. Failure to
commence construction as required under this subsection shall void the special
use permit. (Ord. 158, 1-24-2002)
8-18-13: VIOLATIONS:
Violations of any of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with
any of its requirements may be dealt with in the following manner: Each day
such violation continues shall be considered a separate offense, and shall
constitute a misdemeanor as defined by Idaho Code and is punishable by up to
six (6) months in jail and up to a three hundred dollar ($300.00) fine, or
both; the county may seek civil penalties and forfeitures to the maximum extent
allowed by law. Additionally, the county may seek an injunction to restrain
violation and/or the county may revoke the special use permit. In the event
that a violation threatens the public health, safety and/or general welfare of
the citizens of Twin Falls County, the board of county commissioners may take
any lawful action it deems necessary to abate such violation. (Ord. 158, 1-24-
2002)
CHAPTER 19
FLOODPLAIN REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-19-1: Findings Of Fact
8-19-2: Purpose
8-19-3: Methods Of Reducing Flood Losses
8-19-4: Definitions
8-19-5: General Provisions
8-19-6: Development Permit
8-19-7: Variance Procedure
8-19-8: Provisions For Flood Hazard Reduction
8-19-9: Severability
8-19-10: Effective Date
8-19-1: FINDINGS OF FACT:
   A.   The flood hazard areas of Twin Falls County are subject to periodic
inundation, which results in loss of life and property, health, and hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public safety
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety, and general welfare.
   B.   These flood losses are caused in part by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in areas of special flood hazards which increase flood heights and
velocities, and when inadequately anchored, damage uses in other areas. Uses
that are inadequately floodproofed, elevated, or otherwise protected from flood
damage also contribute to the flood loss.
   C.   Local government units have the primary responsibility for planning,
adoption and enforcement of land use regulations to accomplish proper
floodplain management. (Ord. 233, 11-2-2012)
8-19-2: PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare; reduce the annual cost of flood insurance; and minimize public
and private losses due to flood conditions in specific areas by provisions
designed:
   A.   To protect human life and health;
   B.   To minimize expenditure of public money and costly flood control
projects;
   C.   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   D.   To minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   E.   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets, and bridges located in
areas of special flood hazard;
   F.   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of areas of special flood hazard so as to minimize future flood
blight areas;
   G.   To ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in an
area of special flood hazard;
   H.   To ensure that those who occupy the areas of special flood hazard
assume responsibility for their actions. (Ord. 233, 11-2-2012)
8-19-3: METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES:
In order to accomplish its purposes, this chapter includes methods and
provisions for:
   A.   Restricting or prohibiting uses which are dangerous to health, safety,
and property due to water or erosion hazards, or which result in damaging
increases in erosion or in flood heights or velocities;
   B.   Requiring that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   C.   Controlling the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers, which help accommodate or channel floodwaters;
   D.   Controlling filling, grading, dredging, and other development which may
increase flood damage; and
   E.   Preventing or regulating the construction of flood barriers that
unnaturally divert floodwaters or may increase flood hazards in other areas.
(Ord. 233, 11-2-2012)
8-19-4: DEFINITIONS:
ACCESSORY STRUCTURE: A structure on the same lot or parcel as a principal
structure, the use of which is incidental and subordinate to the principal
structure. An insurable building should not be classified as an accessory or
appurtenant structure.
APPEAL: Request for a review of the interpretation of any provision of this
chapter or a request for a variance.
AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING: Designated as AO or AH zone on the flood insurance
rate map (FIRM). AO zones have base flood depths that range from one to three
feet (3') above the natural ground; a clearly defined channel does not exist;
the path of flooding is unpredictable and indeterminate; and velocity flow may
be evident. AO is characterized as sheet flow; AH indicates ponding, and is
shown with standard base flood elevations.
AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD: The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a one percent (1%) or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
Designation on maps always includes the letters A or V.
BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year also referred to as the "100-year flood". Designated
on flood insurance rate maps by the letters A or V.
BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE): The water surface elevation during the base flood
in relation to a specified datum. The base flood elevation (BFE) is depicted on
the FIRM to the nearest foot and in the FIS to the nearest 0.1 foot.
BASEMENT: Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
CRITICAL FACILITY: A facility for which even a slight chance of flooding might
be too great. Critical facilities include, but are not limited to, schools,
nursing homes, hospitals, police, fire and emergency response installations,
and installations which produce, use, or store hazardous materials or hazardous
waste.
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, the construction of buildings, structures or
accessory structures, or the construction of additions or substantial
improvements to buildings, structures or accessory structures; the placement of
mobile homes; mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation or
drilling operations; and the deposition or extraction of materials;
specifically including the construction of dikes, berms and levees. The term
"development" does not include the operation, cleaning, maintenance or repair
of any ditch, canal, lateral, drain, diversion structure or other irrigation or
drainage works that is performed or authorized by the owner thereof pursuant to
lawful rights and obligations.
ELEVATED BUILDING: For insurance purposes, a nonbasement building that has its
lowest elevated floor raised above ground level by foundation walls, shear
walls, post, piers, pilings, or columns.
ELEVATION CERTIFICATE: The official FEMA form used to track development,
provide elevation information necessary to ensure compliance with community
floodplain management, and determine the proper insurance premium rate.
EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads is completed before the effective date
of the adopted floodplain management regulations.
EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: The preparation
of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed including the installation of
utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the
pouring of concrete pads.
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM): The official map on which the federal
insurance administration has delineated both the areas of special flood hazards
and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS): The official report provided by the federal
insurance administration that includes flood profiles, the flood boundary-
floodway map, and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
FLOOD OR FLOODING: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
   A.   The overflow of inland or tidal waters and/or
   B.   The unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters from any
source.
FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (FPE): An elevation that corresponds to the
elevation of the one percent (1%) chance annual flood (base flood), plus any
increase in flood elevation due to floodway encroachment, plus one foot (1') of
freeboard. Therefore the flood protection elevation for Twin Falls County is
equal to BFE plus allowed floodway elevation plus one foot (1') freeboard.
FLOODWAY: The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot (1').
INCREASED COST OF COMPLIANCE: A flood insurance claim payment up to thirty
thousand dollars ($30,000.00) directly to a property owner for the cost to
comply with floodplain management regulations after a direct physical loss
caused by a flood. Eligibility for an ICC claim can be through a single
instance of "substantial damage" or as a result of a "cumulative substantial
damage" (FEMA ICC manual 301).
LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access, or storage in an area other than a
basement area, is not considered a building's lowest floor, provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable nonelevation design requirements of this chapter, provided there are
adequate flood ventilation openings.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which is
built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
"manufactured home" does not include a "recreational vehicle".
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land
divided into two (2) or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
NEW CONSTRUCTION: Structures for which the "start of construction" commenced on
or after the effective date hereof.
NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads is completed on or after the effective
date of adopted floodplain management regulations.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicle:
   A.   Built on a single chassis;
   B.   Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
   C.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty
truck, and designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
REPETITIVE LOSS: Flood related damages sustained by a structure on two (2)
separate occasions during a ten (10) year period for which the cost of repairs
at the time of each such flood event, on the average, equals or exceeds twenty
five percent (25%) of the market value of the structure before damage occurred.
START OF CONSTRUCTION: Includes substantial improvement, and means the date the
building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair,
reconstruction, placement or other improvement was within one hundred eighty
(180) days of the permit date. The actual start means either the first
placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the
pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of
columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a
manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not include land
preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the
installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a
basement, footings, piers, or foundations or the erection of temporary forms;
nor does it include the installation on the property of accessory buildings,
such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main
structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual start of construction
means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural
part of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the external
dimensions of the building.
STRUCTURE: A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage tank
that is principally aboveground.
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the
cost of restoring the structure to the before damaged condition would equal or
exceed fifty percent (50%) of the market value (as established by the county
assessor's records) of the structure before the damage occurred.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any repair, reconstruction, or improvement of a
structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the
market value (as established by the county assessor's records) of the structure
either:
   A.   Before the improvement or repair is started; or
   B.   If the structure has been damaged and is being restored, before the
damage occurred.
For the purposes of this definition "substantial improvement" is considered to
occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other
structural part of the building commences, whether or not that alteration
affects the external dimensions of the structure.
VARIANCE: A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter that permits
construction in a manner that would otherwise be prohibited by this chapter.
WATER DEPENDENT: A structure for commerce or industry that cannot exist in any
other location and is dependent on the water by reason of the intrinsic nature
of its operations. (Ord. 233, 11-2-2012)
8-19-5: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Application Of Chapter: This chapter shall apply to all areas of
special flood hazards within the jurisdiction of Twin Falls County.
   B.   Areas Of Special Flood Hazard: The areas of special flood hazard
identified by the federal insurance administration in a scientific and
engineering report entitled "The Flood Insurance Study For Twin Falls County
And Incorporated Areas", dated September 28, 1984, and September 26, 2008, are
hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this chapter. The
flood insurance study and the FIRM are on file at the planning and zoning
office for Twin Falls County. The best available information for flood hazard
area identification shall be the basis for regulation until a new FIRM is
issued.
   C.   Penalties For Noncompliance: No structure or land shall hereafter be
constructed, located, extended, converted, or altered without full compliance
with the terms of this chapter and other applicable regulations. Violations of
the provisions of this chapter by failure to comply with any of its
requirements, including violations of conditions and safeguards established in
connection with conditions, shall constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who
violates this chapter or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall be
subject to civil or criminal penalties as set forth in this code. Nothing
herein contained shall prevent Twin Falls County from taking such other lawful
action as is necessary, whether administratively, through the court system or
any other lawful action, to prevent or remedy any violation.
   D.   Abrogation And Greater Restrictions: This chapter is not intended to
repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or deed
restrictions. However, where this chapter and another chapter, easement,
covenant, or deed restriction conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more
stringent restrictions shall prevail.
   E.   Interpretation: In the interpretation and application of this chapter,
all provisions shall be:
      1.   Considered as minimum requirements;
      2.   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
      3.   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
   F.   Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability: The degree of flood protection
required by this chapter is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and
is based on scientific and engineering considerations. Larger floods can and
will occur on rare occasions. Flood heights may be increased by manmade or
natural causes. This chapter does not imply that land outside the areas of
special flood hazards or uses permitted within such areas will be free from
flooding or flood damages. This chapter shall not create liability on the part
of Twin Falls County, any officer or employee thereof, or the federal insurance
administration, for any flood damages that result from reliance on this chapter
or any administrative decision lawfully made hereunder. (Ord. 233, 11-2-2012)
8-19-6: DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
   A.   Development Permit Required: A development permit shall be obtained
from Twin Falls County planning and zoning administrator before construction or
development begins within any area of special flood hazard. The permit shall be
for all structures including manufactured homes, as set forth in the
definitions section of this chapter, and for all development including fill and
other activities, also as set forth in the definitions section of this chapter.
      1.   Construction Stage:
         a.   For all new construction and substantial improvements, the permit
holder shall provide to the floodplain administrator an as built certification
of the floor elevation or floodproofing level, using appropriate FEMA elevation
or floodproofing certificate, immediately after the lowest floor or
floodproofing is completed. When floodproofing is utilized for nonresidential
structures, the certification shall be prepared by or under the direct
supervision of a professional engineer or architect and certified by same.
         b.   Certificate deficiencies identified by the floodplain
administrator shall be corrected by the permit holder immediately and prior to
work proceeding. Failure to submit certification or failure to make the
corrections shall be cause for the floodplain administrator to issue a stop
work order for the project.
   B.   Application For Development Permit: Application for a development
permit shall be made on forms furnished by the county and may include, but not
be limited to, plans in duplicate, drawn to scale showing the nature, location,
dimensions, and elevations of the area in question; existing or proposed
structures, fill, storage of materials, drainage facilities; and the location
of the foregoing. Specifically, the following information is required:
      1.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level, of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all structures recorded on a current elevation
certificate.
      2.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any structure has
been floodproofed.
      3.   Certification by a registered professional engineer or architect
that the floodproofing methods for any nonresidential structure meet
floodproofing criteria.
      4.   Description of the extent to which a watercourse will be altered or
relocated as a result of proposed development.
   C.   Designation Of The Local Administrator: The planning and zoning
administrator is hereby appointed to administer and implement this chapter by
granting or denying development permit applications in accordance with its
provisions.
   D.   Duties And Responsibilities: Duties and responsibilities of the local
administrator shall include, but not be limited to:
      1.   Review all development permits to determine that the permit
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied.
      2.   Review all development permits to determine that all necessary
permits have been obtained from those federal, state, or local governmental
agencies from which prior approval is required.
      3.   Review all development permits to determine if the proposed
development is located in the floodway. If located in the floodway, assure that
the encroachment provisions are met.
   E.   Use Of Other Base Flood Data: When base flood elevation data or
floodway data has not been provided in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter; the planning and zoning administrator shall obtain, review, and
reasonably utilize any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a
federal, state or other source, in order to administer this chapter.
   F.   Information To Be Obtained And Maintained:
      1.   Where base flood elevation data is provided through the flood
insurance study, FIRM, or as required in this chapter, information shall be
obtained and recorded for the actual (as built) elevation (in relation to mean
sea level) of the lowest floor (including basement) of all new or substantially
improved structures, and whether or not the structure contains a basement. This
information shall be recorded on a current FEMA elevation certificate.
      2.   For all new or substantially improved floodproofed nonresidential
structures, where base flood elevation data is provided, information is
provided through the FIS, FIRM, or as required in this chapter.
         a.   Obtain and record the elevation (in relation to mean sea level)
to which the structure was floodproofed.
         b.   Maintain the floodproofing certifications.
         c.   Maintain for public inspection all records pertaining to the
provisions of this chapter.
   G.   Alteration Of Watercourses:
      1.   Notify adjacent communities and the department of water resources
prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of
such notification to the federal insurance administration.
      2.   Require that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of said watercourse so that the flood carrying capacity is not
diminished.
   H.   Interpretation Of FIRM Boundaries: The floodplain administrator shall
make interpretations where needed, as to exact location of the boundaries of
the areas of special flood hazards (e.g., where there appears to be a conflict
between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions). The person contesting
the location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity to appeal
the interpretation. Such appeals shall be granted consistent with the standards
of section 60.6 of the rules and regulations of the national flood insurance
program. (Ord. 233, 11-2-2012)
8-19-7: VARIANCE PROCEDURE:
   A.   Requests For Variances: The Twin Falls County planning and zoning
commission shall hear and decide requests for variances from the requirements
of this chapter.
   B.   Alleged Errors In Requirements: The Twin Falls County planning and
zoning commission shall hear and decide variance requests when it is alleged
there is an error in any requirement, decision, or determination made by the
county in the enforcement or administration of this chapter.
   C.   Appeals: Those aggrieved by the decision of the Twin Falls County
planning and zoning commission, may appeal such decision to the Twin Falls
County board of commissioners.
   D.   Consideration Of Applications: In passing upon such applications, the
Twin Falls County planning and zoning commission shall consider all technical
evaluations, all relevant factors, standards specified in this chapter, and the
danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the injury of others,
the danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage and the
susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood damage and
the effect of such damage on the individual owner, the importance of the
services provided by the proposed facility to the community, the necessity to
the facility of a waterfront location, where applicable, the availability of
alternative locations for the proposed use which are not subject to flooding or
erosion damage, the compatibility of the proposed use with existing and
anticipated development. The commission shall also consider the relationship of
the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and floodplain management program
for that area, the safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles, the expected heights, velocity, duration, rate
of rise, and sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave
action, if applicable, expected at the site; and the costs of providing
governmental services during and after flood conditions, including maintenance
and repair of public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical,
and water systems, and streets and bridges.
   E.   Conditions For Variances:
      1.   Generally, the only condition under which a variance from the
elevation standard may be issued is for new construction and substantial
improvements to be erected on a small or irregularly shaped lot contiguous to
and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below the base
flood level. As the lot size increases the technical justification required for
issuing the variance increases.
      2.   Variances shall not be issued within a designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
      3.   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      4.   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         a.   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         b.   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant;
         c.   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the
public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
   F.   Variances From Flood Elevations: Variances as interpreted in the
national flood insurance program are based on the general zoning law principle
that they pertain to a physical piece of property; they are not personal in
nature and do not pertain to the structure, its inhabitants, economic or
financial circumstances. They primarily address small lots in densely populated
residential neighborhoods. As such, variances from flood elevations shall be
quite rare.
   G.   Variances For Nonresidential Buildings: Variances may be issued for
nonresidential buildings in very limited circumstances to allow a lesser degree
of floodproofing, rather than watertight or dry floodproofing, where it can be
determined that such action will have low damage potential, complies with all
other variance criteria, and otherwise complies with the requirements of this
chapter.
   H.   Written Notice: Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be
given written notice that the permitted structure will be built with its lowest
floor below the base flood elevation and that the cost of flood insurance will
be commensurate with the increased risk. (Ord. 233, 11-2-2012)
8-19-8: PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION:
General standards in all areas of special flood hazards, the following
standards are required:
   A.   Anchoring:
      1.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored
to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure.
      2.   All manufactured homes shall be anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse, or lateral movement, and shall be installed using methods and
practices that minimize flood damage. Anchoring methods may include, but are
not limited to, use of over the top or frame ties to ground anchors. For more
detailed information, refer to guidebook, FEMA-85, "Manufactured Home
Installation In Flood Hazard Areas".
   B.   AH Zone Drainage: Adequate drainage paths are required around
structures on slopes to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed
structures.
   C.   Construction Materials And Methods:
      1.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
      2.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed using methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
      3.   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning
equipment and other service facilities shall be designed and/or otherwise
elevated or located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within
the components during conditions of flooding. Locating such equipment below the
base flood elevation may cause annual flood insurance premiums to be increased.
   D.   Utilities:
      1.   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems;
      2.   Water wells shall be located on high ground that is not in the
floodway;
      3.   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into floodwaters;
      4.   On site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment
to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   E.   Subdivision Proposals:
      1.   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage;
      2.   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and
facilities, such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems located and
constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage;
      3.   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood damage;
      4.   Where base flood elevation data has not been provided or is not
available from another authoritative source, it shall be generated for
subdivision proposals and other proposed developments which contain at least
fifty (50) lots or five (5) acres (whichever is less).
   F.   Review Of Building Permits: Where elevation data is not available
either through the flood insurance study, FIRM, or from another authoritative
source, applications for building permits shall be reviewed to assure that
proposed construction will be reasonably safe from flooding. The test of
reasonableness is a local judgment and includes use of historical data, high
water marks, photographs of past flooding, etc., where available. Failure to
elevate at least two feet (2') above the highest adjacent grade in these zones
may result in higher insurance rates.
   G.   Specific Standards: In all areas of special flood hazards where the
base flood elevation data has been provided as set forth in section
8-19-5, "General Provisions", or subsection 8-19-6E, "Use Of Other Base Flood
Data", of this chapter, the following provisions are required. Additional
standards were clarified in FEMA technical bulletin 11-01 to allow crawl space
construction for buildings located in the special flood hazard areas.
      1.   Residential Construction:
         a.   New construction and substantial improvement of any residential
structure shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated one foot
(1') or more above the base flood elevation (BFE).
         b.   Fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are subject to
flooding shall be designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces
on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit of floodwaters. Designs
for meeting this requirement must either be certified by an Idaho registered
professional engineer or architect or must meet or exceed the following minimum
criteria:
            (1)   Crawl spaces in special flood hazard areas shall have
openings that equalize the hydrostatic pressures by allowing the automatic
entry and exit of floodwaters.
            (2)   A minimum of two (2) openings having a total net area of not
less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding shall be provided.
            (3)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
(1') above grade. Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters. Foundation vent standards required by the IBC/IRC outside the
floodplain may not meet this standard.
            (4)   Below grade, crawl spaces are prohibited at sites where the
velocity of floodwaters exceeds five feet (5') per second.
            (5)   All building utility systems within the crawl space shall be
elevated above base flood elevation or be designed so that floodwaters cannot
enter or accumulate within the system component during flood.
            (6)   The interior of a crawl space below the base flood elevation
must not be more than two feet (2') below the lowest adjacent exterior grade
(LAG) and the height of the below grade crawl space, measured from the interior
grade of the crawl space to the top of the crawl space foundation must not
exceed four feet (4') at any point.
            (7)   Below grade, crawl spaces constructed in accordance with the
requirements listed in this subsection shall not be considered basements.
However, applicants who construct buildings that have below grade crawl spaces
are hereby advised that such buildings will have higher flood insurance
premiums than buildings that have crawl spaces with interior elevations at or
above the lowest adjacent grade.
            (8)   An adequate drainage system shall be provided that removes
floodwaters from the crawl space.
         c.   Portions of the building below the BFE shall be constructed with
materials resistant to flood damage including, but not limited to: foundation
walls, joist, insulation, etc., that extend below the BFE.
         d.   Any building utility systems shall be elevated one foot (1')
above the BFE.
      2.   Nonresidential Construction: New construction and substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial or other nonresidential structure
shall either have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated one foot (1')
or more above the base flood elevation; or, together with attendant utility and
sanitary facilities, shall:
         a.   Be floodproofed one foot (1') above the BFE;
         b.   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy;
         c.   Be certified by an Idaho registered professional engineer or
architect that the design and methods of construction are in accordance with
accepted standards of practice for meeting provisions of this subsection based
on their development and/or review of the structural design, specifications and
plans. Such certifications shall be provided to the official;
         d.   Nonresidential structures that are elevated, not floodproofed,
must meet the same standards for space below the lowest floor as described in
this chapter.
      3.   Manufactured Homes: In all areas of special flood hazard where the
flood protection elevation is established, these standards for manufactured
homes and recreational vehicles that are an allowed use under the zoning
ordinance shall apply:
         a.   Manufactured homes placed or substantially improved:
            (1)   On individual lots or parcels,
            (2)   In new or substantially improved manufactured home parks or
subdivisions,
            (3)   In expansions to existing manufactured home parks or
subdivisions, or on a site in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision
where a manufactured home has incurred "substantial damage" as the result of a
flood, must have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to the flood
protection elevation.
         b.   Manufactured homes placed or substantially improved in an
existing manufactured home park or subdivision may be elevated so that either:
            (1)   The lowest floor of the manufactured home is elevated to the
flood protection elevation or one foot (1') above the level of the base flood
elevation, whichever is higher.
            (2)   The manufactured home chassis is elevated and supported by
reinforced piers (or other foundation elements of at least an equivalent
strength) of no less than thirty six inches (36") above the highest adjacent
grade.
         c.   Manufactured homes shall be anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse, or lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not
limited to, use of over the top or frame ties to ground anchors. This standard
shall be in addition to, and consistent with, applicable state requirements.
         d.   Manufactured homes placed on solid perimeter walls shall meet the
flood vent requirements in subsection G1b of this section.
      4.   Recreational Vehicles: Recreational vehicles placed on sites are
required to either:
         a.   Be on the site for fewer than one hundred eighty (180)
consecutive days; (or)
         b.   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use, on wheels or jacking
system, attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities and
security devices, and have no permanently attached additions; or
         c.   Meet the elevation and anchoring requirements for manufactured
homes.
      5.   Areas With Base Flood Elevations: In areas with base flood
elevations (but a regulatory floodway has not been designated), no new
construction, substantial improvements, or other development (including fill)
shall be permitted within zones A1-30 and AE on the community's FIRM, unless it
is demonstrated that the cumulative effect of the proposed development, when
combined with all other existing and anticipated development, will not increase
the water surface elevation of the base flood more than one foot (1') at any
point within the community.
      6.   Floodways: Located within areas of special flood hazard established
in this chapter are areas designated as floodways. Since the floodway is an
extremely hazardous area due to the velocity of floodwaters that can carry
debris, and increase erosion potential, the following provisions apply:
         a.   Prohibit encroachments, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements, and other development unless certification by a
registered professional engineer is provided demonstrating through hydrologic
and hydraulic analyses performed in accordance with standard engineering
practice that the proposed encroachment would not result in any increase in
flood levels during the occurrence of the base flood discharge.
         b.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall comply
with all applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of this section.
      7.   Critical Facility: Construction of new critical facilities shall be,
to the extent possible, located outside the limits of the special flood hazard
area (SFHA) (100-year floodplain). Construction of new critical facilities
shall be permissible within the SFHA if no feasible alternative site is
available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA shall have the
lowest floor elevated three feet (3') above BFE or to the height of the 500-
year flood, whichever is higher. Access to and from the critical facility
should also be protected to the height utilized above. Floodproofing and
sealing measures must be taken to ensure that toxic substances will not be
displaced by or released into floodwaters. Access routes elevated to or above
the level of the base flood elevation shall be provided to all critical
facilities to the extent possible. (Ord. 233, 11-2-2012)
8-19-9: SEVERABILITY:
This chapter is hereby declared severable. Should a court of competent
jurisdiction declare any portion of this chapter invalid, the remaining
provisions shall continue in full force and effect and shall be read to carry
out the purpose(s) of this chapter before the declaration of partial
invalidity. (Ord. 233, 11-2-2012)
8-19-10: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This chapter shall be effective upon passage and publication as provided by
law. (Ord. 233, 11-2-2012)
CHAPTER 20
APPEALS
SECTION:
8-20-1: Purpose
8-20-2: Decisions That May Be Appealed
8-20-3: Who May File Appeals
8-20-4: Record On Appeal
8-20-5: Notice Of Appeal
8-20-6: Procedure For Appeal Of The Community Development Services Director’s
Decision
8-20-7: Procedure For An Appeal Of The Planning And Zoning Commission's
Decision
8-20-8: Board Review On Appeal
8-20-9: Reconsideration
8-20-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to establish standards and procedures for
appeals of land use decisions made by the planning and zoning commission
(“Commission”) and the community development services director (“Director”).
(Ord. 221, 8-25-2011; amd. Ord. 287, 8-19-2024)
8-20-2: DECISIONS THAT MAY BE APPEALED:
   A.   Community Development Service Director Decisions: A final written
determination or decision by the director on the issuance of a permit or
certificate, or on the interpretation of any provision of this title may be
appealed to the board of county commissioners (“Board”).
   B.   Planning And Zoning Commission Decisions: A final decision of the
commission including, but not limited to, an animal feeding operation,
variance, preliminary subdivision plat, conditional or special use permit may
be appealed to the board. (Ord. 221, 8-25-2011; amd. Ord. 287, 8-19-2024)
8-20-3: WHO MAY FILE APPEALS:
   A.   A determination or decision of the director may be appealed by the
applicant or by any other affected person(s) as defined in Idaho Code § 67-6521
(1)(a).
   B.   A final decision of the commission may be appealed by the applicant or
any other affected person.
   C.   For purposes of the chapter, a county employee acting in their official
capacity is not an affected person.
   D.   Appeals based on allegations or grounds not regulated by this code
shall not be considered. (Ord. 221, 8-25-2011; amd. Ord. 287, 8-19-2024)
8-20-4: RECORD ON APPEAL:
The community development services department shall be responsible for
compiling the record on appeal.
   A.   The record on appeal shall be comprised of, where applicable, the
following documents:
      1.   Complete application;
      2.   CDS staff documents and report;
      3.   P&Z commission written decision;
      4.   Sign in sheet and any exhibit and/or attachments;
      5.   Notice of appeal;
      6.   Appellants proof of mailing;
      7.   Transcript of planning and zoning hearing;
      8.   Appellants statement; and
      9.   Respondents statement
   B.   The community development services department shall provide a copy of
the record on appeal to the board within fourteen (14) calendar days after the
appellant files the written statement in support of the appeal or upon
preparation of the transcript, whichever is later.
   C.   The community development services department shall not be required to
compile the record on appeal until after the appellant has paid the transcript
deposit. (Ord. 287, 8-19-2024)
8-20-5: NOTICE OF APPEAL:
   A.   Notice of appeal must be filed with community development services
department on a form provided by that office, along with the required fees,
within fourteen (14) calendar days after the date of the director's final
determination or written decision; or within fourteen (14) calendar days after
the commission's final written decision.
   B.   Upon the filing of the notice of appeal, community development services
shall send a copy of the notice of appeal to the board.
   C.   The filing of a notice of appeal shall automatically suspend the effect
of the decision appealed, pending the final decision on the appeal.
   D.   No development on the property shall take place or any permit for
construction or use be issued until after the fourteen (14) calendar day period
for filing a notice of appeal has lapsed. (Ord. 221, 8-25-2011; amd. Ord. 287,
8-19-2024)
8-20-6: PROCEDURE FOR APPEAL OF THE COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT SERVICES DIRECTOR'S
DECISION:
   A.   Within fourteen (14) days of filing the notice of appeal, the appellant
shall file a written statement with community development services explaining
the basis for the appeal and reasons for the board to reverse the decision of
the director. Upon receipt, the community development services will forward the
written statement, statement of reasons for the appeal, and the record on
appeal to the board for review.
   B.   The board will review the appellant's statement of reasons, and may
uphold, reverse, or amend the decision, or may remand the decision to the
director with instructions for further consideration.
   C.   No public hearing is required for an appeal of the decision of the
director, but the board must make its decision at a regularly noticed meeting
of the board, at which the board shall consider the decision of the director
and any additional evidence that may be offered by the applicant, appellant, or
director at the meeting. (Ord. 287, 8-19-2024)
8-20-7: PROCEDURE FOR AN APPEAL OF THE PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION'S
DECISION:
   A.   A transcript of the commission’s proceedings on the appealed decision
is required. Community development services shall copy the recording of the
commission proceedings, arrange to have the recording transcribed. The
appellant shall pay the cost of preparing the commission meeting transcript.
Payment for the transcript must be made before the board schedules a hearing on
the appeal.
   B.   Within fourteen (14) calendar days of filing the notice of appeal, the
appellant shall file a written statement with the community development
services department explaining the basis for the appeal and reasons for the
board to reverse the decision of the commission. The statement must be in
writing. If the appellant requests an extension of time due to a delay in the
transcript preparation, that request must be submitted to the community
development services department in writing, and in no case shall be granted to
extend beyond fourteen (14) calendar days from the time the transcript is
completed.
   C.   Within fourteen (14) calendar days after filing the notice of appeal,
the appellant shall file with the community development services department
proof of personal or mailed service of the notice of appeal on the applicant
(if applicable), applicable political subdivisions, all property owners who
received mailed notice of the commission hearing at which the decision was
made, and all affected persons who personally appeared or filed a written
comment at the commission hearing at which the decision was made. Failure to
comply with this requirement may result in dismissal of the appeal by the
board.
   D.   The appellant shall pay a transcript deposit at the time of filing the
statement of reasons for the appeal. The transcript shall be paid for by the
appellant at the current market rate. If the cost for preparation of the
transcript exceeds the deposit, the appellant shall pay the difference before
the appeal is scheduled for hearing before the board. If the cost of preparing
the transcript is not paid within thirty (30) calendar days from the completion
of the transcript, the appeal shall be deemed dismissed. If the transcript cost
is less than the deposit, the county will reimburse the appellant the
difference within thirty (30) calendar days.
   E.   The transcript will be provided to the board and the director upon
completion. The applicant and respondents, if any, may obtain a copy of the
transcript from the director when the transcript fee is paid in full by the
appellant. (Ord. 221, 8-25-2011; amd. Ord. 287, 8-19-2024)
8-20-8: BOARD REVIEW ON APPEAL:
   A.   The board's consideration of the director's decision or a decision of
the commission shall be made at a regularly noticed meeting of the board unless
otherwise required by law. Only affected persons, as defined herein, may
present information and/or argument at the appeal hearing.
   B.   Upon hearing the appeal, the board may consider the ordinance, permit,
decision, or determination of the commission or director, and any attached
conditions thereto. The board may also consider the record on appeal and any
additional evidence that may be offered by affected persons, applicant,
director, and/or commission.
   C.   After considering the record on appeal and the evidence presented
before them, the board may affirm, reverse, or modify, in whole or in part, the
order, requirement, permit, decision, or determinations appealed or make any
additional conditions which in its deliberations it may find warranted under
the provisions of this code; or may remand the decision to the commission or
director for further consideration.
   D.   Unless the board remands the decision to the commission or director,
the decision of the board shall constitute a final decision concerning such
matter.
   E.   Every final decision concerning a site-specific land use request shall
be accompanied by a notice to the applicant regarding the applicant's right to
request a regulatory taking analysis pursuant to Idaho Code § 67-8003.
   F.   Any action to grant a conditional or special use permit, either through
affirmation, modification, or reversal of the planning and zoning commission's
decision, must include required findings for a conditional or special use
permit as provided in this code and otherwise by law. (Ord. 221, 8-25-2011;
amd. Ord. 287, 8-19-2024)
8-20-9: RECONSIDERATION:
   A.   Any applicant or affected person seeking judicial review of compliance
or noncompliance of express approval standards or relevant decision criteria of
permit applications as outlined in Idaho Code § 67-6535 must first seek
reconsideration of the final decision within fourteen (14) days of the final
written decision on appeal.
   B.   Applications for reconsideration must be submitted to the community
development services department. Such written request must identify specific
deficiencies in the decision for which reconsideration is sought.
   C.   Reconsideration of the final decision on appeal shall be made at a
regularly noticed meeting of the board. Such meeting shall be held within
fourteen (14) calendar days of receipt of the request for reconsideration. Only
the applicant, appellant, and/or the party seeking reconsideration shall be
given the opportunity to make arguments before the board.
   D.   During the reconsideration, the board will evaluate whether the written
decision contained a reasoned statement that explains the criteria and
standards considered relevant, states the relevant contested facts relied upon,
and explains the rationale for the decision based on the applicable provisions
of the comprehensive plan, relevant ordinance and statutory provisions,
pertinent constitutional principles, and factual information contained in the
record. The Boards review will be limited to the record on appeal and no new
information will be considered.
   E.   Upon reconsideration, the board of county commissioners may affirm,
reverse, or modify the decision after compliance with applicable procedural
standards as listed in Twin Falls County Code Title 8, Chapter 20.
   F.   A written decision on reconsideration shall be provided to the
applicant or affected person within twenty-eight (28) calendar days of the
request for reconsideration meeting. A decision shall not be deemed final for
the purposes of judicial review unless the process required in this subsection
has been followed. The twenty-eight (28) day time frame for seeking judicial
review is tolled until the date of the written decision regarding
reconsideration.
   G.   Every final decision concerning a site-specific land use request shall
be accompanied by a notice to the applicant regarding the applicant's right to
request a regulatory taking analysis pursuant to Idaho Code § 67-8003. (Ord.
260, 10-28- 2020; amd. Ord. 287, 8-19-2024)
CHAPTER 21
ENERGY PRODUCTION
SECTION:
8-21-1:Purpose And Scope
8-21-2: Definitions
8-21-3: Permitting Requirements
8-21-4: Exemptions
8-21-5: Zoning Districts Where Permitted
8-21-6: Determination Of Scale
8-21-7: General Requirements
8-21-8: Additional Requirements For Small-Scale Wind Turbine Projects
8-21-9: Additional Requirements For Small-Scale Solar Projects
8-21-10: Additional Requirements For Agrisolar
8-21-11: Additional Standards For Large-Scale Wind Projects
8-21-12: Additional Standards For Large-Scale Solar Projects
8-21-13: Penalties
8-21-14: Severance Clause
8-21-1: PURPOSE AND SCOPE:
This chapter establishes the regulations and siting criteria for new and
expanding energy generation projects in Twin Falls County. The regulations
contained herein are designed to protect and promote the public health, safety,
and community welfare of Twin Falls County; to promote the proper location and
development of such projects based on the effective use of local resources; and
avoid unreasonable adverse impacts on the use and peaceful enjoyment of nearby
lands for lawful purposes. (Ord. 282, 3-8-2024)
8-21-2: DEFINITIONS:
 
                                        The use of land for agricultural
                                        production, such as crop or livestock
AGRI-SOLAR:                             production or pollinator habitats,
                                        underneath solar panels or adjacent to
                                        solar panels.
                                        Projects capable of producing, as per
                                        nameplate capacity, ten (10) megawatts
                                        (MW) or more; or projects that encumber
LARGE-SCALE ENERGY PROJECTS:            forty (40) or more acres of land that
                                        produces power via the harnessing of
                                        wind or solar energy for transmission
                                        or storage.
                                        The maximum energy output that an
NAMEPLATE CAPACITY:                     energy generator can produce without
                                        exceeding design thermal limits.
                                        A wind turbine or solar array with a
                                        total nameplate capacity of less than
                                        two hundred (200) kilowatts and
                                        encumber more than two hundred (200)
                                        square feet that are associated with
                                        single family dwellings and
PERSONAL-USE ENERGY PROJECTS:           accompanying structures. Personal
                                        energy projects with a nameplate
                                        capacity less than two hundred (200)
                                        kilowatts and two hundred (200) square
                                        feet for single family dwellings and
                                        accompanying structures require no
                                        zoning permit.
                                        Prime farmland is farmland which has
                                        the soil quality, growing season, and
                                        moisture supply needed to produce
                                        economically sustained high yields of
                                        crops when treated and managed
                                        according to acceptable farming
PRIME FARM LAND:                        methods, including water management. In
                                        general, prime farmlands have an
                                        adequate and dependable water supply
                                        from precipitation or irrigation, a
                                        favorable temperature and growing
                                        season, acceptable acidity or
                                        alkalinity, acceptable salt and sodium
                                        content.
                                        A wind turbine or solar array with a
                                        nameplate capacity of two hundred (200)
SMALL-SCALE ENERGY PROJECTS:            kilowatts to ten (10) megawatts that
                                        does not otherwise meet the definition
                                        of large-scale energy projects.
                                        A solar energy system that is mounted
SOLAR PROJECT, GROUND-MOUNTED:          on a rack or pole that rests on or is
                                        attached to the ground.
                                        A solar energy system that is mounted
SOLAR PROJECT, ROOF-MOUNTED:            on a rack fastened to or resting on a
                                        structure roof.
                                        The full integration of energy
                                        generation into the design and
                                        construction of a building or other
                                        structure. This term includes
                                        integrated photovoltaics such as solar
STRUCTURE- INTEGRATED ENERGY GENERATION roofs, solar facades, and individual
SYSTEMS:                                lights and call boxes powered by solar
                                        cells. It also includes wind generators
                                        such as micro turbines that are
                                        integrated into bell towers and other
                                        design features of the structure. (Ord.
                                        282, 3-8-2024)
 
8-21-3: PERMITTING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Relationship To Other Procedural Requirements: The following
requirements are in addition to all other procedural requirements energy
projects are subject to within this Title. Where there is a conflict between
these requirements and those noted elsewhere in Title 8, the requirements of
this Chapter shall govern.
   B.   Permit Required: A conditional use permit is required prior to
commencing any construction or ground-disturbing activities related to the
installation of any small or large scale energy project. A siting permit and
building permit is required prior to installation of any personal use energy
project.
   C.   Coordination And Documentation: The applicant shall provide the county
with copies of all applications for state and federal permits and licenses at
the time of submitting a permit application, or within thirty (30) calendar
days after receiving notice of an incomplete application. Upon the issuance of
any state or federal permits or licenses, environmental assessments, records of
decision, memoranda of understanding, exemptions, variances, or other similar
authorizations of approvals related to the proposed energy project, the
applicant shall provide copies of these documents to the county.
   D.   Site Review: Site review is required for proposed electric generating
projects, substations, compressor stations, and other energy projects the
director determines require such review. The county serves as the lead
coordinating agency in siting energy projects located in the county, unless
preempted by state or federal law. The county will avoid duplicating the
actions of other governmental agencies to the extent the county standards or
equivalent standards have been addressed by those agencies. During review of a
proposed energy project, the county may adopt the reports and findings of other
government agencies as part of a conditional use permit.
   E.   Burden Of Proof:
      1.   The applicant shall have the burden of proving compliance with all
applicable requirements of this title.
      2.   Applicants for projects within an airport influence area shall
certify compliance with or exemption from all Federal Aviation Administration
(FAA) Regulations.
   F.   Complete Application Required: A complete application is required prior
to permit approval. A determination of completeness by the county shall only be
made upon submittal of all fees and all information required by this title
including supplemental information the county deems necessary to determine
compliance. Failure to submit a complete application is grounds for denial.
   G.   Application Requirements: An applicant for an energy project shall
submit an application on a form provided by the county along with all
applicable fees to the community development services department. The
application shall include the following in addition to any other requirements
outlined in Chapter 3.
      1.   Name, address, phone number, and email address of the applicant. If
the applicant is not the property owner, the name, phone number, address, and
email address of the property owner shall be supplied along with authorization
that the applicant is an agent of the owner;
      2.   Site plan(s) showing the physical features and land uses of the
project area, both before and after construction of the proposed energy
project, where features and uses are changed. The plan shall include a legible
plot plan drawn to scale showing:
         a.   Property lines and improvements located on the subject property
including the location, dimensions, and types of existing major structures,
including the septic tank and drain fields, canals, laterals, easements, etc.;
         b.   Project boundaries;
         c.   Location of the proposed project describing the method and
location of mounting required including (as applicable) towers, foundations,
guy anchors, and/or associated equipment;
         d.   Proposed height and setback for all project equipment;
         e.   The right-of-way of any public road this is contiguous with the
property and any overhead utility lines;
         f.   The location of any nearby or adjacent scenic corridors, wildlife
corridors, and other environmentally sensitive areas;
         g.   The location of any nearby, adjacent, or onsite historic,
cultural, or archeological resources;
         h.   The location, height, and dimensions of all existing and proposed
structures and fencing;
         i.   The location, grades, dimensions, and surfacing of all temporary
and permanent on-site roads and access roads from the nearest public road;
         j.   State and federal resources, lands, and other protected areas
near the project site;
         k.   Existing topography with contours at intervals that accurately
depict the site, depending on the size and slope of the site;
         l.   Water bodies, waterways, canals, wetlands, and drainage channels;
         m.   The location of, and distances to, onsite and adjacent
residences; and
         n.   The location and distance to airport influence areas;
      3.   Copies of all baseline wildlife studies applicable to the project
site;
      4.   A list of permits, approvals, or other actions that the applicant
has requested or will request from other government agencies or from public or
privately-owned utility companies serving the site;
      5.   A transportation plan showing how vehicles would access the site and
describing the impacts of the proposed energy project on the local and regional
road system during construction and operation;
      6.   A revegetation plan for restoring areas temporarily disturbed during
construction;
      7.   A drainage and erosion control plan for construction and operation,
as required;
      8.   For large-scale projects, a fire protection plan for construction
and operation of the facility;
      9.   A plan to protect any archaeological, historical, or cultural sites
or artifacts found at the site;
      10.   A description of actions the applicant would take to restore the
site to a useful, non-hazardous condition upon project termination;
      11.   A detailed cost estimate for site restoration in current-year
dollars, including an explanation of the basis for cost estimates and
assumptions;
      12.   Certification and demonstration that foundation and structural
plans were designed by an Idaho-licensed engineer;
      13.   Comment letters from agencies with jurisdiction (e.g., canal
company, Highway district, South Central Public Health District, Fire district
or department, Idaho Department of Water Resources, Sheriff, Post office, Idaho
Fish and Game, or any other agency deemed necessary);
      14.   Where applicable, wind turbine specifications including rated
nameplate capacity, manufacturer and model, rotor diameter, tower height, and
tower type (monopole, freestanding, or guyed); and
      15.   Where applicable, solar system specifications including rated
nameplate capacity, manufacturer and model, and height above ground, or roof,
whichever is applicable.
   H.   Procedures For Conditional Use Permits Approved By The Planning And
Zoning Commission: The process for review and approval of a conditional use
permit by the Planning and Zoning Commission shall be as described in Twin
Falls County Code, Title 8, Chapter 7.
   I.   Administrative Approval Procedures: The procedure for deciding
administrative siting permits for personal use energy projects shall be as
follows:
      1.   The application shall be on a form prescribed by the county and
shall include the information required by this chapter. The application shall
be reviewed for completeness. Upon receiving a fully completed application, the
application process will proceed as follows:
      2.   The zoning administrator will notify the applicant that the
application is complete, and the county will proceed with notification as
required by this chapter.
      3.   Notification shall be sent to all utility companies on the one call
system, Highway District, Canal Company, and other agencies required by code,
and property owner(s) within three hundred (300) feet of the proposed location
by first class mail and provide proof of mailing. Posting of the property shall
occur on the date of notice mailing.
      4.   Written comments will be accepted for fifteen (15) calendar days
after the date of mailing.
      5.   The zoning administrator shall then produce a report, which includes
a summary of such comment or evidence submitted, a reasoned explanation of the
grounds for the decision and a final order granting or denying the request.
Such report shall be filed at the planning and zoning department within twenty-
eight (28) calendar days after the closing date for accepting written comment,
unless additional time for filing such report is granted by the board of county
commissioners upon request of the zoning administrator. Notice of such filing
shall be provided in writing to the applicant and to all parties entitled to
notice by this chapter.
   J.   Report Required: Upon the applicant filing a complete written
application, the zoning official shall then produce a report, which includes:
      1.   A reasoned statement that explains the criteria and standards
considered relevant;
      2.   A statement detailing the facts relied upon;
      3.   An explanation of the rationale for the decision based on the
applicable provisions of the comprehensive plan, relevant ordinance and
statutory provisions, pertinent constitutional principles and factual
information contained in the record;
      4.   Identification of the nature of compliance or noncompliance with
express approval standards;
      5.   An explanation of compliance or noncompliance with relevant decision
criteria; and
      6.   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain
approval.
   K.   Additional Requirements For Conditional Use Permit Applications: An
applicant for a conditional use permit must follow the requirements of Twin
Falls County Code, Title 8, Chapter 7 not otherwise superseded by this chapter.
   L.   Avoidance Of Duplication: The applicant may incorporate by reference
any information developed or submitted in any other application if the
applicant submits a copy or summary of the referenced material, identifies the
agency or proceeding to which it was submitted and the outcome of that
proceeding, and explains the relevance of the information to the approval
standards of this chapter.
   M.   Duration Of Approval: An applicant/owner has one (1) year from the date
of final approval of a small-scale energy project and two (2) years from the
date of final approval of a large-scale energy project to secure a building
permit or the conditional use permit expires automatically.
   N.   Termination And Decommissioning: As conditions of the permit for a
large-scale energy project, the applicant shall demonstrate the following:
      1.   At the time of the application, the applicant shall submit a plan
that ensures that the site will be restored to a useful, non-hazardous
condition within six (6) months of the cessation of operations. The plan shall
include the following:
         a.   Removal of aboveground and underground equipment, structures, and
foundations to a depth of at least three (3) feet below the pre-existing grade.
Underground equipment, structures, and foundations need not be moved if they
are at least three (3) feet below grade and do not constitute a hazard or
interfere with agricultural use or other resource uses of the land.
         b.   Restoration of the surface grade and soil after removal of
aboveground structures and equipment including removal of graveled areas and
access roads.
         c.   Revegetation of restored soil areas with native seed mixes and
plant species suitable to the area, consistent with the weed control plan.
         d.   For any part of the energy project on leased property, the plan
may incorporate agreements with the landowner regarding leaving access roads,
fences, gates, or buildings in place and/or regarding restoration of
agricultural crops or forest resource land.
         e.   The plan must provide for the protection of public health and
safety and for protection of the environment and natural resources during site
restoration.
         f.   The plan must include a schedule for completion of site
restoration work.
      2.   Prior to the issuance of the conditional use permit, the landowner
shall provide a performance bond to the county in the amount equal to one
hundred twenty-five percent (125%) of the written cost estimate from an Idaho-
licensed engineer to guarantee that the site will be restored as required. The
conditional use permit holder is required to update the bond on an ongoing
basis every five (5) years. Failure to maintain decommission bond is a
violation of conditional use permit
      3.   If the energy project ceases operation for twelve (12) consecutive
months or construction on the project begins but is not completed within a
period of twelve (12) months following permit approval, the landowner shall
restore the site according to a plan approved by the commission unless a time
extension is granted by the commission. (Ord. 282, 3-8-2024)
8-21-4: EXEMPTIONS:
Uses and activities including (but not limited to) natural gas project
pipelines, petroleum project pipelines, electric transmission and distribution
lines, and structure-integrated energy generation systems shall not be
regulated by resolution, policy, or ordinance enacted by any county,
incorporated or unincorporated area, special use district, or other local
government entity of any kind that:
   A.   Prohibits, or has the effect of prohibiting, the authorized connection
or reconnection of an electric, natural gas, propane, or other energy utility
service provided by a public utility, municipality, or cooperative utility;
   B.   Restricts, or has the effect of restricting, the source of the
electricity, natural gas, propane, or other energy utility service provided by
a public utility, municipality, or cooperative utility; or
   C.   Requires residents or businesses within the county to use a particular
type or generation source of electricity, natural gas, propane, or other fuel.
(Ord. 282, 3-8-2024)
8-21-5: ZONING DISTRICTS WHERE PERMITTED:
The following is a list of uses that are either allowed, conditionally
permitted, or not allowed in the various zones as set forth below.
   A.   Personal Use Energy Projects: Personal use energy projects are an
allowed use in all zones subject to the requirements of this chapter and the
siting permit requirements set forth in TFCC
8-21-3-I.
   B.   Small-Scale Wind Turbine Projects: Small-scale wind turbine projects
are conditionally permitted by the planning and zoning commission in the
agricultural preservation zone; agricultural zone; commercial zone; and
industrial zones subject to the requirements of this chapter and TFCC
8-21-8. Small-scale wind turbine projects are not allowed in the rural
residential zone.
   C.   Small-Scale Solar Projects: Small-scale solar projects are
conditionally permitted by the planning and zoning commission in agricultural
preservation zone; agricultural zone; commercial zone; and industrial zones
subject to the requirements of this chapter and TFCC
8-21-9. Small-scale solar projects are not allowed in the rural residential
zone.
   D.   Agrisolar: Agrisolar are conditionally permitted by the planning and
zoning commission in the agricultural preservation zone, agricultural zone, and
subject to the requirements of this chapter and TFCC
8-21-10.
   E.   Large-Scale Wind Turbine Projects: Large-scale wind turbine projects
are conditionally permitted by the planning and zoning commission in the
agricultural preservation zone, and agricultural zone subject to the
requirements of this chapter and TFCC
8-21-11.
   F.   Large-Scale Solar Projects: Large-scale solar projects are
conditionally permitted by the planning and zoning commission in the
agricultural preservation zone and subject to the requirements of this chapter
and TFCC
8-21-12.
If the site of the proposed energy project is within an area subject to an
overlay district, the proposed use shall meet or exceed the applicable
requirements of the overlay district as well as applicable requirements of the
base district. (Ord. 282, 3-8-2024)
8-21-6: DETERMINATION OF SCALE:
Total aggregate energy output of pre-grid intertie connected systems of one (1)
or more energy generation sources (e.g., solar and wind or two (2) or more
systems of the same type), regardless of ownership, will be used to determine
the scale of the project for the purposes of these regulations. The location of
such systems on more than one parcel shall not be used to determine a systems
classification as used within this chapter. (Ord. 282, 3-8-2024)
8-21-7: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
In addition to all other requirements energy projects are subject to within
this title, the following general requirements for such projects must be met,
unless otherwise noted. Where there is a conflict between these requirements
and those noted elsewhere in Title 8, the requirements of this chapter shall
govern.
   A.   Access And Parking: The applicant has secured, or can secure, all
necessary access approvals from the applicable highway districts or the Idaho
Transportation Department for access points for temporary and permanent project
roads and parking areas at the project site. The applicant agrees to:
      1.   Use existing roads for access to the extent practical and avoid
construction of new roadways as much as possible.
      2.   Restore the natural grade and revegetate land used for temporary
access roads, equipment staging areas, parking, and field office sites used
during construction of the energy project. The applicant must specify the type
and amount of seed or plants used to revegetate the disturbed areas and a
timeline to complete this work.
      3.   Construct and maintain all-weather access roads as needed to assure
adequate, safe, and efficient emergency vehicle and maintenance vehicle access
to the site.
   B.   Dust Control: During site development and construction, the applicant
must regularly water or otherwise treat unpaved roads and staging areas as
necessary to minimize dust and wind erosion.
   C.   Erosion And Sediment Control: The applicant must conduct all roadwork
and other site development work in compliance with a National Pollutant
Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit as required by U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency regulations. Applicants must submit copies of their NPDES
permit and erosion and sediment control plan as part of the application
submittal. The plan must include measures to prevent damage to local roads and
adjacent areas.
   D.   Fire Protection: The owner/operator of an energy project must implement
fire protection measures for the construction and operation of the energy
project that are acceptable to the county and other land management agencies
adjacent to the proposed energy project, if any. For power generation projects,
the applicant must submit a copy of a fire district-approved fire prevention or
protection plan at the time of application. Personal use projects are exempt
from this requirement.
   E.   Fish, Wildlife, And Native Plant Protection: The applicant of energy
projects shall certify that the proposed energy project will be designed,
constructed, and operated without significant adverse impact to fish, wildlife
and native plant resources, including fish and wildlife habitat, migratory
routes, and state or federally listed threatened or endangered fish, wildlife,
or plant species.
   F.   Preservation Of Prime Farm Land: Consistent with the goals set forth in
the Twin Falls County Comprehensive Plan to preserve the rural character of
Twin Falls County, no energy projects should be placed on prime farmland. The
applicant shall certify that the proposed energy project will not be placed on
or interfere with prime farm land.
   G.    Protection Of Historical And Cultural Resources: Construction and
operation of the proposed energy project shall not cause significant adverse
impact to historical and cultural resources identified by the State Historic
Preservation Office or identified in the comprehensive plan. The applicant
agrees to implement a plan to preserve any previously undiscovered
archeological, historical, or cultural artifacts discovered during construction
or operation of the energy project in compliance with applicable county, state,
and federal law.
   H.   Scenic Area Corridor: Large-scale energy projects and ground-mounted
small-scale projects visible from the road right-of-way shall not be located
within a designated scenic corridor. Scenic corridors include federal or state
scenic byways, scenic highways, scenic areas, and scenic waterways. If the
proposed energy project is adjacent to a designated scenic corridor, the
applicant shall implement mitigation measures that would protect the resource
values of the designated scenic corridor as a condition of approval. Such
measures may include, but are not limited to, using colors that blend with the
background, setting the development back from a right-of-way or stream
corridor, using the natural topography to screen the energy project, and
retaining or planting vegetation that would obscure the view of the energy
project within the scenic corridor.
   I.   Signs: Billboards (off-premises signs) are not permitted on the site of
large-scale energy projects. The following on-premises signs are allowed:
      1.   Signs required for public or employee safety or otherwise required
by law.
      2.   No more than two (2) signs which comply with the requirements of
Title 8 Chapter 4.
    J.   Visual Impact: Applicants must demonstrate the intent to reduce the
visual impact of construction and operation of the proposed energy project to
the extent practical by methods that may include, but are not limited to, the
following:
      1.   Avoiding state or federal scenic areas and significant visual
resources listed in the comprehensive plan;
      2.   Using natural topography to obscure the project;
      3.   Using materials and colors that blend with the background unless
otherwise required by the Federal Aviation Administration;
      4.   Retaining or planting vegetation to obscure views of the energy
project; and
      5.   Setting the energy project back from the edge of public arterial
rights-of-way and from the Snake River Canyon Rim, Rock Creek Canyon, Salmon
Falls Canyon. Solar systems shall be set back a minimum of two hundred (200)
feet from the canyon rim. Wind turbines shall be set back from the canyon rim a
minimum of one hundred percent (150%) of the project height.
   K.   Weed Control: The applicant shall submit a plan for weed control and
shall certify that the plan will be implemented during construction and
operation of the proposed energy project.
   L.   Proximity To The Airport: Large-scale energy projects shall not be
permitted within the airport overlay district.
   M.   Cleaning Chemicals And Solvents: During operation of the proposed solar
energy project, all chemicals or solvents used to clean photovoltaic panels or
heliostats must be low in volatile organic compounds. The operator should use
recyclable or biodegradable products to the extent possible. (Ord. 282, 3-8-
2024)
8-21-8: ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SMALL-SCALE WIND TURBINE PROJECTS:
   A.   Small-scale wind turbine projects, where permitted, are subject to the
following additional requirements:
      1.   Automatic Over-Speed Controls: All installations shall be equipped
with manual-electronic or mechanical and automatic over-speed controls to limit
the blade rotation speed to within the design limits of the system.
      2.   Blade Clearance: There shall be a minimum of twenty-five (25) feet
between the ground and the lowest point of the rotor blade. No blades may
extend over parking areas, driveways, structures, or sidewalks.
      3.   Height: Small-scale wind turbines and associated structures shall
not exceed a total height of sixty (60) feet in the rural residential zone or
one hundred twenty-five (125) feet in all other zones (measuring from the
natural ground level to the apex of the turbine blade).
      4.   Interference Avoidance: No installations shall be in any location
where their proximity would interfere with existing fixed broadcast,
retransmission, or reception antenna. This includes interference with
residential radio, television, wireless phone, or other personal communication
system reception or in any location along the major axis of an existing
microwave communication link where its operation is likely to produce
electromagnetic interference in the link's operation.
      5.   Lighting And Marking: Lighting and marking shall only be permitted
if required by and in accordance with state and federal law.
      6.   Rotor Diameter: The maximum rotor diameter (the cross-sectional
dimension of the circle swept by the rotating blades) shall not exceed fifteen
(15) feet.
      7.   Security: The small-scale wind turbine structure shall be designed
to deter unauthorized access. At minimum, a distance of at least twelve (12)
feet must be provided from the ground to the bottom of the ladder or other
access method.
      8.   Setbacks:
         a.   Small-scale wind turbines and associated structures shall be set
back a distance equal to one hundred twenty-five (percent) of the total height,
measured from the natural ground level to the tip of the turbine blade at its
apex from all property boundaries, overhead utility lines, private or public
roads or rights-of-way, and other turbines and associated structures.
         b.   No part of a small-scale wind turbine structure, including
guywire anchors, may extend within ten (10) feet of the property boundaries.
      9.   Wiring: All wiring to and from a small-scale wind turbine structure
shall be underground. (Ord. 282, 3-8-2024)
8-21-9: ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SMALL-SCALE SOLAR PROJECTS:
   A.   Small-scale solar projects where permitted, are subject to the
following additional requirements:
      1.   Appearance: Exposed hardware, supporting structures, frames, and
piping shall be finished in non-reflective surfaces. Roof-mounted systems shall
be compatible with the color scheme of the roof.
      2.   Coverage: Roof-mounted systems are limited in area only by what the
structure will support, as determined by an Idaho Licensed Structural Engineer.
      3.   Glare: Solar panels shall be placed such that concentrated solar
radiation or glare shall not be directed onto nearby properties and/or
roadways.
      4.   Height:
         a.   Roof-Mounted Systems: Systems shall not exceed a height of eight
(8) inches from the roof surface. In no event shall the placement of the solar
panels result in a greater total height (including building and panels) than is
allowed for the principal building in the zoning district in which they are
located.
         b.   Ground-Mounted Systems: The maximum height shall be seven (7)
feet as measured from the average grade at the base of the pole to the highest
edge of the system when the panel is in its horizontal position.
      5.    Locations And Setbacks:
         a.   No ground-mounted solar energy system may be located within the
required front or side yard or on any utility, water, sewer, or other public
easement.
      b.   All parts of any ground-mounted solar energy system shall be set
back at least seven (7) feet from side and rear yard setbacks.
      6.   Wiring: All wiring to and from a small-scale solar energy unit and
project shall be placed underground, enclosed in conduit, or otherwise obscured
from view. (Ord. 282, 3-8-2024)
8-21-10: ADDITIONAL STANDARDS FOR AGRISOLAR:
In addition to meeting the other requirements of this title including standards
for the appropriately scaled energy project detailed in this chapter not
otherwise superseded by this section, agrisolar shall be regulated as follows:
   A   Co-Location Compatibility: Projects must demonstrate that the proposed
project is compatible with the continuing use of the land for agricultural
purposes. Such purposes include, but shall not be limited to, the use of land
for grazing, crop production, and beekeeping.
   B.   Height: The height of agrisolar projects is variable and will be
determined by the agricultural use that will exist underneath the agrisolar
system.
   C.   Return To Agricultural Use: When an agrisolar project ceases operation,
the energy operation shall comply with all decommissioning requirements of this
chapter and disturbed areas shall be returned fully to agricultural use.
   D.   Wellhead Protection Overlay District: Where agricultural operations
exist within a wellhead protection overlay district, and such agricultural
operations pose a high risk to the recharge area, land within the overlay may
be used exclusively for energy production supplemented by low-risk agricultural
activities as appropriate, provided hazardous chemicals, as determined by the
water authority, are not used in the maintenance and operation of the energy
project. The applicant shall demonstrate their intent to comply with this
provision, if used, and submit a list of chemicals certifying that the use of
chemicals shall be limited to those on such list. (Ord. 282, 3-8-2024)
8-21-11: ADDITIONAL STANDARDS FOR LARGE-SCALE WIND PROJECTS:
   A.   In addition to meeting the other requirements of this title, large-
scale wind projects must be designed to:
      1.   Reduce Visual Impact: To the extent practical, the proposed large-
scale wind energy project must be designed to minimize visual impact by:
         a.   Using underground electric lines.
         b.   Using turbine towers of uniform design and color.
         c.   Using the minimum lighting necessary for safety and security
purposes in addition to aviation warning lights required by federal or state
law.
         d.   Using appropriate lighting techniques to prevent glare.
         e.   Using existing roads to provide access to the site or, if new
roads are needed, minimizing the amount of land used for new roads and locating
roads to reduce visual impact and other adverse environmental impacts, such as
erosion.
         f.   For utility-scale projects, using existing substations or, if new
substations are needed, minimizing the number of new substations.
      2.   Protect Wildlife Resources: The applicant shall certify that the
proposed large-scale wind energy project will be designed and constructed to
reduce the likelihood of significant adverse effects on wildlife and wildlife
habitat. Measures to reduce significant impact may include, but are not limited
to, the following:
         a.   Conducting biologically appropriate baseline wildlife surveys in
the areas affected by the proposed wind energy project to determine wildlife
species present and patterns of habitat use.
         b.   Selecting turbine locations to reduce the likelihood of
significant adverse impacts on wildlife based on expert analysis of baseline
data.
         c.   Designing turbine towers to reduce horizontal surfaces for
perching.
         d.   Designing turbine towers and pad-mounted transformers to avoid
creation of artificial habitat or shelter for raptor prey.
         e.   Spreading gravel on turbine pad areas to minimize weeds and to
avoid creation of habitat for raptor prey.
         f.   Using anti-perching protection devices on transmission line
support structures and appropriate spacing of conductors.
         g.   Avoiding construction activities near raptor nesting locations
during sensitive breeding periods and using appropriate no-construction buffers
around known nest sites.
         h.   Developing a plan for post construction monitoring of the wind
energy project site using appropriate survey protocols to measure the impact of
the project on wildlife in the area.
      3.   Protect Public Safety: The proposed large-scale wind energy project
must be designed and operated to protect public safety by measures that may
include, but are not limited to, the following:
         a.   Designing turbine blades so that, at the closest point, the sweep
of the blades is at least twenty-five (25) feet above the tallest existing or
foreseeable obstruction to blade movement.
         b.   Designing, constructing, and operating the project to exclude the
public from close proximity to turbine blades and electrical equipment.
         c.   Designing, constructing, and operating the project to protect
against structural failure of the turbine tower or blades that could endanger
public safety.
         d.   Restricting public access to the interior of tubular turbine
towers by installing locked access doors.
      4.   Required Setbacks: The proposed wind energy project has been
designed so that all aboveground parts of the nearest wind turbine structure
are set back from the property line by a distance that is at least one hundred
twenty-five percent (125%) of the height of the wind turbine structure,
including the rotor-swept area, except when the wind energy project extends
onto the abutting property.
      5.   Signal Interference: No large-scale wind project shall be installed
in any location where its proximity to existing fixed broadcast,
retransmission, or reception antennae for radio, television, or wireless phone
or other personal communication systems would produce interference with signal
transmission or reception unless the applicant provides a replacement signal to
the affected party that will restore reception to at least the level present
before operation of the large wind energy system. No large-scale project shall
be installed in any location within the line of sight of an existing microwave
communications link where operation of the large wind energy system is likely
to produce electromagnetic interference in the link's operation. No large wind
energy system shall be installed in any location within the radar line of sight
of a doppler system where operation of the large wind energy system is likely
to produce interference in the radar's operation. (Ord. 282, 3-8-2024)
8-21-12: ADDITIONAL STANDARDS FOR LARGE-SCALE SOLAR PROJECTS:
In addition to meeting the other requirements in this title, large-scale solar
projects must be designed to:
   A.   Limit Ground Leveling: The proposed large-scale solar energy project
has been designed and would be constructed so that ground leveling is limited
to those areas needed for effective solar energy collection and so that the
natural ground contour is preserved to the greatest extent practical.
   B.   Protect Wildlife Resources: The applicant shall certify that the
proposed large-scale solar energy project will be designed and constructed to
reduce the likelihood of significant adverse effects on wildlife and wildlife
habitat. Measures to reduce significant impact may include, but are not limited
to, the following:
      1.   Designing foundations and support structures for solar equipment to
avoid creation of artificial habitat or shelter for raptor prey.
      2.   Controlling weeds to avoid the creation of artificial habitat
suitable for raptor prey.
      3.   Using anti-perching protection devices on transmission line support
structures and appropriate spacing of conductors.
      4.   Avoiding construction activities near raptor nesting locations
during sensitive breeding periods and using appropriate construction buffers
around known sites.
      5.   Using suitable methods such as co-location or sound-producing
devices to discourage birds from entering areas of concentrated solar energy
near solar-thermal mirrors or other devices that concentrate solar radiation.
   C.   Prevent Misdirection Of Solar Radiation: The applicant shall certify
that the proposed large-scale solar energy project has been designed and will
be operated to prevent the misdirection of concentrated solar radiation onto
nearby property, public roads, or other areas accessible to the public.
   D.   Promote Public Safety: The applicant shall certify that the proposed
large-scale solar energy project has been designed and will be operated to
protect public safety, including development and implementation of a plan of
operating procedures to prevent public access to hazardous areas. (Ord. 282, 3-
8-2024)
8-21-13: PENALTIES: 
A violation of any section or subsection of this chapter is subject to any and
all actions and penalties outlined in Section
8-3-2 of this Title. (Ord. 282, 3-8-2024)
8-21-14: SEVERANCE CLAUSE:
If any provision of this chapter or the application thereof to any person or
circumstance is held invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, the
invalidity shall not affect other provisions or applications of this chapter or
these regulations, which can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application. To this end, the provisions of these regulations are declared to
be severable. (Ord. 282, 3-8-2024)
TITLE 9
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
CHAPTER 1
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
SECTION:
9-1-1: Comprehensive Plan Adopted By Reference
9-1-1: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN ADOPTED BY REFERENCE:
The Twin Falls County Comprehensive Plan "Twin Falls County 2020: Vision for
the Future" adopted by resolution on June 4, 2021, shall be and remain on file
in the office of the Clerk of District Court. Prior comprehensive plans are
hereby repealed and rescinded. (1996 Code; amd. Ord. 268, 6-4-2021)
TITLE 10
SUBDIVISIONS 1
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10-1-1: Preamble
10-1-2: Definitions
 
Notes
1 1. Ordinance 21 was divided into 2 separate titles (title 8, "Zoning" and
  title 10, "Subdivisions") for organizational purposes.
10-1-1: PREAMBLE:
From the effective date hereof, all subdivisions and plats of any tract of land
located wholly or in part in the County of Twin Falls, Idaho, or within one
mile of the city limits of any city, shall comply with the following
requirements of this Title. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
10-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
CROSSWALK: A right of way dedicated to public use which cuts across a block to
facilitate pedestrian access to adjacent streets and properties.
CUL-DE-SAC OR DEAD-END STREET: A short street having one end open to traffic
and being terminated by a vehicle turnaround.
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT: An agreement between Twin Falls County and the developer
which sets out the manner in which real property will be improved.
DOUBLE FRONTAGE LOT: A lot fronting on two (2) nonintersecting streets.
EASEMENT: A right of use, falling short of ownership, and usually for a certain
stated purpose.
IMPROVEMENTS: Changes in the physical characteristics of the land within the
subdivision and/or those facilities which serve the purpose of adding to the
general usability of the land.
OWNER: The individual, form, association, syndicate, partnership, or
corporation having sufficient proprietary interest or legal title in the land
to be subdivided to commence and maintain proceedings under this Title.
PEDESTRIANWAY: A strip of land dedicated to the public use for foot traffic
only.
PLANNING COMMISSION: The County of Twin Falls, Idaho Planning Commission.
PLAT: The drawing, map or plan of a subdivision, cemetery, town site or other
tract of land, or a replatting of such, including certifications, descriptions,
and approvals.
RESERVED STRIP OR EASEMENT: An area of land shown on a plat and intended to
serve as access to streets or alleys but not intended for dedication to the
public.
SHALL: Is mandatory.
STREET, ARTERIAL: A street used primarily for through traffic.
STREET, MARGINAL ACCESS: A minor street parallel to and adjacent to a major
street providing access to abutting properties and protection from through
traffic.
STREET PLUG: An area of land not intended for a building lot and not to be
dedicated to the public, lying between the end of a dedicated street or alley
and the boundary of the subdivision.
STREET, RESIDENTIAL: A street used exclusively for access to abutting
properties.
SUBDIVIDER: Any individual, firm or group who undertakes the subdividing of a
lot, tract or parcel of land for the purpose of transfer or ownership or
development and including changes in street or lot lines.
SUBDIVISION: The result of an act of dividing an original lot, tract or parcel
of land into more than three (3) parts for the purpose of transfer of ownership
or development. However, this Title shall not apply to any of the following:
   A.   An adjustment of lot lines as shown on a recorded plat which does not
reduce the area, frontage, width, depth or building setback lines of each
building site below the minimum zoning requirements, and does not change the
original number of lots in any block of the recorded plat.
   B.   An allocation of land in the settlement of an estate of a decedent or a
court decree for the distribution of property.
   C.   The unwilling sale of land as a result of legal condemnation as defined
and allowed in the Idaho Code.
   D.   Widening of existing streets to conform to a comprehensive plan.
   E.   The acquisition of street rights of way by a public agency in
conformance with a comprehensive plan.
   F.   The exchange of land for the purpose of straightening property
boundaries which does not result in the change of the present land use.
   G.   Land divided into parcels all of which are forty (40) acres in the
Agricultural Zone (A) or one hundred sixty (160) in the Agricultural Range
Preservation Zone (ARP).
   H.   One division of land on an agricultural unit forty (40) acres in the
Agricultural Zone (A) or one hundred sixty (160) in the Agricultural Range
Preservation Zone (ARP) for ag-exemption.
Residential subdivisions are not permitted in the agricultural, airport,
Commercial or Industrial zones. Residential subdivisions are permitted in the
Rural Residential Zone.
In platted subdivisions, one acre minimum lot size may allow slight variation
for inclusion of right-of-way easements at health department discretion.
A minimum lot description shall recognize a plus or minus five percent (±5%)
variation.
SURVEYOR: The County shall choose and require a legally qualified surveyor to
perform land surveying in Idaho to sufficiently check the plat and computations
thereon to determine that the requirements herein are met, and said surveyor
shall certify such compliance on the plat. For performing such service the
County shall collect from the subdivider an appropriate fee as set by the
County Commission. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
CHAPTER 2
PLAT PROCEDURES AND REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
10-2-1: Approval Of Plat
10-2-2: Permits
10-2-3: Preapplication
10-2-4: Preliminary Plat
10-2-5: Final Plat
10-2-6: Principles Of Acceptability
10-2-7: Dimension And Layout Requirements
10-2-8: Sewage System
10-2-9: Land Surface Drainage
10-2-10: Responsibilities
10-2-11: Variations And Exceptions
10-2-12: Grid Addressing
10-2-1: APPROVAL OF PLAT:
No plat shall be recorded, or offered for record, nor shall any land be offered
for sale with reference to such plat, until the said plat has been submitted to
the Planning Commission and approved by the Board of County Commissioners which
shall ascertain, before approving it, that the said plat has satisfied all of
the requirements of this Title and State law. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
10-2-2: PERMITS:
No permits shall be issued by any administrative officer of the County for the
construction of any building, or other improvement requiring a permit, upon any
land for which a plat is required by law unless and until the requirements
hereof have been complied with. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
10-2-3: PREAPPLICATION:
   A.   Preparation: The subdivider shall submit to the County Zoning
Administrator a drawing of the area to be subdivided. Drawing shall note
outside dimensions of property, proposed lot sizes, location and width of
streets, alleys, easement strips for utilities and other information he may
have available.
   B.   Purpose: The purpose of the "preapplication procedure" is to afford the
subdivider an opportunity to avail himself of the advice and assistance of the
County Zoning Administrator before incurring the expense of exhaustive surveys
and calculations. Thorough analysis of the problems at this state may expedite
approval of the preliminary and final plats. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
10-2-4: PRELIMINARY PLAT:
   A.   Preparation: The subdivider shall submit to the Planning Commission a
preliminary plat, together with improvement plans and other supplementary
material. The preliminary plat shall include approval of:
      1.   The dimensions and layout of roads and streets and land surface
drainage by the designated representative of the highway district having
jurisdiction over the premises proposed to be subdivided.
      2.   Approval of plans and specifications of proposed water and sewage
facilities by the Idaho Department of Public Health.
      3.   Written approval of the canal company or district.
      4.   Preliminary plat shall be prepared by a registered professional
engineer or registered land surveyor.
   B.   Purpose: The purpose of the preliminary plat is to present an early
study of the proposed subdivision to the Planning Commission to receive its
approval or recommendations for revision before drafting a final plat for
approval.
   C.   Scope: The preliminary plat shall contain a vicinity map and a detail
map which shows all pertinent information to scale, in order that the Planning
Commission may properly review the proposed development.
   D.   Information Required: The preliminary plat shall include the following
information:
      1.   Vicinity map to scale showing the relationship to the nearest major
streets in the area.
      2.   Detailed map which shall contain the following information:
         a.   General Information:
            (1)   Name of the subdivision; this name must not duplicate or
resemble the name of another subdivision in Twin Falls County and shall be
approved by the Zoning Department.
            (2)   Date, north point, and scale drawing.
            (3)   Location of the subdivision by section, township, and range.
            (4)   Names, addresses and telephone numbers of the owners,
subdivider and designer of the subdivision.
         b.   Existing Conditions:
            (1)   Boundaries: Boundary lines of the tract, distances, and
approximate acreage enclosed.
            (2)   Streets And Rights Of Way: Streets; location, name, present
width, type of surfacing of all streets, alleys, and rights of way, including
walks, curbs, gutters and culverts on and abutting the tract. There shall be no
duplication in the name of the proposed subdivision or roadways contained
therein.
            (3)   Easements: Approximate width, location and purpose of all
existing easements on and abutting the tract.
            (4)   Utilities And Sewers: Utilities on and abutting the tract;
location and size of sanitary and storm water design plan.
            (5)   Watercourses: Watercourses on or abutting the property
showing the location and direction of flow.
            (6)   Uses: Existing uses of the property, including the location
and use of all existing structures to remain on the property after platting.
            (7)   Zoning: Zoning on and adjacent to the tract.
   E.   Proposed Improvements:
      1.   Streets: Location, names, grid addressing, right-of-way widths.
      2.   Easements: Location, width and purpose of all easements.
      3.   Proposed Streets: Location of official plan lines of projected
streets or highways as shown on the Official Master Plan of the County.
      4.   Lots: Approximate dimensions of all lots, and proposed lot and block
numbers.
      5.   Uses: Proposed use of the property; including sites, if any, for
multi-family dwellings, shopping centers, churches, industry, parks and
playgrounds or other public or semipublic uses.
      6.   Improvements: Statement of the subdivision improvements proposed to
be made or installed, including sidewalks, curbs, gutters, street improvements,
sewer drains, paved roads, and the time such improvements are to be made and
completed.
      7.   Sewage Disposal: Method of sewage disposal.
      8.   Written Statement: Such of the foregoing information as may not be
shown practicably on the maps may be shown in separate statements, accompanying
the preliminary plat.
   F.   Conditional Approval:
      1.   Submission: Two (2) copies of the preliminary plat and supplementary
material specified shall be submitted to the Planning Commission at least
fifteen (15) days prior to the regularly scheduled meeting for consideration.
      2.   Conditional Approval: Following review of the preliminary plat and
supplemental material, as submitted or modified, the Planning Commission shall
express any approval of the plat as conditional approval and state the
conditions.
      3.   Notice Of Approval: The action of the Planning Commission shall be
noted on two (2) copies of the preliminary plat. One copy shall be returned to
the subdivider and the other retained by the Planning Commission.
      4.   Limitation Of Approval: Conditional approval of a preliminary plat
shall not constitute approval of the final plat for record. Rather, it shall be
a guide to the preparation of the final plat which will be submitted for
approval of the Planning Commission. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
10-2-5: FINAL PLAT:
   A.   Time Limit: The final plat shall be recorded within one year following
the conditional approval given on the preliminary plat, and shall incorporate
the recommendations made by the Commission. If the subdivider wishes to proceed
with the subdivision of his land after the expiration of the one year period,
he shall resubmit the preliminary plat to the Planning Commission and make any
revisions considered necessary to meet changed conditions.
   B.   Partial Development: If desired by the subdivider, the final plat may
constitute only that portion of the approved preliminary plat which he proposes
to record and develop at the time; provided, however, that such portion
conforms to all requirements of this Title.
   C.   Information Required: The final plat shall meet all the requirements of
chapter 25, title 50, Idaho Code and shall include the following information:
      1.   Name And Location Of Subdivision: Name of the subdivision, the
acreage enclosed, and the location of the subdivision by section, township and
range.
      2.   North Point And Scale: North point and scale of drawing.
      3.   Boundary Line: Boundary line of the tract, bearings and distances;
and the distances and bearings to the closest land division corner, i.e.,
section corner or quarter corner.
      4.   Curve Dimensions: All curves shall be circular arcs and shall be
described by the degree of curvature, central angle, length and bearing of the
long chord, length and bearing of the tangents.
      5.   Streets And Alleys: The location, name, width and curve dimensions
of each street and alley or other public right of way.
      6.   Easements: Location and width.
      7.   Existing Utilities: Type, use, location and size.
      8.   Map: A location or vicinity map showing the relationship to the near
surrounding area and the major existing streets of the surrounding and adjacent
area.
      9.   Lot Lines: All lot lines with dimensions in feet and hundredths and
with bearings and angles to the nearest thirty- seconds of arc.
      10.   Blocks: Blocks shall be numbered consecutively throughout the tract
and lots throughout each block.
      11.   Monuments: A certificate signed by the surveyor or engineer
certifying that the following points and corners and monuments have been set on
the tract:
Center line intersections and points of curvature and tangency of all street
center lines shall be marked with a three-fourths inch (3/4") diameter iron
rod, or standard brass cap, set in concrete not less than six inches (6")
square at the top and not less than ten inches (10") square at the bottom. The
concrete block shall be at least twenty four inches (24") in vertical height.
The iron rod shall be a minimum of twenty four inches (24") long, extending one
inch (1") above the top of the concrete block. The top of the monument shall
have a minimum natural ground cover of one foot (1'). Block corners and major
boundary corners shall be five-eighths inch (5/8") diameter iron rods at least
thirty inches (30") in length. Lot corners shall be one-half inch (1/2")
diameter steel rods at least twenty four inches (24") in length.
      12.   Computation: A copy of the closed traverse computations which shall
be sufficiently complete to show that all boundaries of lots, blocks and the
entire subdivision close to an accuracy of not less than one part in four
thousand (1/4000).
      13.   Preparation: Final plat shall be prepared by a registered
professional engineer or registered land surveyor.
   D.   Procedure For Filing:
      1.   Submission: The final plat shall be submitted to the County Engineer
for review. He will forward it to the Planning and Zoning Commission for
approval. Subdivision verification fees shall be as indicated in Idaho Code 50-
1305.
      2.   Planning Commission Approval: The Planning Commission shall check
the final plat with the conditionally approved preliminary plat for conformity
with recommended revisions. If approved, the plat shall be forwarded to the
Board of County Commissioners.
      3.   Water Stock: All district or canal company water stock for land
included in the subdivision shall be placed in trust to any approved
association acting as trustee. Said trustee will be bound to administer over
the affairs of the property owners within said subdivision insofar as the Twin
Falls Canal Company water and stock pertaining thereto is concerned.
      4.   Fees: Fees shall accompany the final plat when presented to the
Board of County Commissioners for approval, determined by fee schedule set by
County Clerk.
      5.   Irrigation Facilities And Drainage Systems, Natural Streams And
Drainageways: All subdivisions shall comply with canal company or district
requirements relating to irrigation facilities and drainage systems, natural
streams, and drainageways, as may be established for subdivisions. If
irrigation rights are to be acquired or maintained for the development, a
properly functioning distribution system shall be installed. (Ord. 21, 12-1-
1998)
10-2-6: PRINCIPLES OF ACCEPTABILITY:
   A.   Summary: The street layout of each subdivision within one mile of a
city limit shall be based on the sections of the master plan adopted or
proposed for the city and shall be considered in relation to existing and
planned streets, to topographic conditions, to public convenience and safety,
and shall have an appropriated relation to the proposed uses of the land to be
served by such streets. Where such is not shown on the master plan the
arrangement of streets in a subdivision shall either:
      1.   Provide for the continuation or appropriate projection of existing
principal streets in surrounding areas; or
      2.   Conform to a plan for the neighborhood approved or adopted by the
Board of County Commissioners to meet a particular situation where topography
or other conditions make continuance or conformance to existing streets
impractical.
   B.   Intersections Along Arterial Streets: Intersections of residential and
collector streets with arterial streets and highways shall, insofar as
practicable, be widely spaced along the arterial streets and be limited in the
number of intersections to the minimum necessary for reasonable convenient
access between arterial streets and local neighborhood areas.
   C.   Future Extension Of Streets: Where a subdivision adjoins unsubdivided
land, streets which, in the opinion of the County Commissioners, should be
continued in the event of a subdivision of the adjoining land, will be required
to be provided to the boundary lines of the tract.
   D.   Partial Development: Where the plat to be subdivided contains only part
of the tract owned by the subdivider, the County Commissioners shall require a
sketch of a tentative future street system for the unsubdivided portion.
   E.   Acreage Tract: Where a tract of land is subdivided into larger parcels,
the arrangement of lots and streets shall be so as to permit a resubdivision
into smaller lots in conformity with the street and lot requirements specified
in these regulations. Building setback lines shall be established in order to
preserve future rights of way.
   F.   Frontage On Arterial Streets: Where a subdivision abuts or contains an
existing or proposed arterial street, the County Commissioners may require
frontage streets, reverse frontage lots with a minimum depth of one hundred
fifty feet (150'), screen planting contained in a nonaccess reservation along
the rear property line, or such other treatment as may be necessary for
adequate protection of residential properties and to afford separation of
through and local traffic.
   G.   Street Names: No street names shall be used which will duplicate or be
confused with the names of existing streets. Street names shall be subject to
the approval of the Planning Commission and shall conform to the street grid
and pattern established herein and for the Official County Map.
   H.   Reserved Strips Or Easements: Reserved strips or street plugs
controlling the access to public ways will not be approved unless such strips
are necessary for the protection of the public welfare or of substantial
property rights or both, and in no case unless the control and disposal of the
land comprising such strips is placed definitely within the jurisdiction of the
County under conditions approved by the Board of County Commissioners. (Ord.
21, 12-1-1998)
10-2-7: DIMENSION AND LAYOUT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Minimum Right-Of-Way Widths: Street right-of-way width shall be
adequate for the type of street indicated by its function in the design of the
land subdivided.
   B.   Width: Width right of way shall meet the minimum requirements shown in
the following table:
Type Of Street Right-Of-Way Minimum
Type Of Street                    Right-Of-Way Minimum
Arterial street                   80 feet
For multi-family or commercial    60 feet
development and collector streets
Residential street                50 feet
Cul-de-sac
Dead-end street with turnaround   50 feet
Turnaround for cul-de-sac         40 foot radius
Alley                             20 feet
 
   C.   Conformity Required: All streets, roads, cul-de-sacs, etc., to be
dedicated to a highway district shall conform to the standards set forth in the
Highway Standards and Development Procedures for the highway districts of Twin
Falls County, Idaho 1994 Edition or latest version, or the standards required
by the municipality into which it is to be incorporated.
   D.   Private Roads: Private roads shall conform to the following minimum
standards:
      1.   Width: Twenty feet (20').
      2.   Base: Eight inches (8") gravel.
      3.   Surface: Two inches (2") asphalt.
   E.   Intersections:
      1.   Horizontal Intersection Angle: Ninety degrees (90°) preferred;
seventy five degrees (75°) minimum.
      2.   Sight Distance: The County Commission may require such conditions as
will establish and protect adequate sight distances for vehicular traffic at
street intersections.
   F.   Curves: When connecting street lines deflect from each other at any one
point by more than ten degrees (10°), they shall be connected by a curve with a
radius adequate to ensure traffic safety and proper street construction and
appearance.
   G.   Blocks: The lengths, widths and shapes of blocks shall be designed with
due regard to:
      1.   Provisions of adequate building site suitable to the special needs
of the type of use contemplated.
      2.   Needs for convenient access, circulation, control and safety of
street traffic.
      3.   Limitations and opportunities of topography.
   H.   Lots:
      1.   Minimum Lot Requirements: Lot dimensions shall in all cases conform
to the minimum requirements of the Zoning Ordinance for the district.
      2.   Deed Covenants: Deed covenants shall prohibit construction of
permanent structures on easements and proposed rights of way and also regulate
setback requirements for that district.
      3.   Lot Side Lines: The side lines of lots shall run at right angles to
the street on which the lots face, as far as is practicable, or on curved
street shall be radial to the curve as far as practicable.
      4.   Double Frontage And Reverse-Frontage: Double frontage and reverse-
frontage lots shall be avoided except where essential to provide separation of
residential development from traffic arteries or to overcome specific
disadvantages of topography and orientation.
      5.   Lots Subject To Resubdivision: In subdividing tracts which at some
future time are likely to be resubdivided, the location of lot lines and other
details of the layout shall be such that resubdivision may readily take place
without violating the requirements of these regulations and without interfering
with the orderly development of streets. Restriction of buildings within future
street locations shall be made a matter of record if the County Commissioners
consider it necessary.
      6.   Property Lines At Intersections: Property lines at intersections
shall be rounded with a minimum radius of ten feet (10').
   I.   Easements For Utility Lines: Easements for sewer, water, gas, electric,
telephone, drainage, irrigation or other public utilities shall be required.
Easements of utility lines shall be a minimum of fifteen feet (15') in width,
and centered on rear or side lot lines.
   J.   Watercourses: Where a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse,
drainageway, channel or stream, there shall be provided an easement of such
width adequate to carry the water and to construct and maintain the water way.
   K.   Pedestrianways: Pedestrianways with a minimum width of ten feet (10')
shall be provided where such walkways are essential for public convenience.
   L.   Alleys:
      1.   Locations: Alleys shall be provided in commercial and industrial
districts, unless other access to off-street parking and loading facilities is
made as approved by the Board of County Commissioners.
      2.   Intersections: Alley intersections and sharp changes in alignment
shall be avoided, but where necessary, corners shall be cut off sufficiently to
permit safe vehicular movement.
      3.   Dead Ends: Dead-end alleys shall be avoided where possible, but if
unavoidable, shall be provided with adequate turnaround facilities as
determined by the Board of County Commissioners. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
10-2-8: SEWAGE SYSTEM:
Method and extent of sewage disposal shall meet the standards of and be
approved by the State of Idaho Department of Public Health. In a subdivision
within a reasonable distance to an existing sanitary system, the subdivider may
be required to make connection thereto. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
10-2-9: LAND SURFACE DRAINAGE:
Such grading shall be done and such structures shall be provided by the
subdivider as are deemed essential by the County to provide adequate storm
water drainage. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
10-2-10: RESPONSIBILITIES:
   A.   Engineering: The subdivider shall be responsible for all engineering
work. The County Engineer shall review the engineering work presented by the
subdivider. In cases where the subdivision is being considered for annexation,
the City Engineer may inspect the field work done by the subdivider.
   B.   Streets; Alleys: The subdivider shall be responsible for the
construction of street and alleys. Where the subdivision is being considered
for annexation, the streets and alleys shall be improved at the expense of the
subdivider in accordance with the current policy standards established by the
city council and adopted by the Board of County Commissioners.
      1.   All streets that are an integral part of the subdivision must be
improved at the expense of the subdivider in accordance with the current policy
and standards established by the highway district. Said streets, upon
completion of said improvement may be accepted for maintenance by the highway
district.
      2.   In lieu of these requirements, the subdivider may deposit with the
County Clerk a performance bond or other security agreed upon by the County
equal to the highway district's estimated cost of such improvements as a
guarantee that within two (2) years or after seventy five percent (75%) of the
lots are sold in any one block or street whichever occurs first, improvements
required by the County shall be installed. If within two (2) years or after
seventy five percent (75%) of the lots have been sold, the work has not been
completed, the bond or other security may be forfeited at the County's
discretion and the improvements constructed by the County. If the work has been
completed to the satisfaction of the county, the bond or other security shall
be released.
   C.   Water Mains: When water mains are constructed in subdivisions within
one-half (1/2) mile of a city limit, the subdivider shall be responsible for
the expense of construction. Sewers must conform to state standards. Where the
subdivision is being considered for annexation the sewers and drains shall
comply with city standards.
   D.   Sewers And Drains: When sewers and drains are constructed in
subdivisions within one-half (1/2) mile of a city limit, the subdivider shall
be responsible for the expense of construction. Sewers must conform to state
standards. Where the subdivision is being considered for annexation the sewers
and drains shall comply with city standards.
   E.   Traffic Controls, Streetlights, Signs: Traffic control signals,
streetlights, street name signs and traffic control signs shall be installed at
the expense of the subdivider. Where the subdivision is being considered for
annexation, the above items shall conform to the city standards.
   F.   Performance Guarantee: The developer shall provide proof of one of the
following:
      1.   Cash bond in the amount of the cost of paving the roads and any
other improvements identified in the development agreement.
      2.   Surety bond in the amount of the cost of paving the roads and other
improvements identified in the development agreement.
      3.   Letter of credit in the amount of the cost of paving the roads and
other improvements identified in the development agreement.
      4.   Escrow reserve account acceptable to the planning and zoning
commission.
      5.   Upon completion of thirty percent (30%) of the first phase of the
project or within one year from the start of construction, the roads must be
paved for that phase of the project. Each phase thereafter must be completed in
the same manner.
   G.   Development Agreement: A development agreement must be provided and
approved by staff before the letter of approval is issued. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
   H.   Extensions: In the event of extraordinary circumstances, an extension
of time may be requested for the completion of infrastructure in platted
subdivisions beyond the original completion date. The request shall be in
writing, along with supporting documents to the planning and zoning
administration which will then review the request. Upon determining the request
is complete, it will be forwarded to the board of county commissioners for
consideration and action. The board may then either approve, deny, or modify
the request. The request shall include the following:
      1.   Reason for the request.
      2.   Updated cost estimate for improvements.
      3.   Updated development agreement.
      4.   Performance guarantee for cost of improvements, the performance
guarantee shall be dated to match the extended date requested.
      5.   Any other information as may be determined necessary to process the
request.
Extensions are limited to two (2) years; in the event an additional extension
is needed, it may be requested in the same manner as listed above. Under no
circumstances shall more than four (4) extensions be granted; the performance
guarantee shall match the time being requested. (Ord. 228, 3-28-2012)
10-2-11: VARIATIONS AND EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Hardship: Where the board of county commissioners find that
extraordinary hardship may result from strict compliance with these
regulations, it may vary the regulations so that substantial justice may be
done and the public interest secured; provided that such variation will not
have the effect of nullifying the intent and purpose of the master plan of this
title.
   B.   Conditions: In granting variances and modifications the board of county
commissioners may require such conditions as will, in their judgment secure
substantially the objectives of the standards or requirements so varied or
modified.
   C.   Conformity: The regulations set forth in this zoning ordinance shall
conform with and regulate, insofar as they are applicable, in accordance with
the provisions of Idaho Code title 50, chapter 13. Any variations between any
provisions of this title and applicable state law shall render only that
particular nonconforming provision invalid and shall not affect the validity of
the remaining provisions of this title. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
10-2-12: GRID ADDRESSING 1 :
   A.   To be assigned by the developer and delivered to the county planning
and zoning department.
   B.   All street signs to be furnished and installed by the developer. (Ord.
21, 12-1-1998)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 7, chapter 2 of this code.
CHAPTER 3
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS (PUD)
SECTION:
10-3-1: Purpose
10-3-2: General Provisions
10-3-3: Procedures
10-3-4: Engineering Approval Required
10-3-5: Requirements
10-3-6: Density
10-3-7: Density Bonus
10-3-8: Density Cluster Developments
10-3-9: Design And Dimensional Standards
10-3-10: Screening At Edges Of PUD
10-3-11: Circulation
10-3-12: Utilities
10-3-13: Open Space
10-3-14: Landscaping
10-3-15: Commercial Uses
10-3-16: Industrial Uses
10-3-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this Chapter is to create a permit process to:
   A.   Provide for the orderly and functional arrangement of land uses and
buildings in an attractively developed site.
   B.   Provide for the appropriate use of land that is unique in its physical
characteristics or other circumstances warranting special methods of
development.
   C.   Whereas the regulations in this Title and the zoning categories are
designed to apply to individual lots and minimum area parcels, the planned unit
development procedure in Idaho Code 67-6515 is intended to be used to permit a
degree of flexibility and diversification in the use of land for planned
development which will provide a development as good or better in function and
relationship to the area as the traditional lot by lot development.
   D.   Constraints include, but are not limited to, the following: flood
hazards, unstable geologic conditions, soil conditions, topography, high ground
water areas and other characteristics that could endanger the residents or do
environments harm. Development shall be denied, density limited or density
clustered away from such areas. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
10-3-2: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Applicability: Whenever an application is submitted for a planned unit
development (PUD) as defined herein, the procedures set forth herein shall
apply. Also the requirements of Chapters 1 and 2 of this Title, which are more
restrictive than these PUD provisions, shall also apply.
   B.   Conformity Required: Planned unit developments shall conform to the
zones in which they are proposed. Latitude will be given to incorporate
imaginative ideas and innovations, provided the planned unit developments shall
conform to the purposes and objectives of the Comprehensive Plan.
   C.   Concurrent Processing: An application for a planned unit development
may be accompanied by all other discretionary requests, such as changes of
zone, variances, conditional use permits and plats that may relate to the
proposal. Zone change applications consistent with the Comprehensive Plan that
are processed concurrently with a PUD application may be filed with the
Director, but shall not become finalized until the provisions of this Chapter
are met.
   D.   Subdivision Of Land: Planned unit developments that require the
subdivision of land may also have applications for each processed concurrently.
A preliminary development plan may also be a preliminary plat and a final
development plan may also be a final plat. In no instance shall the platting
requirements for subdivisions, as set forth in State code and in Chapters 1 and
2 of this Title be waived as a result of this concurrent processing provision.
A final subdivision plat may not be recorded prior to approval of a final
development plan.
   E.   Overlay Districts: Where property is subject to the provisions of an
overlay district in addition to the base zone, the more stringent requirements
of each zone shall apply.
   F.   Streets: All streets to be dedicated to the highway districts shall
comply with the Highway Standards and Development Procedures for the Highway
Districts of Twin Falls County, Idaho 1994 Edition or latest edition.
   G.   Private Roads: Private roads shall conform to the following minimum
standards:
      1.   Width: Twenty feet (20').
      2.   Base: Eight inches (8") gravel.
      3.   Surface: Two inches (2") asphalt.
   H.   Minimum Area: A planned unit development for the following principal
uses shall contain an area of not less than:
      1.   Twenty (20) acres for residential development.
      2.   Twenty five (25) acres for residential use with subordinate
commercial or industrial use.
      3.   Ten (10) acres for commercial use.
      4.   Ten (10) acres for industrial use. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
10-3-3: PROCEDURES:
   A.   Application: An application for a PUD shall be submitted to the
Director on forms provided for this purpose, and shall be accompanied by all
information requested on said application.
   B.   Preapplication Conference: At the early planning stages of any proposed
development, and prior to submission of a preliminary development plan, an
applicant should confer with the Director or his staff to determine the
consistency of the proposal with applicable comprehensive plans and ordinances
governing land development, consider the full impact and consequences of the
proposal, discuss alternate plans or methods of development, formulate
modifications that may be necessary, and provide ample opportunity to determine
the best means for proceeding with a PUD. In addition the applicant should be
apprised of any possible requirements, or the need to further consult with any
city, County, special purpose district, State or other public or private
agencies affected by the proposed development. The conclusions derived from the
preapplication conference shall not be deemed binding on either the developer
or the County.
   C.   Preliminary Development Plan Submittal:
      1.   Filing: The applicant shall submit all applications and fees for
consideration of the preliminary development plan to the Planning and Zoning
Department. Applications shall be completed as specified by the Director or
designated staff member. The Director shall have a reasonable time from the
date of submittal of the application to accept or reject the application.
Rejection of the application shall occur in writing and shall have an
explanation of what materials are found to be inaccurate or incomplete. If
rejected, the applicant may appeal the decision to the Commission. If
applicable, preliminary subdivision plats, consistent with the requirements of
Chapters 1 and 2 of this Title, may be filed with the preliminary development
plan.
      2.   Commission Review: Upon return of agency comments the Director shall
schedule the item for a public hearing at a regular meeting of the Commission
and shall give the required legal and other notice to the public. In addition
to submissions by the developer, staff comments, agency referral comments and
public comments, the Commission shall consider the provisions of this Chapter,
and other pertinent ordinances and the findings of fact set forth below. The
Commission shall recommend approval, approval with conditions or denial of the
plan.
      3.   Board Action: For those planned unit developments that reach the
Board of Commissioners because of an appeal, the Board shall consider the
preliminary development plan at a public hearing. In addition to submissions by
the developer, staff comments, agency referral comments and public comments,
the Board shall consider the provisions of this Chapter and other pertinent
ordinances, the recommendations of the Commission, and the findings of fact
below. The Board may approve, approve with conditions or modifications, or deny
the plan, or may table the item until specified additional information is
received. The Board shall take action on the petition after the public hearing
has been held unless the item has been tabled as specified above. Should the
Board deny the granting of the permit, it shall inform the applicant of what
actions, if any, could be taken that could make the PUD more acceptable.
      4.   Findings Of Fact: The Commission, before recommending action on a
preliminary development plan, and the Board, before taking action on said plan,
shall first make findings of fact and conclusions of law, which shall be
supported by evidence in the hearing record to determine whether:
         a.   The site design conforms to the topography and natural landscape
features and shows consideration for the location and function of land uses and
structures to achieve this purpose.
         b.   The development is compatible with existing and planned permitted
uses and would not cause damage, hazard or nuisance to persons or property in
the vicinity.
         c.   The internal street system is designed for the efficient and safe
flow of vehicles and pedestrians without having a disruptive influence upon the
activities and functions contained within the development.
         d.   Community facilities, such as park, recreational and open space
areas are functionally related to all dwelling units and are easily accessible
via pedestrian and/or bicycle pathways. Any common usable open space provided
shall be directly accessible to the lots that have been reduced in size from
the minimum lot size within the base zone.
         e.   The overall plan is in conformance with the applicable
comprehensive plan, area of city impact overlay ordinances and other pertinent
ordinances.
         f.   For any change of zone, the Commission and Board shall address
the appropriate findings. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
10-3-4: ENGINEERING APPROVAL REQUIRED:
The PUD shall require the same verification as is required of a subdivision.
The County shall choose and require a legally qualified surveyor or engineer
(under Idaho Statutes) to sufficiently check the development and/or plat to
determine that the requirements herein are met, and said engineer or surveyor
shall certify such compliance on the instruments. For performing such service
the County shall collect from the developer an appropriate fee as set by the
County Commission.
   A.   Term Of Preliminary Development Plan Approval:
      1.   Nonphased Projects: The term of approval for a preliminary
development plan that is to be constructed in one phase shall be one year from
the date of final action. The Director may, upon written request from the
applicant, which sets forth good and sufficient reasons for an extension of
time, authorize one extension for a period not to exceed one year. Bonding and
other financial guarantees shall be extended accordingly. In approving a time
extension the Director may institute additional conditions on the plan to meet
new requirements that have been adopted by Twin Falls County, as they may
affect the project. Failure to file for final development plan approval within
the specified time period shall void approval of the preliminary development
plan.
      2.   Phased Projects: The preliminary development plans for multi-phased
projects shall include the anticipated phasing of the development. Each
consecutive phase shall be filed with the Director for final development plan
approval within one year of the approval date of the final development plan of
the prior phases. One 1-year extension for each phase may be granted by the
Director. Bonding and other financial guarantees shall be extended accordingly.
In approving a time extension the Director may institute additional conditions
on the plan to meet new requirements that have been adopted by Twin Falls
County, as they may affect the project. Failure to file the final development
plan within the specified time periods shall void the specific preliminary
development plan phase as well as all remaining phases.
   B.   Final Development Plan:
      1.   Submission Of Applications: The final development plan shall be
returned to the Director or a designated staff member. All information and
supporting documents shall be reviewed for accuracy and completeness prior to
acceptance. The Twin Falls planning office shall have a reasonable time to
accept or reject the application. Rejection of the application shall occur in
writing and shall have an explanation of what materials are found to be
inaccurate or incomplete. The final development plan shall conform
substantially with the preliminary development plan approved by the Board and
shall have incorporated into the final development plan all modifications,
conditions and provisions required by the Board. The above determinations shall
be made by the Director or designee upon acceptance. If a public hearing is
required, the Director shall provide the required legal and other notice.
      2.   Term Of Final Development Plan Approval: Within one year from the
date that the final action on the development plan, one of the following must
occur or the planned unit development shall become null and void:
         a.   For PUDs requiring the subdivision of land, the bond or other
surety for proposed improvements shall be filed with the County or the
improvements be satisfactorily completed and a final plat shall be recorded
with the County Recorder's office, as set forth in Chapters 1 and 2 of this
Title, or
         b.   For PUDs not requiring the subdivision of land, the bond or other
surety for proposed improvements shall be filed with the County or the
improvements be satisfactorily completed and building permits shall be acquired
or the Director may authorize time extensions in accordance with provisions of
this Title.
         c.   In lieu of these requirements, the subdivider may deposit with
the County Clerk a performance bond or other security agreed upon by the County
equal to the highway district's estimated cost of such improvements as a
guarantee that within two (2) years or after seventy five percent (75%) of the
lots are sold in any one block or street whichever occurs first, improvements
required by the County shall be installed. If within two (2) years or after
seventy five percent (75%) of the lots have been sold, the work has not been
completed, the bond or other security may be forfeited at the County's
discretion and the improvements constructed by the County. If the work has been
completed to the satisfaction of the County, the bond or other security shall
be released. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
10-3-5: REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Issuance Of Building Permit: No zoning certificate or building permit
shall be issued for any part of a planned unit development unless said part is
included in an approved final development plan/final subdivision plat and
conforms to all requirements.
   B.   Conditions Run With Land: Any conditions attached to a final
development plan shall run with the land and shall not lapse or be waived as a
result of any subsequent change in the tenancy or ownership of any or of all
said lands.
   C.   Improvements: Construction or installation of proposed and required
improvements are the responsibility of the owner/developer prior to occupancy
of any structure. Maintenance of these improvements shall remain the owner's/
developer's responsibility until the homeowners' association has the number of
dues paying members to fully take over that responsibility.
   D.   Change Of Planned Unit Development:
      1.   Preliminary Development Plan Stage: Modifications to an approved
preliminary development plan regarding the location of land use type may be
permitted prior to the submittal of the final development plan, if, in the
judgment of the Director, said modification will not materially change the
character of the project nor affect the findings of fact made by the approving
authority. Whenever this provision is applied, the applicant shall be required
to submit written justification supporting the change, which shall be made
public record and filed with the PUD application.
      2.   Final Development Plan Stage: No change in the approved final
development plan shall be permitted without prior approval of the appropriate
final authority except that minor changes in the location, siting, and height
of buildings and structures may be authorized by the Director when required by
engineering or other circumstances not foreseen at the time of final
development plan approval. No such minor changes may increase the volume of any
building or structure by more than ten percent (10%). The gross density of the
PUD may not be increased beyond that density approved on the preliminary
development plan.
      3.   Phased Projects: Final development plans for multi-phased projects
may be filed by phase and changes from the preliminary development plan may be
made as conditions change from phase to phase during the period of the plan;
however, any such changes must be supported by written justification and may
not increase the gross density nor alter the range of uses allowed on the
approved preliminary development plan and must meet all other criteria of
approval.
   E.   Domestic Water And Wastewater Systems: All new domestic water supply
and wastewater systems shall comply with the applicable requirements of all
local, State and Federal regulations governing the installation, operation and
maintenance of such systems.
   F.   Irrigation Facilities And Drainage Systems, Natural Streams And
Drainageways: All PUDs shall comply with canal company or district requirements
relating to irrigation facilities and drainage systems, natural stream, and
drainageways, as may be established for subdivisions. If irrigation rights are
to be acquired or maintained for the development, a properly functioning
distribution system shall be installed.
   G.   Performance Guarantee: The developer shall provide proof of one of the
following:
      1.   Cash bond in the amount of the cost of paving the roads and any
other improvements identified in the development agreement.
      2.   Surety bond in the amount of the cost of paving the roads and other
improvements identified in the development.
      3.   Letter of credit in the amount of the cost of paving the roads and
other improvements identified in the development agreement.
      4.   Escrow reserve account acceptable to the Planning and Zoning
Commission.
      5.   Upon completion of thirty percent (30%) of the first phase of the
project or within two (2) years from the start of construction, whichever
occurs first, the roads must be paved for that phase of the project. Each phase
thereafter must be completed in the same manner. If the developer fails to meet
this condition, the bond or other security may be forfeited at the County's
discretion.
   H.   Agreement: A development agreement must be provided and approved by
staff before the letter of approval is issued.
   I.   Water Stock: All canal company or district water stock for land
included in the planned unit development shall be placed in trust to any
approved association acting as trustee. Said trustee will be bound to
administer over the affairs of the property owners within said subdivision
insofar as the canal company or district water and stock pertaining thereto is
concerned. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
10-3-6: DENSITY:
The number of dwelling units per acre allowed in a planned unit development
shall be the same as permitted in the applicable base zone. In determining
densities, consideration shall be given to the Comprehensive Plan, the findings
of fact, the location and use standards contained in this Chapter and the
density bonus provisions. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
10-3-7: DENSITY BONUS:
The Commission may approve a "density bonus" of up to fifty percent (50%) over
the density established in the base zone. A density bonus may be approved when
the following criteria are met:
   A.   The planned unit development shall comply with all provisions
established in this Zoning Ordinance except those specifically allowed by this
Chapter to be varied.
   B.   Approval by applicable health and other governmental authorities
relating to water and septic/sewer systems.
   C.   The property has adequate access from an adjoining public street(s) and
the design of the internal circulation system provides for safe and efficient
flow of traffic. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
10-3-8: DENSITY CLUSTER DEVELOPMENTS:
The Commission may approve or require "clustering" of dwellings within a PUD to
provide a method whereby development will not occur in flood plain or
environmentally sensitive areas, etc. Up to one hundred percent (100%) of the
allowed density of a portion of the PUD may be clustered on another portion of
the PUD provided it is found that the resulting net density will not have an
adverse effect upon adjacent properties and that the design of the project is
consistent with the objectives of the PUD. The transfer of density from the
proposed PUD to a separate parcel of land not within the PUD is not authorized.
(Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
10-3-9: DESIGN AND DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS:
The standards in the base zone for site coverage, building height, site area
and setbacks shall be used as a guide in evaluating a PUD, but may be modified
by the Commission upon making the findings of fact as set forth in this
Chapter. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
10-3-10: SCREENING AT EDGES OF PUD:
Yards, fences, walls or vegetative screening shall be provided at the edges of
the PUD where needed to protect residents and adjacent property owners from
undesirable views, lighting, noise, or other on- and off-site influences. In
particular, extensive off-street parking areas, service areas for loading and
unloading purposes other than for passenger use and storage areas for garbage
collection shall be screened. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
10-3-11: CIRCULATION:
   A.   Vehicular:
      1.   Vehicular access to lots, fronting on an arterial or collector
street shall be via a frontage road, service road or other local street.
      2.   Each PUD shall provide two (2) separate points of ingress/egress.
      3.   If it is determined that traffic-control devices or other traffic
regulating improvements are required as a result of a PUD, the developer shall
be responsible for the cost of installation and/or construction of such
improvements. The appropriate County highway district will be responsible for
traffic-control devices. As a condition of approval, financial guarantees shall
be posted by the developer to ensure installation and construction of such
improvements.
      4.   Design and dimensional standards for roadways shall be subject to
standards established by the applicable County highway districts, Idaho
Transportation Department and/or the Board. Storm water shall be contained on-
site.
      5.   Internal streets, drive and parking and service areas shall provide
safe and convenient access to dwelling units and recreational facilities, and
for service and emergency vehicles. Streets shall not be designed to encourage
outside traffic to traverse the development on minor streets.
   B.   Pedestrian, Equestrians And Cyclists:
      1.   Design standards for bicycle facilities shall be subject to American
Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials Guide for the
Development of Bicycle Facilities, latest edition.
      2.   Access for pedestrians and/or cyclists entering or leaving the
planned unit development shall be by safe and convenient routes, which shall
conform to all local, State and Federal regulations.
      3.   Walkways shall form a logical, safe and convenient system for
pedestrian access to all dwelling units, appropriate facilities, and principal
off-site pedestrian destinations.
      4.   Pedestrian, equestrian and bicycle paths may be combined with other
easements and used by emergency and service vehicles where appropriate, but
shall not be used by other automotive traffic.
      5.   Pedestrian and equestrian paths shall conform to the standards set
forth in Trails for the Twenty First Century by Rails to Trails Conservancy.
   C.   Weather Standards: All streets and driveways shall be built to all
weather standards of the respective highway district and paved with asphalt or
concrete, whether or not intended for homeowners' association maintenance.
   D.   Lighting: Street and other outdoor lighting shall be shielded or
adequately focused so as not to send light or glare beyond the affected and
intended service area. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
10-3-12: UTILITIES:
Planned unit developments shall provide for the installation of utilities;
including domestic water systems, except for individual wells, wastewater
systems, storm sewers to on-site retention areas, and electrical, gas and
telephone lines in either the public right of way or within utility easements.
(Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
10-3-13: OPEN SPACE:
A minimum of ten percent (10%) of the gross land area developed in any PUD
project shall be reserved for common open space and recreational facilities.
Public utility and similar easements and rights of way are not acceptable for
open space and recreational facilities. Unless such land is usable as a trail
or similar purpose and approved by the Commission. No open space area may be
delineated or approved as common open space under the provisions of this Title,
unless it meets the following standards, where applicable:
   A.   Common open space shall be for recreational purposes or to provide
visual, aesthetic or environmental safeguards. Uses of the common open space
shall be appropriate to the scale and character of the PUD, considering its
size, density, population, topography and buildings.
   B.   Common open space shall be suitably improved for its intended use, but
common open space containing natural features worthy of the preservation may be
left unimproved. Structures and improvements to be located in or adjacent to
the common open space shall preserve and enhance the amenities of the common
space, and be designed to be compatible with the topography and natural
features of the site.
   C.   The development schedule shall coordinate the improvement of the common
open space with the construction of the buildings, structures, and other
improvements in the PUD. Financial guarantees shall be posted by the developer
to ensure that such improvements within the open space areas are implemented.
   D.   All land shown on the final development plan as common open space shall
be conveyed to an owners' association or a similar organization for the purpose
of owning and maintaining common buildings, areas and the land thereon.
   E.   For phased projects, the provision of open space areas and recreational
facilities for each phase shall approximate the ratio provided for the entire
development. The Commission shall review and establish open space provisions
for each phase of a multi-phased PUD during preliminary development plan
consideration. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
10-3-14: LANDSCAPING:
   A.   Screening of off-street parking, loading and waste storage areas may be
required. Such screening shall be accomplished through the ample use of
deciduous and evergreen trees, shrubs and ground cover. Otherwise landscape
devices such as berms, fences, accent boulders, decorative walls and other
similar landscape devices may also be used in addition to the use of vegetative
materials.
   B.   When nonresidential uses or structures in a planned unit development
abut residential uses, appropriate landscaping and screening shall be utilized
as a buffer. Xeriscaping and use of drip irrigation systems is encouraged to
conserve irrigation water.
   C.   Exposed ground surfaces in all parts of planned unit developments shall
be covered with vegetative materials, stone screenings or other materials that
are capable of preventing soil erosion, that conform to the surrounding area.
The ground surface shall be graded and designed to accommodate expected surface
runoff.
   D.   Perimeter landscaping of a PUD may be required as a means of aiding its
responsibility to be a good neighbor within the community. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
10-3-15: COMMERCIAL USES:
When planned unit development districts may include commercial uses, commercial
buildings and establishments shall be planned as groups having common parking
areas and common ingress and egress points. Screens or fences shall be provided
on the perimeter of the commercial areas abutting residential areas.
   A.   The plan of the project shall provide for the integrated and harmonious
design of buildings, and for adequate and properly arranged facilities for
internal traffic circulation, landscaping, and such other features and
facilities as may be necessary to make the project attractive and efficient
from the standpoint of the adjoining and surrounding noncommercial areas.
   B.   All areas designed for future expansion or not intended for immediate
improvement or development shall be landscaped or otherwise maintained in a
neat and orderly manner. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
10-3-16: INDUSTRIAL USES:
Planned unit development districts may include industrial uses if it can be
shown that the development results in a more efficient and desirable use of
land.
   A.   Industrial uses and parcels shall be developed in park-like
surroundings utilizing landscaping and existing natural features as buffers to
screen lighting, parking areas, loading areas or docks, and/or outdoor storage
of raw materials or products. A planned industrial area shall provide for the
harmony of buildings and a compact grouping in order to economize in the
provision of such utility services as are required. Thoroughfares shall be kept
to a minimum throughout a planned industrial area in order to reduce through
traffic.
   B.   Project side yards of forty feet (40') and a rear yard of fifty feet
(50') shall be required if the project is located adjacent to any residential
uses. All intervening spaces between the right-of-way line and project building
line and intervening spaces between buildings, drives, parking areas, and
improved areas shall be landscaped with trees and plantings and properly
maintained at all times. (Ord. 21, 12-1-1998)
CHAPTER 4
LOT LINE ADJUSTMENTS
SECTION:
10-4-1: Purpose
10-4-2: Regulations
10-4-3: Application Required
10-4-4: Application Contents
10-4-5: Application Review And Processing
10-4-6: Plat Amendment
10-4-7: Appeals
10-4-8: Violations And Enforcement
10-4-9: Severability
10-4-10: Effective Date
10-4-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to establish standards and regulations for the
administrative approval of plat amendment(s) for the adjustment of lot lines in
platted subdivisions and authorizing the zoning administrator to approve or
deny the request. (Ord. 185, 8-29-2005)
10-4-2: REGULATIONS:
   A.   The planning and zoning administrator is hereby authorized to approve
or deny requests for the adjustment of lot lines in platted subdivisions as
described in this chapter.
   B.   For consideration under this chapter the adjusted lot lines shall not
increase the number of lots; change, move or otherwise impact any publicly
dedicated area such as, but not limited to, platted roads, utility and
irrigation easements. Nor shall it reduce the parcel below the minimum
dimensional standards required. Nor reduce the acreage of any lot below one
acre. Inclusion of road and utility easements may not exceed five percent (5%)
of the total lot area. (Ord. 185, 8-29-2005)
10-4-3: APPLICATION REQUIRED:
All applicants requesting a lot line adjustment in platted subdivision shall
submit an application to the planning and zoning department for action prior to
recording any plat amendment. For the purpose of this section, an applicant may
be any person owning property desiring to adjust a property line in a platted
subdivision. (Ord. 185, 8-29-2005)
10-4-4: APPLICATION CONTENTS:
   A.   The application shall contain the following information:
      1.   Subdivision name.
      2.   Parcel number for each lot(s).
      3.   Current acreage of each lot(s).
      4.   Proof of ownership and consent of property owner(s) of lot(s)
involved.
      5.   Long legal description.
      6.   Copy of existing plat showing existing property lines, road names
and locations, road, utility and other easements, etc., drawn to scale, showing
orientation north.
      7.   Copy of proposed amendment showing proposed property lines, road
names and locations, road, utility and other easements, etc., drawn to scale,
showing orientation north.
      8.   Comments from the local highway district, health department, utility
companies, etc.
      9.   And other such information as may be deemed necessary by the zoning
administrator. (Ord. 185, 8-29-2005)
10-4-5: APPLICATION REVIEW AND PROCESSING:
   A.   The application shall be on a form prescribed by the county and shall
include the information required by this chapter. The application shall be
reviewed for completeness. Upon determination the application is complete, the
process will proceed as follows:
      1.   The zoning administrator will notify the applicant that the
application is complete and to proceed with notification as required by this
chapter.
      2.   Notification shall be sent to utility companies listed on the one
call system, highway district, Canal Company, owners in the subdivision and
property owner(s), within three hundred feet (300') of the proposal.
      3.   Written comment will be accepted for fifteen (15) days after the
date of mailing.
      4.   The zoning administrator shall then produce a report, which includes
a summary of such comment or evidence submitted, a reasoned explanation of the
grounds for the decision and a final order granting or denying the request.
Such report shall be filed at the planning and zoning department within twenty
eight (28) calendar days after the closing date for accepting written comment,
unless additional time for filing such report is granted by the board of county
commissioners upon request of the zoning administrator. Notice of such filing
shall be provided in writing to the applicant and to all parties entitled to
notice by this chapter. (Ord. 185, 8-29-2005)
10-4-6: PLAT AMENDMENT:
Upon approval, the applicant will prepare the plat in accordance with the
provisions of this title and Idaho Code title 50 chapter 13. The final plat
shall be submitted to the county surveyor for review and approval. Upon
approval of the county surveyor, the plat shall be submitted to the zoning
administrator for final review who will forward it to the county commissioners
for signature. The applicant shall then be responsible to file the plat, create
the necessary deeds and any other documents required by Idaho Code. (Ord. 185,
8-29-2005)
10-4-7: APPEALS:
Appeals will be directed to the Twin Falls board of county commissioners and
conducted in accordance with provisions of this code. (Ord. 185, 8-29-2005)
10-4-8: VIOLATIONS AND ENFORCEMENT:
Violations of any of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with
any of its requirements shall constitute a misdemeanor as defined by Idaho
Code, punishable by up to six (6) months in jail and up to a three hundred
dollar ($300.00) fine, or both. Each day such violation continues shall be
considered a separate offense; additionally, the county may seek civil
penalties and forfeitures to the maximum extent allowed by law. (Ord. 185, 8-
29-2005)
10-4-9: SEVERABILITY:
This chapter is hereby declared to be severable. Should a court of competent
jurisdiction declare any portion of this chapter invalid, the remaining
provisions shall continue in full force and effect and shall be read to carry
out the purpose(s) of this chapter before the declaration of partial
invalidity. (Ord. 185, 8-29-2005)
10-4-10: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This chapter shall be effective upon passage and publication as provided by
law. (Ord. 185, 8-29-2005)
CHAPTER 5
DIGITAL COPIES OF SURVEYS AND PLATS
SECTION:
10-5-1: Purpose
10-5-2: Regulations
10-5-3: Submission
10-5-4: Compatibility
10-5-5: Violations And Enforcement
10-5-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to establish the requirement to provide digital
copies of surveys, subdivision final plats, conveyance final plats or planned
unit development final plats filed within Twin Falls County. It is the intent
of this chapter to apply only to subdivisions, planned unit developments,
conveyance plats and surveys. (Ord. 207, 5-19-2008)
10-5-2: REGULATIONS:
Any surveyor, engineer, firm, company or individual filing a survey,
subdivision final plat, conveyance final plat or planned unit development final
plat, shall supply a digital copy to Twin Falls County assessor's office as
part of fulfilling the standard requirements for filing. (Ord. 207, 5-19-2008)
10-5-3: SUBMISSION:
All digital files shall be accompanied by a transmittal letter or metadata text
file, which shall comply with the requirements set forth by the Twin Falls
County assessor.
All digital files shall include descriptions of the data and layer schematics
as required by the Twin Falls County assessor. All line work should be
topologically clean. Lines must be continuous and have bearings and distances
that match the dimensions shown on the recorded document and boundaries must be
geometrically closed. The digital file(s) shall comply with the requirements
set forth by the Twin Falls County assessor.
The digital files shall include any other data reasonably required by the Twin
Falls County assessor. (Ord. 207, 5-19-2008)
10-5-4: COMPATIBILITY:
Submissions shall be on a compatible medium used by the Twin Falls County
assessor. The digital file(s) shall be in a format compatible with the latest
version of software being used by the Twin Falls County assessor. (Ord. 207, 5-
19-2008)
10-5-5: VIOLATIONS AND ENFORCEMENT:
Violations of any of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with
any of its requirements may result in the submission not being filed or
recorded. (Ord. 207, 5-19-2008)
Chapter 6
PLAT AND SUBDIVISION VACATION
SECTION:
10-6-1: Petitions
10-6-1: PETITIONS:
   A.   Any person, firm, association, or corporation may petition to vacate
any plat, subdivision, or any part thereof within the unincorporated areas of
the County. The petition must be brought before the Board of County
Commissioners. The petition shall set forth particular circumstances of the
requests to vacate; contain a legal description of the platted area or property
to be vacated; the names of the persons affected thereby; and said petition
shall be filed with the Planning and Zoning office. The cost of the petition
shall be at the expense of the petitioner.
   B.   Written notice of public hearing on the petition shall be given, by
certified mail with return receipt, at least ten (10) days prior to the date of
public hearing to all property owners within three hundred (300) feet of the
boundaries of the area described in the petition. Notice of public hearing
shall also be published once a week for two (2) successive weeks in the
official newspaper of the city, the last of which shall be not less than seven
(7) days prior to the date of said hearing; Notice shall be posted in 3 public
or conspicuous places, and also within the limits of the platted acreage.
   C.   Upon a complete application and fulfillment of the procedures set forth
in this chapter, the Board of County Commissioners may grant the request to
vacate with such restrictions as they deem necessary in the public interest.
   D.   If a petition to vacate is brought before county commissioners, and the
plat or part is located within one (1) mile of the boundaries of any city, the
county commissioners shall provide written notice of the public hearing on the
petition to be given to the mayor or city council by regular mail at least
thirty (30) days prior to the date of public hearing.
   E.   Petitions brought within a city area of impact shall be governed under
the agreed upon ordinances in that jurisdiction. Notice shall be provided to
the affected city at least fourteen (14) days prior to public hearing. The
City's subdivision ordinance and comprehensive plan shall be used as a
guideline for comments. The county commissioners shall consider all comments
provided by the city concerning, but not limited to, continuity of street
patterns, street widths, and integrity and continuity of utility systems and
drainage provisions.
   F.   Easements granted for gas, sewer, water, telephone, cable television,
power, drainage, and slope purposes, public notice of intent to vacate is not
required. Vacation of these easements shall occur upon the recording of the new
or amended plat, provided that all affected easement holders have been notified
by certified mail, return receipt requested, of the proposed vacation and have
agreed to the same in writing.
   G.   Public Streets and Right-of-ways that are located within a Highway
District Jurisdiction may only be vacated by the authority of the Highway
District pursuant to Idaho Code Section 40-203.
   H.   Land exclusive of public right-of-way that has been subdivided and
platted in accordance Idaho Code Title 50, Chapter 13 need not be vacated in
order to be replatted. (Ord. 259, 10-28-2020)
