COUNTY CODE
of
WASHINGTON COUNTY
IDAHO
1995
Code current through:
Ord. 96, passed December 16, 2024
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: www.amlegal.com 
PREFACE
         This code of the County of Washington, as supplemented, contains
ordinances up to and including ordinance 96, passed December 16, 2024.
Ordinances of the County adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions
of this code to the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith.
Consult the County office in order to ascertain whether any particular
provision of the code has been amended, superseded or repealed.
                     American Legal Publishing
                     Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not affect the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL COUNTY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon the adoption by the Board of County Commissioners, this County Code is
hereby declared to be and shall hereafter constitute the official County Code
of Washington County, State of Idaho. This County Code of ordinances shall be
known and cited as the WASHINGTON COUNTY CODE and is hereby published by
authority of the Board of County Commissioners and shall be supplemented to
incorporate the most recent legislation of the County as provided in Section
1-1-3 of this Chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this County Code by title in any legal documents. (1995 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
The County Code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be
received without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of
this State as the ordinances of the County of general and permanent effect,
except the excluded ordinances enumerated in Section
1-2-1 of this Title. (1995 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending the County Code shall set forth the title, chapter and
section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this County Code. All
such amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this County Code. Each such replacement page
shall be properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of
the County Code. (1995 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this County Code in such a manner that
the meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages
may be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by
the Board of County Commissioners. The Clerk of the District Court shall see
that the replacement pages are properly inserted in the official copies
maintained in the office of the Clerk. Any person having custody of a copy of
the County Code shall make every effort to maintain said Code current as to the
most recent ordinances passed. Such person shall see to the immediate insertion
of new or replacement pages when such are delivered or made available to such
person through the office of the Clerk of the District Court. Said Code books,
while in actual possession of officials and other interested persons, shall be
and remain the property of the County and shall be returned to the office of
the Clerk of the District Court when directed so to do by order of the Board of
County Commissioners. (1995 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Ways and Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the County passed prior to the adoption of this
County Code are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this County
Code or are by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to
the saving clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the
following ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances;
appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations;
franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances
establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public places;
improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to elections;
ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the
County; and all special ordinances. (1995 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this County Code or by virtue of the
preceding Section, excepting as the County Code may contain provisions for such
matters, in which case, this County Code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (1995 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former
ordinance whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to any
offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any
penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such
offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   This Section shall extend to all repeals, either by express words or
implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any new provisions
upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Nothing contained in this Chapter shall be construed as abating any
action now pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance of the County
herein repealed, and the provisions of all general ordinances contained in this
Code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions and not a new enactment of the
same provisions; nor shall this Chapter be deemed as discontinuing, abating,
modifying or altering any penalty accrued or to accrue, or as affecting the
liability of any person, firm or corporation, or as waiving any right of the
County under any ordinance or provision thereof in force at the time of the
adoption of this County Code. (1995 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this County Code or any part thereof is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of
the remaining portions of this Code, or any part thereof. The Board of County
Commissioners hereby declares that it would have passed each section,
subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof
irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections, subsections,
subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases be declared
unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective. (1995 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction of Words
1-3-2: Definitions, General
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
   A.   Whenever any word in any section of this County Code importing the
plural number is used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or
persons, any single matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included,
although distributive words may not have been used. When any subject matter,
party or person is referred to in this County Code by words importing the
singular number only, or a particular gender, several matters, parties or
persons and the opposite gender and bodies corporate shall be deemed to be
included; provided, that these rules of construction shall not be applied to
any section of this County Code which contains any express provision excluding
such construction or where the subject matter or context may be repugnant
thereto.
   B.   The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the County has been
changed in the content of this County Code to "Title", "Chapter", "Section"
and/or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and
clarification purposes only. Such change to the County's ordinances is not
meant to amend passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (1995
Code)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this Code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
CODE: The County Code of Washington County.
COUNTY: The County of Washington, State of Idaho 1 .
EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this Code to a County employee by
title only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of
Washington County".
FEE: A sum of money charged by the County for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
GENDER: A word importing either the masculine or feminine gender only shall
extend and be applied to the other gender and to persons.
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive to the sensibilities of reasonable persons, or any
act or activity creating a hazard which threatens the health and welfare of
inhabitants of the County, or any activity which by its perpetuation can
reasonably be said to have a detrimental effect on the property of a person or
persons within the community.
OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this Code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this Code.
OFFICERS: Whenever reference is made in this code to a county officer by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of Washington
County".
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Shall include every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
STREET: Any road, avenue, boulevard, road land, parkway, place, viaduct,
easement for access, or other way which is an existing state, county, or
municipal roadway; or a road or way shown on a plat heretofore approved
pursuant to law or approved by official action; or a road or way on a plat
filed and recorded within the right of way boundaries whether improved or
unimproved and may be comprised of pavement, shoulder, curbs, gutters,
sidewalks, parking areas and lawns.
TENANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who occupies
the whole or any part of such buildings or land, whether alone or with others.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person, or in case he is unable to write, by his proper
mark. (1995 Code; amd. Ord. 77, 12-29-2014)
 
Notes
1 1. I.C. §31-146.
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of this code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or
reenacted. (1995 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Application of Provisions
1-4-3: Liability of Officers
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY 1 :
Unless specifically provided elsewhere, any person convicted of a violation of
any section or provision of this County Code deemed a misdemeanor may be fined
in a sum not to exceed three hundred dollars ($300.00) for any offense and may
be confined in jail for a period of not more than six (6) months. Either or
both such fine and imprisonment may be imposed; and in addition thereto, any
person so convicted shall pay such costs as the court may assess. (1995 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. I.C. §§18-111, 18-113, 31-714.
1-4-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   The penalty provided in this Chapter shall be applicable to every
section of this County Code the same as though it were a part of each and every
separate section. Any person convicted of a violation of any section of this
County Code where any duty is prescribed or obligation imposed, or where any
action which is of a continuing nature is forbidden or is declared to be
unlawful, shall, unless otherwise provided, be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day such duty or
obligation remains unperformed or such act continues, unless otherwise
specifically provided in this County Code.
   B.   In all cases where the same offense is made punishable or is created by
different clauses or sections of this County Code, the prosecuting officer may
elect under which to proceed; but not more than one recovery shall be had
against the same person for the same offense; provided, that the revocation of
a license or permit shall not be considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar
any other penalty being enforced.
   C.   Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act constitutes
a breach of any section or provision of this County Code and there shall be no
fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the provisions of this
Chapter shall apply. (1995 Code)
1-4-3: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this County Code designating the duties of any officer or
employee shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for
any fine or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the
intention of the Board of County Commissioners to impose such fine or penalty
on such officer or employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the
section creating the duty. (1995 Code)
CHAPTER 5
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
SECTION:
1-5-1: Board Established; Election And Terms Of Office
1-5-2: Qualifications
1-5-3: Bond
1-5-4: Organization
1-5-5: Powers And Duties
1-5-1: BOARD ESTABLISHED; ELECTION AND TERMS OF OFFICE:
There is hereby established a Board of County Commissioners which shall consist
of three (3) members, one from each district in the County. At the general
election in 1936, two (2) members shall be elected for a term of two (2) years
and one member for a term of four (4) years; at each biennial election
thereafter, one member shall be elected for a term of two (2) years and one for
a term of four (4) years; it being further provided, that at the general
election in 1936, the Commissioner from County Commissioner's District Number
One shall be elected for a term of four (4) years, and that the four (4) year
term shall be allotted thereafter in rotation to Districts Number Two, Three
and One 1 . (1995 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. IC §31-703.
1-5-2: QUALIFICATIONS:
No person shall be elected to the Board of County Commissioners, unless he has
attained the age of twenty one (21) years at the time of the election, is a
citizen of the United States and shall have resided in the County one year next
preceding his election and in the district which he represents for a period of
ninety (90) days next preceding his election 1 . (1995 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. IC §34-617.
1-5-3: BOND:
Each County Commissioner shall execute an official bond in the sum of five
thousand dollars ($5,000.00) 1 . (1995 Code)
 
Notes
1 3. IC §31-2015.
1-5-4: ORGANIZATION:
   A.   Officers:
      1.   Chairman: The members of the Board of Commissioners shall, at their
first regular meeting on the second Monday of January next after their
election, elect a Chairman from their number.
      2.   Clerk 1 : The County Auditor is ex officio Clerk of the Board of
Commissioners. The Clerk of the Board shall have the duties as set out in Idaho
Code, section 31-708, as amended. (1995 Code)
   B.   Meetings:
      1.   Regular Meetings: The Washington County Board of Commissioners finds
that the affairs of Washington County require that regular meetings of the
Board be held more often than once per month, and that the best interests of
the County require that the Board generally meet every Monday beginning at
eight forty five o'clock (8:45) A.M., except as otherwise provided herein and
on other days, if necessary, for special meetings and purposes as may be
provided by the Board upon advanced notice. (Ord. 84, 1-22-2019)
      2.   Adjourned Meetings: Adjourned meetings may be provided for, fixed
and held for the transaction of business, by an order duly entered of record,
in which must be specified the character of business to be transacted at such
meetings, and none other than that specified may be transacted.
      3.   Special Meetings: If, at any time after the adjournment of a regular
meeting, the business of the County requires a meeting of the Board, a special
meeting may be ordered by a majority of the Board. The order must be entered of
record, and five (5) days' notice thereof must, by the Clerk, be given to each
member not joining in the order. The order must specify the business to be
transacted, and none other than that specified may be transacted at such
special meeting.
      4.   Public Meetings: All meetings of the Board must be public, and the
books, records and accounts must be kept at the Office of the Clerk, open at
all times for public inspection, free of charge. The Clerk of the Board must
give five (5) days' public notice of all special or adjourned meetings, stating
the business to be transacted, by posting three (3) notices in conspicuous
places, one of which shall be at the Courthouse door.
   C.   Quorum; Procedures: A majority of the Board constitutes a quorum. The
Chairman must preside at all meetings of the Board, and in case of his absence
or inability to act, the members present must, by an order, select one of their
number to act as Chairman temporarily. Any member of the Board or its Clerk may
administer oaths to any person concerning any matter submitted to the Board or
connected with its powers or duties. (1995 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection 1-6A-2A of this title for bond.
1-5-5: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The Board of Commissioners shall have those powers and duties set out in Idaho
Code, section 31-801 et seq., as amended. (1995 Code)
CHAPTER 6
COUNTY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-6-1: State Medicaid Program
1-6-1: STATE MEDICAID PROGRAM:
   A.   Reimbursement For Certain Medical Assistance Payments: From and after
the effective date hereof, the requirements set forth in Idaho Code 31-873, as
amended, shall be met in full by the County.
   B.   Confidentiality Regarding State Medicaid Information: The information
provided as stated in Idaho Code 31-873, as amended, shall be kept
confidential. Confidential information includes, but is not limited to, names
of applicants and recipients, addresses, financial information, identifying
numbers and any and all information obtained through the County's participation
in the Title XIX, Medicaid Program. Additional information may be requested
from the State regarding recipients and shall be subject to the same
confidentiality provisions.
There is hereby adopted as a means to safeguard confidential communications
from the State, Department of Health and Welfare, the following statement to be
signed by all County employees dealing with the State Medicaid Program and
retained by the County Commissioners:
COMES NOW                               and hereby acknowledges and expressly
agrees that he/she shall observe the confidentiality of information
requirements set forth in Idaho Code 56-221 and 56-222 and the applicable
Department of Health and Welfare and Federal rules and regulations.
In particular,                           understands that, pursuant to Idaho
Code 56-222, it is unlawful, except for the purpose directly connected with the
participation of Title XIX, Medicaid, and in accordance with the rules and
regulations of the Idaho Department of Health and Welfare, for any person or
persons to disclose, or make use of, or to authorize, knowingly permit or
participate in the use of any list of names, or any information concerning
persons applying for or receiving, such assistance or services, directly or
indirectly derived from the records, papers, files or communications of the
State or County or subdivision or agencies thereof or acquired in the course of
the performance of official duties, specifically dealing with the participation
of the Title XIX, Medicaid program.
                                                
                     Signature Line
                                                 
                     Notary Signature
(Ord. 25, 10-26-1987; 1995 Code)
ARTICLE A. CLERK OF THE DISTRICT COURT
SECTION:
1-6A-1: Office Established; Election and Term
1-6A-2: Bonds
1-6A-3: Duties as Auditor and Recorder
1-6A-1: OFFICE ESTABLISHED; ELECTION AND TERM:
There is hereby established the office of the Clerk of the District Court who
shall be ex officio Auditor and Recorder and ex officio Clerk of the Board of
County Commissioners 1 . The Clerk of the District Court shall be elected by
the qualified voters of the County at the time and in the manner prescribed by
law for the election of members of the legislature 2  and shall hold his office
for a term of four (4) years 3 . (1995 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection
  1-5-4A2 of this Title.
2 2. I.C. §34-614.
3 3. Const. Idaho, art. 5, §16.
1-6A-2: BONDS:
   A.   Clerk of the District Court: The Clerk of the District Court shall
execute an official bond in the penal sum of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00)
with two (2) sufficient sureties, to be approved by the District Judge,
conditioned that he will faithfully perform the duties of his office and at all
times account for and pay over all monies in his hands as Clerk, and the
penalty of such bond may, at any time, be increased by the District Judge. The
Clerk may require a bond from any deputy 1 .
   B.   County Recorder: The County Recorder shall execute an official bond in
the sum of not less than five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) nor more than twenty
thousand dollars ($20,000.00) to be fixed by the Board of County Commissioners
and to cover his duties and liabilities as Recorder, Auditor and Clerk of the
Board of County Commissioners 2 . (1995 Code)
 
Notes
1 4. I.C. §31-2015.
2 5. I.C. §31-2015.
1-6A-3: DUTIES AS AUDITOR AND RECORDER 1 :
   A.   County Auditor: The duties of the County Auditor shall be as set forth
in Idaho Code, section 31-2301 et seq., as amended.
   B.   County Recorder: The duties of the County Recorder shall be as set
forth in Idaho Code, section 31-2401 et seq., as amended. (1995 Code)
 
Notes
1 6. See subsection
  1-5-4A2 of this Title for duties as clerk of the Board of Commissioners.
ARTICLE B. COUNTY TREASURER
SECTION:
1-6B-1: Office Established; Election and Term
1-6B-2: Bonds
1-6B-3: Duties
1-6B-1: OFFICE ESTABLISHED; ELECTION AND TERM:
There is hereby established the office of County Treasurer who shall serve as
ex officio County Tax Collector. The Treasurer shall be elected for a term of
four (4) years as provided by law 1 . (1995 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. Const. Idaho, art. 18, §6.
1-6B-2: BONDS:
   A.   County Treasurer: The County Treasurer shall execute an official bond
in double the probable amount of money that may, at any time, come into his
hands as such Treasurer, to be fixed by the Board of County Commissioners;
provided, if surety bond be given as provided in Idaho Code, section 41-2707,
as amended, the bond need not exceed twenty five percent (25%) of the probable
amount that may be at hand at any one time, but in no case to be less than ten
thousand dollars ($10,000.00) 1 .
   B.   Tax Collector: The official bond of the Tax Collector shall be not less
than two thousand dollars ($2,000.00) nor more than fifty thousand dollars
($50,000.00) to be fixed by the Board of County Commissioners 2 . (1995 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. I.C. §31-2015.
2 3. I.C. §31-2015.
1-6B-3: DUTIES:
   A.   Duties as County Treasurer: The duties of the County Treasurer shall be
as set forth in Idaho Code, section 31-2101 et seq., as amended.
   B.   Duties as Tax Collector: The duties of the County Tax Collector in
relation to the collection of revenue are prescribed in Idaho Code, title 63,
as amended. (1995 Code)
ARTICLE C. COUNTY ASSESSOR
SECTION:
1-6C-1: Office Established; Election and Term
1-6C-2: Bond
1-6C-3: Duties
1-6C-1: OFFICE ESTABLISHED; ELECTION AND TERM:
There is hereby established the office of County Assessor who shall be elected
for a term of four (4) years as provided by law 1 . (1995 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. Const. Idaho, art. 18, §6.
1-6C-2: BOND:
The County Assessor shall execute an official bond in the sum of five thousand
dollars ($5,000.00) 1 . (1995 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. I.C. §31-2015.
1-6C-3: DUTIES:
The County Assessor shall perform the duties prescribed in Idaho Code, title
63, as amended, relating to revenue 1 . (1995 Code)
 
Notes
1 3. I.C. §31-2501.
ARTICLE D. COUNTY PROSECUTING ATTORNEY
SECTION:
1-6D-1: Office Established; Election and Term
1-6D-2: Qualifications
1-6D-3: Bond
1-6D-4: Powers and Duties
1-6D-1: OFFICE ESTABLISHED; ELECTION AND TERM:
There is hereby established the office of County Prosecuting Attorney who shall
be elected for a term of four (4) years as provided by law 1 . (1995 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. Const. Idaho, art. 18, §6.
1-6D-2: QUALIFICATIONS:
No person shall be elected to the office of Prosecuting Attorney, unless he has
attained the age of twenty one (21) years at the time of his election, is
admitted to the practice of law within this State, is a citizen of the United
States and a qualified elector within the County 1 . (1995 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. I.C. §34-623.
1-6D-3: BOND:
The County Prosecuting Attorney shall execute an official bond in the sum of
two thousand dollars ($2,000.00) 1 . (1995 Code)
 
Notes
1 3. I.C. §31-2015.
1-6D-4: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The County Prosecuting Attorney shall have those powers and duties set out in
Idaho Code, title 31, chapter 26, as amended. (1995 Code)
ARTICLE E. COUNTY SHERIFF
SECTION:
1-6E-1: Office Established; Election and Term
1-6E-2: Bond
1-6E-3: Powers and Duties
1-6E-1: OFFICE ESTABLISHED; ELECTION AND TERM:
There is hereby established the office of County Sheriff who shall be elected
for a term of four (4) years as provided by law 1 . (1995 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. Const. Idaho, art. 18, §6.
1-6E-2: BOND:
The County Sheriff shall execute an official bond in the sum of ten thousand
dollars ($10,000.00) 1 . (1995 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. I.C. §31-2015.
1-6E-3: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The County Sheriff shall have those powers and duties as set out in Idaho Code,
title 31, chapter 22, as amended. (1995 Code)
ARTICLE F. COUNTY CORONER
SECTION:
1-6F-1: Office Established; Election and Term
1-6F-2: Bond
1-6F-3: Powers and Duties
1-6F-1: OFFICE ESTABLISHED; ELECTION AND TERM:
There is hereby established the office of County Coroner who shall be elected
for a term of two (2) years as provided by law 1 . (1995 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. Const. Idaho, art. 18, §6.
1-6F-2: BOND:
The County Coroner shall execute an official bond in the sum of one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00) 1 . (1995 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. I.C. §31-2015.
1-6F-3: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The County Coroner shall have those powers and duties as set out in Idaho Code,
section 31-2801 et seq., as amended. (1995 Code)
ARTICLE G. BUILDING OFFICIAL
SECTION:
1-6G-1: Office Created; Appointment And Term
1-6G-2: Duties
1-6G-1: OFFICE CREATED; APPOINTMENT AND TERM 1 :
There is hereby created the office of building official for the county who
shall be appointed by and serve at the pleasure of the board of county
commissioners. (1995 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  5-18-1 of this code.
1-6G-2: DUTIES:
The building official shall exercise those duties ascribed to him, from time to
time, by the board of county commissioners. (1995 Code)
CHAPTER 7
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
SECTION:
1-7-1: Definitions
1-7-2: Membership; Appointment; Term Of Office
1-7-3: Rules And Organization
1-7-4: Duties
1-7-5: Maps, Plats And Replats
1-7-6: Employees And Expenditures
1-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
APPOINTIVE MEMBERS: All members of the commission.
COMMISSION: The Washington County planning and zoning commission created by
this chapter.
GOVERNING BOARD: The Washington County commissioners. (Ord. 47, 12-26-2000,
eff. 3-1-2001)
1-7-2: MEMBERSHIP; APPOINTMENT; TERM OF OFFICE:
The commission shall consist of: nine (9) representatives appointed by the
chairman of the Washington County board of commissioners and confirmed by the
Washington County board of commissioners. All representatives will be appointed
at large from within Washington County. Provided, however, that no more than
one-third (1/3) of the members shall reside within an incorporated city of one
thousand five hundred (1,500) or more population, and at least one-half (1/2)
of all members must reside outside the boundaries of any one incorporated city
and its area of city impact. All members must have been residents of Washington
County for at least five (5) years prior to their appointment and must reside
within Washington County while serving on the commission.
The term of office for the appointed members shall be four (4) years. No person
shall serve more than two (2) full consecutive terms, without specific
concurrence by two-thirds (2/3) of the board adopted by motion and recorded in
the minutes. All appointments will be made during the month of March of each
year with the newly appointed member's term to begin April following. Members
may be removed for cause by a majority vote of the board of county
commissioners. All vacancies shall be filled in the same manner as original
appointments. Members shall be selected without respect to political
affiliation, sex, nationality, religion or creed, and shall serve without
compensation, but shall be reimbursed for the mileage to attend meetings or
other lawful business of the commission. (Ord. 58, 4-10-2006)
1-7-3: RULES AND ORGANIZATION:
   A.   Officers: The officers of the planning and zoning commission shall
consist of a chairman, vice chairman and secretary/treasurer. The chairman and
vice chairman shall be elected by the members of the commission from the
membership of the commission. The secretary/treasurer shall be appointed by the
chairman of the commission. The secretary/treasurer need not be a member of the
commission. The chairman and vice chairman shall be elected annually at the
annual meeting of the commission in April.
   B.   Meetings: Meetings of the commission shall be held when duly called by
the planning and zoning administrator or chairman by written or oral notice. At
least one regular meeting shall be held each month for not less than nine (9)
months in a year and shall be held on the third Tuesday of each month. All
meetings shall be open to the public.
   C.   Quorum: A majority of voting members of the commission shall constitute
a quorum.
   D.   Rules Of Procedure: Written rules consistent with this chapter and the
laws of the state 1  for the transaction of business of the commission shall be
adopted.
   E.   Minutes; Records: Written records of meetings, hearings, resolutions,
findings, studies, permits and actions shall be maintained and open to the
public. (Ord., 4-29-1991)
 
Notes
1 1. I.C. §67-6504.
1-7-4: DUTIES:
It shall be the duty of the commission to:
   A.   Comprehensive Plan: Conduct a planning process designed to prepare,
implement, review and update a comprehensive plan that includes all lands
within the governing board's jurisdiction.
   B.   Public Hearings: Hold public hearings prior to recommendations of the
comprehensive plan, recommended changes to the plan and prior to recommending
ordinances.
   C.   Citizen Participation In Planning: Provide ways and means to obtain
citizen participation in the planning process.
   D.   Subdivisions And Zoning: Recommend subdivision and zoning ordinances.
   E.   Annexations: Recommend changes to a comprehensive plan and zoning
ordinance prior to annexation of an unincorporated area.
   F.   City Impact Area: Recommend a map, a governing plan and ordinances for
an area of city impact that is within the unincorporated area of the county.
   G.   Citizen Participation In Administration: Provide ways and means to
obtain citizen participation in the administration of ordinances.
   H.   Process Zoning Permits: Prepare a procedure for processing zoning
permits namely: special use permits, rezone applications, planned unit
development proposals and variance applications.
   I.   Zoning Amendment Requests: Hear all requests for amendment to the
zoning ordinance 1 , hold at least one public hearing and make its
recommendation to the governing board.
   J.   Zoning Changes: Recommend changes to the zoning ordinance 2  (if
needed) to the governing board. (Ord., 4-29-1991)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 5 of this code.
2 2. See title 5 of this code.
1-7-5: MAPS, PLATS AND REPLATS:
Any and all maps, plats and replats of lands which require approval of the
governing board or of an officer or employee shall first be submitted to the
commission for its suggestions (within a time frame specified in title 5,
"Zoning", and title 6, "Subdivisions", of this code). (Ord., 4-29-1991)
1-7-6: EMPLOYEES AND EXPENDITURES:
Any expenditures of the commission (exclusive of gifts) shall be within the
amounts appropriated and set aside by the governing board for the purposes of
the commission as set forth in this chapter. Within such limits, the commission
is authorized to hire such employees and technical advisors as it deems
necessary for the accomplishment of its authorized purpose and work. (Ord., 4-
29-1991)
CHAPTER 8
INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM
SECTION:
1-8-1: Creation of Right
1-8-2: Petition for Initiative and Referendum; Signature Sheets
1-8-3: Ballot
1-8-4: Conduct of Election
1-8-5: Canvass of Returns
1-8-6: Violations
1-8-1: CREATION OF RIGHT:
The people of this County shall have the right to enact ordinances through the
initiative process and to repeal ordinances through the referendum process
according to the procedures set forth herein. (Ord. 30, 10-22-90, eff. 11-1-90)
1-8-2: PETITION FOR INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM; SIGNATURE SHEETS:
   A.   Number of Petitioners Required: To enact an ordinance by initiative or
to repeal an ordinance by referendum, there shall be attached or appended to
the petition the signatures of the legal voters of the County equal to at least
twenty percent (20%) of the total number of voters registered to vote at the
last general election in the County.
   B.   Form of Petitions:
      1.   Initiative Petition: The initiative petition shall be in
substantially the following form:
Initiative Petition to the Commissioners of Washington County, Idaho: "We, the
undersigned citizens and legal voters of Washington County, respectfully demand
that the following proposed ordinance, to-wit: (setting out full text of
measure proposed) shall be submitted to the legal voters of Washington County,
Idaho, for their approval or rejection at an election to be called in
accordance with Idaho Code Section 31-717, and each for himself says: I have
personally signed this petition; I am a legal voter of Washington County; my
residence and post office are correctly written after my name.
Name                   Street and Number                 Post Office          
(Here follow numbered lines for signatures.)
      2.   Referendum Petition: The petition for referendum on any ordinance
passed by the County Commissioners shall be in substantially the same form with
appropriate title and changes, setting out in full the text of the ordinance to
be referred to the people for their approval or rejection.
   C.   Time for Filing Referendum Petitions: Referendum petitions with the
requisite number of signatures attached shall be filed with the Clerk of the
District Court not less than sixty (60) days following the final adoption of
the ordinance to be subject to referendum.
   D.   Printing of Petitions and Signature Sheets; Time Limits for Perfecting
Petitions:
      1.   Before or at the time of beginning to circulate any petition for
initiative or referendum, the person under whose authority the petition is to
be circulated shall send or deliver to the Clerk of the District Court a copy
of such petition duly signed by at least twenty (20) electors eligible to sign
such petition. The Clerk of the District Court shall immediately examine the
petition and specify the form and kind and size of paper on which the petition
shall be printed and circulated for further signatures. All petitions and
sheets for signatures shall be printed on a good quality bond or ledger paper,
on pages eight and one-half inches in width by thirteen inches in length (81/2"
x 13"), with a margin of one and three-fourths inches (13/4") at the top for
binding, and the sheets for signatures shall have numbered lines thereon from
one to twenty (20) for signatures. The petition shall be prepared in sections,
with each section numbered consecutively. Each section of a petition must have
a printed copy of the petition as the first page, and each section shall have
attached to it not more than ten (10) sheets for signatures.
      2.   The Clerk of the District Court shall indicate, in writing, on the
petition that he has approved it as to form. The Clerk of the District Court
shall inform the person under whose authority the petition is to be circulated,
in writing, that the petition must be perfected with the required number of
certified signatures within sixty (60) days following the date of approval as
to form. Any petition that has not been perfected with the required number of
certified signatures within the sixty (60) days allowed shall be declared null
and void ab initio in its entirety.
   E.   Verification of Signatures: Each and every signature sheet of each
petition containing signatures shall be verified on the face thereof in
substantially the following form by the person who circulated said sheet of the
petition, by his affidavit thereon, as a part thereof:
STATE OF IDAHO      )
            ) ss.
County of Washington   )
I,                 , swear, under penalty of perjury, that every person who
signed this sheet of the foregoing petition signed his or her name thereto in
my presence. I believe that each has stated his or her name and the
accompanying required information on the signature sheet correctly, and that
the person was eligible to sign this petition.
               Signature   
               Post Office Address   
Subscribed and sworn to before me this      day of               , 19    .
(Notary Seal)      Notary Public   
         Residing at   
   F.   Examination and Certification of Signatures:
      1.   All petitions with attached signature sheets shall be presented on
the same day to the Clerk of the District Court who shall make a cursory
examination of them to determine whether the petitions apparently contain the
necessary number of signatures.
         a.   If the total number of signatures on the petitions is not
sufficient to satisfy the number required by subsection A of this Section, all
petitions with attached signature sheets shall be retained by the Clerk of the
District Court who shall notify, in writing, the person filing the petition of
the number of signatures needed, and further signatures may be gathered, if
within the time limit of subsection D of this Section.
         b.   If cursory examination of the signature sheets reveals:
            (1)   Erasures on any signature;
            (2)   Illegible or undecipherable signatures;
            (3)   Signatures not properly identified by all of the information
required on the sheet;
            (4)   Duplicate signatures; or
            (5)   Signatures of persons who have requested, in writing, to have
their names removed from the petition;
the Clerk of the District Court shall summarily reject such signatures, and
they shall not be counted. Each rejected signature shall be drawn through with
ink and initialed by the Clerk of the District Court. If the total number of
signatures not rejected is not sufficient to satisfy the number required by
subsection A of this Section, all petitions with attached signature sheets
shall be retained by the Clerk of the District Court who shall notify, in
writing, the person filing the petition of the number of signatures needed, and
further signatures may be gathered, if within the time limit of subsection D of
this Section.
      2.   All petitions presented to the Clerk of the District Court found to
apparently contain the necessary number of signatures, after the cursory
examination provided for above, shall be filed with the Clerk of the District
Court and become public records of the County not to be returned. The Clerk of
the District Court shall examine each such signature purported to be that of a
registered elector of the County and compare each such signature with the
registration documents available to the Clerk of the District Court. The Clerk
of the District Court shall summarily reject all signatures which are not the
signatures of a registered elector of the County, and such rejected signatures
shall not be counted. Each rejected signature shall be drawn through with ink
and initialed by the Clerk of the District Court. The Clerk of the District
Court may take not to exceed ten (10) days after filing of the petition to
complete his examination. During said period, petitioners may request, in
writing, to have their names removed from the petition and the Clerk of the
District Court shall do so. The Clerk of the District Court shall certify each
signature found to comply with all of the requirements of this Chapter by an
appropriate mark following each signature.
The Clerk of the District Court shall total the number of certified signatures
and, if found to total the number of signatures required by subsection A of
this Section, shall proceed as provided in subsection G herein.
   G.   Sufficiency of Petition; Notice; Commission Action; Election:
      1.   In the event that a petition filed with a Clerk of the District
Court does not contain the required number of certified signatures, the Clerk
of the District Court shall inform the person under whose authority the
petition was circulated that the petition is defective for lack of certified
signatures and specify the number of additional signatures required to make the
petition valid. The petition must be perfected within thirty (30) days of the
date that the Clerk of the District Court finds the petition defective for lack
of certified signatures. If the petition is not perfected within the thirty
(30) day period, the Clerk of the District Court shall declare the petition
null and void ab initio in its entirety.
      2.   In the event that a petition filed with the Clerk of District Court
is found to contain the required number of certified signatures, the Clerk of
the District Court shall promptly, by certified mail, inform the petitioners
and shall also notify the Board of County Commissioners at its next meeting
that the initiative or referendum petition is in proper form.
         a.   If the petition is for a referendum, the Board of County
Commissioners shall have thirty (30) days from the date of certification of the
petition to repeal the ordinance being referred to the voters. In the event the
Board repeals the ordinance, the referendum petition shall be declared null and
void.
         b.   If the petition is an initiative petition, the Board of County
Commissioners shall have thirty (30) days to pass an ordinance substantially as
proposed by the petition. In the event the Board passes such an ordinance, the
initiative petition shall be null and void.
         c.   In the event the Board of County Commissioners neither repeals
the ordinance which is the subject of a referendum petition nor enacts an
ordinance which is the subject of an initiative petition, an election shall be
ordered by the Clerk of the District Court to be conducted countywide. A
special election for initiative or referendum shall be provided not more than
ninety (90) days following the certification of the petition; provided, that in
the event a County election will occur within the ninety (90) days, the
initiative or referendum shall be submitted at the time of the County election.
(Ord. 30, 10-22-90, eff. 11-1-90)
1-8-3: BALLOT:
The Commissioners shall prepare a ballot for an initiative or referendum
election in one of the following ways:
   A.   If the full text of the ordinance or proposed ordinance to be voted
upon does not exceed one hundred twenty (120) words in length, it may be set
out in full on the election ballot; or
   B.   If the full text of the ordinance or proposed ordinance to be voted
upon exceeds one hundred twenty (120) words in length, and the Board votes not
to have it printed at length on the election ballot, it shall, with the
assistance of the Prosecuting Attorney, prepare a short title and description
of the ordinance or proposed ordinance which shall clearly and impartially
state its purpose and effect, which short title and description shall be
printed on the election ballot. (Ord. 30, 10-22-90, eff. 11-1-90)
1-8-4: CONDUCT OF ELECTION:
Initiative or referendum elections, whether special or general, shall be
conducted and the results thereof canvassed and certified in all respects as
near as practicable, in like manner as general elections, except as otherwise
provided; but in no case shall a special recall election be held within ninety
(90) days next preceding a primary or general election. (Ord. 30, 10-22-90,
eff. 11-1-90)
1-8-5: CANVASS OF RETURNS:
The County Commissioners shall meet within five (5) days after said election to
canvass the votes cast at such election, and the Clerk of the District Court
shall immediately announce the results. Any initiative measure approved by a
majority of the votes cast shall be in full force and effect from the date of
such announcement. Any ordinance which is the subject of a referendum receiving
less than a majority of the votes cast shall be repealed, effective on the date
of such announcement. (Ord. 30, 10-22-90, eff. 11-1-90)
1-8-6: VIOLATIONS 1 :
A person is guilty of a misdemeanor who:
   A.   Signs any name other than his own to any initiative or referendum
petition.
   B.   Knowingly signs his name more than once on the same initiative or
referendum petition.
   C.   Knowingly signs his name to any initiative or referendum petition if he
is not a registered County elector.
   D.   Wilfully or knowingly circulates, publishes or exhibits any false
statement or representation concerning the contents, purport or effect of any
initiative or referendum petition for the purpose of obtaining any signature to
any such petition or for the purpose of persuading any person to sign any such
petition.
   E.   Presents to any officer for filing any initiative or referendum
petition to which is attached, appended or subscribed any signature which the
person so filing such petition knows to be false or fraudulent or not the
genuine signature of the person purporting to sign such petition or whose name
is attached, appended or subscribed thereto.
   F.   Circulates or causes to circulate any initiative or referendum
petition, knowing the same to contain false, forged or fictitious
considerations.
   G.   Makes any false affidavit concerning any initiative or referendum
petition or the signatures appended thereto.
   H.   Offers, proposes or threatens, for any pecuniary reward or
consideration to:
      1.   Offer, propose, threaten or attempt to sell, hinder or delay any
initiative or referendum petition or any part thereof or any signatures
thereon.
      2.   Offer, propose or threaten to desist from beginning, promoting or
circulating any initiative or referendum petition.
      3.   Offer, propose, attempt or threaten in any manner or form to use any
recall petition or any power of promotion or opposition in any manner of form
for extortion, blackmail or secret or private intimidation of any person or
business interest. (Ord. 30, 10-22-90, eff. 11-1-90)
 
Notes
1 1. See Section
  1-4-1 of this Code for penalty.
CHAPTER 9
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
SECTION:
1-9-1: Public Corporation Created
1-9-2: Powers of the Corporation
1-9-3: Charter
1-9-4: Board of Directors
1-9-5: Conflict of Interest
1-9-6: Financial Restrictions and Requirements
1-9-1: PUBLIC CORPORATION CREATED:
The County of Washington (the "County") does hereby create a public corporation
to carry out the purposes of the Idaho Code, title 50, chapter 27, as amended,
hereinafter referred to as "this Act". This Chapter shall not be construed to
limit or restrict the purposes of the Act, but shall be liberally construed to
effect such purposes. The name of the public corporation shall be the
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION OF WASHINGTON COUNTY, IDAHO (the
"Corporation"). (Ord. 14, 7-2-84, eff. 7-9-84)
1-9-2: POWERS OF THE CORPORATION:
The Corporation shall have all the powers and be subject to all the limitations
and provisions contained in the Act. Such powers shall include, without
limitation, all powers set forth in the Charter. (Ord. 14, 7-2-84, eff. 7-9-84)
1-9-3: CHARTER:
A charter (the "Charter") is hereby issued by the County to the Corporation.
The Charter grants to the Corporation all powers authorized by the Act. A copy
of the Charter is attached to Ordinance 14 as Exhibit A, on file in the office
of the Clerk of the District Court, and is incorporated herein by reference.
The Charter is hereby approved pursuant to section 50-2703(l) of the Act. The
Charter may be amended, from time to time, by the Board of County
Commissioners. The existence of the Corporation commences at the time of the
effective date hereof. (Ord. 14, 7-2-84, eff. 7-9-84)
1-9-4: BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
   A.   Composition; Appointment; Terms of Office; Vacancy: The Board of
Directors of the Corporation shall be comprised of five (5) residents of the
County. The initial members of the Board and all subsequent members shall be
appointed by the Board of County Commissioners. Of the members first appointed,
one member shall serve for a term of one year, two (2) for a two (2) years, and
two (2) for a term of three (3) years. Thereafter, upon expiration of a term of
appointment, each member shall be appointed to a three (3) year term. If a
vacancy occurs during an unexpired term, the chairman, with the consent of the
Board of County Commissioners, shall appoint a member, who shall also be a
resident of the County, to serve the remainder of the unexpired term. A
majority of the members of the Board shall constitute a quorum, and the
approval of a majority of a quorum shall be necessary for the Board to take any
action.
   B.   Organization:
      1.   Officers of the Board: The Board shall elect officers from among its
own members. Such officers shall be elected at the initial meeting of the Board
in each calendar year, shall serve until their successors have been duly
elected and shall include a president and a secretary and may include a vice
president and an assistant secretary. The Board may elect such other officers
as it shall, from time to time, determine to be necessary or desirable.
      2.   Bylaws, Rules and Regulations: The Board shall adopt bylaws and/or
rules and regulations governing the election of officers, the power and duties
of such officers, the filling of vacancies in offices, the scheduling, giving
notice of and conduct of meetings and the conduct of the Corporation. Such
bylaws, rules and regulations may be amended, from time to time, by the Board;
provided, that any such amendments shall be consistent with the provisions
hereof.
   C.   Functions and Powers: The affairs of the Corporation shall be conducted
and carried out by the Board.
   D.   Compensation and Expenses: Members of the Board shall serve without
compensation but with reimbursement of expenses as may be provided in the
bylaws, rules and regulations of the Board. (Ord. 14, 7-2-84, eff. 7-9-84)
1-9-5: CONFLICT OF INTEREST:
No director, officer, agent, employee or official of the Corporation shall have
a direct or indirect financial interest in property to be included in, or any
contract for property, service or materials to be furnished or used in
connection with any industrial development facility financed through the
Corporation. (Ord. 14, 7-2-84, eff. 7-9-84)
1-9-6: FINANCIAL RESTRICTIONS AND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   The County may not give or lend any money or property in aid of the
Corporation except as expressly authorized by the Act. This provision shall not
preclude the County from dealing with the Corporation on an arms-length basis.
   B.   Any net earnings of the Corporation, beyond those necessary for
retirement of indebtedness incurred by it, shall inure to the County and not
for the benefit of any other person. Alteration of the Charter of or
dissolution of or audits of the Corporation shall be as provided by the Act and
by subsequent ordinances of the County. Upon dissolution of the Corporation,
title to all property owned by the Corporation shall vest in the County. (Ord.
14, 7-2-84, eff. 7-9-84)
CHAPTER 10
NONDISCRIMINATION POLICY
SECTION:
1-10-1: Discrimination Prohibited
1-10-1: DISCRIMINATION PROHIBITED:
No person in Washington County shall, on the grounds of race, color, national
origin or sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or
be subject to discrimination under any program, activity or employment by
Washington County or any of its subsidiary offices. (Ord. 3-A, 1-6-76)
TITLE 2
FEES, RATES AND CHARGES
CHAPTER 1
SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL
SECTION:
2-1-1: Solid Waste Disposal Regulations For Non-County Residents
2-1-2: Solid Waste User Fees
2-1-1: SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL REGULATIONS FOR NON-COUNTY RESIDENTS:
   A.   Disposal Fee For Nonresidents: Any and all persons delivering trash,
garbage or other refuse to any solid waste disposal site located within
Washington County and operated by Washington County or its agents and assigns
shall be required to pay the out of County user fee established by resolution
to Washington County for the right to dispose of such trash in a Washington
County solid waste disposal site.
   B.   Violation And Penalty: Any person who violates this section shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to punishment of up to six (6) months in
the Washington County Jail and/or a fine of three hundred dollars ($300.00).
(Ord. 81, 3-11-2019)
2-1-2: SOLID WASTE USER FEES:
   A.   Short Title: This section shall be referred to as the SOLID WASTE USE
FEE ORDINANCE OF WASHINGTON COUNTY.
   B.   Definitions: As used in this chapter, the following terms and phrases
shall have the meanings ascribed to them unless context dictates otherwise:
    ADMINISTRATOR: The Road Supervisor of the Washington County Road and Bridge
Department.
   COMMERCIAL USER: Restaurants, retail and wholesale establishments,
hospitals, nursing homes, motels, service stations, professional offices, banks
or other business unit producing solid waste in Washington County.
   HOUSEHOLD USER: Each single-family housing unit with cooking facilities or
each housing unit producing solid waste in Washington County.
   NONRESIDENT USER: Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation,
company or organization of any kind bringing solid waste generated outside
Washington County into Washington County for disposal in County solid waste
sites. Delivery of waste material in a motor vehicle not bearing Washington
County, Idaho plates shall be considered a nonresident user.
   PERSON: Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind, owning real property in Washington County, Idaho.
   SOLID WASTE: Any garbage, refuse, sludge from a waste treatment plant, water
supply treatment plant or air pollution control facility and other discarded
material, including solid, liquid semi-solid or contained gaseous material,
resulting from industrial, commercial, mining and agricultural operations and
from community activities, but does not include solid or dissolved materials in
domestic sewage or solid or dissolved materials in irrigation return flows or
industrial discharges that are point sources subject to permits under 33 USC
1342, or source, special nuclear or by-product material as defined by the
Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended (85 Stat. 923).
   UNIT: Four hundred (400) gallons of solid waste per month.
   C.   Administration: Pursuant to the authority granted by Idaho Code section
31-4401 et seq., and in order to provide for the maintenance and operation of
solid waste disposal sites within Washington County, the Road and Bridge
Supervisor for the Road and Bridge Department is designated the Administrator
to oversee the operation and maintenance of waste disposal sites within the
County and to make such rules and regulations as he deems necessary for the
efficient utilization of waste disposal sites. The Administrator shall maintain
and operate waste disposal sites in Washington County.
   D.   Tax Levy: If taxes are ever to be levied for the support of the solid
waste system, the rate shall be established through the annual budget process
and certified to the State Tax Commission as required by law. The Washington
County Treasurer shall collect the tax levy in the same manner and using the
methods for collection of Real Property Taxes. Delinquent taxes shall become a
lien on the real property of the user.
   E.   Disposition Of Revenue: The Treasurer of Washington County shall pay
all solid waste use fees collected to the Solid Waste Fund of Washington
County. The Administrator shall use the funds collected solely for the
maintenance, operation and care of waste disposal sites within Washington
County or for the transportation of waste to and maintenance, operation and
care of waste sites outside of the County when the Board of County
Commissioners so authorize.
   F.   User Fee Schedule: User fees may be charged to real property owners and
other system users as the Board of County Commissioners deem necessary to
support solid waste system operation. In accord with the provisions of the
State Statute, said fees may be established at any time by the Board of County
Commissioners through passage of a resolution setting forth the fees to be
charged for the system.
   G.   Amendment Of User Fees: Said fee resolution may be amended at any time
to accommodate changes in the fee system and operating policies deemed
appropriate by the Board of County Commissioners. A resolution establishing
fees shall remain in full force and effect until subsequently repealed or
amended. All previously adopted resolutions of the Board of County
Commissioners not inconsistent with the terms of this chapter are hereby
ratified, approved and confirmed. (Ord. 81, 3-11-2019)
CHAPTER 2
MISCELLANEOUS FEES, RATES AND CHARGES
SECTION:
2-2-1: Fee For County Services
2-2-2: Motor Vehicle License Fees
2-2-1: FEE FOR COUNTY SERVICES:
The Board of County Commissioners does hereby set a fee of three dollars
seventy five cents ($3.75) per water user for the auditing and bookkeeping
services provided to water districts by Washington County, which said fee for
auditing and bookkeeping shall commence on January 1, 1986, and be payable to
Washington County every year thereafter. Any revenues collected by such
services shall be placed in the current expense general fund of Washington
County. (Ord. 15, 6-3-1985; amd. Ord., 11-4-1985)
2-2-2: MOTOR VEHICLE LICENSE FEES:
   A.   Administrative Fee: In addition to vehicle licensure or registration
fees chargeable by the State under Idaho Code sections 49-402 and 49-434, there
is hereby imposed an administrative fee of three dollars fifty cents ($3.50)
which shall be chargeable on each licensure or registration of a vehicle
through Washington County.
   B.   Disposition Of Revenues: The revenues collected under said
administrative fee shall be payable to the Washington County Current Expense
Fund. (Ord. 40, 6-10-1996, eff. 6-30-1996)
TITLE 3
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODES
SECTION:
3-1-1: Purpose
3-1-2: Adoption Of Codes
3-1-3: Building Permit Requirement
3-1-4: Administration
3-1-5: Severability
3-1-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to establish the minimum requirements to
safeguard the public health, safety and general welfare through structural
strength, means of egress facilities, stability, sanitation, adequate light and
ventilation, energy conservation, and safety to life and property from fire and
other hazards attributed to the built environment and to provide safety to
firefighters and emergency responders during emergency operations. (Ord. 69,
11-5-2012)
3-1-2: ADOPTION OF CODES:
Pursuant to chapter 41 of title 39 of Idaho Code, unless otherwise provided for
in this code, Washington County hereby adopts by reference the current or
latest edition, of the following codes as adopted by the state of Idaho or the
Idaho building code board, together with any amendments or revisions to the
international codes made by the Idaho building code board through the
negotiated rulemaking process. If this code conflicts with any of the following
codes, this code shall prevail.
   A.   The international building code.
   B.   The international residential code.
      1.   The following sections are hereby revised:
         a.   Table R301.2 (1). Insert: ground snow load, 30-140- lb, sq. ft.;
wind speed, 90 mph; topographical effects, yes; seismic design category, C;
weathering, severe; frost line, 24" - 30"; termite, slight to moderate; winter
design temp, 32-36; underlayment required, area specific; flood hazard, FIRM,
June 16, 2009; freezing index, 2000; mean annual temp, 46-49.
   C.   The international energy conservation code.
   D.   The international mechanical code.
   E.   The international fuel gas code.
   F.   The international plumbing code.
   G.   The international fire code.
   H.   The latest version of the national electrical code.
   I.   The latest version of the state of Idaho, division of building safety,
manufactured home installation standards, together with appendices thereto.
(Ord. 69, 11-5-2012)
   J.   The latest version of the highway standards and development procedures
for the Weiser Valley highway district and Washington County, Idaho, together
with any amendments, changes, modifications, appendices or successors thereto.
(Ord. 77, 12-29-2014)
3-1-3: BUILDING PERMIT REQUIREMENT:
Any owner or authorized agent who intends to construct, enlarge, alter, repair,
move, demolish, or change the occupancy of a building or structure, or to cause
any such work to be done, shall first make application to the planning and
zoning administrator and/or building official, or other person designated by
the board of county commissioners, and obtain the required permit. The permit
shall be issued if the plans, specifications and completed project conform with
the requirements of the zoning title 1  and codes adopted in this chapter. A
permit to construct sewer systems is also required by the state board of health
and is necessary in order to obtain a building permit from the county. (Ord.
69, 11-5-2012)
The Washington County road supervisor must approve the culvert installation and
the construction of the driveway approach onto a county road, prior to, and as
a condition of, obtaining a building permit for a residential dwelling from the
county. (Ord. 72, 3-24-2014)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 5 of this code.
3-1-4: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Regulations: These regulations shall apply to all buildings and
structures in the unincorporated territory of Washington County, Idaho, except
as set forth in subsection B of this section.
   B.   Exceptions: Agricultural buildings shall be exempt from the requirement
of the building code. "Agricultural buildings" are defined as structures
located on agricultural zoned property and on land that meets the definition of
land actively devoted to agriculture in Idaho Code 63-604 (as determined by the
Washington County Assessor) and are designed and constructed to house farm
implements, hay, grain, poultry, livestock or other horticultural products. A
Farm Shop with toilet facilities shall be considered an agricultural building
provided that it is located on agricultural zoned property and on land that
meets the definition of land actively devoted to agriculture in Idaho Code 63-
604 (as determined by the Washington County Assessor). Toilet facilities may
include the following: sink, toilet, shower, bathtub. This structure
(agricultural building) shall not be a place of human habitation or a place of
employment where agricultural products are processed, treated or packaged, nor
shall it be a place used by the public.
   The owner may complete an agricultural building declaration with the
Planning and Zoning Administration, or other person designated by the Board of
County Commissioners. The agricultural building declaration shall be accepted
if the completed document conforms with the requirements of Title 5 Zoning of
this code, Title 7 Flood Control of this code, and falls within the parameters
outlined in this section of an agricultural building. The agricultural building
declaration shall include a site location and building dimensions of the
proposed structure(s) as well as setbacks. Engineered plans are not required.
   C.   Administrator: The administrator of the building codes and this chapter
shall be appointed by the county commissioners of Washington County, Idaho.
   D.   Appeals: The planning and zoning commission shall act as the board of
appeals of the provisions of this chapter.
   E.   Violations: Any person who wilfully violates any provisions of this
chapter, or who wilfully violates any provisions of the codes adopted herein,
is guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be fined not more than
three hundred dollars ($300.00) or imprisoned for not more than ninety (90)
days or by both such fine and imprisonment. (Ord. 69, 11-5-2012; amd. Ord. 93,
1-22-2024)
3-1-5: SEVERABILITY:
This chapter is hereby declared severable. Should any portion of this chapter
be declared invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining
provisions shall continue in full force and effect and shall be read to carry
out the purpose(s) of this chapter before the declaration of partial
invalidity. Except as provided in section
3-1-2 of this chapter, all other provisions of this code or ordinances of the
county of Washington, which conflict with the provisions of this chapter are
hereby repealed to the extent of such conflict. (Ord. 69, 11-5-2012)
CHAPTER 2
UTILITY SERVICE FOR NEWLY CONSTRUCTED BUILDINGS
SECTION:
3-2-1: Short Title
3-2-2: Definitions
3-2-3: Zoning Or Building Permit Required For Utility Service
3-2-4: Exemptions From Provisions
3-2-5: Violation And Penalty
3-2-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the WASHINGTON COUNTY, IDAHO
UTILITIES ORDINANCE. (Ord. 9, 9-24-1979)
3-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
All definitions shall be applicable as defined in section
5-2-1 of this code:
UTILITY: Any public or private corporation or company which supplies the public
or a group of individuals with electrical power.
ZONING OR BUILDING PERMIT: A permit issued subject to the regulations as
described in title 5 of this code 1 . (Ord. 9, 9-24-1979)
 
Notes
  1. See sections
1 3-1-2 and
  3-1-3 of this code.
3-2-3: ZONING OR BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED FOR UTILITY SERVICE:
   A.   No utility shall provide any service to any newly constructed building
or newly placed mobile home or prefabricated building outside the limits of any
incorporated city in Washington County until such utility has been furnished
with a copy of the zoning or building permit which has been issued for such
newly constructed building or newly placed mobile home or prefabricated
building.
   B.   When a zoning or building permit is issued pursuant to title 5 of this
code 1 , the issuer shall furnish to the successful applicant copies in an
amount sufficient for said applicant to provide the utility with a copy. (Ord.
9, 9-24-1979)
 
Notes
  2. See sections
1 3-1-2 and
  3-1-3 of this code.
3-2-4: EXEMPTIONS FROM PROVISIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to farm and ranch buildings,
concrete ditches, pipelines, wells or other structures and where the land is
used exclusively for agriculture purposes and where such buildings constructed
above the surface are not within thirty feet (30') of any property line or the
boundary of any public road or street right of way or within one hundred feet
(100') of a corner or as defined in section
5-2-1 of this code. (Ord. 9, 9-24-1979)
3-2-5: VIOLATION AND PENALTY:
   A.   The procedure on violation of this chapter shall be that procedure set
out in title 5 of this code 1 , said remedies shall not exclude any other
remedies herein or otherwise provided.
   B.   Each violation of this chapter shall be punishable as provided in title
5 of this code. (Ord. 9, 9-24-1979)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  5-18-5 of this code.
CHAPTER 3
MOBILE HOMES
SECTION:
3-3-1: Assessment Sticker Required; Placement
3-3-2: Relocation Requirements
3-3-3: Mobile Home And Manufactured Home Placement Fee
3-3-4: Violation And Penalty
3-3-5: Definitions
3-3-6: Permitted Locations And Requirements
3-3-1: ASSESSMENT STICKER REQUIRED; PLACEMENT:
The assessor, or his deputy, after having assessed a mobile home located in
Washington County, shall furnish to the owner or occupant of said mobile home
an emblem or a sticker, which emblem or sticker shall be printed and furnished,
at county cost, to the owner or occupant of said mobile home or shall affix
said emblem or sticker to said mobile home, and said emblem or sticker shall be
affixed so that it shall be visible from the public roadway and said emblem or
sticker shall designate that said mobile home has been assessed for that year.
(Ord. 2, 1-11-1973, eff. 1-11-1973)
3-3-2: RELOCATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   In order for a manufactured home/mobile home to be relocated, the mover
shall verify that the mobile/manufactured home is licensed and the fee or tax
has been paid therefor. (Ord. 50, 1-21-2003, eff. 2-1-2003)
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any owner, mover or dealer to move any mobile
home or trailer without meeting the requirements of this section and Idaho Code
section 63-1310, as amended. (Ord. 2, 1-11-1973, eff. 1-11-1973)
3-3-3: MOBILE HOME AND MANUFACTURED HOME PLACEMENT FEE:
   A.   A building permit fee shall be charged for the placement of a
manufactured home or a mobile home in Washington County as set by resolution of
the board of county commissioners. (Ord. 50, 1-21-2003, eff. 2-1-2003)
3-3-4: VIOLATION AND PENALTY:
It shall be unlawful and punishable as a misdemeanor by fine of not to exceed
three hundred dollars ($300.00) or by imprisonment in the county jail of not to
exceed six (6) months, or by both such fine and imprisonment for any person to
occupy or own a mobile home in Washington County for a continuous period in
excess of seventy two (72) hours without having displayed, as described in
section
3-3-1 of this chapter, the emblem or sticker described in section
3-3-1 of this chapter, or for any owner or dealer in mobile homes to move a
mobile home or trailer house without first paying the taxes on said mobile
home, if the same is to be moved outside of the county. (Ord. 2, 1-11-1973,
eff. 1-11-1973)
3-3-5: DEFINITIONS:
Words not herein defined shall be construed to have the meanings commonly given
to them in ordinary usage unless the context clearly indicates another meaning.
Certain terms and words are hereby defined as follows for the purpose of this
chapter:
COUNTY: Washington County.
HUD: The national uniform code of housing and urban development.
LOT: A building lot that satisfies county code.
MOBILE HOME: Any mobile, manufactured or trailer home that is constructed in a
factory for transportation to a lot for permanent installation and designed for
long term residential use and meets the following standards:
Must contain a minimum of five hundred (500) square feet of livable floor
space, be a minimum width of ten feet (10'), have a roof with a minimum thirty
(30) pound per square foot load capacity, or meet snow load requirements for
the lot, whichever is greater; and bears the permanently attached tag or seal
of approval of the state of Idaho.
NONCONFORMING USES: A mobile home unit which was legally placed upon a lot
prior to the adoption of this chapter shall be a legal nonconforming use. It
shall not be replaced by another unit, or relocated within the county without
conforming to all ordinances of the county.
PERMANENT INSTALLATION: A mobile home which has the running gear and towing
hitch removed, is equipped with the required concrete runners and piers, and
has permanently installed utility connections conforming to county code and
shall include the following:
If fourteen feet (14') or wider, it must have a skirting that is similar in
appearance and durability to the missionary foundation of site built dwellings,
and surrounds the entire perimeter of the structure, completely enclosing the
space between the exterior siding and the finish grade. If under fourteen feet
(14') wide, it must have a durable and noncombustible skirting which surrounds
the entire perimeter of the structure, completely enclosing the space between
the exterior siding and the finish grade.
SNOW LOAD: Calculated using the book "Snow Loads For Structures In Idaho",
published by the University Press of Idaho, July 1976, or latest edition. (Ord.
42, 12-16-1996, eff. 1-1-1997; amd. Ord. 50, 1-21-2003, eff. 2-1-2003)
3-3-6: PERMITTED LOCATIONS AND REQUIREMENTS:
Any mobile home which fully complies with all sections of this code may be
placed on any lot in Washington County which is qualified for a single-family
dwelling.
   A.   Occupancy Permit Required: No mobile home may be occupied until the
building inspector has issued a certificate of occupancy. The mobile home shall
comply with all building, electrical, and plumbing codes of the state and the
county before an occupancy permit shall be issued, except that manufactured
homes placed in mobile home parks shall not be required to have a permanent
foundation.
   B.   Requirements:
      1.   A mobile home that is to be utilized as a permanent residence must
be permanently affixed on an approved foundation, be placed on a legal lot, and
conform to all placement requirements.
      2.   The ground around the home shall be sloped to provide positive
drainage of surface water away from the foundation for a distance of ten feet
(10'), unless restricted by lot line, with care taken to avoid draining on
adjoining property.
      3.   Piers shall be set on continuous concrete runners sixteen inches
(16") wide by six inches (6") high with reinforcing rebar. Runners shall extend
one and one-half feet (11/2') beyond each end pier. Pier spacing shall be six
feet (6') on center maximum. Flat shims shall be required between concrete
block piers and steel supports.
Piers comprised of one or more tiers of open cell concrete blocks must be
placed with the cells in a vertical position. The height between ground level
and the home's floor joists shall be at least eighteen inches (18") and cannot
exceed forty inches (40"). The blocks must be installed at right angles to the
chassis beam.
      4.   Electrical service shall meet state electrical codes as now in
existence, or as thereafter amended. (Ord. 42, 12-16-1996, eff. 1-1-1997)
CHAPTER 4
TAX INCENTIVES FOR COMMERCIAL VENTURES
SECTION:
3-4-1: Purpose
3-4-2: Terms, Conditions And Minimum Requirements
3-4-3: Approval Process, Incentive Amounts And Length Of Incentive Periods
3-4-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide guidelines and minimum requirements
related to providing tax incentives to new and existing commercial ventures in
Washington County. Tax reduction considerations are provided in certain
situations, as a mechanism to attract new business to the County. (Ord. 79, 10-
16-2017, eff. 10-25-2017)
3-4-2: TERMS, CONDITIONS AND MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   A new commercial venture considering locating to Washington County, or
an existing commercial venture planning an expansion in the County and applying
for tax incentives, must have a planned local structural valuation of at least
five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00).
   B.   A new commercial venture considering locating to Washington County, or
an existing commercial venture planning an expansion in the County and applying
for tax incentives, in regard to the nature of their planned business venture,
must not be in direct or primary competition with any existing business in the
associated community and in some cases, the County as a whole.
   C.   A new commercial venture or an existing commercial venture planning an
expansion in the County and applying for tax incentives, must provide the
County with an accurate listing of any proposed benefits to the County. This
listing is to include, among other things, the number of jobs created and
associated salaries and benefits. (Ord. 79, 10-16-2017, eff. 10-25-2017)
   D.   Tax incentives will be considered on one hundred percent (100%) of
valuation, above the base value of the property. (Ord. 80, 2-12-2018)
   E.   There is no implied or expressed guarantee that tax incentives will be
approved and granted. (Ord. 79, 10-16-2017, eff. 10-25-2017; amd. Ord. 80, 2-
12-2018)
3-4-3: APPROVAL PROCESS, INCENTIVE AMOUNTS AND LENGTH OF INCENTIVE PERIODS:
   A.   The Governing Board of the County has sole responsibility for the
consideration and possible approval of all tax incentive requests.
   B.   The individual tax incentive amounts are set by the Governing Board of
the County.
   C.   The length of all tax incentive periods is set by the Governing Board
of the County. The maximum period of any single tax incentive period is not to
exceed five (5) years.
   D.   All tax incentive considerations require a public hearing in front of
the Board of County Commissioners as part of the decision making process.
   E.   The Governing Board of the County reserves the right to set any and all
conditions and performance standards related to any approved application for
tax incentives. (Ord. 79, 10-16-2017, eff. 10-25-2017)
TITLE 4
IMPACT AREAS; COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
CHAPTER 1
WEISER AREA OF CITY IMPACT
SECTION:
4-1-1: Factors Considered
4-1-2: Defined
4-1-3: Changes In Area Of Impact Outermost Boundary
4-1-4: Jurisdiction
4-1-5: Building Permit Requirements
4-1-6: Planning, Zoning, Subdivisions, Variances, Notice And Hearings
4-1-7: Amendment And Renegotiation Of Plan Policies And Ordinances
4-1-8: Penalty
4-1-1: FACTORS CONSIDERED:
The following factors were considered by the Weiser city planning and zoning
commission and the Washington County planning commission and the mayor and
council of the city of Weiser and the board of commissioners of Washington
County, Idaho, in the establishment of an area of city impact:
   A.   Trade area.
   B.   Geological factors.
   C.   Areas that can reasonably be expected to be annexed to the city of
Weiser in the future. (Ord. 20, 5-19-1986)
4-1-2: DEFINED:
The "Weiser area of impact" is defined as that unincorporated land mass which
lies contiguous to the city of Weiser, Idaho, having as its closest boundary to
the city, the city limits of said city, as they now exist or as they may be
altered by future annexation of land to the city of Weiser, and having as its
outermost boundary an imaginary line positioned and described as follows:
Commencing at the NE corner of Section 33, Twp. 11 N., R. 5 W.B.M.; thence
North along the East line of Section 28 and 21 to the East quarter corner of
said Section 21; thence West along the North line of the S1/2 of Section 21,
and the north line of the S1/2 of Section 20 to the South East corner of the
NW1/4 of Section 20, thence North to the South line of Section 17, thence West
along the South boundary of Section 17 and Section 18 to the South West corner
of Section 18, thence South to the South West corner of the NW 1/4 Section 19,
thence West to the North West corner of the NE1/4SE1/4 of Section 24 of Twp. 11
N., R. 6 W.B.M.; thence South along the West line of E1/2SE1/4 of Section 24,
E1/2E1/2 of Section 25 and Lot 1 of Section 36, all in Twp. 11 N., R. 6 W.B.M.
to the North bank of the Snake River; thence up along the North bank of the
Snake River to its point of intersection with the South line of the N1/2N1/2 of
Section 5, Twp. 10 N., R. 5 W.B.M.; thence East on the South line of the N1/
2N1/2 of Section 5 and the N1/2N1/2 of Section 4 to the SE corner of the NE1/
4NE1/4 of said Section 4; thence North on the East line of Section 4, Twp. 10
N., R. 5 W.B.M. and the East line of Section 33, Twp. 11 N., R. 5 W.B.M. to the
point and place of beginning.
A map of the described area is attached as exhibit A to the ordinance codified
herein, on file in the office of the clerk of the district court, and
incorporated herein the same as though set out in full. (Ord. 52, 10-20-2003)
4-1-3: CHANGES IN AREA OF IMPACT OUTERMOST BOUNDARY:
In the event that the city of Weiser or the county desires to alter the
outermost boundary of the city impact area, or to change the jurisdiction over
said area, it shall do so by renegotiation in accordance with Idaho Code 67-
6526, as amended. (Ord. 20, 5-19-1986)
4-1-4: JURISDICTION:
Jurisdiction for all matters concerning zoning, building, subdividing or other
matters granted under the local planning act of 1975 under Idaho Code chapter
67, section 6501 et seq., as amended, within the city impact area of Weiser,
Idaho, is hereby granted to Washington County subject to the terms and
conditions of this chapter. (Ord. 52, 10-20-2003)
4-1-5: BUILDING PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   All building permits and any other matters granted under "the Idaho
building code advisory act of 2002" under Idaho Code section 39-4101 et seq.,
as amended, within the city impact area of Weiser, Idaho, shall be under the
jurisdiction of Washington County.
   B.   It shall be unlawful to commence construction on any building or
structure or to occupy said building or structure, until a building permit has
been obtained from the Washington County building inspector and after complying
with all regulations of Washington County. (Ord. 59, 7-17-2006)
   C.   Washington County shall require the construction of curb, gutter, and
sidewalk as a condition precedent to the issuance of a building permit in the
city impact area of Weiser for new construction and for remodels, consisting of
sixty percent (60%) of the square footage or sixty percent (60%) of the
assessed value of the structure as identified in section 2100 of the highway
standards and development procedures for the Weiser Valley highway district and
Washington County, Idaho.
The construction of curb, gutter, and sidewalk shall be in conformity with the
highway standards and development procedures for the Weiser Valley highway
district and Washington County, Idaho, except where the construction of such is
prohibited by irrigation district rules and easements. (Ord. 77, 12-29-2014)
4-1-6: PLANNING, ZONING, SUBDIVISIONS, VARIANCES, NOTICE AND HEARINGS:
   A.   All planning, zoning, subdivisions, granting of variances, notices and
hearings, and any matters granted under the local planning act of 1975 under
Idaho Code chapter 67, section 6501 et seq., as amended, within the city impact
area of Weiser, Idaho, other than building permit requirements under section
4-1-5 of this chapter, shall first be established, amended, granted, or
otherwise processed for approval or other appropriate action by the city of
Weiser planning and zoning commission, the city of Weiser city council, and
mayor, according to the regulations and ordinances established by the city.
After approval and upon recommendation by the city, any such matters will be
submitted directly to the Washington County commissioners for approval,
disapproval or remand, with such action to be taken by the county commissioners
within forty five (45) days after submission and after notice of hearing as
provided in Idaho Code 67-6509. The decisions of the Washington County
commissioners shall be based upon regulations and ordinances established by the
city of Weiser.
   B.   Until such time as the city of Weiser has adopted different regulations
as to zoning, subdivisions, and building requirements, the Washington County
ordinances in effect at that time shall be controlling within the city impact
area. (Ord. 52, 10-20-2003)
4-1-7: AMENDMENT AND RENEGOTIATION OF PLAN POLICIES AND ORDINANCES:
   A.   Amendment:
      1.   Any amendment proposed to be made to the Washington County
comprehensive plan or the Washington County zoning ordinance 1 , which shall
have an effect within the area of impact, shall be referred to the city of
Weiser at least forty five (45) days prior to any public hearings on any such
proposed amendment. Any comment by the city of Weiser on such proposed
amendment shall be entered in the official record of each public hearing
conducted for the purpose of receiving public comment regarding such proposed
amendment.
      2.   Any amendment proposed to be made to the Weiser subdivision 2  and/
or zoning ordinance, which shall have an effect within the area of impact,
shall be referred to the county at least forty five (45) days prior to any
public hearing on such proposed amendment. Any comment by the county on such
proposed amendment shall be entered in the official record of each public
hearing conducted for the purpose of receiving public comment regarding such
proposed amendment.
   B.   Renegotiation: In accordance with Idaho Code 67-6526(d), as amended,
the city of Weiser or the county of Washington may request, in writing, the
renegotiation of the plan policies and ordinance provisions established by this
chapter. Within thirty (30) days of receipt of such written request by either
party, arrangements shall be made for a meeting between the two (2)
jurisdictions. The provisions of this chapter shall remain in full force and
effect during the negotiation period and until amended in accordance with Idaho
Code 67-6509, as amended, or until altered as a result of a declaratory
judgment issued by the district court. (Ord. 52, 10-20-2003)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 5 of this code.
2 1. See title 11 of the Weiser city code.
4-1-8: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter or fails to
comply with any of the terms and conditions hereof, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and be punished for such violation by a fine of up to three hundred
dollars ($300.00) or jail sentence of up to ninety (90) days, or by both such
fine and sentence. The Washington County prosecuting attorney shall have the
authority and responsibility of prosecuting any such violations. (Ord. 52, 10-
20-2003)
CHAPTER 2
MIDVALE AREA OF CITY IMPACT
SECTION:
4-2-1: Factors Considered
4-2-2: Midvale Area Of Impact Defined
4-2-3: Changes In Area Of Impact Outermost Boundary
4-2-4: Jurisdiction (Rep. by Ord. 57, 4-4-2005)
4-2-5: Building Permit Requirements (Rep. by Ord. 57, 4-4-2005)
4-2-6: Amendment And Renegotiation Of Plan Policies And Ordinances
4-2-7: Violation And Penalty
4-2-1: FACTORS CONSIDERED:
The following factors were considered by the Midvale city council and the
Washington County planning and zoning commission and the board of county
commissioners of Washington County, Idaho, in the establishment of an area of
city impact:
   A.   Trade area.
   B.   Geological factors.
   C.   Areas that can reasonably be expected to be annexed to the city of
Midvale in the future. (Ord. 34, 8-17-1987)
4-2-2: MIDVALE AREA OF IMPACT DEFINED:
The Midvale area of impact is defined as that unincorporated land mass which
lies contiguous to the city of Midvale, Idaho, having as its closest boundary
to the city, the city limits of said city, as they now exist or as they may be
altered by future annexation of land to the city of Midvale, and having as its
outermost boundary an imaginary line positioned and described as follows: (Ord.
34, 8-17-1987)
Beginning at the Southwest corner of the NE1/4 of the NE1/4 of Section 24,
Township 13 North, Range 4 West, Thence East to the Southeast corner of the
NE1/4 of the NW1/4 of Section 21, Township 13 North, Range 3 West, Thence North
to the Northeast corner of the SE1/4 of the SW1/4 of Section 4, Township 13
North, Range 3 West, Thence West to the Northwest corner of the SE1/4 of the
SE1/4 of Section 1, Township 13 North, Range 4 West, Thence South to Midvale
Airport Road, Thence West on Midvale Airport Road to Sage Creek Road, Thence
South to the Southwest corner of the N1/2 of the NW1/4 of the SE1/4 of Section
13, Township 13 North, Range 4 West, Thence East to the Southeast corner of the
N1/2 of the NW1/4 of the SE1/4 of Section 13, Township 13 North, Range 4 West
(includes all of the Midvale Airport), Thence South to the Southwest corner of
the NE1/4 of the NE1/4 of Section 24, Township 13 North, Range 4 West, to the
point of beginning.
(Ord. 45, 11-9-1998)
4-2-3: CHANGES IN AREA OF IMPACT OUTERMOST BOUNDARY:
In the event that the city of Midvale or the county of Washington desires to
alter the outermost boundary of the city impact area or to change the
jurisdiction over said area, it shall do so by renegotiation in accordance with
Idaho Code 67-6526, as amended. (Ord. 34, 8-17-1987)
4-2-4: JURISDICTION:
(Rep. by Ord. 57, 4-4-2005)
4-2-5: BUILDING PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
(Rep. by Ord. 57, 4-4-2005)
4-2-6: AMENDMENT AND RENEGOTIATION OF PLAN POLICIES AND ORDINANCES:
   A.   Amendment: Any amendment proposed to be made to the Washington County
comprehensive plan or the Washington County zoning ordinance 1 , which shall
have an effect within the area of impact, shall be referred to the city of
Midvale at least forty five (45) days prior to any public hearings on such
proposed amendment. Any comment by the city of Midvale on such proposed
amendment shall be entered in the official record of each public hearing
conducted for the purpose of receiving public comment regarding such proposed
amendment.
   B.   Renegotiation: In accordance with Idaho Code 67-6526(d), as amended,
the city of Midvale or the county of Washington may request, in writing, the
renegotiation of the plan policies and ordinance provisions established by this
chapter. Within thirty (30) days of receipt of such written request by either
party, arrangements shall be made for a meeting between the two (2)
jurisdictions. The provisions of this chapter shall remain in full force and
effect during the negotiation period and until amended in accordance with Idaho
Code 67-6509, as amended, or until altered as a result of a declaratory
judgment issued by the applicable district court. (Ord. 34, 8-17-1987)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 5 of this code.
4-2-7: VIOLATION AND PENALTY:
Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter or fails to
comply with any of the terms and conditions hereof shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and be punished for such violation by a fine of up to three hundred
dollars ($300.00) or jail sentence of up to ninety (90) days, or by both such
fine and sentence. (Ord. 34, 8-17-1987)
CHAPTER 3
CAMBRIDGE AREA OF CITY IMPACT
SECTION:
4-3-1: Factors Considered
4-3-2: Cambridge Area of Impact Defined
4-3-3: Changes in Area of Impact Outermost Boundary
4-3-4: Jurisdiction
4-3-5: Building Permit Requirements
4-3-6: Planning, Zoning, Subdivision, Variances, Notice And Hearings
4-3-7: Amendment and Renegotiation of Plan Policies and Ordinances
4-3-8: Violation and Penalty
4-3-1: FACTORS CONSIDERED:
The following factors were considered by the Washington County Planning and
Zoning Commission and the Mayor and Council of the City of Cambridge and the
Board of Commissioners of Washington County, Idaho, in the establishment of an
area of City impact:
   A.   Trade area.
   B.   Geological factors.
   C.   Areas that can reasonably be expected to be annexed to the City of
Cambridge in the future. (Ord. 28, 7-11-88)
4-3-2: CAMBRIDGE AREA OF IMPACT DEFINED:
The Cambridge area of impact is defined as that unincorporated land mass which
lies contiguous to the City of Cambridge, Idaho, having as its closest boundary
to the City, the City limits of said City, as they now exist or as they may be
altered by future annexation of land to the City of Cambridge, and having as
its outermost boundary an imaginary line positioned and described as follows:
All of the area of Sections 2, 3, 10 and 11, T. 14 N, R. 3W. B.M. excluding
those lands lying within the established City limits.
A map of the described area is attached to Ordinance 28 as Exhibit A, on file
in the office of the Clerk of the District Court, and incorporated herein the
same as though set out in full. (Ord. 28, 7-11-88)
4-3-3: CHANGES IN AREA OF IMPACT OUTERMOST BOUNDARY:
In the event that the City of Cambridge or the County of Washington desires to
alter the outermost boundary of the City impact area, or to change the
jurisdiction over said area, it shall do so by renegotiation in accordance with
Idaho Code 67-6526, as amended. (Ord. 28, 7-11-88)
4-3-4: JURISDICTION:
Jurisdiction for all matters concerning zoning, building, subdividing or other
matters granted under the Local Planning Act of 1975 under Idaho Code chapter
67, section 6501 et seq., within the City impact area of Cambridge, Idaho, is
hereby granted to the Washington County subject to the terms and conditions of
this Chapter. (Ord. 28, 7-11-88; amd. Ord. 90, 10-12-2021)
4-3-5: BUILDING PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
It shall be unlawful hereafter to commence construction on any building or
structure, or to occupy said building or structure, withing the city impact
area of Cambridge, Idaho until a building permit has been obtained from the
Washington County, and after complying with all Washington County regulations.
(Ord. 28, 7-11-88; amd. Ord. 90, 10-12-2021)
4-3-6: PLANNING, ZONING, SUBDIVISIONS, VARIANCES, NOTICE AND HEARINGS:
All planning, zoning, subdivisions, granting of variances, notices and
hearings, and any matters granted under the local planning act of 1975 under
Idaho Code chapter 67, section 6501 et seq., as amended, within the city impact
area of Cambridge, Idaho, other than building permit requirements under section
4-3-5 of this chapter, shall first be established, amended, granted, or
otherwise processed for approval or other appropriate action by the City of
Cambridge City Council, and mayor, according to the regulations and ordinances
established by Washington County. After approval and upon recommendation by the
city, any such matters will be submitted directly to the Washington County
Commissioners for approval, disapproval or remand, with such action to be taken
by the county commissioners within forty five (45) days after submission and
after notice of hearing, if a hearing is required, as provided in Idaho Code
67-6509. The decisions of the Washington County Commissioners shall be based
upon regulations and ordinances established by Washington County. (Ord. 90, 10-
12-2021)
4-3-7: AMENDMENT AND RENEGOTIATION OF PLAN POLICIES AND ORDINANCES:
   A.   Amendment: Any amendment proposed to be made to the Washington County
Comprehensive Plan or the Washington County Zoning Ordinance 1 , which shall
have an effect within the area of impact, shall be referred to the City of
Cambridge at least forty five (45) days prior to any public hearings on any
such proposed amendment. Any comment by the City of Cambridge on such proposed
amendment shall be entered in the official record of each public hearing
conducted for the purpose of receiving public comment regarding such proposed
amendment.
   B.   Renegotiation: In accordance with Idaho Code 67-6526(d), as amended,
the City of Cambridge or the County of Washington may request, in writing, the
renegotiation of the plan policies and ordinance provisions established by this
Chapter. Within thirty (30) days of receipt of such written request by either
party, arrangements shall be made for a meeting between the two (2)
jurisdictions. The provisions of this Chapter shall remain in full force and
effect during the negotiation period and until amended in accordance with Idaho
Code 67-6509, as amended, or until altered as a result of a declaratory
judgment issued by the applicable district court. (Ord. 28, 7-11-88; amd. Ord.
90, 10-12-2021)
 
Notes
1    See Title 5 of this Code.
4-3-8: VIOLATION AND PENALTY:
Any person who violates any of the provisions of this Chapter or fails to
comply with any of the terms and conditions hereof shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be punished for such violation by a fine of up to three
hundred dollars ($300.00) or jail sentence of up to ninety (90) days, or by
both such fine and sentence. (Ord. 28, 7-11-88; amd. Ord. 90, 10-12-2021)
CHAPTER 4
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
SECTION:
4-4-1: Comprehensive Plan Adopted
4-4-1: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN ADOPTED:
   A.   The Comprehensive Plan for the County is hereby adopted as the long-
range plan for the future development of Washington County. The Comprehensive
Plan policies are hereby adopted to manage new development and to make
improvements in existing areas.
   B.   Three (3) copies of the Comprehensive Plan shall be available for
public inspection at the office of the Clerk of the District Court. (1995 Code)
TITLE 5
ZONING
CHAPTER 1
ZONING PURPOSE AND INTERPRETATION
SECTION:
5-1-1: Purpose
5-1-2: Scope, Interpretation And Application Of Provisions
5-1-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this title is to protect and promote the health, safety, morals
and general welfare of the community. It is intended, therefore:
   A.   To provide for coordination with the county comprehensive plan for the
orderly development of the county.
   B.   To protect property rights and enhance property values.
   C.   To ensure that adequate public facilities and services are provided to
the people at reasonable costs.
   D.   To ensure that the economy of the county and localities is protected
and enhanced.
   E.   To ensure that the important environmental features of the county and
localities are protected and enhanced.
   F.   To encourage the protection of prime agricultural, forestry and mining
lands for production of food, fiber and minerals.
   G.   To encourage urban and urban style development within incorporated
cities.
   H.   To avoid undue concentration of population and overcrowding of land.
   I.   To ensure that the development of land is commensurate with the
physical characteristics of the land.
   J.   To protect life and property in areas subject to natural hazards and
disasters.
   K.   To protect fish, wildlife and recreation resources.
   L.   To avoid undue water and air pollution. (Ord. 51, 9-2-2003)
5-1-2: SCOPE, INTERPRETATION AND APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Scope: This title shall apply to the unincorporated areas of the county
except where an impact area agreement has been negotiated in accordance with
Idaho Code section 67-6526.
   B.   Interpretation: In interpreting and applying the provisions of this
title, they shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of
the public health, safety, comfort, convenience and general welfare. Where this
title imposes a greater restriction upon the use of buildings or land, or upon
the height of buildings or requires larger open spaces than are imposed or
required by the other ordinances, rules, regulations, easements, covenants or
agreements, the provisions of this title shall control.
   C.   Application Of Provisions:
      1.   In addition to the restrictions imposed upon the uses in the various
classes of zones, no facility or use shall be permitted near residential areas
unless it is clearly demonstrated that:
         a.   The proposed use will not result in smoke, dirt, glare, smog, air
pollution, excessive noise, financial damages, offensive odors or water
pollution beyond the limits as defined by the environmental protection agency
or the state department of health and welfare.
         b.   The user can and will comply with such screening and setback
requirements that may be required by the commission.
      2.   No building shall be erected, nor shall any existing building be
altered, added to or enlarged, nor shall any land, building or premises be
used, designated or intended to be used for any purpose or in any manner other
than is included among the uses herein listed as permitted in the zone in which
such building, land or premises is located; except as otherwise provided in
chapter 10 of this title.
      3.   No building shall be erected, reconstructed or structurally altered
to exceed in height the limit herein designated for the zone in which such
building is located.
      4.   No building shall be erected, nor shall any existing building be
altered, enlarged or rebuilt, nor shall any open space surrounding any building
be encroached upon or reduced in any manner, except in conformity to the yard,
building site area and building location regulations herein designated for the
zone in which such building or open space is located.
      5.   No lawn, yard or other space provided about any building for the
purpose of complying with provisions of this title shall be considered as
providing a lawn, yard or other open space for any other building. (Ord. 51, 9-
2-2003)
      6.   Under no circumstances shall flashing lights of high intensity
(other than safety lights installed by a local highway jurisdiction within
their right of way), be allowed within one hundred feet (100') of any property
line. (Ord. 77, 12-29-2014)
      7.   The provisions of this title shall not apply to concrete ditches,
pipelines, fences, wells or other similar improvements and where the land is
used exclusively for agricultural purposes. Further, the provisions of this
title shall not apply to farm and ranch buildings which are not located within
fifteen feet (15') of any property line or boundary (other than when said
property line or boundary is a public road or street right of way) or within
forty feet (40') of any public road or street right of way.
      8.   An original lot, tract or parcel may not be divided into more than
four (4) parts for the purpose of transfer of ownership or development, unless
it is an approved subdivision and complies with the provisions of title 6 of
this code.
      9.   Whenever any uncertainty exists as for the boundary of any zone
shown on any zoning map, the following rules shall apply:
         a.   Where any such boundary line is indicated as following a street,
alley or public way, it shall be construed as following the centerline thereof.
         b.   Where a boundary line is indicated as approximately following a
lot line, such lot line shall be construed to be such boundary line.
         c.   Where a boundary line divides a lot or crosses unsubdivided
property, the location of such boundary shall be indicated upon the zoning map.
         d.   Whenever a recorded legal description exists, it shall determine
boundaries.
      10.   In considering any development application under this code, the
commission shall consider the following questions to ensure the protection of
private property rights under Idaho Code:
         a.   Does the regulation or action result in the permanent or
temporary physical occupation of the property?
         b.   Does the regulation or action require a property owner to
dedicate a portion of property or grant an easement?
         c.   Does the regulation deprive the owner of all economically viable
uses of the property?
         d.   Does the regulation have a significant impact on the landowner's
economic interest?
         e.   Does the regulation deny a fundamental attribute of ownership?
         f.   Does the regulation serve the same purpose that would be served
by directly prohibiting the use or action; and does the condition imposed
substantially advance that purpose? (Ord. 51, 9-2-2003)
CHAPTER 2
ZONING DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
5-2-1: Definitions
5-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
Words not herein defined shall be construed to have the meanings commonly given
to them in ordinary usage unless the context clearly indicates another meaning.
Certain terms and words are hereby defined as follows for the purpose of this
title:
ACCESS, DIRECT: A recorded legal conveyance from the lot to a public road.
ACCESSORY BUILDING: A detached subordinate building, the use of which is
customarily incidental to that of the main building, or to the main use of the
land, and which is located on the same lot with the main building or use, and
not including those buildings defined herein as farm or garden buildings.
ACCESSORY USE: A use naturally and normally incidental to, subordinate to and
devoted exclusively to the main use of the premises.
ACRE: Forty three thousand five hundred sixty (43,560) square feet.
ADMINISTRATOR: An official having knowledge in the principles of zoning and
building, who is appointed by the board of county commissioners of Washington
County, Idaho, to administer this title.
AFFECTED PERSON: One having an interest in real property which may be adversely
affected by the issuance or denial of a permit authorizing development.
AGRICULTURAL BUILDING: A structure designed and constructed to house farm
implements, hay, grain, poultry, livestock or other horticultural products.
This structure shall not be a place of human habitation or a place of
employment where agricultural products are processed, treated or packaged, nor
shall it be a place used by the public.
AIRPORT: Any runway, land area or other facility designed or used either
publicly or privately by any person for the landing and taking off of aircraft,
including all necessary taxiways, aircraft storage and tie down areas, hangars
and other necessary buildings.
ANIMAL UNITS: Shall be as defined in section
5-15-2 of this title.
AREA, MINIMUM LOT: The total area within the property lines of the lot,
excluding adjacent streets, except as otherwise provided.
BED AND BREAKFAST: A professionally run facility providing up to six (6) guest
bedrooms for temporary overnight accommodations, and where the owner-innkeeper
is resident on the property. A "bed and breakfast" provides breakfast for
overnight guests, but does not provide a restaurant and/or bar. Exterior
signage must conform with sign ordinances of that zone and area.
BOARD: The board of county commissioners referred to as the "board" in this
title.
BOARDING AND ROOMING HOUSES: A building or portion thereof which is used to
accommodate, for compensation, three (3) or more boarders or roomers, not
including members of the occupant's immediate family, who might be occupying
such building. The word compensation shall include payment in money, service or
other things of value.
BUILDING: Any permanent structure built for the shelter or enclosure of
persons, animals, chattels or property of any kind and not including
advertising signboards or fences.
BUILDING CODES: See current codes as mandated by the state of Idaho and adopted
by the county.
BUILDING HEIGHT: The vertical distance from the grade to the highest point on
the roof surface.
BUILDING INSPECTOR: An official of the county, appointed by the board, to
inspect and certify compliance with building ordinances adopted by the county.
BUILDING, PRINCIPAL: A building in which is conducted the main or principal use
of the lot on which said building is situated.
CAFO (CONFINED ANIMAL FEEDING OPERATION): See chapter 15 of this title.
COMMERCIAL PACKING SHED FOR FARM CROPS: Packing sheds for fruit, vegetables,
hops or other farm crops will be considered commercial for the terms of this
title when less than fifty percent (50%) of the farm crops graded or packed are
produced by the owner.
COMMUNICATION TOWER: A tower used as a base for any communications antenna,
including, but not necessarily limited to, antennas for the following: VHF and
UHF television, radio, or PCS or other wireless telephones, fixed point
microwave, low power television, or other wireless communications and common
carriers. A "communication tower" shall not be considered a utility substation
for the purposes of this title and must be approved by a special use permit
under conditions as listed in chapter 9 of this title.
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: The comprehensive plan for the county officially adopted by
the board as such.
CONTIGUOUS PARCEL: Any unplatted parcels of land under the same ownership that
touch each other. If parcels are separated or divided by roads, highways or
streams, they shall still be considered contiguous.
CORRECTIONAL FACILITY: Any facility, public or private, under the control of a
competent board or managers and used as a place of detention, correction or
punishment.
COTTAGE INDUSTRY: A business, service or profession carried on within a
dwelling or an accessory building by members of the immediate family residing
therein and/or one employee not residing therein. A "cottage industry" must
meet the requirements set forth in subsection
5-14-2M of this title and be approved through a special use permit.
COUNTY COMMISSIONERS: The governing board of Washington County, hereinafter
referred to as the "board".
DETENTION CENTER OR FACILITY: A facility, public or private, established for
the temporary placement of persons who require secure custody for their own or
the community's protection in physically restricting facilities.
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT: A written agreement or a written commitment that affects
the use or development of a parcel of property that is the subject of a rezone
or development request. A written commitment shall also be known as a
development agreement.
DEVELOPMENT RIGHT: The rights permitted to a lot, parcel or area of land
respecting permissible area, area, density, bulk or height of improvements
allowed under this title.
DIRECT ACCESS: See definition of Access, Direct.
DRIVE-IN ESTABLISHMENT: An establishment, other than an automobile service
station, which is designed to accommodate the motor vehicles of patrons in such
manner as to permit the occupants of such vehicles, while remaining therein, to
make purchases or receive services.
DRIVEWAY: A means of providing vehicular access from a street or private
roadway to a residential dwelling.
DWELLING: Any building or portion thereof which is used as the private
residence or sleeping place of one or more human beings, but not including
hotels, motels, tourist courts, resort cabins, clubs, hospitals or similar
uses.
DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY: A building occupied by two (2) or more families
living independently of each other but not including motels or hotels.
DWELLING, ONE-FAMILY: A detached building designed exclusively for and occupied
by one family.
DWELLING UNIT: One or more rooms in a dwelling designed for or occupied by one
family.
EASEMENT: A grant by a property owner to specific persons or to the public to
use land for specific purposes. Also a right acquired by prescription.
FARM, RANCH, AND GARDEN OR AGRICULTURE BUILDINGS: Those buildings and
structures used to shelter or enclose livestock, poultry, feed, farm crops,
flowers, field equipment, dairy operations or similar uses.
FLOODPLAIN: The relatively flat area or low land adjoining the channel of a
river, stream or lake or other body of water which has been or may be covered
by water of a flood of 100-year frequency. The "floodplain" includes the
channel, floodway and floodway fringe as established by the flood insurance
study for Washington County. All lands located in such areas must comply with
title 7 of this code.
FRONTAGE UPON A PUBLIC STREET: The property physically touches such public
right of way. Amount of frontage required is determined by each zone
requirement.
GRADE AND OFFICIAL GRADE: Grade (ground level) is the average of the finished
ground level at the center of all walls of a building. If walls are within
twenty five feet (25') of sidewalk or curb, said ground level shall be measured
at the sidewalk or curb. Official grade refers to the grade or elevation
established by a civil engineer for the street, curb, sewer or structure
considered.
HOME BUSINESS: A business, service or profession carried on within a dwelling
where there is no outward evidence of the business, service or profession, said
evidence to include, but not be limited to, electrical interference or
hazardous conditions as well as the production of noise, vibration, smoke,
odors, heat or glare and traffic, parking or congestion problems which would
exceed that normally produced by a single residence.
HOMESCHOOL: A place of learning, i.e., the child's home, where a child is being
taught by a parent or guardian. The place of learning is not a "homeschool" if
the child leaves his/her home to receive instruction from someone else.
HOSPITAL: Any building or portion thereof used for the accommodation and
medical care of sick, injured or infirm persons and including sanatoriums, but
not including rest homes.
HOTELS AND MOTELS: Any building or portion thereof containing six (6) or more
guestrooms used, designed to be used, let or hired out for occupancy by persons
on more or less a temporary basis.
INDUSTRIAL USE: A. Light Industrial Use: Any manufacturing, processing, energy
production, storing, assembling, testing and similar uses. Any byproducts of
noise, smoke, odor, glare, gas, vibration, dust, or light generally are
contained within a building or do not extend beyond the property lines to have
measurable impact upon the surrounding properties. It does not refer to the
growing of agricultural crops, or the raising of livestock.
   B.   Heavy Industrial Use: Any manufacturing, processing, or testing of
goods and materials, including the production of power, where the byproducts of
such use include noise, smoke, odor, glare, gas, vibration, dust, light, or
traffic and such byproducts do extend beyond the confines of the property and
may have a detrimental effect on neighboring property.
JUNKYARD: A lot, or structure or part thereof, used for the collecting, storage
and sale of wastepaper, rags, scrap metal or discarded material, or for the
collecting, dismantling, storage and salvaging of machinery or vehicles for the
sale of parts thereof. A "junkyard" includes auto wrecking yards.
KENNEL: Any lot or premises on which four (4) or more dogs at least four (4)
months of age are harbored for commercial purposes.
LOT LINE, FRONT: The property line dividing a lot from a street. On a corner
lot, only one street line shall be considered as a front line, and this shall
be the shorter street frontage.
LOT LINE, REAR: The line opposite the front line.
LOT LINE, SIDE: Any lot line other than the front lot line or rear lot line.
LOT OR PARCEL: A unit of land described by metes and bounds or part of a
recorded subdivision so recorded for transfer of ownership. Each residential
lot is entitled to one residence and must have direct access to a public road.
Each commercial or industrial lot must have direct access to a public road. An
agricultural lot does not need frontage or access if not meant for development.
However, under no circumstances will a land use action deny access to any lot
or parcel.
LOT WIDTH: The distance parallel to the front lot line measured between side
lot lines through that part of the building or structure where the lot is
narrowest.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure, constructed according to the HUD/FHA
manufactured/mobile home construction and safety standards, built after July 1,
1976, transportable in one or more sections, which, in the traveling mode, is
fourteen (14) body feet or more in width or is forty (40) body feet or more in
length, or when erected on site, is six hundred (600) or more square feet, and
which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling
with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required
utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning, and electrical
systems contained therein; except, that such term shall include any structure
which meets all the requirements of this definition except the size
requirements and with respect to which the manufacturer voluntarily files a
certification required by the secretary of housing and urban development and
complies with the standards established under 42 USC section 5401 et seq. A
"manufactured home" must meet the siting conditions as specified in the
performance standards listed in chapter 14 of this title.
MEMBERSHIP CLUB: An association of persons, whether incorporated or
unincorporated, for some common purpose, but not including groups organized
primarily to render a service carried on as a business.
MOBILE HOME: A structure transportable in one or more sections which is eight
(8) body feet or more in width and is thirty two feet (32') or more in length
and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling
with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities
and includes the plumbing, heating and electrical systems contained therein. No
mobile home may be placed on a single-family lot within the county after the
effective date hereof unless it meets the rehabilitation standards as specified
in title 44 of the Idaho Code and also meets the siting standards of a
manufactured home as stated in chapter 16 of this title. A "mobile home" does
not include a recreational vehicle.
MOBILE/MANUFACTURED HOME PARK: Three (3) or more mobile/manufactured homes upon
a single ownership of land constitute a mobile/manufactured home park.
NONCONFORMING BUILDING: A building or structure or portion thereof built prior
to the effective date hereof, or any amendment hereto, and conflicting with the
provisions of this title applicable to the zone in which it is situated.
NONCONFORMING USE: The use of a structure or premises conflicting with
provisions of this title.
OCCUPIED: Includes arranged, designed, built, altered, converted, rented or
leased, or intended to be occupied.
ORIGINAL PARCEL OF LAND: Any contiguous lots or parcels, not in a subdivision,
platted or unplatted, held in one ownership and of record as of April 9, 1979.
OUTDOOR ADVERTISING SIGNS: Any card, cloth, paper, metal, painted, wooden,
glass, plaster, stone or other sign of any kind placed for outdoor advertising
purposes.
PARCEL, CONTIGUOUS: See definition of Contiguous Parcel.
PARKING LOT AND SPACE: An open, graded and/or surfaced area, other than a
street or public way, to be used for the storage, for limited periods of time,
of operable passenger automobiles and commercial vehicles, and available to the
public, whether for compensation, free or as an accommodation to clients or
customers and designed in accordance with the provisions of chapter 12 of this
title. "Parking space" means usable space within a public or private parking
area or building, as described in chapter 12 of this title.
PERSON: Includes any association, firm, partnership, copartnership or
corporation.
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION: The Washington County planning and zoning
commission appointed by the board to advise the board in all matters concerning
planning and zoning, hereinafter referred to as the "commission".
PRISON: A secured place where persons convicted of crimes are confined.
PROFESSIONAL OFFICE: Any office for professions such as physicians, dentists,
lawyers, architects, engineers, artists, musicians, designers, teachers,
accountants and others who, through training, are qualified to perform services
of a professional nature.
PUBLIC WATER AND PUBLIC SEWER FACILITIES: Those facilities of a municipality or
sanitation district approved by the Southwest district health department and by
the state department of health for general public use.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK: Includes travel trailer park and means any site or
tract of land where two (2) or more travel trailers or recreation vehicles are
placed, located and maintained for dwelling purposes on a temporary basis and
built to standards as set forth in chapter 16 of this title.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV): A vehicular type unit designed as a temporary
dwelling for recreational, camping or travel use which is either self-
propelled, self-contained or mounted on or drawn by another vehicle, including
all recreation vehicles, camping trailers, truck campers and motor homes of
eight and one-half feet by forty feet (81/2' x 40') or less in size. The
utilization of recreational vehicles for long term residential use is
prohibited. "Long term use" is defined as over six (6) months per calendar
year.
RESIDENTIAL LAND OR PURPOSE: Land whose primary purpose is to provide a place
for people to live or reside.
RESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISION: Any division or subdivision of real property with a
residence or residential use attached to, or associated with, any of the
resulting parcels.
RIGHT OF WAY: A parcel of land dedicated or reserved for use as a public way,
which normally includes streets, sidewalks, utilities or other service
functions.
SCHOOL: A public, private or charter institution which offers instruction to
nonfamily members in any of the branches of learning and study comparable to
that taught in the public schools under the Idaho school laws, including
prekindergarten, kindergarten, elementary, junior and senior high schools,
colleges, universities, trade, business and commercial schools.
SECURE FACILITY: Any facility, public or private, which provides supervision
and confinement for offenders, students, guests and/or any inhabitants who
cannot leave at will.
SETBACK: The distance from the nearest point of a building or other structure,
measured to the front lot line, referred to in section
5-3-4 of this title concerning minimum setback.
SHALL: A mandatory condition. Where certain requirements in the regulations are
described with the "shall" stipulation, it is mandatory that these requirements
be met.
SHOULD: An advisory condition. Where this word "should" is used, it is
considered to be advisable usage, recommended, but not mandatory.
SIGN: Any structure or natural object, such as a tree, rock, bush and the
ground itself, or part thereof or device attached thereto or painted or
represented thereon, which shall be used to attract attention to any object,
product, place, activity, person, institution, organization or business, or
which shall display or include any letter, word, model, banner, flag, pennant,
insignia, device or representation used as, or which is in the nature of an
announcement, a direction or an advertisement. For the purpose of this
definition, the word sign does not include the flag, pennant or insignia of any
nation, state, city or other political, educational, charitable, philanthropic,
civic, professional, religious, or like campaign, drive, movement or event.
SPECIAL USE: A special use permit may be granted to an applicant if the
proposed use is otherwise prohibited by the terms of this title, but may be
allowed with conditions under specific provisions of this title and when it is
not in conflict with the plan. A special use permit is not transferable from
one parcel of land to another.
STREET: A public right of way that provides access to adjacent properties, the
dedication of which has been officially accepted and has been accepted for
maintenance by the local road jurisdiction having authority over the right of
way. The term "street" also includes the terms "highway", "parkway", "road",
"avenue", "boulevard", "lane", "place", and other such terms.
Alley: A public service way used to provide secondary vehicular access to
properties otherwise abutting upon a street.
Approach: See definition of Driveway.
Arterial: A general term including expressways, major and minor arterial
streets, and interstate, state or local highways having regional continuity.
Minor Arterial: A street and/or roadway designed for relatively uninterrupted
traffic movement between cities, towns and other major traffic generators.
Typically rural minor arterials include state highways and major county
highways. They serve most of the larger communities not served by the principal
arterial system and serve other traffic generators capable of attracting travel
over long distances. They form an integrated network, provide interstate and
intercounty service, provide trip length and travel density greater than those
served by the collector systems and provide relatively high travel speeds.
Minor arterials also minimize interference to through movement.
Principal Arterial: A street and/or roadway for traffic movement between major
population centers without traffic control delays. Typically principal
arterials include the interstate system and other major highways. They provide
high speed travel, minimal interference to through movement.
Collector: A street that provides for traffic movement between neighborhoods of
the local highway jurisdiction and between arterial streets and local streets
and for limited direct access to abutting property.
Major Collector: A street and/or roadway designed to serve large towns and
traffic generators that are not directly served by an arterial. Typically,
major collector roads serve as important intracounty (within the county) travel
corridors and provide service to any county seat not on an arterial route and
to the larger communities not directly served by the higher systems.
Minor Collector: A street and/or roadway designed to provide traffic service to
smaller communities and locally important generators. Typically minor collector
roads accumulate traffic from the local roads and provide access to the higher
type roadway system. They also are spaced at intervals consistent with
population density, collect traffic from local roads and tend to feed
predominantly local traffic from side streets into major collectors or
arterials.
Cul-De-Sac: A short local street having one end permanently terminated in a
vehicular turnaround.
Frontage: A minor street, parallel to and adjacent to an arterial street, to
provide access to abutting properties.
Local: A street that provides for direct access to residential, commercial,
industrial, or other abutting land for local traffic movements and connects to
collector and/or arterial streets.
Local streets with low traffic volumes are often subdivided into subclasses.
These functional subclasses of local roads are based on the "Guidelines For
Geometric Design Of Very Low Volume Local Roads (ADT400)" published by AASHTO
and include:
Agricultural Access Roads: A street and/or roadway designed to provide access
into adjacent farming or ranching operations, often used by large and slow
moving farm equipment.
Industrial/Commercial: A street and/or roadway designed to provide access from
higher type roadways into an industrial/commercial area, often used by a large
percentage of trucks and other heavy vehicles.
Major Access: A street and/or roadway designed to provide access to abutting
property as well as access through an area or between higher type roadways.
Minor Access: A street and/or roadway designed to serve primarily as access to
abutting property, often with no through route (dead end roads).
Recreational And Scenic: A street and/or roadway designed to serve special land
use areas including campsites, boat ramps and other recreational facilities.
Resource Recovery: A street and/or roadway designed to facilitate the recovery
of natural resources including mining and logging operations. These roads
typically serve many large vehicles operated by professional drivers.
Loop: A street with both terminal points on the same street of origin.
Partial: A dedicated right of way providing only a portion of the required
street width, usually along the edge of a subdivision or tract of land.
Private Road: A street that is not accepted for public use or maintenance that
provides vehicular and pedestrian access to two (2) or more permanent
residences and, to a lesser extent, commercial, industrial and other uses.
STRUCTURES: Anything constructed or erected, which requires location on the
ground, or attached to something having a location on the ground, but not
including fences or walls used as fences eight feet (8') or less in height,
poles, lines, cables or other transmitting or distribution facilities of public
utilities.
SUBDIVISION: The result of an act of dividing an original lot, tract or parcel
of land into more than four (4) parts for the purpose of transfer of ownership
or development.
TENSE: The present tense includes the future tense, the singular number
includes the plural, and the plural number includes the singular.
USE: The purpose for which land or a building is designed, arranged or intended
or for which either is, or may be, occupied or maintained.
USED CAR LOTS AND MACHINERY LOTS: A retail sales area for the sale of
automobiles and machinery that are in such condition as to meet all
requirements of the state 1  and county for license and operation.
VARIANCE 2 : A modification of the strict terms of the relevant regulations
where such modification will not be contrary to the public interest and where
there are conditions peculiar to the property not the result of the action of
the applicant or a previous owner.
YARD: An open space other than a court, or a lot unoccupied and unobstructed
from the ground upward, except as otherwise provided in this title.
YARD, FRONT: A yard extending across the full width of the lot between the
front lot line and the nearest line or point of the building.
YARD, REAR: A yard extending across the full width of the lot between the rear
lot line and the nearest line or point of the building.
YARD, SIDE: A yard extending from the front yard to the rear yard between the
side lot line and the nearest line or point of the building or accessory
buildings attached thereto. (Ord. 51, 9-2-2003; amd. Ord. 64, 7-13-2009; Ord.
70, 11-5-2012; Ord. 77, 12-29-2014)
 
Notes
1 1. IC §49-1606 et seq.
2 2. IC §67-6516.
CHAPTER 3
GENERAL ZONING PROVISIONS; ZONING MAP
SECTION:
5-3-1: Zones And Boundaries
5-3-2: Minimum Yard Area
5-3-3: Maximum Height Of Buildings And Structures
5-3-4: Setback Building Lines
5-3-5: Rights Of Way
5-3-6: Parking Facilities
5-3-7: Zoning Map; Zone Descriptions
5-3-1: ZONES AND BOUNDARIES:
The boundaries of each zone are shown on the official zoning map on file in the
office of the administrator and designated by ordinance on file in the office
of the county clerk and on said map by use of the following colors:
A1    Agricultural: no color
A2    Agricultural transitional: red
C1    Commercial: yellow
C2    Commercial: orange
D1    Light industrial: light brown
D2    Heavy industrial: dark brown
R    Recreation: blue
(Ord. 51, 9-2-2003)
5-3-2: MINIMUM YARD AREA:
   A.   In zone A2, each building or structure shall be required to have side
yards of at least ten feet (10') and a rear yard of at least thirty feet (30').
   B.   In zones A1, C1, C2, D1 and D2, no side yard or rear yard is required
except where the lot adjoins a residential A2 zone, in which case, a side yard
of not less than ten feet (10') is required and a rear yard of thirty feet
(30') is required.
   C.   If there is no minimum yard requirement or if the minimum yard
requirement is less than the minimum setback requirements, the setback
requirement shall be controlling.
   D.   For purposes of determining the minimum rear yard, the rear yard may be
measured to the centerline of an alley abutting the rear property line. (Ord.
51, 9-2-2003)
5-3-3: MAXIMUM HEIGHT OF BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES:
The following shall be the maximum permissible heights of buildings and
structures in the below listed zones; provided, however, that towers and
similar structures may be exempted from the below listed requirements by
special permits, which may be obtained from the commission:
   A.   Zone A1: Thirty five feet (35').
   B.   Zone A2: Thirty five feet (35').
   C.   Zone C1: Thirty five feet (35').
   D.   Zone C2: Forty five feet (45').
   E.   Zone D1: One hundred feet (100').
   F.   Zone D2: One hundred feet (100'). (Ord. 51, 9-2-2003)
5-3-4: SETBACK BUILDING LINES:
   A.   In zones A1 and A2, no dwelling or structure or any portion thereof,
except steps and uncovered porches less than ten feet (10') in width, shall be
erected within fifteen feet (15') of the property boundary lines or within
fifteen feet (15') of the street right of way or within one hundred feet (100')
of any state or federal highway. Prior to any development it shall be the
property owner’s responsibility to determine the street right of way width for
any street adjacent to the proposed development. Prescriptive right of way
shall be used if there is no recorded street right of way width. No farm or
ranch buildings shall be erected within fifteen feet (15') of the property
boundary lines or within fifteen feet (15') of the county road right of way or
within one hundred feet (100') of any state or federal highway. Prior to any
development it shall be the property owner’s responsibility to determine the
street right of way width for any street adjacent to the proposed development.
Prescriptive right of way shall be used if there is no recorded street right of
way width.
   B.   In zones C1, C2, D1 and D2, no building or structure or any portion
thereof, except steps and uncovered porches less than ten feet (10') in width,
shall be erected within five feet (5') of the property boundary lines or within
forty feet (40') of the street right of way or within one hundred feet (100')
of any state or federal highway. If the property adjoins zone A1 or A2, no
structure shall be placed within fifteen feet (15') of the property line or
forty feet (40') from a county road or one hundred feet (100') from a state or
federal highway.
   C.   Frontage requirements are as follows:
      1.   Zones A and R: No frontage requirements.
      2.   Zone C1: Thirty five feet (35').
      3.   Zone C2: Thirty five feet (35').
      4.   Zone D1: Fifty feet (50').
      5.   Zone D2: Fifty feet (50').
(Ord. 51, 9-2-2003; amd. Ord 95, 8-26- 2024)
5-3-5: RIGHTS OF WAY:
   A.   Streets:
      1.   All streets and rights of way shall be developed in accordance with
the highway standards and development procedures for the Weiser Valley highway
district and Washington County, Idaho, and the latest adopted version of the
Washington County road and bridge transportation master plan.
   B.   Private Roads:
      1.   All private roads shall have a recorded, permanent, perpetual
easement and permanent Road Users' Association maintenance agreement sufficient
to provide operational and year round emergency access as required by the
emergency service providers (i.e., fire district, ambulance district, QRU,
etc.). In the event there are conflicting standards between emergency service
providers, the most stringent standard shall govern. (Ord. 77, 12-29-2014)
5-3-6: PARKING FACILITIES:
All parking facilities and requirements shall conform with chapter 12 of this
title. (Ord. 51, 9-2-2003)
5-3-7: ZONING MAP; ZONE DESCRIPTIONS:
This title shall consist of its text and the official zoning map, which shall
be designated as the Washington County zoning map and is hereby adopted by the
board as part of this title. If there is a discrepancy between the written
description of the zones and the zoning map, the written description shall
determine the boundary of the zone. (Ord. 51, 9-2-2003)
CHAPTER 4
AGRICULTURAL ZONES
SECTION:
5-4-1: A1 Agricultural Zone
5-4-2: A2 Agricultural Transitional Zone
5-4-1: A1 AGRICULTURAL ZONE:
   A.   Description: Land zoned A1 is land for the growing, raising or
production of agricultural, horticultural, viticultural and vegetable crops,
poultry and poultry products, livestock (including equine), field grains,
seeds, hay, apiary and dairy products.
   B.   Lot Area:
      1.   In zone A1 no dwelling shall be sold, transferred or built with less
than twenty (20) acres of lot area except as provided in subsection C of this
section.
      2.   No residential subdivisions shall be allowed in the A1 zone. (Ord.
51, 9-2-2003)
      3.   Only one single-family residence allowed per approved lot. (Ord. 70,
11-5-2012)
   C.   Exceptions: Original parcels that have been in existence prior to April
9, 1979, and have not been subsequently divided since that date may be eligible
for up to three (3) 1-acre splits depending upon the size of the original
parcel and the number of previous divisions of the parcel. Such one acre
divisions shall be allowed on a formula of one division per five (5) acres of
the total area of the original parcel not to exceed three (3) divisions of the
original parcel creating no more than four (4) lots. If the original parcel has
been divided under this allowance after April 9, 1979, and prior to the date of
this title into more than one parcel, regardless of size, such division(s)
already taken shall count as part of the maximum of three (3) splits allowed on
that original parcel per five (5) acres of total area. The size of the one acre
split may be increased only through the special use process. It is recommended
where possible that splits be clustered and placed upon land considered
marginal for agricultural use. (Ord. 51, 9-2-2003; amd. Ord. 70, 11-5-2012)
   D.   Lands Included: Zone A1 shall include all tracts of land which are
being used for agriculture purposes and are not devoted to uses included within
classifications A2, C1, C2, D1, and D2, and shall be designated as A1 zones.
   E.   Nuisance Waiver: Any building permit issued in an A1 zone shall be
accompanied by a nuisance waiver informing residents of the agricultural
practices and their priority in the area. Such waiver shall state:
No agricultural operation or an appurtenance to it shall be or become a
nuisance, private or public, by any changed conditions in or about the
surrounding nonagricultural activities after the same has been in operation for
more than one (1) year, when the operation was not a nuisance at the time the
operation began: provided, that the provisions of this section shall not apply
whenever a nuisance results from the improper or negligent operation of any
agricultural operations pursuant to a federal or state environmental permit or
caused by a violation of the permit(s), terms or conditions, the affected party
shall seek enforcement of the terms or conditions.
   F.   Permitted Uses: The following uses shall be permitted in all A1 zones:
Cultivation, storage and sale of crops, vegetables, fruits, plants, flowers and
nursery stock produced on the premises.
Farm and ranch houses, buildings and other structures.
Home business.
Livestock and poultry raising, feeding and sale, but not including CAFOs,
kennels and veterinary or animal hospitals.
Single-family dwellings. (Ord. 51, 9-2-2003)
   G.   Special Uses: The commission may, after notice and public hearing,
recommend the following uses to the board. The board shall have the authority
to impose such conditions and safeguards as it deems necessary to protect the
best interests of the surrounding property or neighborhood from damage, hazard,
nuisance or other detriment:
Agricultural businesses: Agricultural businesses are to be evaluated in terms
of their relevance to and need by local agricultural operations; impacts on
adjacent agricultural lands in terms of traffic flow, visual and noise
pollution, odors and other effects; availability of nearby land already zoned
for the proposed business as a permitted use; and other factors. Such uses are
allowed when deemed to be other than of an industrial nature wherein, if
allowed, the character of the general area would be altered or negatively
influenced to the extent that such uses would be better placed in industrial
zones. Some agricultural businesses that may be considered include:
Agricultural research facilities.
Farm chemicals sales and storage.
Farm equipment and supply dealers.
Fertilizer processing and distributor facilities.
Food processing facilities.
Gasohol refinery.
Grain handling facilities.
Herbicide and insecticide dealers.
Seed dealers.
Winery; distillers.
Airports, heliports or other aircraft landing fields.
CAFOs.
Cemeteries.
Commercial uses tied to recreation, tourism or neighborhood needs.
Cottage industries.
Daycare facilities.
Emergency services.
Extraction of clay, dirt, gravel, sand, stone, topsoil, and other natural
resources and crushing of same.
Fairgrounds.
Farm and ranch houses additional to that which is otherwise permitted, if
necessary to house farm laborers for the operation of the ranch or farm.
Gas and oil well development.
Lots, as specified under subsection B of this section, larger than one acre but
smaller than twenty (20) acres.
Outdoor gun clubs, rifle ranges, skeet or trap shooting.
Prisons, correctional facilities, detention centers or facilities, secure
facilities and facilities of like nature.
Public utilities and public service uses or structures.
Radio and television transmitting stations.
Religious institutions including places of worship and convents.
Research and development centers for experimental or scientific investigation
of materials, methods or products.
Roadside stands for agricultural products.
Temporary living quarters, such as that necessary for dependent relatives of
the property owner.
Other uses deemed similar to the uses above may be considered under a special
use application. (Ord. 51, 9-2-2003; amd. Ord. 67, 2-13-2012)
   H.   Rezone Requirements:
      1.   No land zoned A1 may be rezoned to a different use until it can be
shown that the land is not prime agricultural land. The county seeks to protect
agricultural land. Prime agricultural land shall be defined by:
         a.   Potential crop productivity.
         b.   Availability of irrigation.
         c.   Grazing potential. (Ord. 51, 9-2-2003)
         d.   Current use of existing farmland will be only one factor in
determining whether land is considered prime agricultural.
         e.   NRCS data will be only one factor in determining whether land is
classified as prime agricultural. (Ord. 64, 7-13-2009)
      2.   Environmental factors such as water quality and availability, septic
capacity, soils, flooding potential and other factors affecting development
shall be addressed.
      3.   The applicant applying for rezone shall submit a report as
designated by the county addressing these conditions for consideration by the
county prior to rezoning of the property. (Ord. 51, 9-2-2003)
5-4-2: A2 AGRICULTURAL TRANSITIONAL ZONE:
   A.   Description: Land zoned A2 is for agricultural purposes but due to its
size and/or environmental conditions, it would be better suited for rural
residential development.
   B.   Permitted Uses: The following uses shall be permitted in all A2 zones:
All uses as permitted in A1 agricultural zone.
Residential subdivisions with lots one acre or larger. (Ord. 51, 9-2-2003)
   C.   Special Uses: The commission may, after notice and public hearing,
recommend to the board and the board may permit the following uses. The board
shall have the authority to impose such conditions and safeguards as it deems
necessary to protect the best interests of the surrounding property or
neighborhood from damage, hazard, nuisance or other detriment:
All special uses allowed in an A1 zone, excluding concentrated animal feeding
operations (CAFOs), gas and oil well development, prisons, correctional
facilities, detention centers or facilities, secure facilities and facilities
of a like nature, and any such uses or development to be determined on a case
by case basis by the board upon recommendation of the commission.
Schools not including homeschools. (Ord. 51, 9-2-2003; amd. Ord. 67, 2-13-2012)
CHAPTER 5
AREAS OF CITY IMPACT
SECTION:
5-5-1: Purpose
5-5-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the areas of city impact is to identify lands within the county
where land use decisions are controlled by mutual agreement of an incorporated
city and county through an area of city impact agreement. Such agreements shall
be in compliance with the county comprehensive plan and any city comprehensive
plan. It is within these areas that the county will encourage higher density
residential, commercial and industrial uses. (Ord. 51, 9-2-2003)
CHAPTER 6
COMMERCIAL ZONES
SECTION:
5-6-1: C1 Commercial Zone
5-6-2: C2 Commercial Zone
5-6-1: C1 COMMERCIAL ZONE:
   A.   Definition: C1 commercial zone shall include tracts devoted to small
clusters of retail and personal service shops near residential zones, but not
including tracts devoted to manufacturing or wholesaling and shall be
designated as C1 zones.
   B.   Permitted Uses: The following uses shall be permitted in all C1 zones:
Auditoriums and assembly halls.
Automobile parking areas.
Banks and savings institutions.
Bed and breakfasts.
Convenience stores/gas stations.
Drive-in establishments.
Medical and dental offices.
Motels and hotels.
Personal service shops.
Places serving food or beverages.
Professional offices.
Radio and appliance repair shops.
Restricted retail businesses not of an industrial manufacturing nature.
Studios.
Undertaking establishments.
Other uses deemed similar to the uses above may be considered.
   C.   Special Uses: The commission may, after notice and public hearing,
recommend to the board, and the board may permit the following uses. The board
shall have the authority to impose such conditions and safeguards as it deems
necessary to protect the best interests of the surrounding property or
neighborhood from damage, hazard, nuisance or other detriment:
Dormitories, sorority and fraternity houses.
Emergency services.
Hospitals, rest homes, convalescent homes and nursing homes.
Mobile/manufactured home parks.
Recreational vehicle park.
Residential dwellings, especially in combination with a mixed use of a site.
Other uses deemed similar to the uses above may be considered under a special
use application. (Ord. 51, 9-2-2003)
5-6-2: C2 COMMERCIAL ZONE:
   A.   Definition: C2 commercial zone shall include tracts devoted to various
business and office uses and shall be designated as C2 zones.
   B.   Permitted Uses: The following uses shall be permitted in all C2 zones:
All uses permitted in C1 zones.
Amusement or recreation centers.
Automobile repair shops.
Bakeries.
Bottling works.
Builder supply yards, lumberyards.
Cabinet and carpenter shops.
Cleaning and dyeing establishments.
Commercial or wholesale businesses not of an industrial or manufacturing
nature.
Dairy processing and distribution plants.
Frozen food locker plants.
Gasoline service stations.
Handicraft products manufacturing centers.
Ice and cold storage plants.
Laundries.
Plumbing shops.
Printing shops and publishing houses.
Restricted retail business not of a commercial, industrial or manufacturing
nature.
Roofing shops.
Storage warehouses, storage facilities for oil, gasoline and petroleum
products, but not including bulk plants and storage areas.
Theaters.
Upholstery shops.
Used car lots and used machinery lots.
Other uses deemed similar to the uses above may be considered.
   C.   Special Uses: The commission may, after notice and public hearing,
recommend to the board, and the board may permit the following uses. The board
shall have the authority to impose such conditions and safeguards as it deems
necessary to protect the best interests of the surrounding property or
neighborhood from damage, hazard, nuisance or other detriment:
All special uses allowed in a C1 zone, except for those uses enumerated in
section
5-7-3 of this title.
Prisons, correctional facilities, detention centers or facilities, secure
facilities and facilities of like nature.
Other uses deemed similar to the uses above may be considered under a special
use application. (Ord. 51, 9-2-2003)
CHAPTER 7
INDUSTRIAL ZONES
SECTION:
5-7-1: D1 Light Industrial Zone
5-7-2: D2 Heavy Industrial Zone
5-7-3: Prohibited Uses
5-7-1: D1 LIGHT INDUSTRIAL ZONE:
   A.   Definition: D1 light industrial zones shall include tracts devoted to
light industrial uses which do not result in offensive noises, odors, smoke or
other offensive conditions, and shall be designated as D1 zones.
   B.   Permitted Uses: The following uses shall be permitted in all class D1
zones:
All uses permitted in C2 zones excluding those prohibited in section
5-7-3 of this chapter.
Bag, carpet and rug cleaning, providing necessary equipment is installed and
operated for the effective precipitation or recovery of dust.
Blacksmith, welding or other metal working shops, excluding punch presses of
over twenty (20) tons' rated capacity, drop hammers and other machine operated
tools producing excessive noise, as determined at the property line by the
commission.
Cement and concrete sales establishments.
Commercial packing sheds for farm crops.
Experimental film or testing laboratories, provided no operation shall be
conducted, or equipment used which would create hazards and/or noxious or
offensive conditions.
Foundries, casting lightweight nonferrous metals or electric foundries not
causing noxious fumes or odors.
Ice manufacturing and cold storage plants, creamery and bottling plants and
distribution stations.
Machine shops.
Manufacturing facilities for bakery goods, candy, cosmetics, pharmaceuticals,
toiletries and food products, excluding fish or meat products, sauerkraut,
vinegar, yeast and rendering or refining of fats or oils.
Manufacturing facilities for food products.
Manufacturing facilities for musical instruments, toys, novelties, rubber or
metal stamps and other small rubber products.
Manufacturing facilities for optical goods, scientific and precision
instruments.
Manufacturing of electric and neon signs, billboards and other commercial
advertising structures; light sheet metal products including heating and
ventilating equipment, cornices and eaves.
Residence used for security or operational purposes tied directly to the use of
the property.
Storage and sale of grain, livestock feed or fuel, provided that dust is
effectively controlled.
Sugar beet dumps.
Underground storage facilities for inflammable liquids.
Other uses deemed similar to the uses above may be considered.
   C.   Special Uses: The commission may, after notice and public hearing,
recommend, and the board may permit, the following uses. The board shall have
the authority to impose such conditions and safeguards as it deems necessary to
protect the best interests of the surrounding property or neighborhood from
damage, hazard, nuisance or other detriment:
All special uses as may be permitted in the C2 zone, except for those
enumerated in section
5-7-3 of this chapter.
Other uses deemed similar to the uses above may be considered under a special
use application. (Ord. 51, 9-2-2003)
5-7-2: D2 HEAVY INDUSTRIAL ZONE:
   A.   Definition: D2 heavy industrial zones shall include tracts devoted to
heavy industry and shall be designated as D2 zones.
   B.   Permitted Uses: The following uses shall be permitted in all D2 zones:
Factory or industrial operations not permitted in other zones.
Kennels.
Residence used for security or operational purposes tied directly to the use of
the property.
Veterinary or animal hospitals. (Ord. 51, 9-2-2003)
   C.   Special Uses: The commission may, after notice and public hearing,
recommend and the board may permit the following uses. The board shall have the
authority to impose such conditions and safeguards as it deems necessary to
protect the best interests of the surrounding property or neighborhood from
damage, hazard, nuisance or other detriment:
CAFOs.
Gas and oil well development.
Other uses deemed similar to the uses above may be considered under a special
use application. (Ord. 51, 9-2-2003; amd. Ord. 67, 2-13-2012)
5-7-3: PROHIBITED USES:
The following uses shall be deemed to be prohibited in D1 and D2 zones:
Cemeteries.
Churches.
Daycare facilities.
Dwellings, apartment houses, hotels, motels, manufactured or mobile home parks
and other residential uses; provided, however, that a dwelling or apartment for
the residence of a caretaker or watchman or any other employee may be permitted
if it is used in connection with an industrial use or building.
Hospitals, sanatoriums and nursing homes.
Schools. (Ord. 51, 9-2-2003)
CHAPTER 8
RECREATION ZONES
SECTION:
5-8-1: R Recreation Zone
5-8-1: R RECREATION ZONE:
   A.   Definition: R recreation zones shall consist of areas devoted to
outdoor public recreation owned by governmental, private or other nonprofit
institutions.
   B.   Uses: All uses in R recreation zones are by special use permit.
   C.   Special Uses: The commission may, after notice and public hearing,
recommend to the board, and the board may permit, the following uses. The board
shall have the authority to impose such conditions and safeguards as it deems
necessary to protect the best interests of the surrounding property or
neighborhood from damage, hazard, nuisance or other detriment:
Public parks, playgrounds, greenbelts and other public recreation areas owned
by and operated by governmental, private or other nonprofit institutions. (Ord.
51, 9-2-2003)
CHAPTER 9
SPECIAL USE PERMITS
SECTION:
5-9-1: Application For Special Use
5-9-2: General Standards Applicable To Special Uses
5-9-3: Supplementary Conditions And Safeguards May Be Required
5-9-4: Public Hearing Required
5-9-5: Commission Action
5-9-6: Applicant Notification
5-9-7: Board Actions
5-9-1: APPLICATION FOR SPECIAL USE:
An application for special use permit shall be filed with the commission by at
least one owner of property for which such special use is proposed. At a
minimum, the application shall contain the following information:
   A.   Name, address and phone number of applicant.
   B.   Legal description of property (with street address, if possible).
   C.   Description of existing use.
   D.   Zoning.
   E.   Description of proposed special use.
   F.   A plan of the proposed site for the special use showing the location of
all buildings, parking and loading area, traffic access and traffic
circulation, open spaces, landscaping, refuse and service areas, utilities,
signs, yards and such other information as the commission may require to
determine if the proposed special use meets the intent and requirements of this
title.
   G.   A narrative statement evaluating the effects on adjoining property; the
effect of such elements as noise, glare, odor, fumes and vibration on adjoining
property; a discussion of the general compatibility with adjacent and other
properties in the zone; and the relationship of the proposed use to the
comprehensive plan.
   H.   The county reserves the right to request more information. (Ord. 51, 9-
2-2003)
5-9-2: GENERAL STANDARDS APPLICABLE TO SPECIAL USES:
The commission shall review the particular facts and circumstances of each
proposed special use in terms of the following standards and shall find
adequate evidence showing that such use at the proposed location:
   A.   Will, in fact, constitute a special use as established in this title
for the zone involved, in that it is not already defined as a permitted use in
this title.
   B.   Will be harmonious with and in accordance with the general objectives
or with any specific objective of the comprehensive plan and/or this title.
   C.   Will be designed, constructed, operated and maintained to be harmonious
and appropriate in appearance with the existing or intended character of the
general vicinity and that such use will not change the essential character of
the same area.
   D.   Will not be hazardous or disturbing to existing or future neighboring
uses.
   E.   Will be served adequately by essential public facilities and services
such as highways, streets, police and fire protection, drainage structures,
refuse disposal, water and sewer and schools, or that the persons or agencies
responsible for the establishment of the proposed use shall be able to provide
adequately any such services.
   F.   Will not create excessive additional requirements at public cost for
public facilities and services and will not be detrimental to the economic
welfare of the community.
   G.   Will not involve uses, activities, processes, materials, equipment and
conditions of operation that will be detrimental to any persons, property or
the general welfare by reason of excessive production of traffic, noise, smoke,
fumes, glare or odors.
   H.   Will have vehicular approaches to the property that shall be so
designed as not to create an interference with traffic on surrounding public
thoroughfares.
   I.   Will not result in the destruction, loss or damage of a natural, scenic
or historic feature of major importance. (Ord. 51, 9-2-2003)
5-9-3: SUPPLEMENTARY CONDITIONS AND SAFEGUARDS MAY BE REQUIRED:
In granting any special use, the board may prescribe appropriate conditions,
bonds and safeguards in conformity with this title. Violations of such
conditions, bonds or safeguards, when made a part of the terms under which the
special use is granted, shall be deemed a violation of this title. (Ord. 51, 9-
2-2003)
5-9-4: PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED:
Prior to granting a special use permit, at least one public hearing in which
interested persons shall have an opportunity to be heard shall be held before
the commission. At least fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing, notice of the
time and place and a summary of the proposal shall be published in the official
newspaper or paper of general circulation within the jurisdiction. Notice may
also be made available to other newspapers, radio stations or television
stations serving in the jurisdiction for use as a public service announcement.
Notice of the hearing shall also be provided by regular mail to property owners
and residents within three hundred feet (300') beyond the external boundaries
of the land being considered, and any additional area that may be substantially
impacted by the proposed special use as determined by the commission. Property
owners or residents who reside outside the postal service zip code mailing
limits of the city, and whom the commission determines may be impacted by the
proposed change, shall be given notice of the public hearing by regular mail.
When notice is required to two hundred (200) or more property owners or
residents, in lieu of the mailing notification, three (3) notices in the
official newspaper or paper of general circulation is sufficient; provided, the
third notice appears ten (10) days prior to the public hearing. (Ord. 51, 9-2-
2003)
5-9-5: COMMISSION ACTION:
   A.   Within forty five (45) days after the public hearing, the commission
shall recommend approval, conditional approval, or disapproval of the
application for special use permit as presented.
   B.   Upon recommending a special use permit, conditions may be attached to a
special use permit including, but not limited to, those:
      1.   Minimizing adverse impact on other developments.
      2.   Controlling the sequence and timing of development.
      3.   Controlling the duration of development.
      4.   Assuring that development is maintained properly.
      5.   Designating the exact location and nature of development.
      6.   Requiring the provisions for on site or off site public facilities
or services.
      7.   Requiring more restrictive standards than those generally required
by this title.
   C.   Prior to granting a special use permit, the commission may request
studies from the applicant or public agencies concerning social, economic,
fiscal and environmental effects of the proposed special use. A special use
permit shall not be considered as establishing a binding precedent to grant
other special use permits. A special use permit is not transferable from one
parcel of land to another.
   D.   The commission shall ensure that any favorable recommendations for
special use permits are in accordance with the comprehensive plan and
established goals and objectives.
   E.   Upon granting or denying an application, the commission shall specify:
      1.   The ordinance and standards used in evaluating the application.
      2.   The reasons for approval or denial.
      3.   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain a
permit. (Ord. 51, 9-2-2003)
5-9-6: APPLICANT NOTIFICATION:
Within ten (10) days after a recommendation has been rendered, the
administrator shall provide the applicant with written notice of the action on
the request. (Ord. 51, 9-2-2003)
5-9-7: BOARD ACTIONS:
   A.   After a recommendation has been made by the commission, it shall be
presented to the board at the next regular meeting. The board shall, within
thirty (30) days, render a decision or set a hearing date with the same notice
requirements as section
5-9-4 of this chapter. If a hearing is held, a decision must be made within
thirty (30) days from the date of the hearing.
   B.   If the conditions of the permit are not met, the special use permit is
considered in violation of its terms and conditions and will cease and no
longer be considered granted by the board unless corrective action is taken
immediately.
   C.   Any special use not implemented within three hundred sixty five (365)
days of board approval or abandoned for a period of three (3) years shall cease
and no longer be considered granted by the board. (Ord. 51, 9-2-2003)
CHAPTER 10
NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS AND USES
SECTION:
5-10-1: Nonconforming Buildings
5-10-2: Nonconforming Uses
5-10-1: NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS:
   A.   Continuance Of Use Of Nonconforming Buildings: Any building arranged,
intended or designed for a nonconforming use, the construction of which has
begun but not been completed at the effective date hereof may be completed and
used for the nonconforming use, provided it is completed and so used within one
year after the effective date hereof.
   B.   Repairs, Alterations Or Enlargements: Ordinary repairs and maintenance
shall be permitted; however, a building or structure devoted to nonconforming
use at the effective date hereof may not be altered or enlarged so as to extend
the nonconforming use nor may the use be enlarged in any other way.
   C.   Damaged Buildings: A nonconforming building which has been damaged by
fire, explosion, act of God or public enemy, to the extent of more than sixty
percent (60%) of its reproduction value, as determined by the county at the
time of damage, shall not be restored except in conformity with regulations of
the zone in which it is located. When damaged to less than sixty percent (60%)
of its reproduction value, a nonconforming building may be repaired or
reconstructed and used as before the time of damage, provided such repairs or
reconstruction are completed within one year of the date of such damage. (Ord.
51, 9-2-2003)
5-10-2: NONCONFORMING USES:
   A.   Continuance Or Discontinuance Of Nonconforming Use: A lawful
nonconforming use existing at the effective date hereof may be continued;
except, that if it is voluntarily discontinued for a period of one year or
more, it shall then be deemed abandoned, and unless an extension is granted by
the commission, any further use must be in conformity with the uses permitted
in such zone.
   B.   Change Of Use: A nonconforming use shall not be changed to a use of
lower or less restrictive classification. Such nonconforming use may, however,
be changed to another use of the same or higher classification upon a special
use permit approved by the board. (Ord. 51, 9-2-2003)
CHAPTER 11
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS
SECTION:
5-11-1: Purpose
5-11-2: Applicability
5-11-3: Agreement Proposal
5-11-4: Recommendation
5-11-5: Content
5-11-6: Process
5-11-7: Record
5-11-8: Agreement Binding
5-11-9: Termination; Reversal
5-11-10: Subsequent Owners
5-11-11: Board Obligation
5-11-12: Written Consent
5-11-13: Violation; Enforcement
5-11-14: Developer As Applicant
5-11-15: Other Agreements, Terms And Conditions
5-11-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of a development agreement is to provide a means to allow the board
to place conditions and/or restrictions on a rezone or other development to
mitigate the impact of the rezone or development and to provide a means for
delineating the commitments, obligations, and responsibilities of the parties
(government agencies, developers, individuals, etc.) involved. (Ord. 51, 9-2-
2003)
5-11-2: APPLICABILITY:
As a condition of rezoning or development, at any time during any stage of the
development permitting process, a development agreement may be requested by the
board, recommended by the commission or it may be requested by the developer.
(Ord. 51, 9-2-2003)
5-11-3: AGREEMENT PROPOSAL:
In the event a development agreement is submitted or in the event a development
agreement is deemed appropriate by the commission during or after a public
hearing, the reasons for proposing the use of a development agreement or a
proposed development agreement shall be forwarded to the board with the
commission's findings and recommendation. (Ord. 51, 9-2-2003)
5-11-4: RECOMMENDATION:
In the event the board makes a finding that a development agreement would be in
the best interest of the county, but where no development agreement was
recommended by the commission and presented to the board, the board shall
remand the matter back to the commission with instructions that a development
agreement be prepared, that it contain such terms as are in the best interest
of the county and the developer, that it be made a part of the public hearing
process and that it be included in the commission's recommendations. (Ord. 51,
9-2-2003)
5-11-5: CONTENT:
A request for a development agreement shall be in addition to an application
for development or rezone. A request for a development agreement shall contain
the following:
   A.   An affidavit by the property owner, if the owner is not the same as the
applicant, agreeing that the property subject to the rezone may be subject to a
binding development agreement.
   B.   The specific use or uses of the property affected by the development
agreement.
   C.   The concept plan, which shall include, but not be limited to:
      1.   Three (3) at least eighteen inch by twenty four inch (18" x 24")
site plans and one eight and one-half inch by eleven inch (81/2" x 11") drawing
showing:
         a.   Existing structure(s) which will remain, labeled as to existing
and proposed uses.
         b.   Building footprint(s), height, number of stories, proposed uses
(office, retail, restaurant), and square footage of proposed structures. If
residential, overall density and number of dwelling units per building.
         c.   North arrow.
         d.   Scale.
         e.   Property boundaries.
         f.   Names of applicant, owners if different than applicant, preparer
and project.
         g.   Size of project.
         h.   Existing vegetation.
         i.   Existing and proposed grades for hillside developments.
         j.   Parking areas with total number of parking spaces.
         k.   Locations and widths of rights of way, easements, canals,
ditches, and property lines.
         l.   Drainage features.
         m.   Conceptual landscape plan.
         n.   Interior streets and access streets.
   D.   The time period for which the agreement is to be valid.
   E.   A statement that failure to comply with all of the commitments in the
approved development agreement shall be deemed a consent to rezone the property
to its preexisting state or to the preexisting zone.
   F.   If the development agreement is being requested by the applicant, as
opposed to having been required by the board or by the commission, a statement
must be included wherein the applicant agrees that all time limits set forth by
this code are waived.
   G.   Any proposed phasing schedule. (Ord. 51, 9-2-2003)
5-11-6: PROCESS:
   A.   Whenever a development agreement is requested or proposed, the zoning
administrator shall work with the applicant to prepare the agreement. In
addition to the information required in subsection
5-11-5C of this chapter, any additional issues may be addressed. Those issues
may include, but are not limited to, density, site design, mitigation of impact
on surrounding neighborhoods, appearance, provision of utilities, public
services or public facilities, and any use restrictions.
   B.   The commission shall hold a public hearing to consider the proposed
development agreement simultaneously with its hearing to consider the requested
rezone or other development request. After its hearing, the commission shall
make a recommendation to the board, and in its recommendation, it may recommend
approval or denial of the development agreement or it may recommend additional
terms, conditions, duties or obligations which should be covered by the
agreement.
   C.   After the board receives the recommendation from the commission, the
board shall hold a public hearing on the proposed development agreement. After
conducting its public hearing and considering the recommendation of the
commission, the board shall approve, deny, or modify the agreement as the
board, in its discretion, deems necessary. After approval by the board, a
development agreement may be modified only by the permission of the board and
after complying with the notice requirements as set forth in Idaho Code section
67-6509. (Ord. 51, 9-2-2003)
5-11-7: RECORD:
Development agreements shall be recorded in the office of the county recorder
and shall take effect upon adoption of the amendment of this title or approval
of a subdivision or other development. (Ord. 51, 9-2-2003)
5-11-8: AGREEMENT BINDING:
Development agreements shall be binding upon the owner or developer and the
board as set out in Idaho Code section 67-6511A. (Ord. 51, 9-2-2003)
5-11-9: TERMINATION; REVERSAL:
A development agreement may be terminated and the zoning designation upon which
the use is based reversed, upon the failure of the owner or developer or any
successor or assignee thereof to fulfill any of the requirements of the
development agreement within a reasonable time, within the time set in the
agreement or upon the failure of the owner or developer or his successors or
assigns, to act in the manner agreed upon, and after complying with the notice
and hearing requirements as set forth in Idaho Code section 67-6509. (Ord. 51,
9-2-2003)
5-11-10: SUBSEQUENT OWNERS:
Each subsequent owner, any successor or assignee, or any person who shall
thereafter acquire an interest in the property, shall take that interest
subject to the terms and conditions which are set out in the development
agreement and he shall conform to and abide by the terms and conditions of that
agreement. (Ord. 51, 9-2-2003)
5-11-11: BOARD OBLIGATION:
By permitting or requesting a development agreement, the board does not
obligate itself to adopt any proposed zoning ordinance or approve any
development. The board is obligated once they have signed the agreement. (Ord.
51, 9-2-2003)
5-11-12: WRITTEN CONSENT:
A written development agreement shall be deemed written consent to rezone the
affected property and the commitment of the owner or developer or any successor
or assignee to comply with the conditions imposed by the development agreement.
(Ord. 51, 9-2-2003)
5-11-13: VIOLATION; ENFORCEMENT:
Development agreements may be enforced by any person through any means
permitted by law. That relief shall include, but not necessarily be limited to,
specific performance, injunctive relief, or through the criminal process for
violation of any provision of this title or title 6 of this code as outlined in
section
5-18-5 of this title and section
6-7-6 of this code and provided for in Idaho Code section 67-6527. (Ord. 51, 9-
2-2003)
5-11-14: DEVELOPER AS APPLICANT:
A developer shall be considered the applicant in any development agreement. In
the event that a developer consists of more than one person or entity, all
persons who will be engaged in the development shall be bound by the agreement.
(Ord. 51, 9-2-2003)
5-11-15: OTHER AGREEMENTS, TERMS AND CONDITIONS:
In addition to a development agreement as set forth in this chapter, the board
may enter into agreements which require certain terms and conditions to be
complied with as a condition of subdivision approval. One of the terms of any
agreement may be that in the event a developer does not comply with the
agreement, subdivision approval may be withdrawn. (Ord. 51, 9-2-2003)
CHAPTER 12
PARKING STANDARDS
SECTION:
5-12-1: General Requirements
5-12-2: Standards
5-12-3: Off Street Parking Design And Dimensional Tables
5-12-4: Parking Space Requirements
5-12-1: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   No building or structure shall be erected, substantially altered or its
use changed unless permanently maintained off street parking and loading spaces
have been provided in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   The provisions of this chapter, except where there is a change of use,
shall not apply to any existing building or structure. Where the new use
involves no additions or enlargements, there shall be provided as many such
spaces as may be required by this chapter. (Ord. 51, 9-2-2003)
5-12-2: STANDARDS:
   A.   Location Of Parking Spaces: The following regulations shall govern the
location of off street parking spaces and areas:
      1.   Parking spaces for all detached residential uses shall be located on
the same lot as the use that they are intended to serve.
      2.   Parking spaces for commercial, industrial or institutional uses
shall be located not more than five hundred feet (500') from the principal use.
      3.   Parking spaces for apartments, dormitories or similar residential
uses shall be located not more than three hundred feet (300') from the
principal use.
   B.   Loading Spaces Required: Off street loading spaces for commercial and
industrial uses shall be required.
   C.   Maintenance: The owner of property used for parking and/or loading
shall maintain such area in good condition without holes and free of dust,
trash and other debris. (Ord. 51, 9-2-2003)
   D.   Surface: The required number of parking and loading spaces as set forth
in section
5-12-4 of this chapter, together with driveways, aisles and other circulation
areas shall be improved to include gravel surfacing, as a minimum. (Ord. 77,
12-29-2014)
   E.   Drainage: All parking and loading areas shall provide for proper
drainage of surface water on site as approved by the county.
   F.   Lighting: Any parking area which is intended to be used during
nondaylight hours shall be properly illuminated to avoid accidents. Any lights
used to illuminate a parking lot shall be so arranged as to reflect light away
from the adjoining property.
   G.   Access: Any commercial or industrial parking area shall be designed in
such a manner that any vehicle leaving or entering the parking area from or
onto a public or private road shall be traveling in a forward motion. Access or
driveways for parking areas or loading spaces shall be located in such a way
that any vehicle entering or leaving such area shall be clearly visible by a
pedestrian or motorist approaching the access or driveway from a public or
private road.
   H.   Screening And/Or Landscaping:
      1.   Whenever a parking area is screened on any sides which adjoin or
face other properties, the planting screen shall be not less than four feet
(4') nor more than six feet (6') in height and shall be maintained in good
condition. The space between such fence, wall or planting screen and the lot
line of the adjoining premises in any residential zone shall be landscaped with
grass, hardy shrubs or evergreen ground cover, and maintained in good
condition.
      2.   Landscaping shall meet all standards as set forth in this code.
   I.   Wheel Blocks: Whenever a parking lot extends to a property line, wheel
blocks or other suitable devices shall be installed to prevent any part of a
parked vehicle from extending beyond the property line.
   J.   Minimum Distance Setbacks: No part of any parking area for more than
ten (10) vehicles shall be closer than twenty feet (20') to any dwelling unit,
school, hospital or other institution for human care located on an adjoining
lot unless separated by an acceptably designed screen. In no case shall any
part of a parking area be closer than four feet (4') to any established road or
alley right of way.
   K.   Joint Use: Two (2) or more nonresidential uses may jointly provide and
use parking spaces when their hours of operation do not normally overlap;
provided, that a written agreement approved by the county shall be filed with
the application for a building permit. (Ord. 51, 9-2-2003)
5-12-3: OFF STREET PARKING DESIGN AND DIMENSIONAL TABLES:
 
                        45 Degrees 60 Degrees 90 Degrees Parallel
Width of parking space  13 feet    10 feet    9 feet     9 feet
Length of parking space 15 feet    18 feet    19 feet    23 feet
Width of driveway aisle 13 feet    17 feet    25 feet    12 feet
 
(Ord. 51, 9-2-2003)
5-12-4: PARKING SPACE REQUIREMENTS:
For the purpose of this title the following parking space requirements shall
apply:
Type Of Use Parking Spaces Required
Type Of Use                              Parking Spaces Required
Residential
 Apartments or multi-family dwelling    1 1/2 for each unit
  Boarding houses, rooming houses, dorms
 and fraternity houses which have       1 for each sleeping room
  sleeping rooms
 Manufactured home park                 2 for each unit
 Single-family or two-family dwelling   2 for each unit
Commercial
 Automobile service garages which also  1 for each 2 gasoline pumps and 2 for
  provide repair                         each service bay
 Funeral parlors, mortuaries            1 for each 4 person capacity in the
                                         viewing and chapel areas
 Hotels, motels                         1 per each sleeping room and 1 for
                                         each 2 employees
Recreational or entertainment
 Auditoriums, sports arenas, theaters   1 for each 4 seats
  and similar uses
 Banks, financial institutions and      1 for each 200 square feet of floor
  similar uses                           area
                                         4 for each alley and 1 for each 100
 Bowling alleys                         square feet of the area used for
                                         restaurant, cocktail lounge or similar
                                         use
 Dance floors, skating rinks            1 for each 100 square feet of floor
                                         area used for the activity
 Dining rooms, restaurants, taverns,    1 for each 200 square feet of floor
  nightclubs, etc.                       area
 Offices, public or professional or     1 for each 400 square feet of floor
  administration service building        area
                                         1 for each 5 persons capacity plus 1
 Outdoor swimming pools (public,        for each 4 seats or 1 for each 30
  community or club)                     square feet of floor area used for
                                         seating purposes, whichever is greater
 Retail stores                          1 for each 250 square feet of floor
                                         area
  All other types of business or         1 for each 300 square feet of floor
 commercial uses permitted in any       area
  business
Institutional
 Churches or other places of religious  1 for each 5 seats
  assembly
 Hospitals                              1 for each bed
 Libraries, museums and art galleries   1 for each 400 square feet of floor
                                         area
 Medical and dental clinics, offices    1 for each 200 square feet of floor
  and waiting rooms                      area
  Sanitariums, homes for the aged,
 nursing homes, children homes, asylums 1 for each 2 beds
  and similar uses
Schools, (public, parochial or private)
 Business, technical and trade schools  1 for each 2 students
 Colleges, universities                 1 for each 4 students
 Elementary and junior high schools     2 for each classroom and 1 for every 8
                                         seats in auditoriums or assembly halls
 High schools                           1 for every 5 students, and 1 for each
                                         teacher and employee
 Kindergartens, childcare centers,      2 for each classroom but not less than
  nursery schools and similar uses       6 for the entire school
Manufacturing
  All types of manufacturing, (except    1 for every 2 employees, plus 1 for
 parcel delivery and freight for which  each motor vehicle used in the
  the building or terminal is designed)  business
 
(Ord. 51, 9-2-2003)
CHAPTER 13
SIGNS
SECTION:
5-13-1: Definitions
5-13-2: Permit Requirements
5-13-3: Locations Of Signs
5-13-4: Qualifying Commercial And Industrial Zones
5-13-5: Maximum Size For Advertising Signs
5-13-6: Standards For Use Of Lighting On Advertising Signs
5-13-7: Standards For Spacing Of Signs
5-13-8: Distance From Features Or Activities
5-13-9: General Prohibitions Relating To Advertising Signs
5-13-10: Scenic Byways
5-13-11: Nuisances
5-13-1: DEFINITIONS:
ADVERTISING STRUCTURES, SIGNS OR DISPLAYS: Any outdoor structure, display,
light, device, figure, painting, drawing, message, plaque, billboard, or other
thing that is designed, intended or used to advertise or inform. For
simplicity, the term "advertising sign" is used in this chapter. It is not
intended to include official notices, notices posted in performing a public
duty, directional wording, or informational structures required or authorized
by law or regarding utility facilities or services, or official or public
structures within its territorial jurisdiction which contain the name of a city
or county.
COMMERCIAL OR INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITIES: Those activities generally recognized as
falling within those designated zones; except, none of the following activities
shall be considered commercial or industrial:
Activities conducted in a building principally used as a residence.
Activities not visible from the main traveled way.
Agricultural, forestry, grazing, farming and related activities including
wayside fresh produce stands.
Railroad tracks and minor sidings.
Transient or temporary activities.
ERECT: To construct, build, raise, assemble, place, affix, create, paint, draw
or in any other way bring into being or establish, but does not include any of
the foregoing activities when performed incident to the change of an
advertising message or customary maintenance of a sign.
URBAN AREA: Any geographic area within the city limits of any incorporated
city.
VISIBLE: Capable of being seen without visual aid by a person of normal visual
acuity. (Ord. 51, 9-2-2003)
5-13-2: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required: A sign permit is required for all signs except the
following:
      1.   Signs associated with cottage industries;
      2.   Temporary or transient signs; and
      3.   On premises signs under sixteen (16) square feet.
   B.   Application For Permit: A sign permit application may be obtained at
the county planning and zoning office. The application shall require:
      1.   Name of applicant.
      2.   Location of property the sign will be placed on.
      3.   Permission of property owner.
      4.   Sign message.
      5.   Sign dimensions.
      6.   Site plan.
      7.   Zoning designation.
      8.   Other information as may be required by the county.
   C.   Permit Fees: Fees shall be set by resolution of the board. (Ord. 51, 9-
2-2003)
5-13-3: LOCATIONS OF SIGNS:
   A.   No private signs may be erected within the highway or county road right
of way.
   B.   No signs except on premises, for sale, directional and official signs
may be erected adjacent to the right of way of any controlled highway or county
road.
   C.   Advertising signs may be erected only in qualifying commercial and
industrial zones. They must conform to specific size, lighting and spacing
standards. They must have and display a county permit, which is issued only
when the sign meets all requirements. (Ord. 51, 9-2-2003)
5-13-4: QUALIFYING COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL ZONES:
An area zoned commercial or industrial may be considered for a sign site where
there is an actual commercial or industrial use. (Ord. 51, 9-2-2003)
5-13-5: MAXIMUM SIZE FOR ADVERTISING SIGNS:
   A.   The maximum size of advertising displays, including border, trim,
cutouts and extensions are:
      1.   Maximum area: Three hundred (300) square feet.
      2.   Maximum height: Thirty feet (30').
      3.   Maximum length: Fifty feet (50').
   B.   The sign face area is measured by the smallest square, rectangle,
triangle, circle or combination of these that includes the entire advertising
device including border, trim, cutout and extension, but not supporters and
decorative bases. (Ord. 51, 9-2-2003)
5-13-6: STANDARDS FOR USE OF LIGHTING ON ADVERTISING SIGNS:
An advertising sign cannot be illuminated so that it:
   A.   Interferes with the effectiveness of, or obscures an official traffic
sign, device or signal.
   B.   Is visible from any primary highway or county road and displays red or
blinking intermittent light likely to be mistaken for a warning or danger
signal.
   C.   Is of such brilliance and is so positioned as to impair the vision of
travelers on adjacent highways or county roads. (Ord. 51, 9-2-2003)
5-13-7: STANDARDS FOR SPACING OF SIGNS:
   A.   Spacing between signs on highways or county roads is measured
independently along each side of the road. Signs erected by public agencies or
on premises signs are not counted in determining compliance with spacing
requirement.
   B.   The minimum spacing along roads in the county is one hundred feet
(100'). However, the number of signs cannot exceed the length of the area
measured along the centerline of the road divided by two hundred fifty (250);
two (2) signs will be permitted at a single location, either double faced, V-
type, or back to back, but shall be considered one sign for the purpose of
spacing requirements. A sign structure may contain one or more advertisements
on each face, but the maximum area per face cannot exceed three hundred (300)
square feet. Said sign shall be considered one sign for the purpose of spacing
regulation. (Ord. 51, 9-2-2003)
5-13-8: DISTANCE FROM FEATURES OR ACTIVITIES:
   A.   Advertising signs may not be located within five hundred feet (500') of
the following activities that are adjacent to the highway:
      1.   Public parks, public forests, and public playgrounds.
      2.   Scenic areas designated as such by any state agency.
      3.   Within five hundred feet (500') of a railroad overpass or highway
grade separation structure where the highway passes underneath the railroad or
highway and there is no traffic connection between highways.
      4.   Within five hundred feet (500') of the point of pavement widening at
the entrance or exit to a rest area, weight checking station, port of entry or
any other government operated facility for use by motorists.
      5.   Where intersections are more than five hundred feet (500') apart,
advertising signs are not permitted within one hundred feet (100') of the right
of way line of the intersecting road unless buildings or structures control
cross vision. In such cases advertising signs may be permitted up to and on top
of the intervening structures.
   B.   Where intersections are five hundred feet (500') or less apart,
advertising signs are permitted a minimum of fifty feet (50') from the right of
way line of the intersecting road, provided all signs between fifty feet (50')
and one hundred feet (100') from the intersecting road right of way line must
have the lower extremities of the display not less than fourteen feet (14')
above the traveled way of the roads affected by the intersection for visibility
under the signs by the road users. Advertising displays are permitted within
one hundred feet (100') of the intersecting road's rights of way when buildings
or structures control cross vision, but such displays must not be located so as
to cause greater restriction to vision than the existing buildings or
structures. (Ord. 51, 9-2-2003)
5-13-9: GENERAL PROHIBITIONS RELATING TO ADVERTISING SIGNS:
Washington County prohibits signs placed or maintained in any of the following
locations, or any signs of the following nature:
   A.   Not maintained in a safe condition.
   B.   Not clear or in good condition.
   C.   Purported to direct the movement of traffic.
   D.   Located within the stream or drainage canal or below the floodwater
level of any stream or drainage canal where the advertising display might be
deluged by floodwaters and swept under any highway or road structure crossing
the stream or drainage canal or against the supports of any road structure.
   E.   Painted, affixed or attached to any natural feature.
   F.   Located as to hinder the clear, unobstructed view of approaching or
merging traffic, or obscure from view any traffic sign or other official sign.
   G.   Located as to obscure the view of any connecting road or intersection.
   H.   Visible from any road and simulating or imitating any directional,
warning, danger or information signs intended or likely to be construed as
giving warnings of traffic.
   I.   Visible from the road and displaying any red, blue or blinking
intermittent light likely to be mistaken for a warning or danger signal. (Ord.
51, 9-2-2003)
5-13-10: SCENIC BYWAYS:
Scenic byways are specially designated roads where the pleasure of the trip is
found in the quality of the scenery along the way. In order to retain the
special character of these byways, new advertising signs may not be built along
them. Existing signs may be maintained. On premises and "for sale" signs may
also continue to be erected, as can directional and official signs. (Ord. 51,
9-2-2003)
5-13-11: NUISANCES:
All advertising displays which are placed or which exist in violation of the
provisions of this chapter are public nuisances and may be removed by the
county. (Ord. 51, 9-2-2003)
CHAPTER 14
PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
SECTION:
5-14-1: Purpose
5-14-2: Supplemental General Provisions
5-14-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of these performance standards is to set specific conditions for
various uses and classification of uses in areas where problems are frequently
encountered. (Ord. 51, 9-2-2003)
5-14-2: SUPPLEMENTAL GENERAL PROVISIONS:
In addition to all other regulations specified in this title, the following
provisions shall be adhered to:
   A.   Temporary Buildings: Temporary buildings, construction trailers,
equipment and materials used in conjunction with construction work may be
permitted in any zone only during the period construction work is in progress,
and such temporary facilities shall be removed upon completion of the
construction work and shall not be allowed for a period exceeding one year. If
not removed within three (3) months after the end of the project, storage of
such facilities or equipment shall require a special use permit authorized by
the county. (Ord. 51, 9-2-2003)
   B.   Parking And Storage Of Certain Vehicles: Not more than two (2)
unregistered vehicles of any kind or type, excluding farm implements and
vehicles, shall be parked or stored on any property other than in a completely
enclosed building, or behind a county approved, sight obscuring enclosure or
fence, constructed of conventional fencing material, or in a legally licensed
junkyard. The existence of or the intent to maintain six (6) or more
unregistered vehicles of any kind or type, shall require a special use permit.
(Ord. 70, 11-5-2012)
   C.   Provisions For Commercial And Industrial Uses: No land or building in
any zone shall be used or occupied in any manner creating dangerous, injurious,
noxious or otherwise objectionable conditions which could adversely affect the
surrounding areas or adjoining premises; except, that any use permitted by this
title may be undertaken and maintained if acceptable measures and safeguards
are implemented to reduce dangerous and objectionable conditions to acceptable
limits as established by the following performance requirements:
      1.   Fire Hazards: Any activity involving the storage of flammable or
explosive materials, including hazardous materials, shall be protected by
adequate firefighting and fire protection equipment and by such safety devices
as are normally used in the handling of any such material. Such hazards shall
be a distance from the adjacent activities to a distance that is compatible
with the potential danger involved as specified in the fire code and the
national safety foundation publications.
      2.   Radioactivity Or Electrical Disturbance: No activity shall emit
harmful radioactivity at any point, or electrical disturbance adversely
affecting the operation of any equipment at any point other than that of the
creator of such disturbance.
      3.   Noise: Objectionable noise as determined by the county that is due
to volume, frequency, or beat shall be muffled or otherwise controlled. Air
raid sirens and related apparatuses used solely for public purposes are exempt
from this requirement, as are noises attendant to ordinary agricultural
operations.
      4.   Vibration: No vibration shall be permitted which is discernable
without instruments on any adjoining lot or property.
      5.   Air Pollution: Air pollution shall be subject to the requirements
and regulations established by the Southwest district health department, or the
state of Idaho.
      6.   Glare: No direct or reflected glare shall be permitted which is
visible from any property outside an industrial-commercial zone or from any
street.
      7.   Erosion: No erosion, caused by human instrumentalities, shall be
permitted which causes objectionable conditions on neighboring properties.
      8.   Hazard Mitigation Statement: The county, prior to the issuance of a
building permit, may require the submission of statements and plans indicating
the manner in which dangerous and objectionable elements are to be eliminated
or reduced to acceptable limits and tolerances.
      9.   Measurement Procedures: Methods and procedures for the determination
of the existence of any dangerous and objectionable elements shall conform to
applicable standard measurement procedures by the health authority.
   D.   Accessory Buildings:
      1.   Will not be located in any required front yard area.
      2.   Will not be located closer than fifteen feet (15') from any side or
rear property line if exceeding one hundred twenty (120) square feet in size.
      3.   A building permit will be required for any accessory building over
one hundred twenty (120) square feet in size.
   E.   Animal Clinic, Animal Hospital, Veterinary Office And Kennel: Will be
located at least three hundred feet (300') from any residence, including motels
and hotels, except for an owner's residence. The county may modify these
requirements if the animals are housed in soundproof structures that screen
them from view of the abutting residential property.
   F.   Meatpacking, Processing Plant And Slaughterhouse Facilities:
      1.   Will be located not less than one thousand feet (1,000') from any
residence, except for an owner's residence. (The 1,000 foot restriction may be
waived if the affected property owners give written permission to the county.)
      2.   Will be designed and located with full consideration to their
proximity to adjacent uses, their effect upon adjacent and surrounding
properties, and to the reduction of such nuisance factors as odor and vectors.
      3.   Will be adequately maintained with housekeeping practices to prevent
the creation of a nuisance, and shall also be subject to the health authority
requirements as to the elimination of waste materials and the maintenance of
water quality control.
   G.   Bulk Storage Of Flammable Liquids And Gases:
      1.   Will be located at least three hundred feet (300') from a residence,
motel, or hotel, except for an owner's residence.
      2.   Will be erected with the written approval of the fire authority
having jurisdiction.
      3.   Will have suitable loading and unloading spaces and off street
parking facilities meeting the approval of the fire authority.
   H.   Chemicals, Pesticide And Fertilizer Storage And Manufacturing: Will
have adequate fire protection, storage area, and handling and disposal as
approved in writing by the fire authority having jurisdiction.
   I.   Contractor's Yard:
      1.   Will be located a minimum distance of at least three hundred feet
(300') from any residence, except for an owner's residence.
      2.   Will have a vision screening fence around areas utilized for storage
of equipment and demolition material.
   J.   Drive-In Restaurant:
      1.   Will be enclosed within the property lines with landscaping and
fencing, except for ingress and egress, to prevent trash from moving onto other
properties;
      2.   Will have a six foot (6') high sight obscuring fence along the
property lines that adjoin a residence;
      3.   Will provide for adequate trash receptacles;
      4.   Will avoid the directing of night lighting toward the property
lines.
   K.   Filling, Grading, Lagooning, Dredging, Or Other Earth Moving
Activities:
      1.   Will take place in such a manner as to result in the smallest amount
of bare ground exposed for the shortest time feasible.
      2.   Will provide temporary ground cover, such as mulch.
      3.   Will use diversions, silting basins, terraces and other methods to
trap sediment.
      4.   Will provide lagooning in such a manner as to avoid creation of fish
trap conditions.
      5.   Will not result in damage to a floodway, channel, or natural
drainageway.
      6.   Will construct and stabilize sides and bottom of cuts, fills,
channels and artificial watercourses to prevent erosion or soil failure.
   L.   Gravel Pits, Rock Quarries, Sand And Clay Pits And Other Natural
Resources Of Commercial Value:
      1.   A valid permit and license to develop shall be obtained from the
proper state and federal agencies, and a copy of an approved reclamation plan
shall be filed with the county and all other appropriate agencies.
      2.   The extent and method of rehabilitation shall be determined in
advance of issuing a special use permit with due consideration given to what is
suitable and compatible with the surrounding area.
      3.   Upon depletion of the area, all temporary buildings and structures
except property line fences and structures for the loading, measuring or
weighing of saleable material in storage, shall be entirely removed from the
property.
      4.   Safety fencing shall be erected around all pits that create a safety
hazard.
   M.   Cottage Industries:
      1.   No more than one person other than members of the family residing on
the premises shall be engaged in such occupation.
      2.   Shall not generate traffic, parking or congestion problems.
      3.   Shall not change the outside appearance of the dwelling so that it
detracts from the dwelling's principal use as a residence.
      4.   Shall not create a hazard to person or property, result in
electrical interference, or become a nuisance.
      5.   Shall not result in outside storage or display of any kind that is
visible from the street or neighboring property other than for personal or
seasonal decorations.
      6.   In the case of a dwelling unit, shall not occupy more than thirty
percent (30%) of the total floor area of the dwelling unit, or in the case of
the accessory building, be more than twice the floor area of the dwelling unit.
      7.   Shall not produce noise, vibration, smoke, odors, heat or glare, as
a result of a cottage industry, which would exceed that normally produced by a
single residence as determined by the zoning administrator.
      8.   Shall not advertise on premises other than personal or business
name, phone number and address, with said advertising to be not more than six
(6) square feet in area.
   N.   Outdoor Storage Of Commercial And Industrial Materials:
      1.   Will be screened from view from any existing adjoining residence or
residentially zoned area, whether or not such property is separated by an
alleyway or street.
      2.   Will not be located in any front yard setback area.
   O.   Riding Stables And Arenas:
      1.   Will locate all stables or loafing sheds not nearer than three
hundred feet (300') from any residence, except for owner's residence. All
facilities shall be set back a distance of thirty feet (30') from any property
line.
      2.   Will be designed and located with full consideration being given to
their proximity to adjacent uses and their effect upon adjacent and surrounding
properties as to the storage of horse trailers and the factors of noise and
odor.
      3.   Will require that the owner or operator of such use shall have a
continuous obligation to maintain adequate housekeeping practices to prevent
the creation of a nuisance.
      4.   Will conform to CAFO animal density restrictions contained herein.
   P.   Rifle And Pistol Range:
      1.   Will be designed with a backstop.
      2.   Will be designed to avoid a line of fire that is directed towards
any residence or business within one mile.
      3.   Will incorporate landscaping that is compatible with the surrounding
landscaping.
      4.   Will provide supervision and security measures during all periods of
use.
   Q.   Wrecking Yard And Junkyard:
      1.   A sight obscuring enclosure meeting the terms of this title shall be
constructed parallel to and ten feet (10') back of the right of way line of any
public street or highway for any auto wrecking yard and salvage yard. Said
fence shall be constructed along the entire premises devoted to such auto
wrecking or salvage yard, and shall be constructed within one year from the
effective date of this title.
      2.   Materials used and details of construction must be approved by the
board. The decision of the board shall be guided by the need to preserve and
protect the scenic and aesthetic values of the surrounding area, and to protect
property value.
      3.   Will not store automobile, junk or salvage material that is visible
from any other property.
      4.   Will not store automobiles or junk in a manner that exceeds the
height of the fence.
      5.   Will have such landscaping that is appropriate with the surrounding
area.
      6.   Will have a current, valid license from the state to operate a
junkyard.
   R.   Landfill, Incinerators, Compost Operators, And Other Solid Waste
Disposal Facilities: The commission may recommend and the board may grant a
special use permit for the construction of a landfill, recycling center,
incinerator, commercial composting operation, liquid waste land farm, or any
other type of solid waste disposal or recycling operation subject to the
following conditions:
      1.   No such permit shall be granted in the A2 zones.
      2.   Such operations shall be required to comply with all state, federal,
and local laws, ordinances, and regulations governing the conduct of such
operations.
      3.   Such operations shall be required to plan for, install and maintain
such safeguards and measures as the commission shall require to ensure that
ground water quality and air quality are preserved and environmental hazards
and nuisance and unsightly areas are not created by the operation.
   S.   Manufactured/Mobile Home Placement Standards:
      1.   Manufactured homes meeting definition requirements of section
5-2-1 of this title may be sited on lots within the county limits after meeting
the following requirements. Manufactured home does not include recreational
vehicles.
         a.   Roof must meet snow load requirements of the county.
         b.   Shall have exterior siding and roofing which in color, material
and appearance are similar to the exterior siding and roofing materials
commonly used on surrounding dwellings.
         c.   Shall have a foundation fascia that is similar in appearance and
durability to the masonry foundation of site built dwellings and which
surrounds the entire perimeter of the structure and completely encloses the
space between the siding and the finished grade.
         d.   Shall be permanently affixed and set upon a foundation base
having an anchoring system that is totally concealed under the structure. The
running gear and towing hitch shall be removed.
         e.   Shall obtain a building permit from the county building
inspector, and the manufactured home must be placed to meet all requirements of
the latest edition of Idaho manufactured home installation standards.
         f.   Shall meet all other state of Idaho requirements.
   T.   Mobile Home Placement: No mobile home may be placed on a single-family
lot, or in any manufactured/mobile home park within the limits of the county
after the effective date of this title unless it meets the rehabilitation
standards as specified in title 44 of the Idaho Code and also meets the siting
standards of a manufactured home as stated in section
5-2-1 of this title. Mobile homes do not include recreational vehicles.
   U.   Schools/Development Around Schools: As schools are placed or planned
within areas around the county, considerations for the following will be
planned for and included in any development applications:
      1.   Safe access routes to school for children.
      2.   Coordinated recreation areas in or around the school areas.
      3.   Open space areas preserved in and around the school areas.
      4.   Provisions for sidewalks, bike paths, greenways and other alternate
transportation routes.
      5.   Bus turnout and transportation routes for buses.
      6.   Other features and amenities to ensure the safety of the school
children.
   V.   Kennels: See subsection E of this section.
   W.   Communications Towers:
      1.   Definitions:
    COLOCATION: The use of a single support system on the ground by more than
one carrier or several support systems on an existing building or structure by
more than one carrier.
   FACADE MOUNTED: Directly attached or affixed to the elevation of a building,
tank, or other structure.
   FREESTANDING TOWER: A tower not physically attached to a building or
structure. A tower that is attached to the ground by a foundation.
   LATTICE TOWER: A support structure that consists of a network of crossed
metal braces, forming a tower that is usually triangular or square in cross
section.
   MASTER DEVELOPMENT PLAN: A plan showing a carrier's expected network of
wireless communication facilities within the county.
   UTILITY POLE: A telephone pole, power pole, light pole, cable television
pole, or flagpole. Light poles shall include street, stadium, and security
light poles.
   WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS FACILITY: An unstaffed facility that transmits and/
or receives electromagnetic signals, including antennas, microwave dishes,
parabolic antennas, directional antennas and other type of equipment for the
transmission or reception of such signals, towers or similar structures
supporting the equipment, equipment buildings, shelters, cabinets and other
facilities.
      2.   Regulations:
         a.   Use: The placement, use or modification of any wireless
communication facility is subject to the provisions of this subsection.
            (1)   A1 Zones: New freestanding and lattice towers are allowed by
special use permit. Wireless communication facilities attached to utility
poles, existing towers or facades attached to buildings and structures are also
permitted subject to a special use permit and to the provisions of this
subsection.
            (2)   Site Selection Criteria: A master development plan is to be
created, prior to any wireless communication facility permit request, based
upon engineering constraints and desired areas of service. Wireless
communication facilities shall be located on a master development plan in the
following priority order:
               (A) Colocation on an existing tower, structure or building. The
applicant shall have the burden of proving that there are no feasible existing
structures upon which to locate as described in this subsection.
               (B) Publicly owned property.
               (C) Other nonresidential buildings or vacant nonresidentially
zoned land.
         b.   Types Of Facilities: Facility types are preferred in the
following priority order:
            (1)   Roof mounted.
            (2)   Facade mounted.
            (3)   Utility pole mounted.
            (4)   Freestanding.
      3.   Colocation: Colocation is considered to be a visually unobtrusive
installation method because the equipment is attached to an existing structure.
Colocation of a wireless communication facility shall require notification of
the commission.
      4.   New Freestanding Towers: No new tower shall be permitted unless the
applicant demonstrates that no existing tower or structure can accommodate the
applicant's proposed wireless communication facility.
      5.   Prohibitions: The following are prohibited or restricted:
         a.   Interference with county or city and public safety communication
systems and/or area television or radio broadcast is prohibited.
         b.   Freestanding towers are prohibited within an A2 zone.
         c.   Diagonal bracing is permitted only to anchor the antenna to an
existing building to which the antenna is attached.
      6.   Application Procedure: The county shall be the granting authority
for wireless communication facilities colocating on existing structures or
utility poles in accordance with the standards set forth below. All other
wireless communication facilities shall require a special use permit. An
application for a special use permit for a wireless communication facility
shall contain the information set forth below, in addition to the standard
application information required for all special use permits:
         a.   A site plan including location, type and height of the proposed
wireless communication facility with setbacks, property lines, adjacent land
uses, structures and zoning.
         b.   Elevation drawings or before and after photographs/drawings
simulating and specifying the location and height of the antennas, support
structures, equipment enclosures and other accessory uses.
         c.   The master development plan showing the location of all existing
and proposed wireless communication facility sites of the applicant within the
county, including the service area of each wireless communication facility.
         d.   Evidence demonstrating the unavailability of colocation, as set
forth above.
         e.   Certification from the applicant's engineer that colocation of
additional antennas for at least one additional provider is possible on the
proposed pole and a signed statement by the applicant agreeing to accommodate
colocation of additional antennas on the tower.
         f.   A lease agreement with the landholder that allows other providers
to locate equipment on the subject property, and provides that if the provider
fails to remove the wireless communication facility and equipment within one
hundred eighty (180) days of its discontinued use, the responsibility for
removal shall belong to the landholder.
      7.   Standards:
         a.   Roof Mounted:
            (1)   Height: Roof mounted wireless communication facilities may
extend above the highest portion of the roof, including parapet walls, by a
distance equal to its distance to the nearest exterior wall.
            (2)   Setback: Roof mounted wireless communication facilities shall
be set back from the edge of the building the height of the antenna and support
system.
            (3)   Lighting: Lighting of antennas or support structures shall be
prohibited except as required by the FAA.
         b.   Facade Mounted:
            (1)   Height: Facade mounted wireless communication facilities may
not exceed five feet (5') above the facade to which it is attached.
            (2)   Setback: Maximum projection of eighteen inches (18"), but may
not encroach into the public right of way.
            (3)   Attachment: The antenna and supporting electrical and
mechanical equipment must be the same color as the supporting structure so as
to make the antenna and related equipment as unobtrusive as possible.
         c.   Freestanding:
            (1)   Setback: Setbacks shall be measured from the base of the
tower to the property line of the parcel on which it is located. Towers shall
be set back from all residences and residential zoned property one hundred
twenty five percent (125%) of the tower height as measured from ground level.
            (2)   Color: Freestanding towers shall be a neutral color, simulate
a standard utility pole, or otherwise be camouflaged or disguised so as to make
the tower as unobtrusive as possible.
            (3)   Landscaping: Landscaping and screening may be required in an
A2 zone to visually screen the support structure and aboveground equipment
enclosures. Landscaping and screening shall consist of a combination of trees,
foliage and shrubs of dense spacing in the form of either: a) a screening wall
or fence surrounded by a five foot (5') wide landscape planter; or b) a ten
foot (10') wide landscape planter without a screening wall or fence. All
landscaping shall be watered, fertilized and maintained as necessary. All dead
plantings shall be replaced within thirty (30) days.
            (4)   Lighting: Lighting of antennas or support structures shall be
prohibited except as required by the FAA. All lighting shall include red
flashing lights at night.
            (5)   Maintenance: All facilities and landscaping shall be properly
maintained.
            (6)   Abandonment: Upon abandonment or discontinuation of use, the
landowner shall be responsible for the removal of the wireless communication
facility within one year of the date of abandonment or discontinuation of use,
and restore the site to its original condition.
            (7)   Ridgeline And Viewshed Areas: Construction that considerably
degrades the scenic quality of a pristine area by its location of high
visibility shall not be permitted; degradation of scenic quality is to be
reasonably prevented. (Ord. 51, 9-2-2003)
CHAPTER 15
CONFINED ANIMAL FEEDING OPERATIONS (CAFOs)
SECTION:
5-15-1: Purpose
5-15-2: Definitions
5-15-3: Improvements In CAFO Areas
5-15-4: Registration Requirements
5-15-5: CAFOs In Priority Nitrate Area Of Concern (Rep. by Ord. 66, 1-18-2011)
5-15-6: Siting Permit Requirements
5-15-7: Process Of Notice And Application; Hearing
5-15-8: Criteria For Approval
5-15-9: Grant Or Denial Of Siting Permit
5-15-10: Recording Permit Information
5-15-11: Inspections, Change Orders And Occupancy Certificates
5-15-12: Variances
5-15-13: Time Limit For Construction And Completion
5-15-14: Complaints
5-15-15: Enforcement
5-15-16: Appeals
5-15-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to ensure that new and existing confined animal
feeding operations are appropriately sited in the county and protected, and to
protect the county's natural resources. (Ord. 56, 3-14-2005)
5-15-2: DEFINITIONS:
AFFECTED PERSON: A person or legal entity owning property or residing within
one and one-half (11/2) miles of an existing or proposed CAFO, or a resident or
real property owner, both public and private, of the county who will be
affected in his health, safety, or property rights by the CAFO. "Affected
person" shall also include the county acting by and through the administrator,
the commission or the board.
ANIMAL TYPES/EQUIVALENCY FACTOR:
      Equivalency Factor
Dairy cattle      Milking and dry cows                1.40
                 Heifers (2 years and older)         1.00
                 Heifers (1 to 2 years old)          0.70
                 Calves (3 months to 1 year)         0.40
                 Calves (under 3 months)             0.25
Beef cattle/bison Bull (each)                         1.40
                 Steers/cows (over 800 pounds)       1.00
                 Calves (under 800 pounds)           0.60
Swine             Pigs (55 pounds to market)          1.00
                 Pigs (up to 55 pounds)              0.50
                 Sows (each)                         1.00
                 Boars (each)                        1.00
Sheep (each)                                          0.15
Horses (each)                                         1.00
Fish (each 500 pounds)                                1.00
Chickens (each)                                       0.01
Mink (each)                                           0.50
Species not specifically identified (each 350 pounds) 1.00
 
ANIMAL UNITS: To calculate the number of animal units, multiply the number of
animals in the CAFO by the animal equivalency factor.
ANIMAL WASTE: Animal excrement, process wastewater, or other organic waste
associated with the confinement of animals.
ANIMAL WASTE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM: Any structure or system that provides for the
collection, treatment, storage or utilization of animal waste, which system is
approved by the appropriate state agency.
APPLICANT: Any person or legal entity initiating an application for any action
or provision authorized under this chapter.
CAFO (CONFINED ANIMAL FEEDING OPERATION):
   A.   Outside Priority Nitrate Area Of Concern:
      1. A parcel or parcels of land, or the use of a parcel or parcels of
land, for ninety (90) days or more in a twelve (12) month period, which land
does not sustain cultivated crops, native forage growth, or postharvest
residues in the normal growing season, upon which there are five hundred (500)
or more animal units; or
      2. Any facility with a milk shipping permit; or
      3. Any facility with an animal waste management system approved by the
appropriate state or federal agency having jurisdiction.
   B.   In A Priority Nitrate Area Of Concern: A parcel or parcels of land, or
the use of a parcel or parcels of land, for ninety (90) days or more in a
twelve (12) month period, which land does not sustain cultivated crops, native
forage growth, or postharvest residues in the normal growing season, upon which
there are fifty (50) or more animal units.
   C.   Land Application Sites: Land application sites are not considered to be
part of the CAFO.
CAFO IMPROVEMENT: Improvements to the CAFO real property such as, but not
limited to, buildings, barns, feed stalls, feeding yards, corrals, feed
containment structures or areas, or the animal waste management system, and
truck or motor vehicle parking areas. "CAFO improvements" do not include
ditches or irrigation systems used to transport or apply liquid waste.
CAFO SITE ADVISORY TEAM: Team authorized by Idaho Code sections 67-6529C and
67-6529G consisting of representatives from the Idaho state department of
agriculture, Idaho department of environmental quality, and Idaho department of
water resources that, upon request by the board of county commissioners,
reviews a site and provides information regarding a proposed CAFO and submits a
site suitability determination for the CAFO to the county.
EXISTING CAFO FACILITY: A CAFO facility of which the planning and zoning
commission has accepted the registration notice and has recorded it with the
county recorder.
IDAPA: Idaho administrative procedures act.
IDEQ: Idaho department of environmental quality.
ISDA: Idaho state department of agriculture.
NRCS: Natural resources conservation service of the United States department of
agriculture.
NUTRIENT MANAGEMENT PLAN: A plan prepared in compliance with federal or state
regulations, whichever is more restrictive, and approved by the responsible
state or federal agency for managing the amount, source, placement, form and
timing of the application of nutrients and soil amendments on land owned or
controlled by the registrant or permit holder.
NUTRIENT MANAGEMENT STANDARD: The USDA/NRCS code 590, or the Idaho agriculture
pollution abatement plan-nutrient management standard component practice.
ONE TIME ANIMAL UNIT CAPACITY: The maximum number of animal units allowed or to
be allowed at the CAFO at any specific moment in time.
PRIORITY NITRATE AREA OF CONCERN: An area of a nitrate contaminated aquifer, as
determined by the DEQ, which is illustrated on that map on file in the office
of the Washington County planning and zoning administrator.
PROCESS WASTEWATER: Any water generated on a CAFO that comes into contact with
manure, compost, bedding, feed, or runoff.
REGISTRANT: Owner or operator of a CAFO in existence at the effective date
hereof, who registers with the office of the administrator and provides the
information required under this chapter.
REGISTRATION NOTICE: The document containing the required information that an
existing CAFO shall file with the administrator in order to register the CAFO.
USGS: United States geological survey. (Ord. 56, 3-14-2005)
5-15-3: IMPROVEMENTS IN CAFO AREAS:
   A.   Setback: No dwelling, other than the owner's dwelling, shall be built
or placed within one thousand feet (1,000') of a registered or permitted CAFO.
   B.   Exceptions: The setback limitations set out in subsection A of this
section shall not apply in the following instances:
      1.   On properties which have administrative building permits available
at the time a CAFO is registered or approved. (The registration or approval of
a CAFO siting permit will not extinguish the right to obtain such a building
permit.)
      2.   On buildings which will be constructed as farm labor housing for the
CAFO.
      3.   For houses which will be constructed or placed for a member of the
owner's immediate family and which will be used solely for habitation for the
family member.
      4.   For houses which a landowner and the CAFO permittee agree in writing
may be constructed in the setback restriction zone. (Ord. 56, 3-14-2005)
   C.   Special Use Permits And Subdivisions: No special use permit for a CAFO
shall be issued to a CAFO within one and one-half (11/2) miles of an existing
residential or commercial subdivision, nor shall any CAFO improvements be
constructed within one and one-half (11/2) miles of an existing residential or
commercial subdivision. Residential subdivisions proposed after the effective
date hereof shall be located no closer than one and one-half (11/2) miles to
any existing CAFO improvements. Provided, however, that no existing CAFO shall
preclude the creation of a subdivision within a city impact area, and no new
CAFO shall be located closer than one mile of a city impact area. (Ord. 66, 1-
18-2011)
5-15-4: REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Filing Registration:
      1.   Within eighteen (18) months from the effective date hereof, any
person or entity operating a CAFO existing as of said effective date shall file
a registration notice with the administrator. CAFOs, which have previously
received a special use permit, need not register under this chapter.
      2.   A facility that has fewer animal units than designated in this
chapter may file a registration notice with the administrator.
   B.   Required Information: The registration notice shall include the
following where applicable:
      1.   Name, address, and telephone number of registrant.
      2.   Legal description of the CAFO.
      3.   Existing one time animal unit capacity. Verification may be
required.
   C.   Public Hearing; Notice Requirements: If the administrator determines
the registration notice is complete, he shall call a hearing for the next
regular commission meeting if time allows. The hearing shall be advertised and
conducted according to the requirements of siting permits contained in this
title and Idaho Code sections 67-6509 and 67-6529. Notice shall also be
provided by first class mail to any property owner within one and one-half (11/
2) miles of a CAFO and any person that has made written request to the
administrator for notice. The administrator shall also physically post notices
at the external boundaries of the site at least fifteen (15) days prior to the
hearing.
   D.   Acceptance Or Rejection Of Registration:
      1.   For any registration affecting more than five hundred (500) animal
units or where there exists a milk shipping permit, if, after the public
hearing, the commission determines the information provided is accurate and
sufficient, the registration shall be accepted. If the commission determines
the information is inaccurate or insufficient, the commission may reject the
registration and ask for more information or verification. Said information or
verification must be provided within forty five (45) days of the request or the
registration shall be rejected.
      2.   In the event the request for registration affects less than five
hundred (500) animal units or there is no milk shipping permit, if, after
public hearing, the commission determines that a CAFO siting permit is not
suitable, the commission may reject the application.
   E.   Recording Registration: If the registration is accepted, the required
CAFO information shall be recorded in the office of the Washington County
recorder at a cost to the county. The administrator shall provide the
registrant with written notification of such action within twenty (20) days of
the determination.
   F.   Scope Of Accepted Registration; Transferability: Registration notices
which have been accepted and recorded shall allow the continued operation of an
existing CAFO as described in the registration and shall be transferable in the
same manner as a siting permit for so long as the CAFO remains in operation,
subject to Idaho Code section 67-6538 and applicable law regarding
nonconforming uses. (Ord. 56, 3-14-2005)
5-15-5: CAFOs IN PRIORITY NITRATE AREA OF CONCERN:
(Rep. by Ord. 66, 1-18-2011)
5-15-6: SITING PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required: The following actions require a siting permit prior to
commencement:
      1.   Construction of improvements to operate a new CAFO.
      2.   An increase in the number of animal units authorized in an existing
CAFO siting permit or registration notice.
   B.   Voluntary Permit: A facility that would have fewer animal units than
designated under this chapter may voluntarily seek a CAFO permit. Any such
voluntary permit shall include all the benefits and be subject to all the
obligations of any other permit issued pursuant to this chapter.
   C.   Exemptions From Permit: Repairs to existing improvements, or
construction of new improvements that do not result in a change in location or
capacity, and do not result in a violation of applicable law, regulation, or
any existing permit shall not require a siting permit.
   D.   Transfer Of Permits: The ownership of siting permits of CAFOs permitted
under this chapter may be transferred. The administrator shall be given notice
of the transfer of the siting permit setting forth the date of the transfer and
the name and mailing address of the party to whom the permit is being
transferred. However, siting permits are attached to the location for which
they are granted and may not be transferred to any other location.
   E.   Contents Of Application; Fee:
      1.   Required Information: Each application for a siting permit shall
contain the following:
         a.   Legal description and address of the proposed CAFO.
         b.   The name and address of the applicant.
         c.   The proposed one time animal unit capacity of the operation.
         d.   The type of animals to be confined.
         e.   Water right information. Applications shall include one of the
following:
            (1)   Evidence that a valid water right exists to supply adequate
water for the operation of the proposed CAFO; or
            (2)   A copy of an application for a permit to appropriate water
that has been filed with IDWR, which if approved, will supply adequate water
for operation of the proposed CAFO; or
            (3)   A copy of an application to change the point of diversion,
place, period, and nature of use of an existing water right that has been filed
with IDWR, which if approved, will supply adequate water for the operation of
the proposed CAFO.
         f.   A map including surface contours, soil depths and types, size and
location of natural drainage points of the CAFO site obtained from the USDA
natural resource conservation service (NRCS) or other comparable source.
Changes to the existing contours shall be shown on a separate contour map
prepared by an engineer or surveyor licensed in the state. (Ord. 56, 3-14-2005)
         g.   A complete site plan of the CAFO site, that is legible and
prepared by a licensed engineer, architect, USDA natural resource conservation
service (NRCS) agent, or the Idaho department of agriculture or county
extension service agent. Scale shall be as required for clarity. The site plan
shall include the following information, if applicable (which is within a 11/
2 mile radius of the proposed operation):
            (1)   Building locations.
            (2)   Waste storage facilities.
            (3)   General areas for land application.
            (4)   Flood zones or flood data for facility site and land
application sites.
            (5)   Private domestic wells.
            (6)   Community domestic wells.
            (7)   Public water supply wells.
            (8)   Irrigation wells.
            (9)   Existing monitoring and injection wells.
            (10)   Irrigation canals and laterals.
            (11)   Rivers, streams, spring and reservoirs.
            (12)   Designated wetlands.
            (13)   Dead animal storage.
            (14)   Feed storage area.
            (15)   Priority nitrate areas of concern.
            (16)   Issued building permit. (Ord. 66, 1-18-2011)
Both planned and existing facilities and areas shall be included in the maps.
         h.   A design plan which meets all state and federal requirements and
which is approved or is pending approval subject to the issuance of a siting
permit by the responsible agency pursuant to this chapter. The applicant shall
provide the following:
            (1)   A letter from the appropriate agency acknowledging receipt
and approval of a waste management plan, if required.
            (2)   A letter from the appropriate agency acknowledging receipt
and approval of a nutrient management plan, if required.
            (3)   A letter from the appropriate agency acknowledging receipt
and approval of an odor management plan, if required.
            (4)   A letter from the appropriate agency acknowledging receipt
and approval of a dust management plan, if required.
         i.   Characterization of the proposed operation and any land
application sites to include the following information:
            (1)   Annual precipitation.
            (2)   Soil characteristics.
         j.   Hydrogeological factors to include the following:
            (1)   Depth to first water yielding zone.
            (2)   Depth first encountered water.
            (3)   Direction of groundwater movement and gradient.
            (4)   Sources and estimates of recharge.
            (5)   Seasonal variations in water level and recharge
characteristics.
            (6)   Susceptibility to contamination.
            (7)   Groundwater/surface water relationships.
         k.   Water quality data to include:
            (1)   Microorganisms (bacteria or single cell).
            (2)   Nutrients.
            (3)   Pharmaceuticals and organic compounds.
         l.   Written comment on, and approval of, the filed site plans from
the applicable highway district.
         m.   Any other information the commission determines is needed to
assess the application's compliance with the criteria of this chapter.
      2.   Fee: A fee shall be submitted with the application in an amount set
by resolution of the board.
      3.   Exceptions: The commission may excuse the applicant from providing
any specific required information if the applicant can substantiate to the
commission that the information is not available for a specific site and that
the applicant is not able to obtain or generate the information. In such
instances, the applicant is required to provide the best information available.
(Ord. 56, 3-14-2005)
5-15-7: PROCESS OF NOTICE AND APPLICATION; HEARING:
   A.   The commission shall review the application for completeness. Upon
determining that the same is complete the commission may submit the submitted
information to the Idaho state CAFO site advisory team, or any other similar
entity for review, comment, and recommendation.
   B.   After receiving comment from the Idaho state CAFO siting advisory
group, or similar agency, the commission shall conduct a minimum of one public
hearing. The hearing shall be advertised and conducted according to the
requirements of special use permits contained in this title and Idaho Code
section 67-6509. Notice shall also be provided by first class mail to any
property owner within one and one-half (11/2) miles of a CAFO and any person
that has made written request to the administrator for notice. The
administrator shall also physically post notices at the external boundaries of
the site at least fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing. (Ord. 56, 3-14-2005)
5-15-8: CRITERIA FOR APPROVAL:
Prior to approval of a siting permit for a CAFO, the commission must find that
the new CAFO meets the following requirements:
   A.   General Requirements:
      1.   All CAFOs must be within an area zoned agriculture (A1), or heavy
industrial (D2).
      2.   All CAFOs shall be located outside the defined area of impact of any
incorporated municipality within the county.
      3.   The CAFO must comply with and not be in violation of any federal,
state or local law.
      4.   The owner or operator shall not have begun construction of new
improvements for a CAFO upon land to be used as a CAFO prior to application for
the permit. (Ord. 56, 3-14-2005)
   B.   Animal Waste Management:
      1.   All CAFOs shall follow and be in compliance with any nutrient
management plan required by any state or federal agency.
      2.   The animal waste management system shall not be located or operated
closer than one thousand three hundred twenty feet (1,320') from a residence
belonging to someone other than the applicant or be located and/or operated
closer than one thousand one hundred feet (1,100') from property lines.
Provided, such setbacks may be lessened if the owner of the residence or
property consents in writing to a lesser setback.
      3.   The setbacks contained herein shall not apply to the application of
animal waste; except, that liquid waste from a swine facility shall not be land
applied within one mile of a residence not part of the CAFO operation or owned,
occupied or leased by the owner of the CAFO operation. Provided such setback
may be lessened if the owner of the residence consents in writing to a lesser
setback.
      4.   No animal waste management system shall be located and/or operated
closer than five hundred feet (500') from a domestic well.
      5.   The animal waste management system shall have a one hundred foot
(100') setback from a public road.
      6.   The CAFO shall be in compliance with all environmental regulations,
requirements and permits imposed by state or federal law or any regulatory
agency.
      7.   Aquaculture CAFOs are exempt from the animal waste management system
setbacks except for the storage of solid waste on land.
      8.   If land application of animal waste occurs within a nitrate priority
area, the land application shall be included in the nutrient management plan.
   C.   Water Quality And Water Quantity:
      1.   There will be no discharge of pollutants into surface or ground
water except as permitted by the appropriate state or federal agency with
jurisdiction.
      2.   CAFOs in a priority nitrate area of concern shall demonstrate
through a nutrient study that if the background levels are less than nine
milligrams per liter (9 mg/l) nitrate, the CAFO will not result in a greater
than 1.0 milligram per liter nitrate increase over the background levels within
one-fourth (1/4) mile of the CAFO boundaries. If the background levels are
greater than or equal to nine milligrams per liter (9 mg/l) nitrate but less
than ten milligrams per liter (10 mg/l) nitrate, the nutrient study must
demonstrate that the CAFO will not result in an increase to ten milligrams per
liter (10 mg/l) nitrate within one-fourth (1/4) mile of the CAFO boundaries. If
the background levels are 10.0 milligrams per liter nitrate or greater, the
nutrient study must demonstrate that the CAFO will not result in any nitrate
increase over the background level within one-fourth (1/4) mile of the CAFO
boundaries.
      3.   The applicant must have water of sufficient amount and type to
adequately supply the proposed CAFO or present a plan showing steps he will
take to obtain a water right. Such a plan should identify permits which will be
bought and transferred or new permits for which the applicant shall apply.
(Ord. 66, 1-18-2011)
   D.   Site Setbacks:
      1.   Corrals shall have a one hundred foot (100') setback from a public
road.
      2.   All feed storage areas shall have a fifty foot (50') setback from a
public road and existing residences.
      3.   No special use permit for a CAFO shall be issued to a CAFO within
one and one-half (11/2) miles of an existing residential or commercial
subdivision, nor shall any CAFO improvements be constructed within one and one-
half (11/2) miles of an existing residential or commercial subdivision. No
special use permit for a CAFO shall be issued to a CAFO closer than one mile of
a city impact area.
      4.   No CAFO improvements shall be located within zone A, AE, AH, and AO
floodplains as set out on the most recent federal emergency management agency
flood insurance rate map for the county.
      5.   Aquaculture CAFOs are exempt from the setbacks contained herein
except for the storage of solid waste on the land.
   E.   Lighting: Lights from CAFOs shall be placed and shielded to prevent the
light source from becoming a nuisance or hazard outside the property lines of
the CAFO. (Ord. 56, 3-14-2005)
5-15-9: GRANT OR DENIAL OF SITING PERMIT:
If the commission finds that the applicant has shown that the proposed CAFO
meets the criteria set forth herein, the commission may recommend to the board
to grant the special use permit requested. If the commission does not find that
the applicant has shown that the proposed CAFO meets the criteria set forth
herein, the commission shall not recommend granting the siting permit. In
making such recommendation, the commission may rely on information and
recommendations received from the Idaho department of environmental quality
(IDEQ) and the Idaho state CAFO site advisory team. In areas of elevated
nitrate levels, continued well water monitoring shall be a condition of
approval. If degradation is observed that is determined to be caused by the
applicant's CAFO, remediation shall be required. Failure of remediation shall
result in suspension or revocation of the siting permits. (Ord. 66, 1-18-2011)
5-15-10: RECORDING PERMIT INFORMATION:
If the siting permit is granted, the following information shall be recorded by
the permittee:
   A.   Name and address of permittee.
   B.   Legal description of the CAFO.
   C.   Existing one time animal unit capacity. (Ord. 56, 3-14-2005)
5-15-11: INSPECTIONS, CHANGE ORDERS AND OCCUPANCY CERTIFICATES:
   A.   Inspections During Construction:
      1.   Inspection of the construction progress of a CAFO authorized by a
siting permit shall occur as governed by the county building code. Additional
inspections may be done at the request of the permit holder. The inspections
shall be performed by the administrator or the building inspector.
      2.   The administrator/building inspector shall have the authority to
issue a "stop work" order for that portion of the CAFO in violation of the
siting permit if an inspection reveals a violation of the terms of the permit.
All work specified in the order must stop after posting of the order. The
permit holder may appeal such an order to the commission.
   B.   Procedure For CAFO Changes:
      1.   If the permit holder desires to make changes to the proposed
facilities authorized under the permit, the permit holder shall present a
written change request to the administrator. The request shall be on a form
provided by the administrator and shall contain such information as the
administrator deems appropriate. The request must clearly specify the changes
and provide an explanation or justification for the changes.
      2.   The administrator shall respond to the applicant within five (5)
business days of the application for change.
      3.   If the administrator determines the requested change is de minimis,
the administrator may grant the change request.
      4.   If the administrator determines that requested change is not de
minimis or may violate the terms and conditions of the siting permit, the
administrator shall forward the written change request to the commission within
five (5) business days of receiving the request for change. The commission,
after notice and hearing protocols as required for an original application,
shall apply the same criteria as for approval of an original siting permit. If
the request for change meets the requirements of the approval criteria set
forth in this chapter, the application for change may be granted, and an
amended special use permit shall be issued.
      5.   If the change request is denied by the commission, the permit holder
may appeal the denial to the board. The appeals shall be governed and processed
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   C.   Occupancy Certificates:
      1.   Certificate Required: Prior to use of the expanded facilities of an
existing CAFO or occupation of a new CAFO by livestock, fish, or birds, an
occupancy certificate is required.
      2.   Required Information: The permit holder shall provide written
notification from all applicable state and federal agencies showing compliance
with all rules and regulations before the certificate of occupancy shall be
granted.
      3.   Issuance Of Certificate: Upon completion and final inspection of the
facilities authorized in the siting permit by the relevant state and local
agencies, the administrator shall issue a certificate of occupancy to the
permit holder. The certificate shall certify that all facilities have been
inspected by the appropriate authorities and conform to the terms of the siting
permit, are in compliance with the provisions of county ordinances, and that
the permit holder is fully authorized to occupy and operate the CAFO facility.
      4.   Denial Of Certificate: If the administrator denies issuance of an
occupancy certificate, such denial shall be in writing, setting forth the
reasons for the denial, and may be appealed to the commission. Such an appeal
must be filed with the office of the administrator within twenty (20) days of
the issuance of the denial. (Ord. 56, 3-14-2005)
5-15-12: VARIANCES:
   A.   Setback Variances:
      1.   A variance can be sought to the setbacks contained in this title by
making a written request for a variance at the time of the filing of the
application for the siting permit.
      2.   A variance shall not be considered a right or special privilege but
shall be granted to an applicant only upon his showing of undue hardship
because of the characteristics of the site and that the variance is not in
conflict with the public interest.
      3.   Prior to granting a variance, notice and opportunity to be heard
shall be provided to property owners joining the parcel under consideration and
to those persons who have previously requested a notice.
      4.   The procedure considering a variance shall follow the provisions as
set out in section
5-18-4 of this title for variances. However, if the variance is sought with the
initial application for a CAFO, the variance application may be heard at the
CAFO hearing; provided, that notice of the hearing states that the applicant is
requesting a variance from the requirements of this chapter and specifying the
nature of the variance.
   B.   Hardship Variances: Whenever any county, state or federal agency
declares an emergency which affects the county cattle industry, the board may,
upon application, temporarily vary the terms of this chapter. A variance from
the strict application of the terms and conditions of this chapter for reasons
of hardship shall not set a precedent for any other application for a hardship
variance. A hardship variance may be granted in an expedited manner and without
a hearing, when there is a showing that time is of the essence and a delay may
cause substantial losses to an applicant. At any time after a hardship variance
is granted, any affected person may request a public hearing and a review of
the variance. (Ord. 56, 3-14-2005)
5-15-13: TIME LIMIT FOR CONSTRUCTION AND COMPLETION:
If construction is not commenced within one year of issuance of the siting
permit, the applicant must appear before the commission to show cause why
construction has not commenced. If construction of the CAFO is not completed
within two (2) years of issuance of the siting permit, the commission may
revoke the permit. Once revoked, the applicant may reapply. Reapplication shall
be governed by statutes, regulations and ordinances in effect at the date of
reapplication. (Ord. 56, 3-14-2005)
5-15-14: COMPLAINTS:
   A.   Complaints made by individuals in relation to the provisions of this
chapter shall be in writing, and must contain the nature of the complaint, the
name and address of the CAFO, time(s), date(s) of the occurrence, and the name,
address and phone number of the complainant. The complainant must be an
"affected person" as defined in this chapter.
   B.   If the administrator receives such a complaint of alleged noncompliance
with the terms of a siting permit, the administrator shall give notice of the
complaint to the permit holder/registrant and shall determine the validity of
the complaint within ten (10) business days of its receipt. During that time,
the permit holder/registrant can submit rebuttal evidence to the administrator
concerning the complaint.
   C.   Once the validity of the complaint is determined, written notice of the
administrator's decision shall be given to the permit holder/registrant and the
complainant. If a violation is determined, the permit holder/registrant can
correct the noncompliance or appeal the administrator's decision to the
commission within twenty (20) days of the date of the administrator's
determination. If no appeal is filed, the correction must be completed within
thirty (30) days of the date of the administrator's written determination
unless a written extension has been granted by the administrator. If a longer
period of time is needed to make the corrections, the permit holder/registrant
can request longer extension from the commission. (Ord. 56, 3-14-2005)
5-15-15: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Modification, Suspension Or Revocation Of Occupancy Certificate: If a
permit holder/registrant does not correct a violation substantiated under the
process given in section
5-15-14 of this chapter, the commission may modify, suspend or revoke the
occupancy certificate thirty (30) days after providing a written warning to the
permit holder/registrant if the permit holder/registrant has taken no action to
address the violation during the thirty (30) day warning period.
   B.   Violation Of State Or Federal Laws: If a complaint of noncompliance is
based on alleged violation of state or federal laws, rules, or regulations, the
administrator or commission shall forward the complaint to the applicable
enforcement agency and defer determination of enforcement actions to that
agency. In such situations, time limits in this chapter shall be suspended
until a response is received from the relevant agency.
   C.   Immediate Action By County: Further, the board may at any time take
immediate action to protect the public in accordance with the process set forth
in the local land use planning act, particularly section 67-6527.
   D.   Penalties: Violations of any of the provisions of this chapter or
failure to comply with any of its requirements shall constitute a "misdemeanor"
as defined by Idaho Code section 18-113, and is punishable by up to six (6)
months in jail and up to a three hundred dollar ($300.00) fine, or both. Each
day such violation continues shall be considered a separate offense. (Ord. 56,
3-14-2005)
5-15-16: APPEALS:
Any applicant, registrant, permit holder or affected person who has appeared
before the commission in person or in writing and is aggrieved by a decision of
the commission, shall have a right to appeal to the board. Appeals shall be
governed and processed in accordance with the provisions of this title. (Ord.
56, 3-14-2005)
CHAPTER 16
MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS/RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARKS
SECTION:
5-16-1: Manufactured Home Parks
5-16-2: Recreational Vehicle Parks
5-16-1: MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS:
Parks shall be allowed by special use permit, but only when such parks are
constructed and maintained in accordance with the following standards and
conditions:
   A.   Development Permit Requirements:
      1.   Application For Permit: Development of a manufactured/mobile home
park shall require application to the commission for a permit. The application
for said permit shall be accompanied by twelve (12) copies of the plot plan of
the proposed park. All mapped data for the same plot plan shall be drawn at the
same standard engineering scale of one inch (1") representing one hundred feet
(100'). The plot plan shall contain all of the following information:
         a.   The full name and address of the applicant, as well as the name
and address of the individual or company by whom the plan was prepared;
         b.   Location and legal description of the tract of land certified by
an Idaho registered land surveyor;
         c.   Name of the manufactured/mobile home park;
         d.   Vicinity map, showing the relationship of the manufactured/mobile
home park to adjacent properties;
         e.   Location and width of accessways;
         f.   Street layout, including location, width and proposed names;
         g.   Location and width of walkways, alleys, crosswalks and easements;
         h.   Proposed and existing facilities in the park for water supply,
sewage, garbage and waste disposal, and fire protection;
         i.   Building plans and specifications for existing buildings and
facilities.
         j.   Location and type of landscaping plantings, fences, walls or
other forms of landscaping;
         k.   Enlarged plot plan of typical manufactured/mobile home space,
showing location of the land, patio, storage space, parking, sidewalk, utility
connections and landscaping;
         l.   Further information required:
            (1)   The date on which such plot plans were prepared;
            (2)   An arrow indicating north;
            (3)   All manufactured/mobile home sites shall be properly
indicated by location and size and numbered on the plot plans;
            (4)   Complete information regarding storm sewers and storm water;
            (5)   Contour lines at five foot (5') intervals;
            (6)   Grades of driveways; and
            (7)   Such other information as required as a result of the preplan
conference or by the commission.
      2.   Expiration Of Permit: A permit for the development of a
manufactured/mobile home park shall become void automatically under any of the
following circumstances or conditions:
         a.   If construction has not commenced within six (6) months after the
issuance of a development permit therefor, or any extension of time granted by
the commission for good cause.
         b.   If construction of a manufactured/mobile home park is not
completed and certificate of occupancy issued by the building official within
one year from the date of issuance of the development permit.
         c.   If the permit for the construction of a manufactured/mobile home
park expires for any other reason.
   B.   Permit To Occupy: Prior to the occupation of any manufactured/mobile
home park, the developers shall obtain from the administrator a permit to
occupy attesting that the sanitary requirements of the state department of
health and welfare, and the requirements of this title have been met.
   C.   Site And Structure Requirements:
      1.   Identification Of Site: Each manufactured/mobile home site shall be
plainly marked and numbered for identification.
      2.   Slope And Grading Requirements: Grading and drainage must be
performed so that water will drain away from manufactured/mobile home spaces,
buildings, service and recreational areas, for storage on the site in a manner
that will provide reasonable freedom from erosion. Walks, driveways and
retaining walls must be so constructed as not to interfere with drainage.
Requirements for slopes of manufactured/mobile home park spaces, roads, walks
and service areas are as follows:
         a.   Manufactured/mobile home spaces must be graded toward abutting
roadway to prevent surface water draining across adjacent coach spaces. Grading
under manufactured/mobile homes must be provided to prevent puddling of water.
         b.   Where swales for the carriage of stormwater are needed between
the manufactured/mobile home space and the roadway, they must be of a shallow
type, generally not to exceed eight inches (8") in depth, to permit the parking
of the manufactured/mobile home without damage to the undercarriage.
         c.   The following minimum and maximum slope values will usually give
satisfactory results: (Ord. 51, 9-2-2003)
 
                                         Minimum Percent Maximum Percent
Roads                                    0.50            6
Walks                                    0.50            8
Recreation area and laundry drying yards 0.50            5
Sodded and planted areas                 1.0             10
 
(Ord. 51, 9-2-2003; amd. Ord. 77, 12-29-2014)
The developer is still required to meet all state and federal ADA requirements.
(Ord. 77, 12-29-2014)
      3.   Density: A maximum density of twelve (12) units per acre.
      4.   Minimum Lot Size: A minimum of four thousand five hundred (4,500)
square feet shall be required.
      5.   Width: Each manufactured/mobile home site shall have a minimum width
of not less than forty five feet (45').
      6.   Number Of Houses Per Site: Not more than one single-family
manufactured/mobile home shall be placed on a manufactured/mobile home site.
      7.   Lot Coverage: The manufactured/mobile home and accessory structures
shall not cover more than seventy five percent (75%) of the area of the
manufactured/mobile home site.
      8.   Site Arrangement: Manufactured/mobile home sites shall be arranged
in such a way that promotes the clustering of individual sites or provides for
the angle arrangement of lots.
      9.   Setback From Public Streets: All structures and manufactured/mobile
homes shall be set back thirty feet (30') from any public street right of way.
      10.   Yard Requirements: No manufactured/mobile home shall be located
closer than thirty feet (30') to another manufactured/mobile home, building, or
structure. In addition, any manufactured/mobile home, building, or structure or
part thereof shall conform to the following minimum requirements:
         a.   Front Yard: In no case shall a front yard be of less than ten
feet (10').
         b.   Side Yard: Located on a corner of a manufactured/mobile home park
street, in which case, a side yard of not less than fifteen feet (15') shall be
required.
         c.   Rear Yard: In no case shall a rear yard be less than ten feet
(10').
      11.   Projection Into Required Yard: The following structures may be
erected or projected into any required yard:
         a.   Eaves, stairways, and awnings not to extend ten feet (10');
         b.   Manufactured/mobile home hitches;
         c.   Necessary appurtenances for utility services; and
         d.   Driveways and accessways to parking facility.
      12.   Parking And Loading Requirements:
         a.   Each manufactured/mobile home site shall have thereon a space
suitable for providing automobile parking for at least two (2) automobiles,
which space shall be either paved, graveled, or covered with other suitable
aggregate and with a stable base.
         b.   There shall be no permanent or overnight parking of motor
vehicles, trailers, boats, campers or other conveyances on streets within such
manufactured/mobile home park. No wrecked, junked or inoperative automobiles
shall be parked other than in a designated screened common storage area within
such manufactured/mobile home park.
         c.   Recreation and service areas shall have sufficient off street
parking facilities surfaced as herein provided to accommodate one automobile
for every ten (10) manufactured/mobile home sites. (Ord. 51, 9-2-2003)
      13.   Street Design: Manufactured/mobile home park streets shall be
provided in such a pattern as to provide convenient traffic circulation within
the park. Said streets shall be constructed in accordance with section
5-3-5 of this title.
         a.   All streets and private roads shall interconnect and there shall
be no dead end streets, unless a cul-de-sac is provided with a radius of not
less than fifty feet (50').
         b.   All streets and private roads to be constructed shall provide
proper surface drainage. All drainage shall be retained on site.
         c.   Manufactured/mobile home park streets and private roads shall be
paved.
         d.   Manufactured/mobile home park streets and private roads shall be
lighted to a minimum light level of two (2) foot-candles per square foot of
street area. (Ord. 77, 12-29-2014)
      14.   Recreation Areas: A central recreation area shall be established in
each manufactured/mobile home park created pursuant to the provisions of this
title. The size of such area shall be at least two hundred (200) square feet
per manufactured/mobile home site. The recreation area may contain community
clubhouses, swimming pools, shuffleboard courts and similar facilities. Such
recreation facilities may be decentralized in accordance with the principles of
good planning, provided that the total recreation area meets the above stated
minimum size.
      15.   Landscaping And Buffering:
         a.   Landscaping: All open areas, except driveways, parking areas,
walkways, utility areas, improved decks, patios or porches shall be maintained
with landscaping. Plans for such landscaping shall be submitted with the
development plans at time of application for permit.
         b.   Buffering: Manufactured/mobile home parks shall be buffered from
other land use zones.
      16.   Utilities: All utility distribution facilities, including
television antenna service lines serving individual manufactured/mobile home
sites, shall be placed underground. The owner is responsible for complying with
the requirements of this title and he shall make the necessary arrangements
with each of the serving utilities for the installation of such facilities.
Transformers, terminal boxes, meter cabinets, pedestals, concealed ducts, and
other facilities necessary and appurtenant to such underground facilities may
be placed aboveground. Water and sewer distribution facilities shall be
installed in accordance with minimum standards established through Idaho Code,
and all state and local regulations adopted pursuant thereto. Each
manufactured/mobile home site must be served with water, electricity and
sanitary facilities as above provided.
      17.   Trash Storage: Covered fireproof containers for trash storage shall
be provided. They shall be placed so as to be concealed from the street and
easily accessible to the mobile home sites. The same shall be emptied not less
than weekly. The operator of such manufactured/mobile home park shall not
permit or allow any open accumulation of trash or garbage, which shall be
unsightly or constitute a health or safety hazard. Further, trash storage areas
may not be located closer than thirty feet (30') from a manufactured/mobile
home.
      18.   Storage Areas: Common areas used for the storage of travel
trailers, boats, storage lockers or sheds, and other such items shall be
established in a manufactured/mobile home park. Such storage areas shall be
adequately screened from public view. The size of such area shall be at least
two hundred (200) square feet per manufactured/mobile home site.
      19.   Storage Sheds And Parking Structures: Individual storage sheds or
parking structures shall be permitted on individual manufactured/mobile home
sites, provided required setbacks are met.
      20.   Spaces For Transient Vehicles: Transient spaces not more than ten
percent (10%) of the manufactured/mobile home sites may be used for transient
recreational vehicle sites. Sites reserved for transient recreational vehicles
shall be so designated on the plans submitted with the application for the
manufactured/mobile home park permit. The site, yard, and property development
standards of this title shall fully apply to sites reserved for transient
recreational vehicles. Such vehicles shall stay not more than three (3) months.
      21.   Miscellaneous Requirements:
         a.   Skirting: Skirting shall be provided along all sides of the
manufactured/mobile home.
         b.   Mailboxes: Each manufactured/mobile home site shall be equipped
with a receptacle for mail deliveries in accordance with the standards
recommended by the local postmaster.
         c.   Public Telephone: The manufactured/mobile home park shall contain
at least one public telephone for the use of park residents.
   D.   Approval Procedures:
      1.   Final Plan: After approval of the preliminary development plan by
the commission, a final plan shall be submitted, containing all such
information as required by this title and the commission. Upon determination
that the final plan is in compliance with the approved preliminary plan and all
conditional requirements have been met, the administrator shall place the final
plat on the board's agenda within forty five (45) days from the date that an
acceptable final plan application was received by the administrator.
      2.   Board Action: The board, at its next meeting following receipt of
the administrator's report, shall consider the commission's findings and
comments from concerned persons and agencies to arrive at a decision on the
final plan. The board shall approve, approve conditionally, disapprove or table
the final plan for additional information not less than ten (10) days from the
date of the regular meeting at which the plan is first considered, nor more
than forty five (45) days thereafter. Upon approval by the board, the
administrator shall cause the final plan to be recorded with the county
recorder. (Ord. 51, 9-2-2003)
5-16-2: RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARKS:
   A.   Definitions:
    INDEPENDENT RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: One that has a water closet and a bathtub
or shower.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: One that does not have a water closet and a bathtub or
shower.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK: Any plot of ground upon which two (2) or more
occupied recreational vehicles are located.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE SPACE: A plot of ground within a recreational vehicle
park designated for the accommodation of one recreational vehicle.
   SERVICE BUILDING: A building housing communal toilet, laundry and other
sanitary facilities necessary for the health and convenience of the
recreational vehicle occupants.
   B.   Site Selection Criteria:
      1.   Location:
         a.   The site must not be:
            (1)   Subject to flooding, fire or safety hazards;
            (2)   Exposed to chronic nuisances, such as noise, smoke, fumes,
and odors. (Ord. 51, 9-2-2003)
         b.   The site shall have direct access to a public street or highway.
(Ord. 77, 12-29-2014)
      2.   Topography: The topography must be favorable to good site drainage,
minimum grading, recreational vehicle placement, and ease of maintenance.
Initial site grades exceeding eight percent (8%), or rock formations close to
the surface, are likely to cause high development costs.
      3.   Availability Of Utilities: The site must be readily accessible to
public utilities, including water, sewage, and electricity.
      4.   Necessary Land Area: The area of the recreational vehicle park must
be sufficient in size to accommodate:
         a.   The number of recreational vehicle spaces.
         b.   Roads and parking areas.
         c.   Service areas, buildings and playgrounds.
         d.   On site utilities where public utilities are not available.
   C.   Site Improvements Required: The physical improvements of the site must
be arranged to provide:
      1.   A convenient means of pedestrian and vehicular access to each
recreational vehicle space, parking areas, and accessory buildings;
      2.   An adequate supply of potable water;
      3.   A safe method of sewage disposal;
      4.   Electrical service for lighting and power; and
      5.   Diversion of surface water away from buildings, recreational vehicle
spaces, service and recreational areas, and its disposal from the site.
   D.   Site Planning Requirements Generally:
      1.   Initial Plan: A plan of the proposed recreational vehicle park must
be developed for approval of the county, indicating the layout of recreational
vehicle spaces, roads, walks, service buildings, service areas, utilities, and
necessary grading. Determination must be made in the initial planning stage on
the number of dependent and independent recreational vehicles to be
accommodated.
      2.   Recreational Vehicle Space Sizes: Each recreational vehicle space
must be not less than one thousand two hundred fifty (1,250) square feet in
area and should be at least twenty five feet (25') wide.
      3.   Spacing Between Recreational Vehicles And Buildings:
         a.   The minimum spacing between recreational vehicles and between
recreational vehicles and buildings must be:
            (1)   Side to side spacing: Fifteen feet (15').
            (2)   End to end spacing: Ten feet (10'). (Space between end of
trailer bodies, not chassis.)
         b.   No recreational vehicle shall be located closer than forty feet
(40') from the right of way line of a main highway, or ten feet (10') from the
recreational vehicle park property line.
      4.   Roads, Walks And Parking Areas:
         a.   General Circulation: Safety and convenience must be a major
concern in the vehicle park. All roads must be continuous.
         b.   Servicing: Suitable vehicular access for firefighting equipment,
delivery of fuel, removal of garbage and refuse, and for other necessary
services must be provided. Minimum service distances as required by local
regulations or accepted practice must control. (Ord. 51, 9-2-2003)
         c.   Width Of Streets, Roads And Parking Areas: Shall be determined in
accordance with section
5-3-5 of this title. (Ord. 77, 12-29-2014)
         d.   Parking Area: The same number of motor vehicle parking spaces
must be provided as the number of recreational vehicle spaces. These must be
provided in special parking areas.
         e.   Walks: The recreational vehicle park walk system must include a
walk from the entrance of each recreational vehicle to service facilities.
Width of walks is as follows:
            (1)   Public walks (minimum): Four feet (4').
            (2)   Entrance walks (from public walk to trailer door): Two feet
(2').
      5.   Service Building Requirements: Each recreational vehicle park must
be provided with one or more service buildings containing the requisite number
of plumbing fixtures and other service equipment. The service buildings must
conform in general to the following requirements:
         a.   Location: The building should be located not more than two
hundred feet (200') from any dependent recreational vehicle space.
         b.   Construction: The materials and methods used in the construction
of service buildings must conform to adopted building codes for buildings of
this nature. It must have an interior finish that is moisture resistant and can
be easily cleaned. All rooms of service buildings must be ventilated and all
exterior openings provided with screens.
         c.   Facilities: Separate men's and women's toilet rooms must be
provided and distinctly marked. A sound resistant wall must separate these
rooms. A vestibule or screen wall must be provided to prevent direct view into
the toilet rooms when exterior doors are open.
            (1)   Every recreational vehicle park must provide adequate toilet
and laundry facilities. In no instance should there be less than one laundry
unit (laundry tray or washing machine), one water closet, one lavatory and one
shower for women; and one water closet, one lavatory and one shower for men.
            (2)   One water closet must be provided for each sex for every ten
(10) additional dependent recreational vehicles. Urinals for men may be
substituted for one-third (1/3) of these water closets.
            (3)   One lavatory must be provided for each sex for every ten (10)
additional dependent recreational vehicles; and one shower or bathtub for each
sex for every twenty (20) additional dependent coaches. A laundry unit must be
provided for every twenty (20) additional recreational vehicle spaces.
            (4)   All water closets and bathtubs or showers for women, and all
water closets and bathtubs or showers for men must be located in separate
compartments, with self-closing doors. Individual shower stalls must be
approximately three feet by three feet (3' x 3'). Showers for women must have a
dressing compartment with stool or bench. The room containing the laundry units
must be separated from the toilet rooms, and have an exterior entrance only.
            (5)   All plumbing installations shall conform to the state
plumbing code.
            (6)   All electrical installations shall conform to the state
electrical code.
            (7)   Heating facilities capable of maintaining a temperature of
seventy degrees Fahrenheit (70°F) in cold weather should be provided.
            (8)   Facilities shall provide for the continuous supply of three
(3) to five (5) gallons of hot water per recreational vehicle space. Hot water
at a temperature of about one hundred eighty degrees Fahrenheit (180°F) shall
be provided for clothes washing equipment.
      6.   Laundry Drying Facilities: Mechanical laundry drying equipment must
be provided. Laundry drying machines must be located in service buildings.
      7.   Refuse Collection: Refuse must be stored in flytight and rodentproof
containers. Each coach space will require from four (4) to six (6) gallons of
refuse storage capacity per day. Refuse container stations, where used, should
be located a maximum of two hundred feet (200') from any trailer coach space
and preferably not more than one hundred fifty feet (150').
      8.   Recreational Areas: At least one hundred (100) square feet per
recreational vehicle space must be made available in one or more areas for
recreational uses. These areas should be located so as to be free of traffic
hazards.
   E.   Site Engineering:
      1.   Requirements Generally: Grading and drainage must be performed so
that water will drain away from recreational vehicle spaces, buildings, service
and recreational areas, for storage on the site in a manner that will provide
reasonable freedom from erosion. Walks, driveways and retaining walls must be
so constructed as not to interfere with drainage.
      2.   Slope And Grading Requirements: Requirements for slopes of
recreational vehicle spaces, roads, walks and service areas are as follows:
         a.   Recreational vehicle spaces must be graded toward abutting
roadway to prevent surface water draining across adjacent coach spaces. Grading
under recreational vehicles must be provided to prevent puddling of water.
         b.   Where swales for the carriage of stormwater are needed between
the recreational vehicle space and the roadway, they must be of a shallow type,
generally not to exceed eight inches (8") in depth, to permit the parking of
the trailer without damage to the undercarriage. (Ord. 51, 9-2-2003)
         c.   The following minimum slope values will usually give satisfactory
results. The developer is still required to meet all state and federal ADA
requirements. (Ord. 77, 12-29-2014)
 
                                         Minimum Maximum
                                         Percent Percent
Roads                                    0.50    6
Walks                                    0.50    10
Recreation area and laundry drying yards 0.50    8
Sodded and planted areas                 1.0     10
 
(Ord. 51, 9-2-2003; amd. Ord. 77, 12-29-2014)
      3.   Construction Requirements: Construct roads, parking areas, walks and
service areas in accordance with section
5-3-5 of this title. (Ord. 77, 12-29-2014)
         a.   Walks: Walks must be constructed of concrete, macadam, gravel,
fine stone, cinders or other materials providing a stable footing. Stepping
stones may be used from main walks to recreational vehicles.
         b.   Recreation Area And Laundry Drying Yards: Surfacing may be
natural ground cover, sand-clay or other suitable local materials. (Ord. 51, 9-
2-2003; amd. Ord. 77, 12-29-2014)
CHAPTER 17
FEES
SECTION:
5-17-1: Designated Fee
5-17-1: DESIGNATED FEE:
All applications for amendment, rezone, special use, or variance, shall be
accompanied by a filing fee. The fee shall be set by resolution of the board
and shall include all costs of processing such application. (Ord. 51, 9-2-2003)
CHAPTER 18
ZONING ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
5-18-1: Planning And Zoning Administrator And/Or Building Official
5-18-2: Planning And Zoning Commission
5-18-3: Appeals; Stay Of Proceedings
5-18-4: Amendments And Variances
5-18-5: Violation And Penalties
5-18-6: Mediation
5-18-1: PLANNING AND ZONING ADMINISTRATOR AND/OR BUILDING OFFICIAL 1 :
The position of planning and zoning administrator and/or building official,
hereafter referred to as "administrator", is hereby created in order to carry
out the provisions of this title. The board may, in its discretion, employ a
planning and zoning administrator and/or building official or may assign the
responsibility of carrying out the duties of this title to another employee or
officer; provided, that if a planning and zoning administrator and/or building
official is appointed, he shall be qualified as an administrator and shall have
a knowledge of construction practices. The board shall supervise the planning
and zoning administrator and/or building official and shall determine his
salary or compensation. (Ord. 51, 9-2-2003)
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 1, chapter 6, article G of this code.
5-18-2: PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION 1 :
   A.   Jurisdiction; Restrictions:
      1.   The commission shall act as an appeals commission for the
enforcement and regulation of the provisions of this title and shall have the
following powers:
         a.   To hear and decide appeals from and review any order,
requirement, decision or determination made by the administrator or building
official in the enforcement of this title.
         b.   To hear all petitions for change of zoning or for variation of
this title, or for the provisions hereof, and applications for special use
permits and shall submit its recommendations, based upon findings of fact, to
the board.
      2.   The commission shall further have the powers and duties as follows:
         a.   To recommend to the board, from time to time, such changes in the
comprehensive plan, or any part thereof, as may be deemed necessary.
         b.   To prepare and recommend to the board, from time to time, plans
and/or recommendations for specific improvement pursuant to the comprehensive
plan.
         c.   To cooperate with municipal, other county or regional planning
commissions and other agencies or groups to further the local planning program
and to assure harmonious and integrated planning for the area.
         d.   To carry out the duties accorded to it by the land subdivision
control provisions of the county 2 .
      3.   The commission shall have no authority to authorize any special use,
amendment or variance of this title.
   B.   Quorum: A quorum of a majority of the appointed members of the
commission must be present to hold a lawful meeting. The concurring vote of the
majority of the members at such meeting shall be necessary to recommend any
special use, variance or change of zoning or to reverse any order, requirement
or decision of the administrator or building official.
   C.   Failure To Act: In the event that a majority of a quorum of the members
of the commission at a lawful meeting held for the purpose of action on an
appeal, amendment, rezone, variance or special use permit does not recommend
passage of said appeal, amendment, rezone, variance or special use permit
within forty five (45) days after such meeting, then it shall be deemed that
the commission recommends denial to the board.
   D.   Conflict Of Interest: A member or employee of the board or commission
shall not participate in any proceeding or action when the member or his
employer, business partner, business associate or any person related to him by
affinity or consanguinity within the second degree has an economic interest in
the procedure or action. Any actual or potential interest in any proceeding
shall be disclosed at or before any meeting at which the action is being heard
or considered. A knowing violation of this subsection shall constitute a
misdemeanor. Any member with a conflict of interest will not take part in the
proceedings or deliberations. However, a member choosing not to participate
does not affect the quorum. (Ord. 51, 9-2-2003)
 
Notes
1 2. See also title 1, chapter 7 of this code.
2 1. See title 6 of this code.
5-18-3: APPEALS; STAY OF PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Appeals And Review: Any person aggrieved by a ruling of the
administrator or building official, respecting the interpretation of this
title, or any officer, department, board or bureau of the county affected by a
ruling of the administrator or building official concerning the interpretation
of this title may take an appeal to the commission in the following manner:
      1.   Such appellant shall, within fifteen (15) days after the
administrator and/or building official's decision, file a written notice of
appeal both with the administrator or building official and the secretary of
the commission together with a filing fee as set by the board. The
administrator or building official shall forthwith transmit to the commission
all papers constituting the record upon which his action was taken.
      2.   The secretary of the commission, upon receipt of any notice of
appeal, shall place on the agenda of the next meeting more than eight (8) days
after receipt of such notice of appeal, and give written notice of such hearing
to the appellant, the administrator or building official, and to any other
department of the county which might be affected by the appeal.
   B.   Stay Of Proceedings; Hearing:
      1.   The appeal shall stay all proceedings and furtherance of the action
appealed from, unless the administrator or building official shall certify to
the commission, after notice of appeal has been filed, that by reason of fact
stated in the certificate, a stay would, in his opinion, cause imminent peril
to life or property, in which case, the proceedings shall not be stayed other
than by a restraining order granted by the commission or by a court of
competent jurisdiction, with notice to the administrator or building official
and all due cause shown.
      2.   The commission shall hear and decide the appeal within a reasonable
time but in no event more than forty five (45) days after its final adjournment
of the hearing. At the hearing, parties in interest may appear in person or by
agent or attorney and testify and offer evidence relevant and material to the
issue.
      3.   The commission may reverse or affirm, in whole or in part, or may
modify the order, requirement, decision or determination as to its option, and
to that end shall have all the powers of the administrator or building
official. (Ord. 51, 9-2-2003)
5-18-4: AMENDMENTS AND VARIANCES:
The board may, from time to time, by duly enacted ordinance, amend, supplement,
change or vary this title. However, no such amending ordinance shall be passed
except in the following manner:
   A.   The person or party so desiring such amendment, variance or change
shall file a petition in the form provided by the county, directed to the
commission, together with a filing fee as established by resolution of the
board, not less than fourteen (14) days prior to a regular meeting of the
commission. The administrator shall immediately forward appropriate copies of
the petition to any officer or administrative department affected by said
petition.
   B.   The administrator shall fix a time for hearing on the petition. Notice
shall be given of the time and place of such hearing not more than thirty (30)
days nor less than fifteen (15) days before the hearing, by publishing the
notice thereof in one or more newspapers published in the county as required by
Idaho Code 1 .
   C.   The commission shall hear the petition and evidence related thereto and
make its recommendations to the board within a reasonable time, but in no event
more than forty five (45) days after its final adjournment of the hearing. At
the hearing, parties in interest may appear in person or by agent or attorney
and testify and offer evidence relevant and material to the petition.
   D.   The commission shall consider variances to the terms of this title
which will not be contrary to the public interest or comprehensive plan, where,
owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of the provisions of this
title will result in unnecessary hardship and under such conditions that the
spirit of this title shall be observed and substantial justice done. A variance
shall not be considered a right or special privilege, but may be granted to an
applicant only upon showing of undue hardship because of characteristics of the
site and that the variance is not in conflict with the public interest. In
acting upon such variance, the commission shall make full investigation and
shall only recommend granting a variance upon finding that the following are
true:
      1.   The granting of the variance will not be in conflict with the spirit
and intent of the comprehensive plan for the county and will not effect a
change in zoning;
      2.   There are exceptional or extraordinary circumstances or conditions
applicable to the property involved causing undue hardship which, so that a
denial of the relief sought, will result in:
         a.   Undue loss in value of the property.
         b.   Inability to preserve the property rights of the owner.
         c.   Such hardship shall be proven by the owner.
      3.   The granting of such relief will not be materially detrimental to
the public health, safety or welfare, or injurious to the property or
improvements of other property owners, or the quiet enjoyment of such property
improvements.
      4.   The reason for a variance was not caused by the owner's or previous
owner's actions.
No variation or amendment shall be allowed to permit a nonconforming use which
will materially interfere with use of the adjoining property in that the reason
for a variance was not caused by the owner's or previous owner's actions.
   E.   The variance shall be in conformance with the regulations applicable to
the use zone in which it is located.
   F.   Any variance granted pursuant to the terms of this section must be
fully implemented within one year (365 days) of the granting of said variance,
or said variance shall cease and no longer be considered granted by the board.
(Ord. 51, 9-2-2003)
 
Notes
1 1. IC §§67-6509, recommendation and adoption; 67-6511, zoning ordinance; 67-
  6512, special use permits conditions; and 67-6516, variance.
5-18-5: VIOLATION AND PENALTIES:
   A.   It shall be unlawful to erect, construct, reconstruct, alter, maintain
or use any building or structure or use any land in violation of any provisions
of this title, or any amendment hereto. Any person, either an owner, lessee,
occupant or otherwise, who violates any of the provisions of this title, or who
interferes in any manner with any person in the performance of a right or duty
granted or imposed upon him by the provisions of this title, shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than one
hundred dollars ($100.00) or imprisoned not more than ten (10) days or both.
Each day during which such violation shall continue shall be deemed to be a
separate offense.
   B.   If any building or structure is, or is proposed to be, erected,
constructed, reconstructed, altered, maintained or used or any land is proposed
to be used in violation of any provision of this title, the board, the
prosecuting attorney or any owner of real estate within the zone may institute
injunction, mandamus, abatement or any other appropriate action or proceeding
to prevent, enjoin, abate or remove such unlawful construction, reconstruction,
alteration, maintenance or use. (Ord. 51, 9-2-2003)
5-18-6: MEDIATION:
Mediation of planning and zoning issues may be provided in accordance with
Idaho Code section 67-6510. (Ord. 51, 9-2-2003)
CHAPTER 19
GAS AND OIL WELL DEVELOPMENT
SECTION:
5-19-1: Purpose
5-19-2: Adoption Of Codes
5-19-3: Definitions
5-19-4: Exploration
5-19-4-1: Gas And Oil Exploration Permit
5-19-5: Development
5-19-5-1: Administrative Gas And Oil Well Development Permit
5-19-5-2: Road Maintenance Agreement
5-19-5-3: Operator's Agent
5-19-5-4: Insurance And Indemnification
5-19-5-5: Security
5-19-5-6: Periodic Reports
5-19-5-7: On Site Operation Requirements
5-19-5-8: Work Over Or Reworking Of Well; Notice
5-19-5-9: Supplemental Drilling
5-19-5-10: Cleanup
5-19-5-11: Remedies Of The County
5-19-5-12: Enforcement; Right Of Entry
5-19-5-13: Public Information
5-19-6: Production
5-19-7: Land Use Clause
5-19-8: Severance Clause
5-19-1: PURPOSE:
The exploration, development, production and transportation of gas and/or oil
are land use activities that necessitate reasonable regulation to ensure that
all property owners are able to peaceably enjoy their property and its benefits
and revenues. It is the purpose of this chapter to establish safeguards and
regulation for operations related to the exploration, development, production
and storage of oil and gas and other substances produced in association with
gas and oil well development and production within Washington County to protect
public health, public safety, public order, to prevent harm to public
infrastructure or degradation of the value, use and enjoyment of private
property, and to protect the quality of water sources and the natural
environment. (Ord. 76, 9-22-2014)
5-19-2: ADOPTION OF CODES:
Pursuant to chapter 3 of title 47 Idaho statutes, and of IDAPA 20.07.02 of
Idaho administrative code, Washington County hereby adopts by reference the
current or latest editions of said codes. Washington County recognizes the
intent of the legislature, for the state to occupy the field of the regulation
of oil and gas exploration and production with the limited exception of the
exercise of planning and zoning authority granted cities and counties pursuant
to chapter 65, title 67, Idaho Code. (Ord. 76, 9-22-2014)
5-19-3: DEFINITIONS:
All technical industry words or phrases related to the development of gas and
oil wells not specifically defined, shall have the meaning customarily
attributable thereto by prudent operators in said industry. For the purpose of
this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning:
ADMINISTRATIVE GAS AND OIL WELL DEVELOPMENT PERMIT: An administrative gas and
oil well development permit is required for each planned pad site. This
administrative permit is not transferable from one pad site to another.
ADMINISTRATOR: The Washington County planning and zoning administrator.
AREAS OF CITY IMPACT: "City area of impact" is defined as that unincorporated
land mass which lies contiguous to the city, having its closest boundary to the
city, the city limits of said city, as they now exist or as they may be altered
by future annexation of land to the city, and having its outermost boundary an
imaginary line positioned approximately one mile from the current city limits.
BOND, PERFORMANCE: A performance bond is a surety bond issued by an insurance
company or a bank to guarantee satisfactory development, completion and
possible closure of a project. A performance bond assures that the well
developer will adhere and perform to the requirements of the contractual and/or
land use agreement.
CLOSED LOOP SYSTEM: A mechanical and chemical system which will allow the
operator to conduct drilling and fracturing without utilizing a reserve pit.
COMPRESSION FACILITY: Those facilities that compress natural gas after
production related activities occur.
DAYTIME: The period from seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. to seven o'clock (7:00) P.M.
DEHYDRATION FACILITY: Raw natural gas is collected from a group of wells and is
processed at a facility for the removal of liquid water and natural gas
condensate. The raw gas is then pressurized and piped from the dehydration
facility.
DEVELOPMENT, GAS AND OIL WELL: Gas and oil well development occurs after
exploration has located an economically recoverable field, and involves the
construction of one or more wells from the beginning to either abandonment if
no hydrocarbons are found, or to well completion if hydrocarbons are found in
sufficient quantities.
DRILLING: Digging or boring a new well for the purpose of developing or
producing gas and/or oil or other hydrocarbons, or for the purpose of injecting
gas, water or any other fluid into the earth.
EXPLORATION, GAS AND OIL: Exploration for oil and gas means geologic or
geophysical activities, including, but not limited to, surveying and seismic
exploration, related to the search for oil, gas, or other subsurface
hydrocarbons.
FILLING: Any addition of rock, dirt, soil, or other earthen material in
conjunction with or anticipation of drilling activities or construction of a
pipeline, including, but not limited to, disposal of excavated materials.
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS MANAGEMENT PLAN: The hazardous materials management plan
and hazardous materials inventory statements required by the fire code.
HYDRAULIC FRACTURING, FRACING: A method of stimulating or increasing the
recovery of hydrocarbons by perforating the production casing and injecting
fluids or gels into the potential target reservoir at pressures greater than
the existing fracture gradient in the target reservoir.
NEW WELL: A new well bore or new hole established at the ground surface and
shall not include the reworking of an existing well that has not been abandoned
unless the reworking involves drilling to a deeper total depth.
OPERATOR: The person of record, that is responsible for and actually in charge
and control of drilling, maintaining, operating, pumping or controlling any
well including, without limitation, a unit operator. Specifically, the operator
is the party that is doing the actual work or the lessee.
PAD SITE: The area around a well that serves as a foundation for the drilling
rig. In Washington County, pad sites are limited to five (5) acres.
PERMITTEE: Any person authorized to act under a permit or a certificate issued
by the county.
PRODUCTION, GAS AND OIL: Production is the process of extracting the
hydrocarbons and separating the mixture of liquid hydrocarbons, gas, water, and
solids, removing the constituents that are nonsalable, and selling the liquid
hydrocarbons and gas. Production sites often handle crude oil from more than
one well. Oil is nearly always processed at a refinery; natural gas may be
processed to remove impurities either in the field or at a dehydration and/or
compression facility.
ROAD MAINTENANCE AGREEMENT: A written agreement obliging the operator to repair
damage, excluding ordinary wear and tear, if any, to county roadways,
including, but not limited to, bridges, road alignments, culverts and surfaces,
caused by the operator or its employees, agents, contractors, subcontractors or
representatives in the development and production of any well located in the
county.
ROAD, ROADWAY: Any street, avenue, boulevard, road, lane, parkway, place,
viaduct, easement for access, or other way which is an existing state, county,
or municipal roadway; or a street or way shown on a plat heretofore approved
pursuant to law or approved by official action; or a street or way on a plat
duly filed and recorded within the right of way boundaries whether improved or
unimproved and may be comprised of pavement, shoulders, curbs, gutters,
sidewalks, parking areas, and lawns.
   A.   Arterial Route: A general term including expressways, major and minor
arterial streets; and interstate, state or county highways having regional
continuity.
   B.   Collector Street: A street that provides for traffic movement within
neighborhoods of the county and between major streets and local streets and for
direct access to abutting property.
   C.   Local Street: A street that provides direct access to residential,
commercial, industrial, or other abutting land for local traffic movements and
connects to collector and/or arterial streets.
      1.   Marginal Access Street: A minor street parallel and adjacent to an
arterial route and intercepts local streets and controls access to an arterial
route.
      2.   Cul-De-Sac Street: A short local street having one end permanently
terminated in a vehicular turnaround.
      3.   Loop Street: A minor street with both terminal points on the same
street of origin.
      4.   Alley: A public service way used to provide secondary vehicular
access to properties otherwise abutting upon a street.
TANK BATTERY: Point of collection (tanks) and disbursement (tank, lease
automated custody transfer unit) of oil or gas from producing well(s).
WELL: A hole or bore to any horizon, formation, or strata for the purpose of
producing gas and/or oil.
WORK OVER OPERATIONS: Work performed in a well after its completion in an
effort to secure production where there has been none, restore production that
has ceased or increase production. (Ord. 76, 9-22-2014)
5-19-4: EXPLORATION:
5-19-4-1: GAS AND OIL EXPLORATION PERMIT:
Prior to exploration for gas and/or oil, as a land use activity in Washington
County, the operator shall acquire a gas and oil exploration permit from the
county planning and zoning office. This permit is at no cost to the operator.
The gas and oil exploration permitting process is mutually beneficial and
essential in that it allows the county the opportunity to make the operator
aware of any sensitive areas around the proposed location of exploration. (Ord.
76, 9-22-2014)
5-19-5: DEVELOPMENT:
5-19-5-1: ADMINISTRATIVE GAS AND OIL WELL DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
Prior to drilling and developing a well the operator shall apply for an
administrative gas and oil well development permit from Washington County. A
separate administrative permit shall be required for each pad site, and shall
apply to all wells on that site. All applications for gas and oil well site
permits shall be accompanied by an application fee in the amount set in the
county's fee schedule. Any modification to an existing and/or permitted oil and
gas well site that materially alters the size, location, number of wells or
accessory equipment or structures, shall require a modification of the permit
under this chapter.
   A.   Application Requirements For An Administrative Gas And Oil Well
Development Permit: Each application shall contain the following information:
      1.   The date of the application;
      2.   An accurate legal description of the property to be used for the oil
and/or gas operation, the parcel number, and the production unit name, and the
GPS coordinates of all planned wells on the proposed pad site;
      3.   A map showing the proposed transportation route(s), identifying all
public and private roads/routes intended for use within the territorial limits
of the county;
      4.   The proposed well name(s);
      5.   The surface owner's name(s), address and phone number;
      6.   The minerals lessee's name(s), address, phone number, and if
available, e-mail address;
      7.   Operator's name, phone number, facsimile transmission number,
address, and if available, e-mail address;
      8.   Name, phone number, address, and if available, e-mail address of the
individual designated to receive notice on behalf of the operator;
      9.   Name of representative with supervisory authority over all oil and/
or gas operation site activities and a twenty four (24) hour phone number;
      10.   Owner's name(s) and address(es) of each parcel associated with the
proposed pad site;
      11.   A site plan of the proposed pad site depicting the height, size,
bulk and location of all proposed structures and equipment, including security
cameras, lighting and utilities. The site plan shall also include the location
and description of all existing improvements, structures and utilities within
one thousand feet (1,000') of the proposed pad site;
      12.   The name, address and twenty four (24) hour phone number of the
person to be notified in case of an emergency;
      13.   A signed statement of intent to execute a road maintenance
agreement with the county as provided in this chapter;
      14.   A description of the water source to be used during well
fracturing, development and/or operations;
      15.   A hazardous materials management plan complying with all
requirements of the county;
      16.   An agreement that all material safety data sheets (MSDS) detailing
the hazardous material and any chemicals that will be located, stored,
transported and/or used at the pad site shall be provided to the fire marshal,
or his representative, and shall be available to the public upon request 1 ;
      17.   An emergency response plan complying with all requirements of the
county;
      18.   Evidence of insurance and security meeting minimum levels
established by this chapter;
      19.   A waste management plan that addresses human, solid and drilling
production waste;
      20.   If the drill site and/or associated development are located in a
special flood hazard area (SFHA), all requirements of development in a
floodplain must be addressed and satisfied;
      21.   The application must be signed by the owner, operator or person of
supervisory authority, under penalty of perjury, verifying that all information
is true. (Ord. 76, 9-22-2014)
 
Notes
1 1. IC 9-338.
5-19-5-2: ROAD MAINTENANCE AGREEMENT:
A statement of intent to enter into a road maintenance agreement shall be
submitted in conjunction with the administrative gas and oil well development
permit application. The terms of the road maintenance agreement must be
approved by the county commissioners as a condition of the administrative gas
and oil well development permit and signed by the operator prior to the
issuance of said permit. The county road supervisor shall have the authority to
execute the road maintenance agreement on behalf of the county. (Please refer
to "Highway Standards And Development Procedures For The Weiser Valley Highway
District And Washington County".) (Ord. 76, 9-22-2014)
5-19-5-3: OPERATOR'S AGENT:
Every operator of any well shall designate an agent, who is a resident of the
state, upon whom all orders and notices provided in this chapter may be served
in person or by mail. Every operator so designating such agent shall within two
(2) business days notify the administrator in writing of any change in such
agent or such mailing address unless operations within the county are
discontinued. (Ord. 76, 9-22-2014)
5-19-5-4: INSURANCE AND INDEMNIFICATION:
The operator shall provide or cause to be provided the insurance described
below for each well for which a well permit is issued, and shall maintain such
insurance until the well is abandoned and the site restored. The operator must
provide the county sufficient documentation that the operator's insurance
complies with the minimum requirements and coverage amounts of this section and
the policy must clearly and specifically name Washington County as the
beneficiary.
   A.   Indemnification And Express Negligence Provisions: Each well permit
application issued by the county shall include the following language and
regardless of whether such language is actually included in the well permit
application, it shall be deemed to be included therein:
Each Administrative Gas and Oil Well Development Permit issued by the County
shall include the following: "Operator does hereby expressly release and
discharge all claims, demands, actions, judgments, and executions which it ever
had, now has or may have, or claim to have, against the County and/or its
departments, its agents, officers, servants, successors, assigns, sponsors,
volunteers, or employees, created by, or arising out of personal injuries,
known or unknown, and injuries to property, real or personal, or in any way
incidental to or in connection with the actions or inaction of the Operator or
its agents, or caused by or arising out of, that sequence of events which occur
from the Operator's or its agents actions or inactions. The Operator shall
fully defend, protect, indemnify, and hold harmless the County and/or its
departments, agents, officers, servants, successors, assigns, sponsors, or
volunteers, or employees from and against each and every claim, demand, or
cause of action and any and all liability, damages, obligations, judgments,
losses, fines, penalties, costs, fees and expenses incurred in the defense of
the County and or its servants, successors, assigns, sponsors, volunteers, or
employees, including, without limitations, personal injuries and death in
connection therewith which may be made or asserted by Operator, its agents,
assigns, or any third parties on account of, arising out of, or in any way
incidental to or in connection with the performance of the work performed by
the Operator under any permit, and the Operator agrees to indemnify and hold
harmless the County and/or its departments, its agents, officers, servants,
successors, assigns, sponsors, volunteers, or employees from any liabilities or
damages suffered as a result of claims, demands, costs, or judgments against
the County and/or its departments, its agents, officers, servants, successors,
assigns, sponsors, volunteers, or employees, created by, or arising out of
their acts or omissions occurring on the oil or gas well site or in the course
and scope of inspecting, permitting, or monitoring the oil and gas well site."
   B.   General Provisions Regarding Insurance:
      1.   All policies shall be endorsed to read substantially as follows:
This policy will not be cancelled or non-renewed without 30 days advanced
notice to the owner and Washington County, Idaho except when this policy is
being cancelled for nonpayment of premium, in which case ten days advance
written notice to both such parties is required.
      2.   Liability policies shall be written by carriers licensed to do
business in Idaho and with companies with at least an "A" rating issued by A.M.
Best Company.
      3.   Liability policies shall name as "additional insured" the county and
the other indemnified parties as defined in this chapter. Waivers of
subrogation shall be provided in favor of all indemnified parties.
      4.   All subcontractors must be named by the operator and indemnified as
covered under the operator's insurance policies, unless the subcontractor can
provide proof of insurance at the same required levels and limits.
      5.   The operator shall present the county with copies of the pertinent
portion of the insurance policies evidencing all coverage and endorsements
required by this section before the issuance of the administrative gas and oil
well development permit, and the acceptance by the county of a policy without
the required limits and/or coverage shall not be deemed a waiver of these
requirements. The county may, in its sole discretion, accept a certificate of
insurance in lieu of a copy of the pertinent portion of the policy pending
receipt of such document by the county. After the issuance of the well permit,
the county may require the operator to provide a copy of the most current
insurance coverage and endorsements for review at any time. An administrative
fee in the amount set in the county's fee schedule will be charged to cover the
cost of such review.
      6.   Claims-made policies shall not be accepted except for excess
policies and environmental impairment (or seepage and pollution) policies.
      7.   Nothing in this chapter prohibits or preempts a private party from
the right to bring a damage action against the gas and oil well developer, its
operator, its employees, etc.
   C.   Required Insurance Coverage:
      1.   The applicant shall submit with the application a certificate of
comprehensive general liability insurance in the amount of no less than three
million dollars ($3,000,000.00) per occurrence with an annual general aggregate
coverage of five million dollars ($5,000,000.00). The policy shall be written
by a company authorized to do business in the state of Idaho. The certificate
shall require at least thirty (30) days' notice to the county prior to
termination of coverage for any reason.
      2.   Excess (or umbrella) liability insurance: Minimum limit of fifteen
million dollars ($15,000,000.00) providing excess coverage for each of the
perils insured by the preceding liability policies.
      3.   Control of well insurance:
         a.   Minimum limit of ten million dollars ($10,000,000.00) per
occurrence, with a maximum deductible of two hundred fifty thousand dollars
($250,000.00) per occurrence.
         b.   Policy shall cover the controlling of a well that is out of
control, redrilling or restoration expenses, and seepage and pollution damage.
      4.   Underground reservoir (or resources) damage coverage shall be on an
occurrence basis, shall not be limited to sudden and accidental occurrences,
shall not have a discovery or reporting limitation and shall not exclude damage
to water tables, formation or strata.
      5.   Environmental impairment (or seepage and pollution) coverage shall
be either included in the comprehensive general liability coverage or as a
separate coverage. Such coverage shall not exclude damage to the lease site. If
environmental impairment (or seepage and pollution) coverage is written on a
"claims-made" basis, the policy must provide that any retroactive date
applicable precedes the effective date of the issuance of the permit. Coverage
shall apply to sudden and accidental pollution conditions resulting from the
escape or release of smoke, vapors, fumes, acids, alkalis, toxic chemicals,
liquids, oil and gas, waste material, or other irritants, contaminants or
pollutants. Such policy shall provide for a minimum combined single limit
coverage of ten million dollars ($10,000,000.00) per occurrence. A discovery
period for such peril shall be for the life of the well. (Ord. 76, 9-22-2014)
5-19-5-5: SECURITY:
Before the issuance of an administrative gas and oil well development permit,
each company operating in the county shall file with the county a performance
bond of two hundred fifty thousand dollars ($250,000.00) covering all their
operations in Washington County. This bonding shall be dedicated to road
maintenance and other areas that Washington County is allowed to regulate by
state code. (Ord. 76, 9-22-2014)
5-19-5-6: PERIODIC REPORTS:
   A.   The operator shall notify the county of any change to the following
information within three (3) business days after the change occurs:
      1.   The name, address or phone number of the operator; or
      2.   The name, address or twenty four (24) hour phone number of the
person(s) with supervisory authority over drilling, production or operations
activities; or
      3.   The name, address or phone number of the person designated to
receive notices from the county; or
      4.   The operator's emergency action response plan including "drive-to
maps" from public rights of way to each area covered by the applicable
administrative gas and oil well development permit and associated site plan.
   B.   The operator shall provide a copy of any "incident reports" or written
complaints within five (5) days after the operator has notice of the existence
of such reports or complaints.
   C.   Beginning on January 31 after each well is completed, and continuing on
each January 31 thereafter until the operator notifies the county that the well
has been abandoned and the site restored, the operator shall submit a written
report to the county identifying any changes to the information that was
included in the application for the applicable administrative well permit that
has not been previously reported to the county. In addition, the annual report
shall include copies of all internal reports of responses to pipeline or well
emergencies, copies of operations and maintenance logs and a copy of the
emergency action plan, if updated.
   D.   Operator shall provide the county with all pertinent reports relating
to gas and oil well development operations from or produced by all state and
federal agencies within seven (7) business days of receipt by operator or its
agent. (Ord. 76, 9-22-2014)
5-19-5-7: ON SITE OPERATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Location: It shall be unlawful to drill a well, or to redrill, deepen,
reenter, activate or convert any abandoned well, the center of which, at the
surface of the ground, is located within five hundred feet (500') from any
habitable structure, without first meeting all requirements of the
administrative gas and oil well development permit, if any, including, but not
limited to, hours of operation, noise, lighting and odors. This does not apply
to habitable structures constructed after the initial development of a
particular well. If neighboring landowners are in agreement that a well
placement can be closer than the required five hundred feet (500'), that
written agreement would supersede the requirements of this section. All
distance shall be measured in a straight line, without regard to intervening
structures or objects.
   B.   Floodplain Drill Site: A floodplain development permit from the county
is required for drilling oil and gas wells in a special flood hazard area
(SFHA). A drill site or operation may be located in an SFHA with the approval
of the Washington County floodplain administrator in accordance with federal,
state and/or local codes and requirements, if applicable. (Please refer to
title 7, "Flood Control", of this code.) (Ord. 76, 9-22-2014)
   C.   Driving Surfaces: The operator shall construct all driving surfaces
used for parking, loading, unloading, driveways, and other vehicular access, to
county private road standards (identified in section
6-4-2 of this code) or the standard necessary to provide year round operational
and emergency access to the site. The operator shall maintain the surface for
such facilities and drive approach in good condition and repair and meet the
minimum requirements set forth in the fire code. Year round access
(snowplowing, etc.) will be the responsibility of the operator. The pad site is
not required to be constructed to the above listed standards. (Ord. 77, 12-29-
2014)
   D.   Discharge Of Waste: No person shall place, deposit or discharge or
cause or permit to be placed, deposited or discharged any oil, naphtha,
petroleum, asphalt, tar, hydrocarbon substance, refuse, wastewater, brine or
hazardous substance from any production operation or the contents of any
container used in connection with any production operation in, into or upon any
public right of way, storm drain, ditch, sewer, any body of water or any public
and private property in the county.
   E.   Fire Suppression And Prevention Equipment: The operator shall provide
and maintain in good working order all fire suppression and prevention
equipment required by any applicable federal, state or local law, or the
operator's emergency response plan, at the operator's cost. The operator shall
keep adequate foam fire suppressant equipment and supplies at each drill site.
   F.   Blowout Prevention: In all cases, the operator shall install and
utilize blowout prevention equipment on all wells being drilled, worked over or
in which tubing is being changed. Protection shall be provided to prevent
blowout during oil and/or gas operations as required by and in conformance with
state code.
   G.   Chemical And Materials Storage: The operator shall store all chemicals
and/or hazardous materials in such a manner as to prevent, contain and
facilitate rapid remediation and cleanup of any accidental spill, leak or
discharge of a hazardous material. The operator shall maintain all material
safety data sheets (MSDS) for all hazardous material on site. The operator
shall comply with all applicable federal and state regulatory requirements for
the proper labeling of containers. The operator shall take all appropriate
pollution prevention actions including, but not limited to, raising chemical
and materials and bulk storage (e.g., placing such materials on wooden
pallets), installing and maintaining secondary containment systems and
providing adequate protection from stormwater and weather elements.
   H.   Closed Loop System: The operator shall be required to utilize closed
loop systems in Washington County.
   I.   Dust, Vibrations, Odors: The operator, in cooperation with the county
administrator, shall conduct all drilling and production operations in such a
manner as to minimize dust, vibration or noxious odors. The operator shall
maintain all aspects of the site and structures thereon in good operating
condition and good appearance. The operator shall provide air monitoring
equipment to ensure compliance with EPA oil and gas air pollution standards,
administered by the Idaho department of environmental quality (DEQ), and
provide associated reporting quarterly or upon request. Such monitoring shall
be capable of detecting hydrogen sulfide, methane, benzene, n-hexane and other
toxic emissions. No operator or employee shall permit any lights located on any
drill site or operation site to be directed in such a manner so that they shine
directly on, or toward a neighboring habitable structure.
   J.   Emergency Response Plan: Prior to the commencement of oil and/or gas
drilling, or any other hydrocarbons production activities, the operator shall
submit to the administrator an emergency response plan, and no drilling or
other production activity shall commence until such plan has been approved by
the county.
   K.   Fire Prevention; Fire Emergency Response: The operator shall provide
training as to the proper and expected local response to a gas and/or oil well
fire emergency. This training would be at the operator's expense.
   L.   Screening And Fencing: Security fencing may be required when hazardous
materials are stored on site for a period in excess of fourteen (14) days. The
county may use its discretion to determine whether fencing requirements shall
be enforced for wellheads, storage tanks, and other mechanical and production
equipment and structures on the gas and/or oil well site. Security fencing
shall be at least six feet (6') in height, equipped with lockable gates at
every access point and have an opening not less than twelve feet (12') wide.
Additional lockable gates used to access gas and/or oil well sites by foot may
be allowed, as necessary.
   M.   Freshwater Wells: As a condition of permit approval the operator must
provide to the county, prior to any drilling activity, documentation of
baseline water testing on a minimum of two (2) domestic wells, for the
protection of public health and safety, except as provided below. The two (2)
wells shall be located within a fixed radius of two thousand feet (2,000') of
the well site. If only one well is available within a fixed radius of two
thousand feet (2,000') of the well site, it shall be the only domestic well
required for testing. If no domestic wells are available within such radius, no
domestic well testing shall be required. The operator shall provide affected
domestic well owners within such radius the opportunity to have their wells
tested at the operator's expense. If a domestic well owner refuses such offer
and declines to have the owner's domestic well tested, that well shall be
considered unavailable for the purposes of this chapter. For any domestic well
required to be tested by the operator under this section, the operator and any
contractor hired by the operator to perform such testing will not be subject to
liability to the domestic well owner for any claims or damages relating to the
domestic well arising from or alleged to be caused by such testing. The
operator shall send written notification to the county and all landowners and
municipalities within two thousand feet (2,000') of the proposed drill site.
Water testing shall be conducted by the U.S. geological survey or a third party
certified testing laboratory and paid for by the operator. A copy of the
baseline water test results shall be made public record and provided to the
landowner, county and the operator. At this time the operator will disclose to
the landowner(s) the exact location of the proposed drill site. If the
landowner does not want the water test results to become public record, they
have the option of paying for the sampling privately.
      1.   Water samples must be collected and analyzed utilizing proper
sampling and laboratory protocol from the USGS or a certified testing
laboratory.
      2.   Well samples shall be analyzed prior to any drilling activity to
document baseline water quality data of the well. A postdrilling sample shall
be analyzed within three (3), twelve (12) and twenty four (24) months after the
drilling begins, as an option for or a request of the landowner. Any deviation
or difference from the baseline test could trigger additional monitoring.
      3.   Tests shall be completed for all items listed below:
         a.   Field parameters:
            (1)   Water temperature.
            (2)   pH.
            (3)   Specific conductivity.
         b.   Specific conductivity and total dissolved solids.
         c.   E. Coli.
         d.   Major ions:
            (1)   Chloride.
            (2)   Fluoride.
            (3)   Sulfate.
            (4)   Nitrate.
            (5)   Alkalinity.
            (6)   Calcium.
            (7)   Sodium.
            (8)   Magnesium.
         e.   Trace elements:
            (1)   Arsenic.
            (2)   Barium.
            (3)   Iron.
            (4)   Manganese.
            (5)   Selenium.
            (6)   Uranium.
         f.   Organics:
            (1)   BTEX (benzene, ethylbenzene, toluene and xylene).
            (2)   Methane; carbon isotopic composition for samples with
sufficient methane.
            (3)   Diesel range organics.
      4.   Copies of baseline water quality test results shall be provided by
the operator free of charge to owners of the wells tested within thirty (30)
days of receipt of written request of the well owner.
      5.   If it is found that the freshwater well is no longer in use and
without possibility of future use or if the freshwater well owner objects to
having the water well tested, the owner of the freshwater well may waive the
right to have the operator test the water.
   N.   Flaring: The process of flaring is allowed in Washington County. In
Washington County, no person shall allow, cause or permit raw gas emissions to
be vented into the atmosphere to the fullest extent possible and must comply
with all state air quality requirements.
   O.   Grass, Weeds, Trash: The operator shall keep the drill site and
operation site clear of debris, pools of water or other liquids, contaminated
soil, brush, high grass, weeds, combustible trash and other waste material
within a radius of one hundred feet (100') of the site perimeter. The operator
shall have a weed control plan for well pads, pipelines and other disturbed
areas. The weed control plan must be approved by the Washington County weed
supervisor.
   P.   Hazardous Materials Management Plan: The operator shall file with the
fire chief, a hazardous materials management plan and shall update such plan by
filing any additions, modifications, and/or amendments regarding all
construction related activities and oil and natural gas operations and
production. The operator shall file such updated plans with the fire chief
within two (2) business days of any material change in the activities at the
site from that approved in the well permit. The county commissioners will be
notified of any such changes.
   Q.   Signs: The operator shall immediately install and continuously display
a sign at the gate of the temporary and permanent site fencing erected pursuant
to the requirements of this section. Such sign shall conform to the approved
sign plan and shall contain the following:
      1.   Well name and number;
      2.   Name of operator;
      3.   Address of property;
      4.   The emergency 911 number;
      5.   Telephone number of two (2) persons responsible for the well who may
be contacted twenty four (24) hours a day in case of an emergency;
      6.   The operator shall post and continually maintain permanent
weatherproof signs reading "DANGER NO SMOKING ALLOWED" immediately upon
completion of the drill site fencing at the entrance of each drill site and in
any other location approved or designated by the fire chief. Such shall conform
to the approved sign plan. Each such sign shall include the emergency
notification numbers of the fire department and the operator;
      7.   The operator shall post a "NO TRESPASSING" sign prominently at the
entrance to all drill sites and associated developments, located on private
property.
   R.   Valves: The operator shall equip each well with a shutoff valve to
terminate the well's production. The operator shall paint these valves red and
post signs to show they are shutoff valves. Such signs shall conform to the
approved sign plan.
   S.   Waste Disposal: Drilling mud, cuttings, liquid hydrocarbons and all
other field waste derived or resulting from or connected with the drilling,
reworking or deepening of any well shall be disposed of in accordance with the
rules of all applicable local, state and federal agencies. Detailed disposal
logs shall be maintained by the operator and provided to the county every six
(6) months from the date of application of the individual administrative well
permit.
   T.   Watchperson: The operator must keep a watchman or security personnel at
all times on site during the drilling or reworking of a well, when other
workmen are not on the premises.
   U.   Environmentally Sensitive Areas: The exploration and/or development of
gas and oil wells, or other drilling or production activity of any kind, may be
permitted within environmentally sensitive areas in Washington County only
after special consideration has been given under the administrative gas and oil
well development permitting process. Certain areas that contain critical
wildlife habitat are protected from development in Washington County.
Washington County strives to protect the essential habitat and buffer areas
that support species of special concern such as the greater sage grouse.
   V.   Hydrogen Sulfide: The operator shall have a management/evacuation plan
in place in the event of a hydrogen sulfide emergency. If a gas or oil field in
the county is identified as a hydrogen sulfide (H2S) field or if a well is
producing hydrogen sulfide gas, the operator shall immediately notify the
administrator of the well or facility.
   W.   Surface Restoration: Please refer to IDAPA 20.07.02 (325).
   X.   Tank Battery Equipment: The operator shall equip any tank battery
facility with a remote foam line arrestor system, and shall erect a sign
clearly indicating the location of the foam line arrestor system, which sign
shall conform to the approved sign plan. All connections for the remote foam
line arrestor system shall meet industry specifications and be approved by the
local fire chief.
   Y.   Utility Lines: In certain areas of the county, the operator may be
required to bury utility lines to the operation site and/or drill site.
   Z.   Emergency Response Plan Testing: The operator shall conduct a thorough
testing of its emergency response plan on an annual basis. The operator shall
provide seven (7) days' notice of the time and date of each test to the fire
chief. The fire chief may observe the test and may require the inclusion of his
own local scenarios as a component of the test. (Ord. 76, 9-22-2014)
5-19-5-8: WORK OVER OR REWORKING OF WELL; NOTICE:
Any person who intends either to work over or rework a well using a drilling
rig or fracture stimulate a well after initial completion shall give written
notice to the county at least twenty (20) days before the activities begin. The
notice shall identify where the activities will be conducted and shall describe
the activities in reasonable detail, including, but not limited to, the
duration of the activities and the time of day they will be conducted. The
notice must also provide the address and twenty four (24) hour phone number of
the person conducting the activities. The person conducting the activities
shall post a sign on the perimeter fencing giving the public notice of the
activities, including the name, address, and twenty four (24) hour phone number
of the person conducting the activities. Such sign shall conform to the
approved sign plan. (Ord. 76, 9-22-2014)
5-19-5-9: SUPPLEMENTAL DRILLING:
Supplemental drilling to deepen or directionally drill a well that has not been
abandoned shall be conducted in accordance with the conditions of the
applicable administrative gas and oil well development permit and associated
site plan for the well. (Ord. 76, 9-22-2014)
5-19-5-10: CLEANUP:
   A.   Cleanup After Well Servicing: After a well has been completed, or
plugged and abandoned, the operator shall clean the drill site or operation
site, complete restoration activities and repair all damage to any public or
private property caused by such operation according to state and federal
regulations.
   B.   Cleanup After Spills, Leaks And Malfunctions: After any spill, leak or
malfunction, the operator shall remove or cause to be removed to the
satisfaction of state and federal regulation all waste material from any public
or private property affected by such spill, leak or malfunction.
   C.   Painting: The operator shall paint and maintain all equipment at all
times, including wellheads, pumping units, tanks, and buildings or structures.
When requiring painting of such facilities, the administrator shall consider
the deterioration of the quality of the material of which such facility or
structure is constructed, the degree of rust, and its appearance. Paint shall
be of a neutral color, compatible with surrounding uses. Neutral colors shall
include sand, gray and unobtrusive shades of green, blue and brown.
   D.   Blowouts: In the event of the loss of control of any well, the operator
shall immediately take all reasonable steps to regain control regardless of any
other provision of this chapter and shall notify the administrator and fire
chief as soon as practicable. If the administrator or fire chief determines
that danger to persons and property exists because of such loss of well control
and that the operator is not taking or is unable to take all reasonable and
necessary steps to regain control of such well, the administrator or fire chief
may then employ any well control expert or experts or other contractors or
suppliers of special services, or may incur any other expenses for labor and
material which they deem necessary to regain control of such well, and all
costs incurred by the county shall be assessed against the operator and the
operator shall pay such costs within ten (10) days of receiving an invoice from
the county. In the event that the operator fails to pay such costs as provided
herein, the county may charge such costs to any fund or bond posted by the
operator to secure such costs, and shall also have a valid lien against the
interest in the well of all working interest owners to secure payment of any
expenditure made by the county to such action of the administrator or fire
chief in gaining control of said well. (Ord. 76, 9-22-2014)
5-19-5-11: REMEDIES OF THE COUNTY:
   A.   If an operator or the operator's officers, employees, agents,
contractors, subcontractors or representatives fail to comply with the
conditions of the applicable administrative gas and oil well development permit
and associated site plan or any other specified requirement (including any
requirement incorporated by reference as part of the permit), or any applicable
provisions of this chapter or any other county ordinances, the county shall
endeavor to give written notice to the operator specifying the nature of the
alleged failure and giving the operator a specified time to cure, taking into
consideration the nature and extent of the alleged failure, the extent of the
efforts required to cure, and the potential impact on the health, safety, and
welfare of the community; provided, however, that if circumstances warrant
proceeding without notice, no notice will be sent. In any case, failure to give
such notice shall not prohibit the county from pursuing any available remedy.
   B.   If the operator does not cure the alleged failure within the time
specified, the county may pursue all other remedies allowed by law, including,
but not limited to, any or all of the following:
      1.   The administrator may suspend the administrative well permit until
the alleged failure is cured;
      2.   The administrator may revoke the administrative well permit if the
operator fails to initiate and diligently pursue and cure;
      3.   A criminal citation may be issued for violation of the
administrative gas and oil well development permit, this chapter or any other
ordinance or order of the county.
   C.   The operator may appeal a decision to suspend or revoke an
administrative well permit or other remedial order or action of the county
taken pursuant to this section (other than a criminal citation) to the county
commissioners as provided in this title. (Ord. 76, 9-22-2014)
5-19-5-12: ENFORCEMENT; RIGHT OF ENTRY:
The administrator and fire chief are authorized and directed to enforce this
chapter, and the terms and conditions of any approved administrative gas and
oil well development permit. Whenever necessary to enforce the foregoing, or
whenever there is reasonable cause to believe there has been a violation of any
of the foregoing, the administrator and/or the fire chief may enter upon any
property covered by this chapter at any reasonable time to inspect or perform
any duty or requirement imposed by this chapter. If entry is refused, the
county shall have recourse to pursue every remedy provided by law and equity to
gain entry. (Ord. 76, 9-22-2014)
5-19-5-13: PUBLIC INFORMATION:
   A.   Public Information Regarding Well Permit Activity:
      1.   After approval of an administrative gas and oil well development
permit application, the operator shall submit to the administrator an accurate
written time line account of all planned operational events associated with the
permit. The account must be updated weekly and must thoroughly describe the
events that will occur. Events to be documented shall include, but are not
limited to, site preparation and grading, site construction of the drilling rig
and accessory structures, the expected amount of time spent drilling on site,
all casing installation, testing, disassembly of the drilling rig, pipeline
installation, fracture stimulation, maintenance, installation of production
facilities, site cleanup and production. (Ord. 76, 9-22-2014)
5-19-6: PRODUCTION:
Specific matters related to gas and oil well production will be addressed at a
later date, as an amendment to this chapter. (Ord. 76, 9-22-2014)
5-19-7: LAND USE CLAUSE:
The Washington County board of county commissioners has approved this chapter
in accordance with the Washington County land use plan, and the local land use
planning act (LLUPA), for the purposes set forth in that act, and finds it is
necessary for the development on land to protect the quantity and quality of
groundwater in the county, and for the health, safety, and general welfare of
the people of Washington County. The board of county commissioners finds that
this chapter does not conflict with any rules of the Idaho gas and oil
conservation commission, and is within the powers delegated to it by the LLUPA.
(Ord. 76, 9-22-2014)
5-19-8: SEVERANCE CLAUSE:
If any part of this chapter is found to be illegal, invalid or unenforceable by
a court or other competent authority, the rest of this chapter continues to be
in effect and valid. (Ord. 76, 9-22-2014)
CHAPTER 20
AGRICULTURAL PROTECTION AREA
SECTION:
5-20-1:    Purpose
5-20-2:    Adoption
5-20-3:    Definitions
5-20-4:    Creation And Designation Of APA
5-20-5:    Review Process
5-20-6:    Expansion Or Modification Of An APA
5-20-7:    Termination Of An APA
5-20-8:    Enrollment Duration And Review
5-20-9:    Fees
5-20-10: Enforcement, Prohibitions, And Penalties
5-20-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide for a voluntary process through which
agricultural and timber producers of Washington County may make application to
commit lands actively devoted to agriculture for future agricultural use. An
APA designation alms to protect productive farmland, rangeland, and forest
land; promote farm viability; support the local agricultural economy; and
provide for long-term planning stability. This chapter sets out the process for
creation of Agriculture Protection Areas. (Ord. 96, 12-16-2024)
5-20-2: ADOPTION:
The Washington County Zoning Ordinance Title 5 is hereby amended to add the
following new Chapter 20. (Ord. 96, 12-16-2024)
5-20-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this Chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
AGRICULTURE PRODUCTION: Activities or conditions conducted on land actively
devoted to agriculture as defined in section 63-604, Idaho Code, or on forest
land as defined in section 63-1701, Idaho Code.
AGRICULTURE PROTECTION AREA (APA): Specific parcels of land In a designated
geographic area voluntarily created under the authority of this chapter for the
purpose of protecting and preserving agricultural land.
AGRICULTURE PROTECTION AREA COMMISSION: The advisory board to the governing
body created pursuant to section 67-9705, Idaho Code.
APPLICANT: Anyone who owns five (5) contiguous acres or mare of land that has
been in active agricultural or forest production for the previous three (3)
consecutive years, consistent with the provisions of sections 63-604 and 63-
1701, Idaho Code, and who voluntarily applies for that land to be part of an
agricultural protection area.
AREA OF CITY IMPACT (AOI): Area designated by county ordinance where city
growth and development are expected to occur.
HARDSHIP: A situation or circumstance over which a landowner in an agricultural
protection area has no control and can then petition for removal for reasons
that include but are not limited to an adverse result in litigation against the
farm or landowner, death of a close family member that would lead to
unanticipated financial hardships, significant tax liabilities, bankruptcy due
to another person's fraud, or any other illegal activity.
PROPOSAL: Written documents submitted to a governing body or agricultural
protection area commission from a landowner regarding his property. (Ord. 96,
12-16-2024)
5-20-4: CREATION AND DESIGNATION OF APA:
   A.   An Agriculture Protection Area shall be designated as an "APA." An APA
designation is a voluntary land use designation available to landowners who
wish to protect their agricultural land from future nonagricultural
development. To qualify for an APA designation, the land must be:
      1.   At least five (5) contiguous acres;
      2.   Actively devoted to an agricultural or forest purpose;
      3.   Assessed as agriculture or forest land; and
      4.   Located within a zone that allows for agricultural or forest use;
   B.   Landowners wishing to establish an APA must submit an application to
the Washington County Planning and Zoning Department to receive the
application. At a minimum, the application shall include the following:
      1.   Name, phone number, email, and mailing address of the land owner;
      2.   Proof of land ownership;
      3.   A legal description of the parcels, structures, and facilities
proposed to be included in the APA;
      4.   A map showing the boundaries of the proposed APA;
      5.   A statement outlining the current contiguous acreages of land, land
use, agricultural productivity, and other relevant characteristics of the land
to be included in the APA;
      6.   The number of years the land has been in agricultural or forest
production, the types of agricultural or forest commodities produced, and the
applicant's plan to continue using the land for agricultural or forest
purposes;
      7.   The stated reasons for seeking an APA designation;
      8.   Soil surveys, water rights, and any other relevant environmental
assessments. (Ord. 96, 12-16-2024)
5-20-5: REVIEW PROCESS:
   A.   Upon receipt of a completed application, the APA commission shall
review the proposal and make a recommendation to the board of county
commissioners within sixty (60) days of receiving the application. The
application shall be evaluated on the following criteria:
      1.   The total contiguous acreage of the land is at least five (5) acres
in size and is actively devoted to agricultural or forest production;
      2.   Adjacence to an existing area of city impact;
      3.   Possible conflict with existing city annexation or development plans
or agreements;   
      4.   Proximity to existing public rights of way;
      5.   Proximity to planned transportation corridors or future public
rights of way;
      6.   Proximity to planned airport expansion or development;
      7.   Proximity to planned development with existing entitlements;
      8.   Agricultural production capability of the land within the proposed
APA; and
      9.   Other local Impacts relevant to the proposed APA.
   B.   Notwithstanding the criteria and review process outlined in this code,
the board of county commissioners may place additional conditions on lands
designated as an APA, Including, but not limited to, setbacks from existing
public rights of way, setbacks from existing public structures, and a review of
the land's APA designation after twenty (20) years.
   C.   Once the APA commission makes its recommendation to the board of county
commissioners, the board of county commissioners shall hold a public hearing
and issue its decision within sixty (60) days. Failure to make a decision shall
render the APA commission's recommendation final. The board of county
commissioner's decision shall Include findings and facts supporting its
decision.
   D.   Upon making its decision, the board of county commissioners shall:
      1.   Record the designation of an APA, a legal description of the area,
and any findings and fact, with the county recorder within ten (10) days;
      2.   Amend county land use planning maps to reflect the boundaries of the
APA; and
      3.   Notify relevant public officials and agencies of the designation.
(Ord. 96, 12-16-2024)
5-20-6: EXPANSION OR MODIFICATION OF AN APA:
An expansion, modification, or removal of an existing APA shall follow the same
application, review, and hearing procedures outlined in this code. Any
expansion of an APA shall be contiguous to the APA. (Ord. 96, 12-16-2024)
5-20-7: TERMINATION OF AN APA:
A landowner wishing to terminate an APA must request In writing a meeting with
the board of county commissioners. The meeting request shall include a proof of
hardship. The meeting request and proof of hardship should be turned into the
Washington County Planning and Zoning Department. Early termination of the APA
shall only occur upon the proving by the land owner of an undue hardship as
defined in this code. The landowner seeking to terminate an APA bears the
burden of proof in demonstrating the hardship. Early termination of an APA Is
not taken lightly, and will be carefully considered. (Ord. 96, 12-16-2024)
5-20-8: ENROLLMENT DURATION AND REVIEW:
Lands designated as an APA will remain so designated for a period of twenty
(20) years. A landowner wishing to end an approved APA designation after twenty
(20) years must notify the board of county commissioners In writing of their
desire not to renew the land's APA designation. Failure of the landowner to
notify the county, or failure of the county to review the APA terms, will
result In the APA designation continuing for another twenty (20) years. (Ord.
96, 12-16-2024)
5-20-9: FEES:
An application fee shall be required to cover administrative costs, including,
but not limited to, reviewing materials, conducting public meetings and
hearings, processing and recording documents, and updating county land use
maps. (Ord. 96, 12-16-2024)
5-20-10: ENFORCEMENT, PROHIBITIONS, AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Unless otherwise approved by the board of county commissioners, the
following land uses are not allowed within an APA:
      1.   The siting of large confined animal feeding operations (CAFO);
      2.   The siting of residential, commercial, manufacturing, industrial,
solar energy, wind energy, or battery storage structures; or
      3.   Any other nonagricultural land uses.
   B.   The board of county commissioners or acting code enforcement officer
shall be responsible for enforcing the provisions of this ordinance. Any person
found to be in violation of this code shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and
punishable as provided in Section 18-113, Idaho Code. (Ord. 96, 12-16-2024)
TITLE 6
SUBDIVISIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL SUBDIVISION PROVISIONS
SECTION:
6-1-1: Title
6-1-2: Authority
6-1-3: Purpose
6-1-4: Jurisdiction
6-1-5: Interpretation
6-1-1: TITLE:
These regulations shall be known and cited as the WASHINGTON COUNTY SUBDIVISION
REGULATIONS, hereinafter referred to as this title. (Ord. 6, 4-9-1979)
6-1-2: AUTHORITY:
These regulations are authorized by Idaho Code sections 67-6501 et seq., and
50-1301 et seq., as amended or subsequently codified. (Ord. 6, 4-9-1979; amd.
1995 Code)
6-1-3: PURPOSE:
The purposes of these regulations are to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare and to provide for:
   A.   The harmonious development of the area.
   B.   The coordination of streets and roads within the subdivision with other
existing or planned streets and roads.
   C.   Adequate open space for travel, light, air and recreation.
   D.   Adequate transportation, water drainage and sanitary facilities.
   E.   The avoidance of scattered subdivision of land that would result in
either of the following:
      1.   The lack of water supply, sewer service, drainage, transportation or
other public services.
      2.   The unnecessary imposition of an excessive expenditure of public
funds for the supply of such services.
   F.   The requirements as to the extent and the manner in which: (Ord. 6, 4-
9-1979)
      1.   Roads shall be created and improved in accordance with the highway
standards and development procedures for the Weiser Valley highway district and
Washington County, Idaho. (Ord. 77, 12-29-2014)
      2.   Water and sewer and other utility mains, piping connections or other
facilities shall be installed.
   G.   The manner and form of making and filing of any plat.
   H.   The administration of these regulations by defining the powers and
duties of approval authorities. (Ord. 6, 4-9-1979)
6-1-4: JURISDICTION:
These regulations shall apply to the subdividing of all land within the
unincorporated territory of Washington County, except for the property within
one mile outside the limits of an incorporated city or as mutually defined by
both city and county under the requirements of section 50-1306, Idaho Code, as
amended or subsequently codified. (Ord. 6, 4-9-1979)
6-1-5: INTERPRETATION:
All subdivisions, as herein defined, shall be submitted for approval by the
county commissioners and shall comply with the provisions of these regulations.
These regulations shall supplement all other regulations, and where at variance
with other laws, regulations, ordinances or resolutions, the more restrictive
requirements shall apply. (Ord. 6, 4-9-1979)
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
6-2-1: Interpretation Of Terms Or Words
6-2-2: Definitions
6-2-1: INTERPRETATION OF TERMS OR WORDS:
Terms or words used herein shall be interpreted as follows:
   A.   The present tense includes the past or future tense, the singular
includes the plural and the plural includes the singular.
   B.   The word shall is mandatory; may is permissive; and the word should is
preferred.
   C.   The masculine shall include the feminine. (Ord. 6, 4-9-1979)
6-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this title, the following words, terms and phrases shall have the
meanings ascribed to them unless the context dictates otherwise:
BLOCK: A group of lots, tracts or parcels within well defined boundaries,
usually streets.
BOARD: The board of county commissioners 1 .
BUILDING: A structure designed or used as the living quarters for one or more
families, or a structure designed or used for occupancy by people for
commercial or industrial uses.
BUILDING SETBACK LINE: An imaginary line established by the zoning ordinance 2
that requires all buildings to be set back a certain distance from lot lines.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b0b033afff7df1d51dd13e9a603a0e4fd07a22d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-739.gif]
 
BUILDING SITE: An area proposed or improved by grading, filling, excavation or
other means for erecting pads for buildings.
CEMETERY: A lot that has been platted for the selling of sites for the burial
of animal or human remains.
CITY: The city having jurisdiction of the parcel of land under consideration.
COMMISSION: The Washington County planning and zoning commission 3 , appointed
by the city councils of Weiser, Midvale and Cambridge and the Washington County
commissioners.
COMMITTEE: That technical committee appointed by the Commission to assist with
the technical evaluation of subdivisions and to make recommendations to the
Commission. The membership of the committee shall include, but not be limited
to, persons that are engaged in either private or public work with specific
knowledge in the following areas:
   A.   Road design and construction.
   B.   Sewer and water facility design and construction.
   C.   Health requirements for water and sewer facilities.
   D.   Environmental planning criteria such as: geology, water systems,
vegetation and noise.
   E.   Solid waste.
   F.   Recreational and open space.
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN 4 : An adopted document that herein may be referred to as a
Comprehensive Plan or Comprehensive Development Plan. The document shall show
the general location and extent of present and proposed development, including
but not limited to housing, industrial and commercial uses, streets, parks,
schools and other community facilities.
CONDOMINIUM: An estate consisting of an undivided interest in common real
property, in an interest or interests in real property or in any combination
thereof, together with a separate interest in real property, in an interest or
interests in real property or in any combination thereof.
COUNCIL: The city councils of the municipal governing bodies.
COVENANT: A written promise or pledge.
CULVERT: A drain that channels water under a bridge, street, road or driveway.
DEDICATION: The setting apart of land or interests in land for use by the
public by ordinance, resolution or entry in the official minutes as by the
recording of a plat. Dedicated land becomes public land upon the acceptance by
the County.
DEVELOPER: Authorized agent of a subdivider or the subdivider himself.
DWELLING UNIT: Any building or other structure proposed or built for occupancy
by people.
EASEMENT: A grant by a property owner to specific persons or to the public to
use land for specific purposes. Also, a right acquired by prescription.
ENGINEER: Any person who is licensed in the State to practice professional
engineering.
FLOOD PLAIN: The relatively flat area or low land adjoining the channel of a
river, stream, lake or other body of water which has been or may be covered by
water of a flood of one hundred (100) year frequency. The flood plain includes
the channel, floodway and floodway fringe, as established per the engineering
practices as specified by the Army Corps of Engineers as follows:
Channel: A natural or artificial watercourse of perceptible extent, with
definite bed and banks to confine and conduct continuously or periodically
flowing water.
Flood: The temporary inundation of land adjacent to and inundated by overflow
from a river, stream, lake or other body of water.
Flood of 100-Year Frequency: A flood magnitude which has a one percent (1%)
chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year.
Floodway: The channel of a watercourse and those portions of the flood plain
adjoining the channel which are reasonably required to carry and discharge the
flood water of any watercourse.
Floodway Fringe: That part of the flood plain which is beyond the floodway.
Such areas will include those portions of the flood plain which will be
inundated by a flood of one hundred (100) year frequency but which may be
developed when such development will not have a significant effect upon the
flood water carrying capacity of the floodway and the flood water levels. Such
areas are characterized by shallow flood depths and low velocities of water
flow.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b0b033afff7df1d51dd13e9a603a0e4fd07a22d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-741.gif]
 
GOVERNING BODY: The County Commissioners of the County of Washington.
HIGHWAY: A street designated as a highway by an appropriate State or Federal
agency.
HILLSIDE SUBDIVISION: Any subdivision, or portion thereof, having an average
slope of five percent (5%) or more.
IMPROVEMENT: Any alteration to the land or other physical constructions
associated with subdivision and building site developments.
INTERSTATE HIGHWAY: A major interstate traffic highway designated for the
purpose of carrying fast and/or heavy traffic.
LARGE SCALE DEVELOPMENT: A subdivision, the size of which consists of fifty
(50) or more lots or dwelling units.
LOT: A parcel, plot, tract or other land area of suitable size as required in
these regulations and the existing Zoning Ordinance 5  and created by
subdivision for sale, transfer or lease.
LOT AREA: The area of any lot shall be determined exclusive of street, highway,
alley, road or other rights of way.
LOT TYPES: Lot types are as follows:
   A.   Corner lot is a lot located at the intersection of two (2) or more
streets.
   B.   Interior lot is a lot other than a corner lot, with frontage on only
one street.
   C.   Through lot is a lot with frontage on more than one street other than a
corner lot.
MOBILE HOME: A detached single-family dwelling unit with all of the following
characteristics:
   A.   Designed for long-term occupancy and containing sleeping
accommodations, a flush toilet, a tub or shower bath and kitchen facilities
with plumbing and electrical connections provided for attachment to outside
systems.
   B.   Designed to be transported, after fabrication, on its own wheels or on
flatbed or other trailers or detached wheels.
   C.   Arriving at the site where it is to be occupied as a dwelling complete,
including major appliances and furniture, and ready for occupancy except for
minor and incidental unpacking and assembly operations, location on foundation
supports, connection to utilities and the like.
MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION: A subdivision designed and intended for exclusive
mobile home residential use.
MONUMENT: Any permanent marker, either of concrete, galvanized iron pipe or
iron or steel rods, used to identify any tract, parcel, lot or street lines, as
specified in section 50-1303, Idaho Code, as amended.
OPEN SPACE: An area open to the sky for outdoor recreation activity, exclusive
of streets, buildings or other covered structures.
ORIGINAL PARCEL OF LAND: A lot or tract as recorded on any plat or record on
file in the office of the recorder, or any unplatted contiguous parcel of land
held in one ownership and of record as of April 9, 1979. Individual tax notices
or individual deeds do not necessarily constitute an original tract or parcel
of land.
OWNERSHIP: The individual, firm, association, syndicate, partnership or
corporation having any interest in the land to be subdivided.
PERFORMANCE BOND: An amount of money or other negotiable security paid by the
subdivider or his surety to the clerk of the district court which guarantees
that the subdivider will perform all actions required by the governing body
regarding an approved plat, and provides that if the subdivider defaults and
fails to comply with the provisions of an approved plat, the subdivider or his
surety will pay damages up to the limit of the bond, or the surety will itself
complete the requirements of the approved plat.
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT SUBDIVISION: A subdivision designed as a combination
of residential, commercial and industrial uses planned for a tract of land to
be developed as a unit under single ownership or control, which is developed
for the purpose of selling individual lots or estates, whether fronting on
private or dedicated streets, which may include two (2) or more principal
buildings.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b0b033afff7df1d51dd13e9a603a0e4fd07a22d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-743.gif]
 
PLANNING AND ZONING ADMINISTRATOR: The county planning and zoning
administrator; an official, having knowledge in the principles and practices of
subdividing 6 .
PLANNING COMMISSION: See the definition of Commission.
PLAT: The drawing, mapping or planning of a subdivision, cemetery, townsite or
other tract of land or a replatting of such including certifications,
descriptions and approvals.
Final Plat: The final and formal presentation by drawings of an approved
subdivision development, the original and one copy of which is filed with the
clerk of the district court.
Preliminary Plat: The first formal presentation by drawings of a proposed
subdivision.
RECORDER: The office of the county recorder.
RESERVE STRIP: A strip of land between a partial street and adjacent property
which is reserved or held in public ownership for future street extension or
widening.
RESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISION: Any division or subdivision of real property with a
residence or residential use attached to, or associated with, any of the
resulting parcels.
RIGHT OF WAY: A parcel of land dedicated or reserved for use as a public way,
which normally includes streets, sidewalks, utilities or other service
functions.
STANDARD SPECIFICATIONS: The specifications as specified in this title or as
officially adopted by the Washington County commissioners.
STATE: The state of Idaho.
STREET: A public right of way that provides access to adjacent properties, the
dedication of which has been officially accepted and has been accepted for
maintenance by the local road jurisdiction having authority over the right of
way. The term "street" also includes the terms "highway", "parkway", "road",
"avenue", "boulevard", "lane", "place", and other such terms.
Alley: A public service way used to provide secondary vehicular access to
properties otherwise abutting upon a street.
Approach: See definition of Driveway at section
5-2-1 of this code.
Arterial: A general term including expressways, major and minor arterial
streets, and interstate, state or local highways having regional continuity.
Minor Arterial: A street and/or roadway designed for relatively uninterrupted
traffic movement between cities, towns and other major traffic generators.
Typically rural minor arterials include state highways and major county
highways. They serve most of the larger communities not served by the principal
arterial system and serve other traffic generators capable of attracting travel
over long distances. They form an integrated network, provide interstate and
intercounty service, provide trip length and travel density greater than those
served by the collector systems and provide relatively high travel speeds.
Minor arterials also minimize interference to through movement.
Principal Arterial: A street and/or roadway for traffic movement between major
population centers without traffic control delays. Typically principal
arterials include the interstate system and other major highways. They provide
high speed travel, minimal interference to through movement.
Collector: A street that provides for traffic movement between neighborhoods of
local highway jurisdiction and between arterial streets and local streets and
for limited direct access to abutting property.
Major Collector: A street and/or roadway designed to serve large towns and
traffic generators that are not directly served by an arterial. Typically,
major collector roads serve as important intracounty (within the county) travel
corridors and provide service to any county seat not on an arterial route and
to the larger communities not directly served by the higher systems.
Minor Collector: A street and/or roadway designed to provide traffic service to
smaller communities and locally important generators. Typically minor collector
roads accumulate traffic from the local roads and provide access to the higher
type roadway system. They also are spaced at intervals consistent with
population density, collect traffic from local roads and tend to feed
predominantly local traffic from side streets into major collectors or
arterials.
Cul-De-Sac: A short local street having one end permanently terminated in a
vehicular turnaround.
Frontage: A minor street, parallel to and adjacent to an arterial street, to
provide access to abutting properties.
Local: A street that provides for direct access to residential, commercial,
industrial, or other abutting land for local traffic movements and connects to
collector and/or arterial streets.
Local streets with low traffic volumes are often subdivided into subclasses.
These functional subclasses of local roads are based on the "Guidelines For
Geometric Design Of Very Low Volume Local Roads (ADT400)" published by AASHTO
and include:
Agricultural Access Roads: A street and/or roadway designed to provide access
into adjacent farming or ranching operations, often used by large and slow
moving farm equipment.
Industrial/Commercial: A street and/or roadway designed to provide access from
higher type roadways into an industrial/commercial area, often used by a large
percentage of trucks and other heavy vehicles.
Major Access: A street and/or roadway designed to provide access to abutting
property as well as access through an area or between higher type roadways.
Minor Access: A street and/or roadway designed to serve primarily as access to
abutting property, often with no through route (dead end roads).
Recreational And Scenic: A street and/or roadway designed to serve special land
use areas including campsites, boat ramps and other recreational facilities.
Resource Recovery: A street and/or roadway designed to facilitate the recovery
of natural resources including mining and logging operations. These roads
typically serve many large vehicles operated by professional drivers.
Loop: A street with both terminal points on the same street of origin.
Partial: A dedicated right of way providing only a portion of the required
street width, usually along the edge of a subdivision or tract of land.
Private Road: A street that is not accepted for a public use or maintenance
that provides vehicular and pedestrian access to two (2) or more permanent
residences and, to a lesser extent, commercial, industrial and other uses.
SUBDIVIDER: The individual, firm, corporation, partnership, association,
syndicate, trust or other legal entity that executes the application and
initiates proceedings for the subdivision of land in accordance with the
provisions of this title. The subdivider need not be the owner of the property;
however, he shall be an agent of the owner or have sufficient proprietary
rights in the property to represent the owner.
SUBDIVISION: The result of an act of dividing an original lot, tract or parcel
of land into more than four (4) parts for the purpose of:
   A.   Transfer of ownership or development.
   B.   Dedication of a public street.
   C.   The addition to or creation of a cemetery.
However, this title shall not apply to any of the following:
   A.   An adjustment of lot lines as shown on a recorded plat which does not
reduce the area, frontage, width, depth or building setback lines of each
building site below the minimum zoning requirements and does not change the
original number of lots in any block of the recorded plat.
   B.   An allocation of land in the settlement of an estate of a decedent or a
court decree for the distribution of property.
   C.   The unwilling sale of land as a result of legal condemnation as defined
and allowed in the Idaho Code, as amended.
   D.   Widening of existing streets to conform to the comprehensive plan.
   E.   The acquisition of street rights of way by a public agency in
conformance with the comprehensive plan.
   F.   The exchange of land which does not result in the change of the present
land usage.
   G.   The sale of land to a public agency.
SURVEYOR: Any person who is licensed in the state as a public land surveyor to
do professional surveying.
TECHNICAL REVIEW COMMITTEE: See definition of Committee.
URBAN CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS: The required public improvements that are
mandatory on subdivision lot sizes forty thousand (40,000) square feet or less.
VARIANCE: A modification of the strict terms of the relevant regulations where
such modification will not be contrary to the public interest and where, owing
to conditions peculiar to the property and not the result of the action of the
applicant, a literal enforcement of this title would result in unnecessary and
undue hardship.
VICINITY MAP: A small scale map showing the location of a tract of land in
relation to a larger area. (Ord. 6, 4-9-1979; amd. 1995 Code; Ord. 42, 12-16-
1996, eff. 1-1-1997; Ord. 63, 7-13-2009; Ord. 77, 12-29-2014)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 1, chapter 5 of this code.
2 2. See title 5 of this code.
3 1. See title 1, chapter 7 and section
  5-18-2 of this code.
4 1. See Title 4, Chapter 4 of this Code.
5 1. See Title 5 of this Code.
6 1. See section
  5-18-1 of this code.
CHAPTER 3
PROCEDURE FOR SUBDIVISION APPROVAL
SECTION:
6-3-1: Subdivision Approval Required
6-3-2: Pre-Application
6-3-3: Preliminary Plat
6-3-4: Final Plat
6-3-1: SUBDIVISION APPROVAL REQUIRED:
Any person desiring to create a subdivision, as herein defined, shall submit
all necessary applications, pre-application, preliminary plat and final plat to
the Planning and Zoning Administrator. No final plat shall be filed with the
Recorder or improvements made on the property until the plat has been acted
upon by the Commission and approved by the County Commissioners. No lots shall
be sold until the plat has been recorded in the office of the Recorder. (Ord.
6, 4-9-79)
6-3-2: PRE-APPLICATION:
   A.   Submission; Contents: The subdivider may submit a pre-application to
enable the Planning and Zoning Administrator to review and comment on the
proposed subdivision. The pre-application shall include at least one copy of a
sketch plan. The sketch plan shall include the entire developmental scheme of
the proposed subdivision, in schematic form and including the following:
      1.   The general layout and approximate dimension of streets, blocks and
lots in sketch form.
      2.   The existing conditions and characteristics of the land on and
adjacent to the proposed subdivision site.
      3.   The areas set aside for schools, parks and other public facilities.
(Ord. 6, 4-9-79)
      4.   Water rights need to be handled according to Idaho Code sections 31-
3805 through 31-3806, Delivery of Water and Section 50-1334, Review of Water
Systems Encompassed by Plats, as amended. (Ord. 6, 4-9-79; 1995 Code)
   B.   Fee: None required.
   C.   Planning and Zoning Administrator Action: The Planning and Zoning
Administrator shall notify the subdivider within fifteen (15) days from the
date of receiving an acceptable pre-application as to the general conformance
or nonconformance of the proposal with this Title and shall provide the
necessary forms and check lists, as well as the additional following concerns:
      1.   Compliance of the proposed development with existing local or State
policies, goals and objectives or comprehensive plans.
      2.   Determination if additional special permits or ordinance conflicts,
such as rezone, special development permit or variance, are needed and the
manner of coordinating such permits.
      3.   Consideration of any unique environmental features or hazardous
concerns that may be directly or indirectly, associated with the subject
property, such as areas that have been designated by the State as areas of
critical environmental concern, unique plant or animal life, flood plain,
airport flight pattern and the like.
      4.   Consideration of other local and State agencies that the subdivider
should contact before preparing a preliminary plat. (Ord. 6, 4-9-79; 1995 Code)
6-3-3: PRELIMINARY PLAT:
   A.   Application: The subdivider shall file with the Planning and Zoning
Administrator a completed preliminary plat application form and preliminary
plat data as required in this Chapter.
   B.   Combining Preliminary and Final Plats: The applicant may request that
the subdivision application be processed as both a preliminary and final plat
if all the following exist:
      1.   The proposed subdivision does not exceed ten (10) lots.
      2.   No new street dedication or street widening is involved.
      3.   No major special development considerations are involved, such as
development in a flood plain, hillside development or the like.
      4.   All required information for both preliminary and final plat are
complete and in an acceptable form.
A request to combine both preliminary plat and final plat into one application
shall be acted upon by the Commission upon recommendation by the Planning and
Zoning Administrator. (Ord. 6, 4-9-79)
   C.   Content of Preliminary Plat: The contents of the preliminary plat and
related information shall be in such a form as stipulated by the Commission;
however, any additional maps or data deemed necessary by the Planning and
Zoning Administrator may also be required. The subdivider shall submit to the
Planning and Zoning Administrator at least the following: (Ord. 6, 4-9-79; 1995
Code)
      1.   Six (6) copies of the preliminary plat of the proposed subdivision,
drawn in accordance with the requirements hereinafter stated; each copy of the
preliminary plat shall be on good quality paper, shall have dimensions of not
less than twenty four inches by thirty six inches (24" x 36"), shall be drawn
to a scale of not less than one inch to one hundred feet (1":100'), shall show
the drafting date and shall indicate thereon, by arrow, the generally northerly
direction.
      2.   Six (6) sets of preliminary engineering plans (not meant to be
cross-sections or detailed designs) for streets, water, sewers, sidewalks and
other required public improvements; however, such engineering plans shall
contain sufficient information and detail to enable the technical review
committee to make a determination as to conformance of the proposed
improvements to applicable regulations, ordinances and standards.
      3.   A written application requesting approval of the preliminary plat.
      4.   Appropriate information that sufficiently details the proposed
development within any special development area, such as hillside, planned unit
development, flood plain, cemetery, mobile home, large scale development,
hazardous and unique areas of development.
   D.   Requirement of Preliminary Plats: The following shall be shown on the
preliminary plat or shall be submitted separately:
      1.   The name of the proposed subdivision.
      2.   The names, addresses and telephone numbers of the subdivider or
subdividers and the engineer or surveyor who prepared the plat.
      3.   The name and address of all adjoining owners of property whether or
not bisected by a public right of way as shown on record in the Assessor's
office.
      4.   The legal description of the subdivision.
      5.   A statement of the intended use of the proposed subdivision, such
as: residential single-family, two-family and multiple housing, commercial,
industrial, recreational or agricultural and a showing of any sites proposed
for parks, playgrounds, schools, churches or other public uses.
      6.   A map of the entire area scheduled for development if the proposed
subdivision is a portion of a larger holding intended for subsequent
development.
      7.   A vicinity map showing the relationship of the proposed plat to the
surrounding area (1/2 mile minimum radius, scale optional).
      8.   The land use and existing zoning of the proposed subdivision and the
adjacent land.
      9.   Streets, street names, rights of way and roadway widths, including
adjoining streets or roadways.
      10.   Lot lines and blocks showing the dimensions and numbers of each.
      11.   Contour lines, shown at five foot (5') intervals where land slope
is greater than ten percent (10%) and at two foot (2') intervals where land
slope is ten percent (10%) or less, referenced to an established bench mark,
including location and elevation.
      12.   A site report as required by the appropriate health district where
individual wells or septic tanks are proposed.
      13.   Any proposed or existing utilities, including but not limited to
storm and sanitary sewers, irrigation laterals, ditches, drainages, bridges,
culverts, water mains, fire hydrants and their respective profiles.
      14.   A copy of any proposed restrictive covenants and/or deed
restrictions.
      15.   Any dedications to the public and/or easements, together with a
statement of location, dimensions and purpose of such.
      16.   An additional required information for special developments as
specified in chapter 6 of this title.
      17.   A statement as to whether or not a variance, as specified in
chapter 7 of this title, will be requested with respect to any provision of
this title describing the particular provision, the variance requested and the
reasons therefor.
      18.   A plan for solid waste disposal.
      19.   State what type of potable water system, irrigation system and
sewage system is proposed.
   E.   Fee: At the time of submission of an application for a preliminary
plat, a fee of two hundred dollars ($200.00) plus five dollars ($5.00) per lot
shall be paid to the planning and zoning administrator. There shall be no
additional fee for the combining of the preliminary and final plats.
   F.   Planning And Zoning Administrator Review:
      1.   Certification: Upon receipt of the preliminary plat and all other
required data as provided for herein, the planning and zoning administrator
shall certify the application as complete and shall affix the date of
application acceptance thereon. He shall, thereafter, place the preliminary
plat on the agenda for consideration at the next regular meeting of the
technical review committee which is held no less than ten (10) days after said
date of certification nor more than forty five (45) days thereafter. (Ord. 6,
4-9-1979)
      2.   Review By Other Agencies: The planning and zoning administrator
shall refer the preliminary plat and application to the appropriate local
highway jurisdiction (i.e., Weiser Valley highway district or the Washington
County road and bridge department) and as many other agencies as deemed
necessary. Such agencies may include the following: (Ord. 77, 12-29-2014)
         a.   The technical review committee members.
         b.   Other governing bodies having joint jurisdiction.
         c.   The appropriate utility companies, irrigation companies or
districts and drainage districts.
         d.   The superintendent of the school district.
         e.   Other agencies having an interest in the proposed subdivision as
suggested on the application form.
      3.   Planning And Zoning Administrator Recommendation: Upon expiration of
the time allowance for department and agency review, the planning and zoning
administrator shall prepare a recommendation to the technical review committee.
   G.   Technical Review Committee Recommendation:
      1.   The technical review committee shall review the preliminary plat
from the viewpoint of the technical disciplines represented on the committee.
      2.   The committee shall make a recommendation to the commission on each
preliminary plat and on each special request that is made by the subdivider.
The committee's recommendation shall include how deficiencies or shortcomings
of the preliminary plat might be overcome.
      3.   The preliminary plat shall be placed on the agenda of the next
regular commission meeting which is held not less than fourteen (14) days after
the committee meeting.
   H.   Public Notification:
      1.   Notification To Property Owners: The planning and zoning
administrator shall notify all adjoining property owners whose names and
addresses have been provided by the subdivider. Such written notification shall
be mailed at least ten (10) days prior to the commission meeting.
      2.   Failure To Notify: The planning and zoning administrator's failure
to comply with the notification provision shall not invalidate the commission's
action; provided, the spirit of the procedure is observed.
   I.   Commission Action:
      1.   Hearing By Commission: Within a reasonable time following the
committee's recommendation, the commission shall review the preliminary plat,
the report from the committee, comments from concerned persons and agencies and
the report from the planning and zoning administrator to arrive at a decision
on the preliminary plat.
      2.   Commission's Findings: In determining the acceptance of a proposed
subdivision, the commission shall consider the objectives of this title and at
least the following:
         a.   The conformance of the subdivision with the comprehensive
development plan.
         b.   The availability of public services to accommodate the proposed
development.
         c.   The continuity of the proposed development with the capital
improvement program.
         d.   The public financial capability of supporting services for the
proposed development.
         e.   The other health, safety or environmental problems that may be
brought to the commission's attention. (Ord. 6, 4-9-1979)
      3.   Action On Preliminary Plat: The commission may approve, approve
conditionally, disapprove or table the preliminary plat for additional
information. Such action shall occur within thirty (30) days of receipt of
comments from either the Weiser Valley highway district or the Washington
County road and bridge department, or within sixty (60) days of the date of the
regular meeting at which the plat is first considered by the commission,
whichever is later. The action, and the reasons for such action, shall be
stated, in writing, by the planning and zoning administrator and forwarded to
the applicant. The planning and zoning administrator shall also forward a
statement of action taken and the reasons for such action, together with a copy
of the preliminary plat to the county commissioners for the information and
record. Actions taken on the preliminary plat shall incorporate all
recommendations and requirements identified by either the Weiser Valley highway
district or Washington County road and bridge department. (Ord. 77, 12-29-2014)
      4.   Action On Combined Preliminary And Final Plats: If the commission's
conclusion is favorable to the subdivider's request for the subdivision
application to be considered as both a preliminary plat and final subdivision,
then a recommendation shall be forwarded to the county commissioners in the
same manner as herein specified for a final plat. The commission may recommend
that the combined application be approved, approved conditionally or
disapproved. (Ord. 6, 4-9-1979; amd. 1995 Code)
   J.   Appeals: Any person or aggrieved party who appeared in person or
writing before the commission or the subdivider may appeal, in writing, the
decision of the commission relative to the final action taken by the
commission. Such appeal must be submitted to the county commissioners within
ten (10) days from such commission action.
   K.   Approval Period:
      1.   Failure to file and obtain the certification of the acceptance of
the final plat application by the planning and zoning administrator within one
year after action by the commission shall cause all approvals of said
preliminary plat to be null and void, unless an extension of time is applied
for by the subdivider and granted by the commission.
      2.   In the event that the development of the preliminary plat is made in
successive contiguous segments in an orderly and reasonable manner and conforms
substantially to the approved preliminary plat, such segments, if submitted
within successive intervals of one year, may be considered for final approval
without resubmission for preliminary plat approval. (Ord. 6, 4-9-1979)
6-3-4: FINAL PLAT:
   A.   Application: After the approval or conditional approval of the
preliminary plat, the subdivider may cause the total parcel, or any part
thereof, to be surveyed and a final plat prepared in accordance with the
approved preliminary plat. The subdivider shall submit to the planning and
zoning administrator the following:
      1.   Three (3) copies of the final plat. (Ord. 6, 4-9-1979)
      2.   Three (3) copies of the final engineering construction drawings for
streets, water, sewers, sidewalks and other public improvements. Prior to
submittal to the planning and zoning administrator, the subdivider, or
applicant, shall obtain approvals for all streets, approaches, and rights of
way from either the Weiser Valley highway district or the Washington County
road and bridge department as identified in the highway standards and
development procedures for the Weiser Valley highway district and Washington
County, Idaho. (Ord. 77, 12-29-2014)
   B.   Content Of Final Plat: The final plat shall include and be in
compliance with all items required under title 50, chapter 13 of the Idaho
Code, as amended, and the final plat shall include at least the following:
(Ord. 6, 4-9-1979; amd. 1995 Code)
      1.   A written application for approval of such final plat as stipulated
by the commission.
      2.   Proof of current ownership of the real property included in the
proposed final plat.
      3.   Such other information as the planning and zoning administrator or
commission may deem necessary to establish whether or not all proper parties
have signed and/or approved said final plat.
      4.   Conformance with the approved preliminary plat and meeting all
requirements or conditions thereof.
      5.   Conformance with all requirements and provisions of this title.
      6.   Acceptable engineering practices and local standards.
      7.   Acceptable sanitary restrictions.
   C.   Fee: At the time of submission of an application for a final plat, a
fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00) shall be paid to the planning and zoning
administrator.
   D.   Planning And Zoning Administrator Review:
      1.   Acceptance: Upon receipt of the final plat and compliance with all
other requirements as provided for herein, the planning and zoning
administrator shall certify the application as complete and shall affix the
date of acceptance thereon.
      2.   Resubmittal Of Final Plat: The planning and zoning administrator
shall review the final plat for compliance with the approved or conditionally
approved preliminary plat. If the planning and zoning administrator determines
that there is substantial difference in the final plat than that which was
approved as a preliminary plat or conditions which have not been met, the
planning and zoning administrator may require that the final plat be submitted
to the technical review committee and commission in the same manner as required
in the preliminary plat process.
      3.   Submission To The County Commissioners: Upon the determination that
the final plat is in compliance with the preliminary plat and all conditional
requirements have been met, the planning and zoning administrator shall place
the final plat on the county commissioners' agenda within forty five (45) days
from the date that an acceptable final plat application was received and
acknowledged by the planning and zoning administrator. (Ord. 6, 4-9-1979)
   E.   Agency Review: The planning and zoning administrator shall transmit one
copy of the final plat, or other documents submitted, to the appropriate local
highway jurisdiction (i.e., Weiser Valley highway district or Washington County
road and bridge department) for review and recommendation and may transmit one
copy of the final plat, or other documents submitted, for review and
recommendation to any other departments and agencies as he/she deems necessary
to ensure compliance with the preliminary approval and/or conditions of
preliminary approval. Such agency review shall also include the construction
standards of improvements, compliance with health standards, the cost estimate
for all improvements and the legal review of the performance bond. (Ord. 77,
12-29-2014)
   F.   County Commissioners' Action: The county commissioners at their next
meeting following receipt of the planning and zoning administrator's report,
shall consider the commission's findings and comments from concerned persons
and agencies to arrive at a decision on the final plat. The county
commissioners shall approve, approve conditionally, disapprove or table the
final plat for additional information within thirty (30) days of the date of
the regular meeting at which the plat is first considered. A copy of the
approved plat shall be filed with the planning and zoning administrator. (Ord.
6, 4-9-1979)
   G.   Guarantee Of Completion Of Improvements: Prior to final approval of the
final plat submitted to the county commissioners, the county commissioners
shall ensure that any improvements proposed by the subdivider shall be in place
or provisions made for project completion. In the event that the proposed
improvements have not physically been made prior to submission of the final
plat to the county commissioners, the county commissioners may permit the
subdivider to provide a financial guarantee of performance in one or a
combination of the following arrangements for those improvements which are over
and beyond the requirements of any other agency responsible for the
administration, operation and maintenance of the applicable public improvement:
(Ord. 42, 12-16-1996, eff. 1-1-1997)
      1.   Surety Bond:
         a.   The bond shall accrue to the county covering the construction,
operation and maintenance of the specific public improvement.
         b.   The bond shall be in an amount equal to one hundred ten percent
(110%) of the total estimated cost for completing construction of the specific
public improvement, as estimated by the engineer for the county and approved by
the county commissioners.
         c.   The term length in which the bond is in force shall be for a
period to be specified by the county commissioners for the specific public
improvement.
         d.   The bond shall be with a surety company authorized to do business
in the state, acceptable to the county commissioners.
         e.   The escrow agreement shall be drawn and furnished by the county
commissioners.
      2.   Cash Deposit, Certified Check, Negotiable Bond Or Irrevocable Bank
Letter Of Credit:
         a.   A cash deposit, certified check, negotiable bond or an
irrevocable bank letter of credit, such surety acceptable by the county
commissioners, shall be deposited with an escrow agent or trust company.
         b.   The dollar value of the cash deposit, certified check, negotiable
bond or an irrevocable bank letter of credit shall be equal to the one hundred
ten percent (110%) of the estimated cost of construction for the specific
public improvement, as estimated by the engineer for the county and approved by
the county commissioners.
         c.   The escrow time for the cash deposit, certified check, negotiable
bond or irrevocable bank letter of credit shall be for a period to be specified
by the county commissioners.
         d.   In the case of cash deposits or certified checks, an agreement
between the county commissioners and the subdivider may provide for progressive
payment out of the cash deposit or reduction of the certified check, negotiable
bond or irrevocable bank letter of credit, to the extent of the cost of the
completed portion of the public improvement, in accordance with a previously
entered into agreement.
      3.   Conditioned Approval Of Final Plat: With respect to financial
guarantees, the approval of all final subdivision plats shall be conditioned on
the accomplishment of one of the following:
         a.   The construction of improvements proposed by the subdivider shall
have been completed by the subdivider and approved by the county commissioners.
(Ord., 4-29-1991)
         b.   Surety acceptable to the county commissioners shall have been
filed in the form of a cash deposit, certified check, a negotiable bond,
irrevocable bank letter of credit or surety bond. (Ord., 4-29-1991; amd. 1995
Code)
      4.   Inspection Of Public Improvements Under Construction: Before
approving a final plat and construction plans and specifications for public
improvements, an agreement between the subdivider and the county commissioners
shall be made to provide for checking or inspecting the construction and its
conformity to the submitted plans.
      5.   Penalty In Case Of Failure To Complete The Construction Of Public
Improvement: In the event that the subdivider shall, in any case, fail to
complete such work within the period of time as required by the conditions of
the guarantee for the completion of public improvements, it shall be the
responsibility of the county commissioners to proceed to have such work
completed. In order to accomplish this, the county commissioners shall
reimburse themselves for the cost of expense thereof by appropriating the cash
deposit, certified check, irrevocable bank letter of credit or negotiable bond
which the subdivider may have deposited in lieu of a surety bond or may take
such steps as may be necessary to require performance by the bonding or surety
company and as included in a written agreement between the county commissioners
and the subdivider.
   H.   Approval Period: Final plat shall be filed with the recorder within one
year after written approval by the county commissioners; otherwise, such
approval shall become null and void, unless prior to said expiration date, an
extension of time is applied for by the subdivider and granted by the county
commissioners.
   I.   Method Of Recording: Upon approval of the final plat by the county
commissioners, the subdivider's prepayment of recording goes for construction
of off site improvements or posting of surety bond and the inclusion of the
following signatures on the final plat, the planning and zoning administrator
shall submit the final plat to the recorder for recording:
      1.   Certification and signatures of the county commissioners verifying
that the subdivision has been approved. (Ord., 4-29-1991)
      2.   Certification and signature of the clerk of the district court, if
required, and the engineer for the county verifying that the subdivision meets
the county requirements and has been approved by the county commissioners.
(Ord., 4-29-1991; amd. 1995 Code)
      3.   Certification of the sanitation restrictions on the face of the plat
per section 50-1326, Idaho Code, as amended. (Ord., 4-29-1991)
CHAPTER 4
DESIGN STANDARDS
SECTION:
6-4-1: Minimum Design Standards Required
6-4-2: Streets, Approaches And Rights Of Way
6-4-3: Pedestrian Walkways
6-4-4: Easements
6-4-5: Blocks
6-4-6: Lots
6-4-7: Planting Strips And Reserve Strips
6-4-8: Public Sites And Open Spaces
6-4-1: MINIMUM DESIGN STANDARDS REQUIRED:
All plats submitted pursuant to the provisions of this title and all
subdivisions, improvements and facilities done, constructed or made in
accordance with said provisions shall comply with the minimum design standards
set forth hereinafter in this chapter; provided, however, that any higher
standards adopted by any highway district, state highway department or health
agency shall prevail over those set forth herein. (Ord. 6, 4-9-1979)
6-4-2: STREETS, APPROACHES AND RIGHTS OF WAY:
   A.   All public streets, approaches, and rights of way shall be developed in
accordance with the highway standards and development procedures for the Weiser
Valley highway district and Washington County, Idaho, and the latest adopted
version of the Washington County road and bridge transportation master plan.
   B.   All private road and driveways will be developed to sufficiently
provide operational and year round emergency access as required by the
emergency service providers (i.e., fire district, ambulance district, QRU,
etc.). In the event there are conflicting standards between emergency service
providers, the most stringent standard will govern. (Ord. 77, 12-29-2014)
6-4-3: PEDESTRIAN WALKWAYS:
Right of way for pedestrian walkways in the middle of long blocks may be
required where necessary to obtain convenient pedestrian circulation to
schools, parks or shopping areas; the pedestrian easement shall be at least ten
feet (10') wide. (Ord. 6, 4-9-1979)
6-4-4: EASEMENTS:
Unobstructed utility easements shall be provided along front lot lines, rear
lot lines and side lot lines when deemed necessary; total easement width shall
not be less than twelve feet (12'). Unobstructed drainageway easements shall be
provided as required by the county commissioners. (Ord. 6, 4-9-1979)
6-4-5: BLOCKS:
Every block shall be so designated as to provide two (2) tiers of lots, except
where lots back onto an arterial street, natural feature or subdivision
boundary; blocks shall not be less than three hundred feet (300') long in all
cases. (Ord. 6, 4-9-1979)
6-4-6: LOTS:
Lots shall conform to the following:
   A.   Future Arrangements: Where parcels of land are subdivided into
unusually large lots (such as when large lots are approved for septic tanks),
the parcels shall be divided, where feasible, so as to allow for future
resubdividing into smaller parcels. Lot arrangements shall allow for the
ultimate extension of adjacent streets through the middle of wide blocks.
Whenever such future subdividing or lot splitting is contemplated, the plan
thereof shall be approved by the commission prior to the taking of such action.
   B.   Sufficient Area For Septic Tank: Where individual septic tanks have
been authorized, sufficient area shall be provided for a replacement sewage
disposal system.
   C.   Urban Construction Standards: Urban construction standards shall apply
to lot sizes forty thousand (40,000) square feet or less. (Ord. 6, 4-9-1979)
6-4-7: PLANTING STRIPS AND RESERVE STRIPS:
Planting strips and reserve strips shall conform to the following:
   A.   Planting Strips: Planting strips shall be required to be placed next to
incompatible features such as interstates, railroads, commercial or industrial
uses to screen the view from residential properties. Such screening shall be a
minimum of twenty feet (20') wide and shall not be a part of the normal street
right of way or utility easement.
   B.   Reserve Strips:
      1.   Private Reserve Strips: Privately held reserve strips controlling
access to streets shall be prohibited.
      2.   Public Reserve Strips: A one foot (1') reserve may be required to be
placed along half streets which are within the subdivision boundaries and shall
be deeded in fee simple to the county for future street widening. (Ord. 6, 4-9-
1979)
6-4-8: PUBLIC SITES AND OPEN SPACES:
   A.   Public Uses: Where it is determined that a proposed park, playground,
school or other public use as shown on the comprehensive development plan, is
located in whole, or in part, within a proposed subdivision, sufficient area
for such public use shall be dedicated to the public or reserved and offered
for public purchase.
   B.   Natural Features: Existing natural features which add value to
residential development and enhance the attractiveness of the community (such
as trees, watercourses, historic spots and similar irreplaceable assets) shall
be preserved in the design of the subdivision.
   C.   Special Developments: In the case of planned unit developments and
large scale developments, the commission may require sufficient park or o   pen
space facilities of acceptable size, location and site characteristics that may
be suitable for the proposed development. (Ord. 6, 4-9-1979)
CHAPTER 5
URBAN CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS
SECTION:
6-5-1: Responsibility For Plans
6-5-2: Required Public Improvements
6-5-3: Guarantee Of Completion Of Improvements
6-5-1: RESPONSIBILITY FOR PLANS:
It shall be the responsibility of the subdivider of every proposed subdivision
to have prepared by a registered engineer, a complete set of construction
plans, including profiles, cross section, specifications and other supporting
data, for all required public streets, utilities and other facilities. Such
construction plans shall be based on preliminary plans which have been approved
with the preliminary plat and shall be prepared in conjunction with the final
plat. Construction plans are subject to approval by the responsible public
agencies. All construction plans shall be prepared in accordance with the
public agencies' standards or specifications. (Ord. 6, 4-9-1979)
6-5-2: REQUIRED PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS:
Every subdivider shall be required to install the following public and other
improvements in accordance with the conditions and specifications on all lots
with an overall square footage of forty thousand (40,000) square feet or less:
   A.   Monuments: Monuments shall be set in accordance with section 50-1303,
Idaho Code, as amended. (Ord. 6, 4-9-1979)
   B.   Streets, Approaches And Rights Of Way: All public streets, approaches
and rights of way shall be developed in accordance with the highway standards
and development procedures for the Weiser Valley highway district and
Washington County, Idaho, and the latest adopted version of the Washington
County road and bridge transportation master plan.
   C.   Curbs And Gutters: Urban streets (i.e., those with curb and gutter, and
other urban amenities), when proposed by the developer or required in the
highway standards and development procedures for the Weiser Valley highway
district and Washington County, Idaho, shall be completed in accordance with
the standards identified in the highway standards and development procedures
for the Weiser Valley highway district and Washington County, Idaho. (Ord. 77,
12-29-2014)
   D.   Bicycle Pathways: A bicycle pathway may be required within all
subdivisions, as part of the public right of way or separate easement, as may
be specified in an overall bicycle plan as adopted by the county commissioners.
   E.   Public Utilities: Underground utilities are encouraged and may be
required subject to the county commissioners' adopted policies and ordinances.
(Ord. 6, 4-9-1979)
   F.   Approaches: All approach and driveway openings in curbs shall be as
specified in the highway standards and development procedures for the Weiser
Valley highway district and Washington County, Idaho.
   G.   Storm Drainage: An adequate storm drainage system shall be required in
all subdivisions. The drainage requirements for subdivisions are identified in
the highway standards and development procedures for the Weiser Valley highway
district and Washington County, Idaho. (Ord. 77, 12-29-2014)
   H.   Public Water Supply And Sewer Systems:
      1.   All public water supply or sewer systems (serving 2 or more separate
premises or households) shall be constructed in accordance with any adopted
local plans and specifications. All new public water supply or sewer systems
shall be an extension of an existing public system whenever possible. In the
event that the proposed public water supply or sewer system is not an extension
of an existing public system, there shall be a showing by the subdivider that
the extension is not feasible and not to the best interest of the public.
Section 50-1326, Idaho Code, as amended, requires that all water and sewer
plans be submitted to the department of health and welfare or its authorized
agent for approval.
      2.   The subdivider shall provide for a perpetual method of maintenance
and operation of the public water supply or sewer system (serving 2 or more
separate premises or households) to ensure the continued usefulness of the
system.
   I.   Fire Hydrants And Water Mains: Adequate fire protection shall be
required in accordance with the appropriate fire district standards.
   J.   Street Name Signs: Street name signs shall be installed in the
appropriate locations at each street intersection in accordance with the local
standards. A fee covering actual costs as determined by the county
commissioners per street sign shall be paid by the subdivider.
   K.   Sidewalks And Pedestrian Walkways: Sidewalks shall be required on both
sides of the street; except, that where the average width of lots, as measured
at the street frontage line or at the building setback line, is over one
hundred feet (100'), sidewalks on only one side of the street may be allowed.
Pedestrian walkways, when required, shall have easements of at least ten feet
(10') in width and include a paved walk at least five feet (5') in width.
Sidewalks and crosswalks shall be constructed in accordance with the standards
and specifications as adopted by the county commissioners.
   L.   Greenbelt: Greenbelts or landscaping screening may be required for the
protection of residential properties from adjacent major arterial streets,
waterways, railroad rights of way or other features. Subdivision plats shall
show the location of any greenbelt areas.
   M.   Street Lighting: Streetlights shall be required to be installed at
intersections throughout the subdivision. A subdivider shall conform to the
requirements of the county and the public utility providing such lighting.
(Ord. 6, 4-9-1979)
6-5-3: GUARANTEE OF COMPLETION OF IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Financial Guarantee Arrangements: In lieu of the actual installation of
required public improvements before filing of the final plat, the county
commissioners may permit the subdivider to provide a financial guarantee of
performance in one or a combination of the following arrangements for those
requirements which are over and beyond the requirements of any other agency
responsible for the administration, operation and maintenance of the applicable
public improvement:
      1.   Surety Bond:
         a.   The bond shall accrue to the county covering construction,
operation and maintenance of the specific public improvement.
         b.   The bond shall be in an amount equal to the one hundred ten
percent (110%) of the total estimated cost for completing construction of the
specific public improvement, as estimated by the engineer for the county and
approved by the county commissioners.
         c.   The term length in which the bond is in force shall be for a
period to be specified by the county commissioners for the specific public
improvement.
         d.   The bond shall be with a surety company authorized to do business
in the state, acceptable to the county commissioners.
         e.   The escrow agreement shall be drawn and furnished by the county
commissioners.
      2.   Cash Deposit, Certified Check, Negotiable Bond Or Irrevocable Bank
Letter Of Credit:
         a.   A cash deposit, certified check, negotiable bond or an
irrevocable bank letter of credit, such surety acceptable by the county
commissioners, shall be deposited with an escrow agent or trust company.
         b.   The dollar value of the cash deposit, certified check, negotiable
bond or an irrevocable bank letter of credit shall be equal to one hundred ten
percent (110%) of the estimated cost of construction for the specific public
improvement, as estimated by the engineer for the county and approved by the
county commissioners.
         c.   The escrow time for the cash deposit, certified check, negotiable
bond or irrevocable bank letter of credit shall be for a period to be specified
by the county commissioners.
         d.   In the case of cash deposits or certified checks, an agreement
between the county commissioners and the subdivider may provide for progressive
payment out of the cash deposit or reduction of the certified check, negotiable
bond or irrevocable bank letter of credit, to the extent of the cost of the
completed portion of the public improvement, in accordance with a previously
entered into agreement.
   B.   Conditioned Approval Of Final Plat: With respect to financial
guarantees, the approval of all final subdivision plats shall be conditioned on
the accomplishment of one of the following:
      1.   The construction of improvements required by this title shall have
been completed by the subdivider and approved by the county commissioners.
      2.   Surety acceptable to the county commissioners shall have been filed
in the form of a cash deposit, certified check, a negotiable bond, irrevocable
bank letter of credit or surety bond.
   C.   Inspection Of Public Improvements Under Construction: Before approving
a final plat and construction plans and specifications for public improvements,
an agreement between the subdivider and the county commissioners shall be made
to provide for checking or inspecting the construction and its conformity to
the submitted plans.
   D.   Penalty In Case Of Failure To Complete The Construction Of A Public
Improvement: In the event the subdivider shall, in any case, fail to complete
such work within the period of time as required by the conditions of the
guarantee for the completion of public improvements, it shall be the
responsibility of the county commissioners to proceed to have such work
completed. In order to accomplish this, the county commissioners shall
reimburse themselves for the cost and expense thereof by appropriating the cash
deposit, certified check, irrevocable bank letter of credit or negotiable bond
which the subdivider may have deposited in lieu of a surety bond or may take
such steps as may be necessary to require performance by the bonding or surety
company and as included in a written agreement between the county commissioners
and the subdivider. (Ord. 6, 4-9-1979)
CHAPTER 6
SPECIAL DEVELOPMENT SUBDIVISIONS
SECTION:
6-6-1: Purpose
6-6-2: Hillside Subdivision
6-6-3: Planned Unit And Condominium Subdivisions
6-6-4: Mobile Home Subdivision
6-6-5: Large Scale Development Subdivision
6-6-6: Cemetery Subdivision
6-6-7: Subdivision Within A Floodplain
6-6-8: Subdivision Within An Area Of Concern
6-6-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to identify various types of developments that
normally pose special concerns to the commission and elected officials when
reviewing and acting upon subdivision requests. This chapter outlines the plan
submittal requirements and design standards that shall be taken into
consideration when acting on special developments. The provisions of this
chapter are in addition to the plan requirements, design standards and
improvement standards that are required by chapters 3, 4 and 5 of this title.
(Ord. 6, 4-9-1979)
6-6-2: HILLSIDE SUBDIVISION:
   A.   Appearance And Preservation: In order to preserve, retain, enhance and
promote the existing and future appearance, natural topographic features,
qualities and resources of hillsides, special consideration shall be given to
the following:
      1.   Skyline and ridge tops.
      2.   Rolling grassy land forms, including knolls, ridges and meadows.
      3.   Tree and shrub masses, grass, wildflowers and topsoil.
      4.   Rock outcroppings.
      5.   Streambeds, draws and drainage swales, especially where tree and
plant formations occur.
      6.   Characteristic vistas and scenic panoramas.
   B.   Hillside Development Evaluation:
      1.   All development proposals shall take into account and shall be
judged by the way in which land use planning, soil mechanics, engineering
geology, hydrology, civil engineering, environmental and civic design,
architectural and landscape design are applied in hillside areas, including,
but not limited to:
         a.   Planning of development to fit the topography, soils, geology,
hydrology and other conditions existing on the proposed site.
         b.   Orientation of development on the site so that grading and other
site preparation is kept to an absolute minimum.
         c.   Shaping of essential grading to blend with natural landforms and
to minimize the necessity of padding and/or terracing of building sites.
         d.   Division of large tracts into smaller workable units on which
construction can be completed within one construction season so that large
areas are not left bare and exposed during the winter-spring runoff period.
         e.   Completion of paving as rapidly as possible after grading.
         f.   Allocation of areas not well suited for development because of
soil, geology or hydrology limitations for open space and recreation uses.
         g.   Minimizing disruption of existing plant and animal life.
         h.   Consideration of the view from and of the hills.
      2.   Areas having soil, geology or hydrology hazards shall not be
developed, unless it is shown that their limitations can be overcome, that
hazard to life or property will not exist, that the safety, use or stability of
a public way or drainage channel is not jeopardized and that the natural
environment is not subjected to undue impact.
   C.   Engineering Plans: The developer shall retain a professional engineer
to obtain the following information:
      1.   Soils Report: For any proposed hillside development, a soils
engineering report shall be submitted with the preliminary plat. This report
shall include data regarding the nature, distribution and strength of existing
soils, conclusions and recommendations for grading procedures, design criteria
for corrective measures and opinions and recommendations covering the adequacy
of sites to be developed.
      2.   Geology Report:
         a.   For any proposed hillside development, a geology report shall be
submitted with the preliminary plat. This report shall include an adequate
description of site geology and an evaluation of the relationship between the
proposed development and the underlying geology and recommendations for
remedial remedies.
         b.   The investigation and subsequent report shall be completed by a
professional geologist registered in the State.
      3.   Hydrology Report:
         a.   For any proposed hillside development, a hydrology report shall
be submitted with the preliminary plat. This report shall include an adequate
description of the hydrology, conclusions and recommendations regarding the
effect of hydrologic conditions on the proposed development and opinions and
recommendations covering the adequacy of sites to be developed.
         b.   Flood frequency curves shall be provided for the area proposed
for development.
   D.   Grading Plan:
      1.   A preliminary grading plan shall be submitted with each hillside
preliminary plat proposal and shall include the following information:
         a.   Approximate limiting dimensions, elevations or finish contours to
be achieved by the grading, including all cut and fill slopes, proposed
drainage channels and related construction.
         b.   Preliminary plans and approximate locations of all surface and
subsurface drainage devices, walks, dams, sediment basins, storage reservoirs
and other protective devices to be constructed.
         c.   A description of methods to be employed in disposing of soils and
other material that is removed from the grading site, including the location of
the disposal site.
      2.   A final grading plan shall be submitted with each final plat and
shall include the following information:
         a.   Limiting dimensions, elevations or finish contours to be achieved
by the grading, including all proposed cut and fill slopes and proposed
drainage channels and related construction.
         b.   Detailed plans and locations of all surface and subsurface
drainage devices, walls, dams, sediment basins, storage reservoirs and other
protective devices to be constructed.
         c.   A schedule showing when each stage of the project will be
completed, including the total area of soils surface which is to be disturbed
during each stage together with estimated starting and completion dates. In no
event shall the existing ("natural') vegetative ground cover be destroyed,
removed or disturbed more than fifteen (15) days prior to grading.
   E.   Development Standards:
      1.   Soils:
         a.   Fill areas shall be prepared by removing organic material, such
as vegetation and rubbish, and any other material which is determined by the
soils engineer to be detrimental to proper compaction or otherwise not
conducive to stability; no rock or similar irreducible material with a maximum
dimension greater than eight inches (8") shall be used as fill material in
fills that are intended to provide structural strength.
         b.   Fills shall be compacted to at least ninety five percent (95%) of
maximum density, as determined by AASHO T99 and ASTM D698.
         c.   Cut slopes shall be no steeper than two horizontal to one
vertical (2:1); subsurface drainage shall be provided as necessary for
stability.
         d.   Fill slopes shall be no steeper than two horizontal to one
vertical (2:1); fill slopes shall not be located on natural slopes two to one
(2:1) or steeper or where fill slope toes out within twelve feet (12')
horizontally of the top of an existing or planned cut slope.
         e.   Tops and toes of cut and fill slopes shall be set back from
property boundaries a distance of three feet (3') plus one-fifth (1/5) of the
height of the cut of fill but need not exceed a horizontal distance of ten feet
(10'); tops and toes of cut and fill slopes shall be set back from structures a
distance of six feet (6') plus one-fifth (1/5) the height of the cut or fill,
but need not exceed ten feet (10').
         f.   The maximum horizontal distance of disturbed soil surface shall
not exceed seventy five feet (75'). (Ord. 6, 4-9-1979)
      2.   Roadways:
         a.   Roadways shall be designed and constructed in accordance with the
highway standards and development procedures for the Weiser Valley highway
district and Washington County, Idaho.
         b.   Road alignments should follow natural terrain, and no unnecessary
cuts or fills shall be allowed in order to create additional lots or building
sites.
         c.   One way streets shall be permitted and encouraged, where
appropriate, for the terrain and where public safety would not be jeopardized.
         d.   A pedestrian walkway plan shall be required. (Ord. 77, 12-29-
2014)
      3.   Driveways And Parking: Combinations of collective private driveways,
cluster parking areas and on street parallel parking bays shall be used to
attempt to optimize the objectives of minimum soil disturbance, minimum
impervious cover, excellence of design and aesthetic sensitivity.
   F.   Vegetation And Revegetation:
      1.   The developer shall submit a slope stabilization and revegetation
plan which shall include a complete description of the existing vegetation, the
vegetation to be removed and the method of disposal, the vegetation to be
planted and slope stabilization measures to be installed. The plan shall
include an analysis of the environmental effects of such operations, including
the effects on slope stability, soil erosion, water quality and fish and
wildlife.
      2.   Vegetation sufficient to stabilize the soil shall be established on
all disturbed areas as each stage of grading is completed. Areas not contained
within lot boundaries shall be protected with perennial vegetal cover after all
construction is completed. Efforts shall be made to plant those species that
tend to recover from fire damage and do not contribute to a rapid rate of fire
spread.
      3.   The developer shall be fully responsible for any destruction of
native vegetation proposed for restoration. He shall carry the responsibility
both for his own employees and for all subcontractors from the first day of
construction until the notice of completion is filed. The developer shall be
responsible for replacing such destroyed vegetation.
   G.   Maintenance: The owner of any private property on which grading or
other work has been performed pursuant to a grading plan approved for a
building permit granted under the provisions of this title shall continuously
maintain and repair all graded surfaces and erosion prevention devices,
retaining walls, drainage structures or means and other protective devices,
plantings and ground cover installed or completed.
   H.   Utilities: All new service utilities shall be placed underground. (Ord.
6, 4-9-1979)
6-6-3: PLANNED UNIT AND CONDOMINIUM SUBDIVISIONS:
   A.   General: Planned unit and condominium developments shall be subject to
requirements set forth in title 5 of this code and also subject to all
provisions within this title.
   B.   Minimum Area: A planned unit development for the following principal
uses shall contain an area of not less than:
      1.   Three (3) acres or one city block for residential use, except for a
mobile home subdivision.
      2.   Five (5) acres for mobile home subdivisions.
      3.   Five (5) acres for residential use with subordinant commercial use.
      4.   Ten (10) acres for commercial use.
      5.   Ten (10) acres for industrial use.
   C.   Site Development Plan: The developer shall provide the commission with
a colored rendering of adequate scale to show the completed development that
will include at least the following:
      1.   Architectural style and building design.
      2.   Building materials and color.
      3.   Landscaping.
      4.   Screening.
      5.   Garbage areas.
      6.   Parking.
      7.   Open space. (Ord. 6, 4-9-1979)
   D.   Private Streets: Private streets shall be sufficiently designed and
constructed to provide operational and year round emergency access as required
by the emergency service providers (i.e., fire district, ambulance district,
QRU, etc.). In the event there are conflicting standards between emergency
service providers, the most stringent standard will govern. (Ord. 77, 12-29-
2014)
   E.   Homeowners' Association: The homeowners' association bylaws and other
similar deed restrictions which provide for the control and maintenance of all
common areas, recreation facilities or open space, shall meet with the approval
of the county commissioners. Any and all powers as specified in such agreements
may also be assigned to the county commissioners for the purpose of assessing
property for delinquencies and enforcement of motor vehicle speed to protect
the best interests of the owners involved and of the general public.
   F.   Storage Areas: Storage areas shall be provided for the anticipated
needs of boats, campers and trailers. For typical residential development, one
adequate space shall be provided every two (2) living units. This may be
reduced by the county commissioners if there is a showing that the needs of a
particular development are less.
   G.   Parking Space: One additional parking source beyond that which is
required by title 5 of this code may be required for every three (3) dwelling
units to accommodate visitor parking.
   H.   Maintenance Building: A maintenance building shall be provided, size
and location to be suitable for the service needs that are necessary for the
repair and maintenance of all common areas.
   I.   Open Space: The location of open space shall be appropriate to the
development and shall be of such shape and area to be usable and convenient to
the residents of the development.
   J.   Control During Development: Single ownership or control during
development shall be required, and a time limit may be imposed to guarantee the
development is built and constructed as planned. (Ord. 6, 4-9-1979)
6-6-4: MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION:
   A.   General: Mobile home subdivisions shall be subject to any requirements
set forth in title 5 of this code.
   B.   Special Requirements: Mobile home subdivisions shall be subject to the
following special requirements:
      1.   Developed as a planned unit development with a minimum lot area for
the planned development of five (5) acres.
      2.   Screening from adjacent areas, other than subdivisions of the same
type, by aesthetically acceptable fences, walls, living planting areas and
existing natural or manmade barriers.
      3.   Creation of a homeowners' association to assure that all common
areas are adequately maintained. (Ord. 6, 4-9-1979)
6-6-5: LARGE SCALE DEVELOPMENT SUBDIVISION:
Due to the impact that a large scale development would have on public utilities
and services, the developer shall submit the following information along with
the preliminary plat:
   A.   Public Services To Development: Identification of all public services
that would be provided to the development (regarding fire protection, police
protection, central water, central sewer, road construction, parks and open
space, recreation, maintenance, schools and solid waste collection).
   B.   Public Service Costs: Estimate the public service costs to provide
adequate service to the development.
   C.   Tax Revenue: Estimate the tax revenue that will be generated from the
development.
   D.   Financing Services: Suggested public means of financing the services
for the development, if the cost for the public services would not be offset by
tax revenue received from the development. (Ord. 6, 4-9-1979)
6-6-6: CEMETERY SUBDIVISION:
   A.   Function: The developer shall provide the commission with written
documentation that will sufficiently explain the functions of the proposed
cemetery for either human or animal remains.
   B.   Compliance With Idaho Code: The developer shall submit a written
statement that has been prepared by an attorney that adequately assures the
compliance of the proposed cemetery with the procedural management requirements
that are outlined in title 27, Idaho Code, as amended. (Ord. 6, 4-9-1979)
6-6-7: SUBDIVISION WITHIN A FLOODPLAIN 1 :
   A.   Flood Areas: For any proposed subdivision that is located within a
floodplain, the developer shall provide the commission with a development plan
of adequate scale and supporting documentation that will show and explain at
least the following:
      1.   Location of all planned improvements.
      2.   The location of the floodway and the floodway fringe per engineering
practices as specified by the army corps of engineers.
      3.   The location of the present water channel.
      4.   Any planned rerouting of waterways.
      5.   All major drainageways.
      6.   Areas of frequent flooding.
      7.   Means of floodproofing buildings.
      8.   Means of ensuring loans for improvements within the floodplain.
   B.   Justification For Development: Upon the determination that buildings
are planned within the floodplain or that alterations of any kind are
anticipated within the floodplain area that will alter the flow of water, the
developer shall demonstrate, conclusively to the commission, that such
development will not present a hazard to life, limb or property and will not
have adverse effects on the safety, use of stability of a public way or
drainage channel or the natural environment.
No subdivision or part thereof shall be approved if levees, fills, structures
or other features within the proposed subdivision will, individually or
collectively, significantly increase flood flows, heights or damages. If only
part of a proposed subdivision can be safely developed, the county
commissioners shall limit development to that part and shall require that
development proceed consistent with that determination. (Ord. 6, 4-9-1979)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 7, chapter 1 of this code for flood control regulations.
6-6-8: SUBDIVISION WITHIN AN AREA OF CONCERN:
   A.   General: Hazardous or unique areas may be designated as areas of
concern by the county commissioners or by the state. Special consideration
shall be given to any proposed development within an area of concern to assure
that the development is necessary and desirable and in the public interest in
view of the existing unique conditions. Hazardous or unique areas that may be
considered areas of concern are as follows:
      1.   Avalanche paths.
      2.   Earthquake locations.
      3.   Unstable soils.
      4.   Unique animal life.
      5.   Unique plant life.
      6.   Scenic areas.
      7.   Historical significance.
      8.   Floodplain.
      9.   Other areas of concern denoted by any county, state or federal
agency.
   B.   Plan Submission: The developer shall prepare and submit an
environmental impact statement along with the preliminary plat application for
any development that is proposed within an area of concern.
   C.   Content Of Environmental Impact Statement: The content of the
environmental impact statement shall usually be prepared by an
interdisciplinary team of professionals that shall provide answers to the
following questions:
      1.   What changes will occur to the area of concern as a result of the
proposed development?
      2.   What corrective action or alternative development plans could occur
so as not to significantly change the area of concern?
      3.   What changes in the area of concern are unavoidable?
      4.   What beneficial or detrimental effect would the development have on
the environment (i.e., animal life, plant life, social concerns, economic
noise, visual, and other)? (Ord. 53, 12-1-2003)
CHAPTER 7
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
6-7-1: Administration
6-7-2: Combining Of Permits
6-7-3: Vacations And Dedications
6-7-4: Variances
6-7-5: Amendment Procedures
6-7-6: Violation, Enforcement And Penalties
6-7-1: ADMINISTRATION:
The planning and zoning administrator 1  shall carry out the provisions as
herein specified and shall receive and process all subdivision applications.
(Ord. 6, 4-9-1979; amd. 1995 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  5-18-1 of this code.
6-7-2: COMBINING OF PERMITS:
The commission is hereby required to coordinate with other departments and
agencies concerning all permits which may be required in this title and
previously or subsequently adopted Washington County ordinances. A one stop
permit application and processing procedure may be developed with the
respective departments and agencies for the purpose of reducing errors,
misunderstanding, confusion and unnecessary delay for everyone involved. (Ord.
6, 4-9-1979)
6-7-3: VACATIONS AND DEDICATIONS:
   A.   Application Procedure:
      1.   Application; Required; Exceptions: Any property owner desiring to
vacate an existing subdivision, public right of way or easement or desiring to
dedicate a street right of way or easement shall complete and file an
application with the planning and zoning administrator. These provisions shall
not apply to the widening of any street which is shown in the comprehensive
development plan or the dedication of streets, rights of way or easements to be
shown on a recorded subdivision.
      2.   Planning And Zoning Administrator Action: Upon receipt of the
completed application, the planning and zoning administrator shall affix the
date of application acceptance thereon. The planning and zoning administrator
shall place the application on the agenda for consideration at the next regular
meeting of the commission which is held not less than thirty (30) days after
said date of acceptance.
   B.   Action:
      1.   Commission Recommendation: The commission shall review the request
and all agency responses and make a recommendation to the county commissioners
for either approval, conditional approval or denial.
      2.   County Commissioners' Action:
         a.   When considering an application for vacation procedures, the
county commissioners shall establish a date for a public hearing and give such
public notice as required by law 1 . The county commissioners may approve, deny
or modify the application. Whenever public rights of way or lands are vacated,
the county commissioners shall provide adjacent property owners with a quit
claim deed for the vacated rights of way in such proportions as are prescribed
by law 2 .
         b.   When considering an application for dedication procedures, the
county commissioners may approve, deny or modify the application. When a
dedication is approved, the required street improvements shall be constructed
or a bond furnished assuring the construction prior to acceptance of the
dedication. To complete the acceptance of any dedication of land, the owner
shall furnish to the county commissioners a deed describing and conveying such
lands to be recorded with the recorder. (Ord. 6, 4-9-1979)
 
Notes
1 1. IC §50-1317.
2 2. IC §50-1320.
6-7-4: VARIANCES:
   A.   Purpose: The Commission may recommend to the County Commissioners, as a
result of unique circumstances such as topographic-physical limitations or a
planned unit development, a variance from the provisions of this Title on a
finding that undue hardship results from the strict compliance with specific
provisions or requirements of this Title or that application of such provision
or requirement is impracticable.
   B.   Findings: No variance shall be favorably acted upon by the County
Commissioners, unless there is a finding, upon recommendation by the
Commission, as a result of a public hearing, that all of the following exist:
      1.   That there are such special circumstances or conditions affecting
the property that the strict application of the provisions of this Title would
clearly be impracticable or unreasonable; in such cases, the subdivider shall
first state his reasons, in writing, as to the specific provision or
requirement involved.
      2.   That strict compliance with the requirements of this Title would
result in extraordinary hardship to the subdivider because of unusual
topography, other physical conditions or other such conditions which are not
self-inflicted or that these conditions would result in inhibiting the
achievement of the objectives of this Title.
      3.   That the granting of the specified variance will not be detrimental
to the public welfare or injurious to other property in the area in which the
property is situated.
      4.   That such variance will not violate the provisions of the Idaho
Code, as amended.
      5.   That such variance will not have the effect of nullifying the
interest and purpose of this Title and the Comprehensive Development Plan.
(Ord. 6, 4-9-79)
6-7-5: AMENDMENT PROCEDURES:
The County Commissioners may, from time to time, amend, supplement or repeal
the regulations and provisions of this Title in the manner prescribed by the
Idaho Code 1 . A proposed amendment, supplement or repeal may be originated by
the County Commissioners, Commission or by petition. All proposals not
originating with the Commission shall be referred to it for a report thereon
before any action is taken on the proposal by the County Commissioners. (Ord.
6, 4-9-79)
 
Notes
1 1. I.C. §67-6513.
6-7-6: VIOLATION, ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Detection of Violation: The Planning and Zoning Administrator shall
periodically research the Assessor's records and perform the necessary
investigation to detect any violations of this Title.
   B.   Enforcement: No subdivision plat required by this Title or the Idaho
Code, as amended, shall be admitted to the public land records of the County or
recorded by the Recorder, until such subdivision plat has received final
approval by the County Commissioners. No public board, agency, commission,
official or other authority shall proceed with the construction of or authorize
the construction of any of the public improvements required by this Title,
until the final plat has received the approval by the County Commissioners. The
Prosecuting Attorney shall, in addition to taking whatever criminal action
deemed necessary, take steps to civilly enjoin any violation of this Title.
   C.   Penalties: Penalties for failure to comply with the provisions of this
Title shall be as follows:
Violation of any of the provisions of this Title or failure to comply with any
of its requirements shall constitute a misdemeanor. Each day such violation
continues shall be considered a separate offense. The land owner, tenant,
subdivider, builder, public official or any other person who commits,
participates in, assists in or maintains such violation may each be found
guilty of a separate offense. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the County
Commissioners or any other public official or private citizen from taking such
lawful action as is necessary to restrain or prevent any violation of this
Title or of the Idaho Code.
(Ord. 6, 4-9-79)
TITLE 7
FLOOD CONTROL
CHAPTER 1
FLOOD CONTROL REGULATIONS
SECTION:
7-1-1: Statutory Authorization, Findings Of Fact, Purpose, And Objectives
7-1-2: Definitions
7-1-3: General Provisions
7-1-4: Administration
7-1-5: Provisions For Flood Hazard Reduction
7-1-6: Legal Status Provisions
7-1-1: STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACT, PURPOSE, AND OBJECTIVES:
   A.   Statutory Authority: The Legislature of the State of Idaho, pursuant to
Idaho Code sections 46-1020, 46-1023, and 46-1024, authorizes local governments
to adopt floodplain management ordinances that identify floodplains and minimum
floodplain development standards to minimize flood hazards and protect human
life, health, and property. Therefore, the Board of County Commissioners of
Washington County, Idaho does hereby ordain as follows:
   B.   Findings Of Fact:
      1.   The flood hazard areas of Washington County, Idaho are subject to
periodic inundation that results in:
         a.   Loss of life and property;
         b.   Health and safety hazards;
         c.   Disruption of commerce and governmental services;
         d.   Extraordinary public expenditures for flood relief and
protection; and
         e.   Impairment of the tax base, all of which adversely affect the
public health, safety, and general welfare.
      2.   These flood losses are caused by structures in flood hazard areas,
which are inadequately elevated, flood-proofed, or otherwise unprotected from
flood damages, and by the cumulative effect of obstructions in floodplains
causing increases in flood heights and velocities.
      3.   Local government units have the primary responsibility for planning,
adopting, and enforcing land use regulations to accomplish proper floodplain
management.
   C.   Statement Of Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to promote public
health, safety, and general welfare and to minimize public and private losses
due to flood conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
      1.   Protect human life, health, and property;
      2.   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water
purification and sewage treatment plants, water and gas mains, electric,
telephone and sewer lines, streets, and bridges located in floodplains;
      3.   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas;
      4.   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
      5.   Minimize the need for rescue and emergency services associated with
flooding, generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
      6.   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
      7.   Ensure potential buyers are notified the property is in an area of
special flood hazard; and
      8.   Ensure those who occupy the areas of special flood hazard assume
responsibility for their actions.
   D.   Objectives And Methods Of Reducing Flood Losses: In order to accomplish
its purpose, this chapter includes methods and provisions to:
      1.   Require that development which is vulnerable to floods, including
structures and facilities necessary for the general health, safety, and welfare
of citizens, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
      2.   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety, and
property due to water or erosion hazards, or which increase flood heights,
velocities, or erosion;
      3.   Control filling, grading, dredging, and other development which may
increase flood damage or erosion;
      4.   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers that will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or that may increase flood hazards to other
lands;
      5.   Preserve and restore natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers which carry and store floodwaters. (Ord. 82, 11-5-
2018)
7-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter shall
be interpreted according to the meaning they have in common usage and to give
this chapter its most reasonable application.
ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE): A structure on the same lot or
parcel as a principal structure, the use of which is incidental and subordinate
to the principal structure.
ADDITION (To An Existing Building): An extension or increase in the floor area
or height of a building or structure.
APPEAL: A request for review of the Floodplain Administrator's interpretation
of provisions of this chapter or request for a variance.
AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING: A designated AO, AH, AR/AO, or AR/AH Zone on a
community's Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with a one percent (1%) or greater
annual chance of flooding to an average depth of one foot (1') to three feet
(3') where a clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding
is unpredictable, and where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is
characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD: See definition of special flood hazard area
(SFHA).
BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year.
BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE): A determination by the Federal Insurance
Administrator of the water surface elevations of the base flood, that is, the
flood level that has a one percent (1%) or greater chance of occurrence in any
given year. When the BFE has not been provided in a special flood hazard area,
it may be obtained from engineering studies available from a Federal, State, or
other source using FEMA-approved engineering methodologies. This elevation,
when combined with the freeboard, establishes the flood protection elevation.
BASEMENT: Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
BUILDING: See definition of structure.
CRITICAL FACILITIES: Facilities that are vital to flood response activities or
critical to the health and safety of the public before, during, and after a
flood, such as a hospital, emergency operations center, electric substation,
Police Station, Fire Station, nursing home, school, vehicle and equipment
storage facility, or shelter; and facilities that, if flooded, would make the
flood problem and its impacts much worse, such as a hazardous materials
facility, power generation facility, water utility, or wastewater treatment
plant.
DATUM: The vertical datum is a base measurement point (or set of points) from
which all elevations are determined. Historically, that common set of points
was the National Geodetic Vertical Datum of 1929 (NGVD29). The vertical datum
currently adopted by the Federal government as a basis for measuring heights is
the North American Vertical Datum of 1988 (NAVD88).
DEVELOPMENT: Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations, or storage of
equipment or materials.
DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITY: Any activity defined as development which will
necessitate a floodplain development permit; such as: the construction of
buildings, structures, or accessory structures; additions or substantial
improvements to existing structures; bulkheads, retaining walls, piers, and
pools; the placement of mobile homes; or the deposition or extraction of
materials; the construction or elevation of dikes, berms and levees.
DIGITAL FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (DFIRM): The digital official map of a
community, issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency, on which both the
special flood hazard areas and the risk premium zones applicable to the
community are delineated.
ELEVATED BUILDING: For insurance purposes, a non-basement building which has
its lowest elevated floor raised above ground level by foundation walls, shear
walls, posts, piers, pilings, or columns.
ELEVATION CERTIFICATE: The Elevation Certificate is an important administrative
tool of the NFIP. It is used to determine the proper flood insurance premium
rate; it is used to document elevation information necessary to ensure
compliance with community floodplain management regulations; and it may be used
to support a request for a Letter of Map Amendment (LOMA) or Letter of Map
Revision Based On Fill (LOMR-F).
ENCLOSURE: An area enclosed by solid walls below the BFE/FPE or an area formed
when any space below the BFE/FPE is enclosed on all sides by walls or
partitions. Insect screening or open wood lattice used to surround space below
the BFE/FPE is not considered an enclosure.
ENCROACHMENT: The advance or infringement of uses, fill, excavation, buildings,
structures, or development into a floodplain, which may impede or alter the
flow capacity of a floodplain.
EXISTING CONSTRUCTION: For the purposes of determining rates, structures for
which the "start of construction" commenced before the effective date of the
FIRM or before January 1, 1975, for FIRMs effective before that date. "Existing
construction" may also be referred to as "existing structures".
EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION: A
manufactured home park or subdivision where the construction of facilities for
servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed
before the effective date of the original floodplain management regulations
adopted by the community, February 19, 1987.
EXISTING STRUCTURES: See definition of existing construction.
EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: The preparation
of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the installation of
utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the
pouring of concrete pads).
FLOOD ELEVATION DETERMINATION: See definition of base flood elevation (BFE).
FLOOD ELEVATION STUDY: See definition of Flood Insurance Study (FIS).
FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM): An official map of a community, issued by the
Federal Insurance Administrator, where the boundaries of the flood, mudslide
(i.e., mudflow) related erosion areas having special hazards have been
designated as Zones A, M, and/or E.
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM): An official map of a community, on which the
Federal Insurance Administrator has delineated both the special hazard areas
and the risk premium zones applicable to the community. A FIRM that has been
made available digitally is called a Digital Flood Insurance Rate Map (DFIRM).
FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS): An examination, evaluation, and determination of
flood hazards and, if appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations; or
an examination, evaluation and determination of mudslide (i.e., mudflow) and/or
flood-related erosion hazards.
FLOOD OR FLOODING:
   A.   A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of
normally dry land areas from:
      1. The overflow of inland or tidal waters.
      2. The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
      3. Mudslides (i.e., mudflows) which are proximately caused by flooding as
defined in subsection A2 of this definition and are akin to a river of liquid
and flowing mud on the surfaces of normally dry land areas, as when earth is
carried by a current of water and deposited along the path of the current.
   B.   The collapse or subsidence of land along the shore of a lake or other
body of water as a result of erosion or undermining caused by waves or currents
of water exceeding anticipated cyclical levels or suddenly caused by an
unusually high water level in a natural body of water, accompanied by a severe
storm, or by an unanticipated force of nature, such as flash flood or an
abnormal tidal surge, or by some similarly unusual and unforeseeable event
which results in flooding as defined in subsection A1 of this definition.
FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (FPE): The base flood elevation plus the freeboard.
   A.   In "special flood hazard areas" where base flood elevations (BFEs) have
been determined, this elevation shall be the BFE plus two feet (2') of
freeboard; and
   B.   In "special flood hazard areas" where no BFE has been established, this
elevation shall be at least two feet (2') above the highest adjacent grade.
FLOOD PROTECTION SYSTEM: Those physical structural works for which funds have
been authorized, appropriated, and expended and which have been constructed
specifically to modify flooding in order to reduce the extent of the area
within a community subject to a "special flood hazard" and the extent of the
depths of associated flooding. Such a system typically includes dams,
reservoirs, levees, or dikes. These specialized flood modifying works are those
constructed in conformance with sound engineering standards.
FLOOD ZONE: A geographical area shown on a Flood Hazard Boundary Map (FHBM) or
Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) that reflects the severity or type of flooding
in the area.
FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR: The individual appointed to administer and enforce
the floodplain management regulations.
FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT: Any type of permit that is required in
conformance with the provisions of this chapter, prior to the commencement of
any development activity.
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT: The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage, including but not limited to
emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, and floodplain management
regulations.
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS: Zoning ordinances, subdivision regulations,
Building Codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances (such as a
floodplain ordinance, grading ordinance, and erosion control ordinance), and
other applications of police power. The term describes such State or local
regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide standards for the
purpose of flood damage prevention and reduction.
FLOODPLAIN OR FLOOD-PRONE AREA: Any land area susceptible to being inundated by
water from any source (see definition of "flooding").
FLOODPROOFING: Any combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
FLOODWAY: The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation.
FREEBOARD: A factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level for
the purposes of floodplain management. Freeboard tends to compensate for the
many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than the
height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such as
wave action, obstructed bridge openings, debris and ice jams, and the
hydrologic effects of urbanization in a watershed. The base flood elevation
(BFE) plus the freeboard establishes the flood protection elevation (FPE).
Freeboard shall be two feet (2').
FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE: A facility that cannot be used for its intended
purpose unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water, such
as a docking or port facility necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo
or passengers, shipbuilding, or ship repair facilities. The term does not
include long-term storage, manufacture, sales, or service facilities.
HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE (HAG): The highest natural elevation of the ground
surface prior to construction, adjacent to the proposed walls of a structure.
Refer to the FEMA Elevation Certificate for HAG related to building elevation
information.
HISTORIC STRUCTURE: A structure that is:
   A.   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the U.S. Department of Interior) or preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing on the National Register;
   B.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior
as contributing to the historical significance of a registered Historic
District or to a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to qualify
as a registered Historic District;
   C.   Individually listed on a State Inventory of Historic Places and
determined as eligible by states with historic preservation programs which have
been approved by the Secretary of the Interior; or
   D.   Individually listed on a Local Inventory of Historic Places and
determined as eligible by communities with historic preservation programs that
have been certified either:
      1. By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of the
Interior, or
      2. Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without approved
programs.
LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC): A general term used to refer to the several types
of revisions and amendments to FEMA maps that can be accomplished by letter.
They include Letter of Map Amendment (LOMA), Letter of Map Revision (LOMR), and
Letter of Map Revision Based On Fill (LOMR-F).
Conditional Letter Of Map Revision (CLOMR): A formal review and comment as to
whether a proposed flood protection project or other project complies with the
minimum NFIP requirements for such projects with respect to delineation of
special flood hazard areas. A CLOMR does not revise the effective Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) or Flood Insurance Study (FIS). Upon submission and
approval of certified as-built documentation, a Letter of Map Revision (LOMR)
may be issued by FEMA to revise the effective FIRM. Building permits and/or
flood development permits cannot be issued based on a CLOMR, because a CLOMR
does not change the NFIP map.
Letter Of Map Amendment (LOMA): An official amendment, by letter, to an
effective National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) map. A LOMA establishes a
property's location in relation to the special flood hazard area (SFHA). LOMAs
are usually issued because a property has been inadvertently mapped as being in
the floodplain but is actually on natural high ground above the base flood
elevation.
Letter Of Map Revision (LOMR): FEMA's modification to an effective Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) or a Flood Boundary and Floodway Map (FBFM) or both.
LOMRs are generally based on the implementation of physical measures that
affect the hydrologic or hydraulic characteristics of a flooding source and
thus result in the modification of the existing regulatory floodway, the
effective base flood elevations (BFEs), or the special flood hazard area
(SFHA). The LOMR officially revises the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) or
Flood Boundary and Floodway Map (FBFM), and sometimes the Flood Insurance Study
(FIS) report, and when appropriate, includes a description of the
modifications. The LOMR is generally accompanied by an annotated copy of the
affected portions of the FIRM, FBFM, or FIS report.
Letter Of Map Revision Based On Fill (LOMR-F): FEMA's modification of the
special flood hazard area (SFHA) shown on the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM)
based on the placement of fill outside the existing regulatory floodway. The
LOMR-F does not change the FIRM, FBFM, or FIS report.
LEVEE: A man-made structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed according to sound engineering practices, to contain, control, or
divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary flooding.
LEVEE SYSTEM: A flood protection system that consists of a levee, or levees,
and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are
constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE (LAG): The lowest point of the ground level next to the
structure. Refer to the FEMA Elevation Certificate for LAG related to building
elevation information.
LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building's lowest floor; provided, that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of 44 CFR section 60.3 and this
chapter.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure, transportable in one or more sections, built on
a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a permanent
foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term "manufactured
home" does not include a "recreational vehicle".
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land
divided into two (2) or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
MARKET VALUE: The building value, not including the land value and that of any
accessory structures or other improvements on the lot. Market value may be
established by independent certified appraisal; replacement cost depreciated
for age of building and quality of construction (actual cash value); or
adjusted tax assessed values.
MEAN SEA LEVEL: For purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP),
the National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 or other datum (such as
North America Vertical Datum of 1988-NAVD88) to which base flood elevations
(BFEs) shown on a community's FIRM are referenced.
MUDSLIDE (i.e., MUDFLOW): Describes a condition where there is a river, flow,
or inundation of liquid mud down a hillside usually as a result of a dual
condition of loss of brush cover and the subsequent accumulation of water on
the ground preceded by a period of unusually heavy or sustained rain. A
mudslide (i.e., mudflow) may occur as a distinct phenomenon while a landslide
is in progress, and will be recognized as such by the Administrator only if the
mudflow, and not the landslide, is the proximate cause of damage that occurs.
MUDSLIDE (i.e., MUDFLOW) AREA MANAGEMENT: The operation of an overall program
of corrective and preventive measures for reducing mudslide (i.e., mudflow)
damage, including but not limited to emergency preparedness plans, mudslide
control works, and floodplain management regulations.
MUDSLIDE (i.e., MUDFLOW) PRONE AREA: An area with land surfaces and slopes of
unconsolidated material where the history, geology, and climate indicate a
potential for mudflow.
NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM (NFIP): The NFIP is a Federal program created
by Congress to mitigate future flood losses nationwide through sound,
community-enforced building and zoning ordinances and to provide access to
affordable, Federally backed flood insurance protection for property owners.
NEW CONSTRUCTION: For floodplain management purposes, a structure for which the
start of construction commenced on or after the effective date of a floodplain
management regulation adopted by a community and includes any subsequent
improvements to such structures.
Any construction started after February 19, 1987 and before the effective start
date of this chapter is subject to the ordinance in effect at the time the
permit was issued, provided the start of construction was within one hundred
eighty (180) days of permit issuance.
NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A place where the construction of
facilities for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be
affixed (including at a minimum the installation of utilities, the construction
of streets, and final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
completed on or after the effective date of floodplain management regulations
adopted by a community June 16, 2009.
POST-FIRM: Construction or other development for which the "start of
construction" occurred on or after the effective date of the initial Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM).
PRE-FIRM: Construction or other development for which the "start of
construction" occurred before February 19, 1987, the effective date of the
initial Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM).
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicle that is:
   A.   Built on a single chassis, and
   B.   Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection, and
   C.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towed by a light duty
truck, and
   D.   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
REGULATORY FLOODWAY: See definition of floodway.
REMEDY A VIOLATION: To bring the structure or other development into compliance
with State or local floodplain management regulations, or, if this is not
possible, to reduce the impacts of its non-compliance. Ways that impacts may be
reduced include protecting the structure or other affected development from
flood damages, implementing the enforcement provisions of this chapter or
otherwise deterring future similar violations, or reducing Federal financial
exposure with regard to the structure or other development.
REPETITIVE LOSS STRUCTURE: An NFIP-insured structure that has had at least two
(2) paid flood losses of more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) each in any
10-year period since 1978.
RIVERINE: Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook, etc.
SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA): The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a one percent (1%) or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
For purposes of these regulations, the term "special flood hazard area" is
synonymous in meaning with the phrase "area of special flood hazard".
START OF CONSTRUCTION: Includes substantial improvement, and means the date the
building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair,
reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement, or other improvement was
within one hundred eighty (180) days of the permit date. The actual start means
either the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site,
such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the
construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the
placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading, and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or
foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the actual start of construction means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
STRUCTURE: A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage tank
that is principally above ground, as well as a manufactured home.
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the
cost of restoring the structure to its before-damaged condition would equal or
exceed fifty percent (50%) of its market value before the damage occurred. See
definition of "substantial improvement". Substantial damage also means flood-
related damage sustained by a structure on two (2) separate occasions during a
10-year period for which the cost of repairs at the time of each such flood
event, on the average, equals or exceeds twenty five percent (25%) of the
market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other
improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent
(50%) of the market value of the structure before the "start of construction"
of the improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred
"substantial damage", regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term
does not, however, include either:
   A.   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of State or local Health, Sanitary, or Safety Code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
   B.   Any alteration of a "historic structure", provided that the alteration
will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a "historic
structure" and the alteration is approved by variance issued pursuant to this
chapter.
TECHNICAL BULLETINS AND TECHNICAL FACT SHEETS: FEMA publications that provide
guidance concerning the building performance standards of the NFIP, which are
contained in title 44 of the US Code of Federal Regulations section 60.3. The
bulletins and fact sheets are intended for use primarily by State and local
officials responsible for interpreting and enforcing NFIP regulations and by
members of the development community, such as design professionals and
builders. New bulletins, as well as updates of existing bulletins, are issued
periodically as needed. The bulletins do not create regulations. Rather they
provide specific guidance for complying with the minimum requirements of
existing NFIP regulations.
It should be noted that Technical Bulletins and Technical Fact Sheets provide
guidance on the minimum requirements of the NFIP regulations. State or
community requirements that exceed those of the NFIP take precedence. Design
professionals should contact the community officials to determine whether more
restrictive State or local regulations apply to the building or site in
question. All applicable standards of the State or local Building Code must
also be met for any building in a flood hazard area.
TEMPERATURE CONTROLLED: Having the temperature regulated by a heating and/or
cooling system, built-in or appliance.
VARIANCE: A grant of relief by the Governing Body from a requirement of this
chapter.
VIOLATION: The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community's floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the Finished Construction Elevation Certificate,
other certifications, or other evidence of compliance required in 44 CFR
section 60.3(b)(5), (c)(4), (c)(10), (d)(3), (e)(2), (e)(4), or (e)(5) is
presumed to be in violation until such time as that documentation is provided.
WATER SURFACE ELEVATION: The height, in relation to the National Geodetic
Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 or the North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) of
1988 (or other specified datum), of floods of various magnitudes and
frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine areas.
WATERCOURSE: A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel, or other topographic
feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically. Watercourse
includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood damage may
occur. (Ord. 82, 11-5-2018)
7-1-3: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Lands To Which This Chapter Applies: This chapter shall apply to all
special flood hazard areas within the jurisdiction of Washington County, Idaho.
Nothing in this chapter is intended to allow uses or structures that are
otherwise prohibited by the zoning ordinance.
   B.   Basis For Special Flood Hazard Areas: The special flood hazard areas
identified by the Federal Emergency Management Agency in its Flood Insurance
Study (FIS) for Washington County, Idaho and Incorporated Areas, dated June 16,
2009, with accompanying Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRM) or Digital Flood
Insurance Rate Maps (DFIRM), and other supporting data, are adopted by
reference and declared a part of this chapter. The FIS and the FIRM are on file
at the Office of Washington County Planning and Zoning, 256 E. Court Street.
   C.   Establishment Of Floodplain Development Permit: A floodplain
development permit shall be required in conformance with the provisions of this
chapter prior to the commencement of any development activities within special
flood hazard areas determined in accordance with the provisions of subsection
7-1-4B of this chapter.
   D.   Compliance: No structure or land shall hereafter be located, extended,
converted, altered, or developed in any way without full compliance with the
terms of this chapter and other applicable regulations.
   E.   Abrogation And Greater Restrictions: This chapter shall not in any way
repeal, abrogate, impair, or remove the necessity of compliance with any other
laws, ordinances, regulations, easements, covenants, or deed restrictions,
etcetera. However, where this chapter and another conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes more stringent or greater restrictions shall control.
   F.   Interpretation: In the interpretation and application of this chapter
all provisions shall be:
      1.   Considered as minimum requirements;
      2.   Liberally construed in favor of the Governing Body; and
      3.   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
State Statutes.
   G.   Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability: The degree of flood protection
required by this chapter is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and
is based on scientific and engineering considerations. Larger floods can and
will occur. Flood heights may be increased by man-made or natural causes. This
chapter does not imply that land outside the special flood hazard areas or uses
permitted within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This
chapter shall not create liability on the part of Washington County, Idaho or
by any officer or employee thereof for flood damages that result from reliance
on this chapter or an administrative decision lawfully made hereunder.
   H.   Penalties For Violation: No structure or land shall hereafter be
located, extended, converted, or altered unless in full compliance with the
terms of this chapter and other applicable regulations.
Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any of
its requirements, including violation of conditions and safeguards established
in connection with grants of variance or special exceptions, shall constitute a
misdemeanor. Any person who violates this chapter or fails to comply with any
of its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined or imprisoned in
accordance with Idaho Code 18-113. Each day the violation continues shall be
considered a separate offense. Nothing herein contained shall prevent
Washington County, Idaho from taking such other lawful actions as is necessary
to prevent or remedy any violation. (Ord. 82, 11-5-2018)
7-1-4: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Designation Of Floodplain Ordinance Administrator: The Washington
County Planning and Zoning Director, hereinafter referred to as the "Floodplain
Administrator", is hereby appointed to administer and implement the provisions
of this chapter.
   B.   Duties And Responsibilities Of The Floodplain Administrator: The
Floodplain Administrator shall perform, but not be limited to, the following
duties:
      1.   Review all floodplain development applications and issue permits for
all proposed development within special flood hazard areas to assure that the
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied.
      2.   Review all proposed development within special flood hazard areas to
assure that all necessary local, State, and Federal permits have been received,
including section 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of
1972, 33 USC 1334.
      3.   Notify adjacent communities and the Idaho Department of Water
Resources State Coordinator for the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP)
prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse and submit evidence of
such notification to the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA).
      4.   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is maintained.
      5.   Prevent encroachments into floodways and flood fringe areas unless
the certification and flood hazard reduction provisions of subsection
7-1-5E of this chapter are met.
      6.   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of the
lowest floor (including basement) and all attendant utilities of all new and
substantially improved structures, in accordance with the provisions of
subsection C3 of this section.
      7.   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which all
new and substantially improved structures and utilities have been floodproofed,
in accordance with the provisions of subsection C3 of this section.
      8.   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of all
public utilities in accordance with the provisions of subsection C3 of this
section.
      9.   When floodproofing is utilized for a particular structure, obtain
certifications from a registered professional engineer or architect in
accordance with the provisions of subsection C3 of this section and subsection
7-1-5B2 of this chapter.
      10.   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of
boundaries of the special flood hazard areas, floodways, or flood fringe areas
(for example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary
and actual field conditions), make the necessary interpretation. The person
contesting the location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity
to appeal the interpretation as provided in this section.
      11.   When base flood elevation (BFE) data has not been provided in
accordance with the provisions of subsection
7-1-3B of this chapter, obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any BFE data,
along with floodway data or flood fringe area data available from a Federal,
State, or other source, including data developed pursuant to subsection
7-1-5C2 of this chapter, in order to administer the provisions of this chapter.
      12.   When base flood elevation (BFE) data is provided but no floodway or
flood fringe area data has been provided in accordance with the provisions of
subsection
7-1-3B of this chapter, obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any floodway
data or flood fringe area data available from a Federal, State, or other source
in order to administer the provisions of this chapter.
      13.   When the lowest floor and the lowest adjacent grade of a structure
or the lowest ground elevation of a parcel in a special flood hazard area
(SFHA) is above the base flood elevation (BFE), advise the property owner of
the option to apply for a Letter of Map Amendment (LOMA) from FEMA. Maintain a
copy of the LOMA issued by FEMA in the floodplain development permit file.
      14.   Permanently maintain all records that pertain to the administration
of this chapter and make these records available for public inspection,
recognizing that such information may be subject to the Privacy Act of 1974, as
amended.
      15.   Make on-site inspections of work in progress. As the work pursuant
to a floodplain development permit progresses, the Floodplain Administrator
shall make as many inspections of the work as may be necessary to ensure that
the work is being done according to the provisions of the local ordinance and
the terms of the permit. In exercising this power, the Floodplain Administrator
has a right, upon presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises
within the jurisdiction of the community at any reasonable hour for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action.
      16.   Issue stop-work orders as required. Whenever a building or part
thereof is being constructed, reconstructed, altered, or repaired in violation
of this chapter, the Floodplain Administrator may order the work to be
immediately stopped. The stop-work order shall be in writing and directed to
the person doing or in charge of the work. The stop-work order shall state the
specific work to be stopped, the specific reason(s) for the stoppage, and the
condition(s) under which the work may be resumed. Violation of a stop-work
order constitutes a misdemeanor.
      17.   Revoke floodplain development permits as required. The Floodplain
Administrator may revoke and require the return of the floodplain development
permit by notifying the permit holder in writing stating the reason(s) for the
revocation. Permits shall be revoked for any substantial departure from the
approved application, plans, and specifications; for refusal or failure to
comply with the requirements of State or local laws; or for false statements or
misrepresentations made in securing the permit. Any floodplain development
permit mistakenly issued in violation of an applicable State or local law may
also be revoked.
      18.   Make periodic inspections throughout the special flood hazard areas
within the jurisdiction of the community. The Floodplain Administrator and each
member of his or her Inspections Department shall have a right, upon
presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises within the
territorial jurisdiction of the department at any reasonable hour for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action.
      19.   Follow through with corrective procedures of subsection D of this
section.
      20.   Review, provide input, and make recommendations for variance
requests.
      21.   Maintain a current map repository to include, but not limited to,
the FIS Report, FIRM and other official flood maps, and studies adopted in
accordance with the provisions of subsection
7-1-3B of this chapter, including any revisions thereto including Letters of
Map Change, issued by FEMA. Notify the NFIP State Coordinator and FEMA of the
community's mapping needs.
      22.   Coordinate revisions to FIS reports and FIRMs, including Letters of
Map Revision Based On Fill (LOMR-Fs) and Letters of Map Revision (LOMRs).
   C.   Floodplain Development Application, Permit, And Certification
Requirements:
      1.   Application Requirements: Application for a floodplain development
permit shall be made to the Floodplain Administrator prior to any development
activities located within special flood hazard areas. The following items shall
be presented to the Floodplain Administrator to apply for a floodplain
development permit:
         a.   A plot plan drawn to scale which shall include, but shall not be
limited to, the following specific details of the proposed floodplain
development:
            (1)   The nature, location, dimensions, and elevations of the area
of development/disturbance; existing and proposed structures, utility systems,
grading/pavement areas, fill materials, storage areas, drainage facilities, and
other development;
            (2)   The boundary of the special flood hazard area as delineated
on the FIRM or other flood map as determined in subsection
7-1-3B of this chapter, or a statement that the entire lot is within the
special flood hazard area;
            (3)   The flood zone(s) designation of the proposed development
area as determined on the FIRM or other flood map as determined in subsection
7-1-3B of this chapter;
            (4)   The boundary of the floodway(s) or flood fringe area(s) as
determined in subsection
7-1-3B of this chapter;
            (5)   The base flood elevation (BFE) where provided as set forth in
subsection
7-1-3B, C, or
7-1-5C of this chapter;
            (6)   The old and new location of any watercourse that will be
altered or relocated as a result of proposed development; and
            (7)   The certification of the plot plan by a registered land
surveyor or professional engineer.
         b.   Proposed elevation, and method thereof, of all development within
a special flood hazard area including but not limited to:
            (1)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level of the proposed
lowest floor (including basement) of all structures;
            (2)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any non-
residential structure in Zone A, AE, AH, AO, or A1-30 will be floodproofed; and
            (3)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any proposed
utility systems will be elevated or floodproofed.
         c.   If floodproofing, a Floodproofing Certificate (FEMA Form 086-0-
33) with supporting data, an operational plan, and an inspection and
maintenance plan that include, but are not limited to, installation, exercise,
and maintenance of floodproofing measures.
         d.   A Foundation Plan, drawn to scale, which shall include details of
the proposed foundation system to ensure all provisions of this chapter are
met. These details include but are not limited to:
            (1)   The proposed method of elevation, if applicable (i.e., fill,
solid foundation perimeter wall, solid backfilled foundation, open foundation,
or on columns/posts/piers/piles/shear walls); and
            (2)   Openings to facilitate automatic equalization of hydrostatic
flood forces on walls in accordance with subsections
7-1-5A8b(1) through A8b(6) of this chapter when solid foundation perimeter
walls are used in Zones A, AE, AH, AO, and A1-30.
         e.   Usage details of any enclosed areas below the lowest floor.
         f.   Plans and/or details for the protection of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems to be located and
constructed to minimize flood damage.
         g.   Certification that all other local, State, and Federal permits
required prior to floodplain development permit issuance have been received.
         h.   Documentation for placement of recreational vehicles and/or
temporary structures, when applicable, to ensure that the provisions of
subsection
7-1-5B6 and B7 of this chapter are met.
         i.   A description of proposed watercourse alteration or relocation,
when applicable, including an engineering report on the effects of the proposed
project on the flood-carrying capacity of the watercourse and the effects to
properties located both upstream and downstream; and
            (1)   A map (if not shown on plot plan) showing the location of the
proposed watercourse alteration or relocation.
      2.   Permit Requirements: The floodplain development permit shall
include, but not be limited to:
         a.   A complete description of all the development to be permitted
under the floodplain development permit (i.e., house, garage, pool, septic,
bulkhead, cabana, pole barn, chicken coop, pier, bridge, mining, dredging,
filling, rip-rap, docks, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations, or
storage of equipment or materials, etcetera).
         b.   The special flood hazard area determination for the proposed
development in accordance with available data specified in subsection
7-1-3B of this chapter.
         c.   The flood protection elevation required for the lowest floor and
all attendant utilities.
         d.   The flood protection elevation required for the protection of all
public utilities.
         e.   All certification submittal requirements with timelines.
         f.   A statement that no fill material or other development shall
encroach into the floodway or flood fringe area of any watercourse, as
applicable.
         g.   The flood openings requirements, if in Zones A, AE, AH, AO, or
A1-30.
         h.   All floodplain development permits shall be conditional upon the
start of construction of work within one hundred eighty (180) days. A
floodplain development permit shall expire one hundred eighty (180) days after
issuance unless the permitted activity has commenced as per the start of
construction definition.
         i.   A statement of the limitations of below BFE enclosure uses, if
applicable (i.e., parking, building access and limited storage only).
         j.   A statement that all materials below BFE/FPE must be flood
resistant materials.
      3.   Certification Requirements:
         a.   Elevation Certificates:
            (1)   A Construction Drawings Elevation Certificate (FEMA Form 86-
0-33) is required prior to the actual start of any new construction. It shall
be the duty of the permit holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator a
certification of the elevation of the lowest floor, in relation to mean sea
level. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate data
submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the
permit holder prior to the beginning of construction. Failure to submit the
certification or failure to make required corrections shall be cause to deny a
floodplain development permit.
            (2)   A Building Under Construction Elevation Certificate (FEMA
Form 86-0-33) is required after the lowest floor is established. Within seven
(7) calendar days of establishment of the lowest floor elevation, it shall be
the duty of the permit holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator a
certification of the elevation of the lowest floor, in relation to mean sea
level. Any work done within the seven (7) day calendar period and prior to
submission of the certification shall be at the permit holder's risk. The
Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate data submitted.
Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the permit holder
immediately and prior to further work being permitted to proceed. Failure to
submit the certification or failure to make required corrections shall be cause
to issue a stop-work order for the project.
            (3)   A final as-built Finished Construction Elevation Certificate
(FEMA Form 86-0-33) is required after construction is completed and prior to
Certificate of Compliance/Occupancy issuance. It shall be the duty of the
permit holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of
final as-built construction of the elevation of the lowest floor and all
attendant utilities. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate
data submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the
permit holder immediately and prior to Certificate of Compliance/Occupancy
issuance. In some instances, another certification may be required to certify
corrected as-built construction. Failure to submit the certification or failure
to make required corrections shall be cause to withhold the issuance of a
Certificate of Compliance/Occupancy.
The Finished Construction Elevation Certificate certifier shall provide at
least two (2) photographs showing the front and rear of the building taken
within ninety (90) days from the date of certification. The photographs must be
taken with views confirming the building description and diagram number
provided in section A. To the extent possible, these photographs should show
the entire building including foundation. If the building has split-level or
multi-level areas, provide at least two (2) additional photographs showing side
views of the building. In addition, when applicable, provide a photograph of
the foundation showing a representative example of the flood openings or vents.
All photographs must be in color and measure at least 3" x 3". Digital
photographs are acceptable.
         b.   Floodproofing Certificate: If non-residential floodproofing is
used to meet the flood protection elevation requirements, a Floodproofing
Certificate (FEMA Form 086-0-34), with supporting data, an operational plan,
and an inspection and maintenance plan are required prior to the actual start
of any new construction. It shall be the duty of the permit holder to submit to
the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the floodproofed design
elevation of the lowest floor and all attendant utilities, in relation to mean
sea level. Floodproofing certification shall be prepared by or under the direct
supervision of a professional engineer or architect and certified by same. The
Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate data, the operational
plan, and the inspection and maintenance plan. Deficiencies detected by such
review shall be corrected by the applicant prior to permit approval. Failure to
submit the certification or failure to make required corrections shall be cause
to deny a floodplain development permit. Failure to construct in accordance
with the certified design shall be cause to withhold the issuance of a
Certificate of Compliance/Occupancy.
         c.   Engineered Foundation Certification: If a manufactured home is
placed within Zone A, AE, AH, AO, or A1-30 and the elevation of the chassis is
more than thirty six inches (36") in height above grade, an engineered
foundation certification is required in accordance with the provisions of
subsection
7-1-5B3b of this chapter.
         d.   Watercourse Alteration Or Relocation: If a watercourse is to be
altered or relocated, the following shall all be submitted by the permit
applicant prior to issuance of a floodplain development permit:
            (1)   A description of the extent of watercourse alteration or
relocation; and
            (2)   A professional engineer's certified report on the effects of
the proposed project on the flood-carrying capacity of the watercourse and the
effects to properties located both upstream and downstream; and
            (3)   A map showing the location of the proposed watercourse
alteration or relocation; and
            (4)   An Idaho stream channel alteration permit approval shall be
provided by the applicant to the Floodplain Administrator.
         e.   Certification Exemptions: The following structures, if located
within Zone A, AE, AH, AO, or A1-30, are exempt from the elevation/
floodproofing certification requirements specified in subsections C3a and C3b
of this section:
            (1)   Recreational vehicles meeting requirements of subsection
7-1-5B5a of this chapter;
            (2)   Temporary structures meeting requirements of subsection
7-1-5B6 of this chapter; and
            (3)   Accessory structures less than two hundred (200) square feet
meeting requirements of subsection
7-1-5B7 of this chapter.
      4.   Determinations For Existing Buildings And Structures: For
applications for building permits to improve buildings and structures,
including alterations, movement, enlargement, replacement, repair, change of
occupancy, additions, rehabilitations, renovations, substantial improvements,
repairs of substantial damage, and any other improvement of or work on such
buildings and structures, the Floodplain Administrator, in coordination with
the building official, shall:
         a.   Estimate the market value, or require the applicant to obtain an
appraisal of the market value prepared by a qualified independent appraiser, of
the building or structure before the start of construction of the proposed
work. In the case of repair, the market value of the building or structure
shall be the market value before the damage occurred and before any repairs are
made;
         b.   Compare the cost to perform the improvement, the cost to repair a
damaged building to its pre-damaged condition, or the combined costs of
improvements and repairs, if applicable, to the market value of the building or
structure;
         c.   Determine and document whether the proposed work constitutes
substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage; and
         d.   Notify the applicant if it is determined that the work
constitutes substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage and that
compliance with the flood resistant construction requirements of the adopted
Idaho Building Code and this chapter is required.
   D.   Corrective Procedures:
      1.   Violations To Be Corrected: When the Floodplain Administrator finds
violations of applicable State and local laws, it shall be his or her duty to
notify the owner or occupant of the building of the violation. The owner or
occupant shall immediately remedy each of the violations of law cited in such
notification.
      2.   Actions In Event Of Failure To Take Corrective Action: If the owner
of a building or property shall fail to take prompt corrective action, the
Floodplain Administrator shall give the owner written notice, by certified or
registered mail to the owner's last known address or by personal service,
stating:
         a.   That the building or property is in violation of the floodplain
management regulations;
         b.   That a hearing will be held before the Floodplain Administrator
at a designated place and time, not later than ten (10) days after the date of
the notice, at which time the owner shall be entitled to be heard in person or
by counsel and to present arguments and evidence pertaining to the matter; and
         c.   That following the hearing, the Floodplain Administrator may
issue an order to alter, vacate, or demolish the building; or to remove fill as
applicable.
      3.   Order To Take Corrective Action: If, upon a hearing held pursuant to
the notice prescribed above, the Floodplain Administrator shall find that the
building or development is in violation of this chapter, he or she shall issue
an order in writing to the owner, requiring the owner to remedy the violation
within a specified time period, not less than sixty (60) calendar days, nor
more than one hundred eighty (180) calendar days. Where the Floodplain
Administrator finds that there is imminent danger to life or other property, he
or she may order that corrective action be taken in such lesser period as may
be feasible.
      4.   Appeal: Any owner who has received an order to take corrective
action may appeal the order to the local elected Governing Body by giving
notice of appeal in writing to the Floodplain Administrator and the Clerk
within ten (10) days following issuance of the final order. In the absence of
an appeal, the order of the Floodplain Administrator shall be final. The local
Governing Body shall hear an appeal within a reasonable time and may affirm,
modify and affirm, or revoke the order.
      5.   Failure To Comply With Order: If the owner of a building or property
fails to comply with an order to take corrective action for which no appeal has
been made or fails to comply with an order of the Governing Body following an
appeal, the owner shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished at the
discretion of the court.
   E.   Variance Procedures:
      1.   The Board of County Commissioners as established by Washington
County, Idaho hereinafter referred to as the "Appeal Board", shall hear and
decide requests for variances from the requirements of this chapter.
      2.   Variances may be issued for:
         a.   The repair or rehabilitation of historic structures upon the
determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the
structure's continued designation as a historic structure and that the variance
is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the
structure;
         b.   Functionally dependent facilities, if determined to meet the
definition as stated in section
7-1-2 of this chapter, provided provisions of subsections E9b, E9c, and E9d of
this section, have been satisfied, and such facilities are protected by methods
that minimize flood damages during the base flood and create no additional
threats to public safety; or
         c.   Any other type of development, provided it meets the requirements
of this subsection.
      3.   In passing upon variances, the Appeal Board shall consider all
technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in other
sections of this chapter, and:
         a.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
         b.   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion
damage;
         c.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
         d.   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility
to the community;
         e.   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location as defined
under section
7-1-2 of this chapter as a functionally dependent facility, where applicable;
         f.   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to
flooding or erosion damage, for the proposed use;
         g.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and
anticipated development;
         h.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan
and floodplain management program for that area;
         i.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles;
         j.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
         k.   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
      4.   The applicant shall include a written report addressing each of the
above factors in subsections E3a through E3k of this section with their
application for a variance.
      5.   Upon consideration of the factors listed above and the purposes of
this chapter, the Appeal Board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes and objectives of this
chapter.
      6.   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the base flood elevation (BFE) and the
elevation to which the structure is to be built and that such construction
below the BFE increases risks to life and property, and that the issuance of a
variance to construct a structure below the BFE will result in increased
premium rates for flood insurance up to twenty five dollars ($25.00) per one
hundred dollars ($100.00) of insurance coverage. Such notification shall be
maintained with a record of all variance actions, including justification for
their issuance.
      7.   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of all
appeal actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management
Agency and the State of Idaho upon request.
      8.   Conditions for variances are as follows:
         a.   Variances shall not be issued when the variance will make the
structure in violation of other Federal, State, or local laws, regulations, or
ordinances.
         b.   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway or
flood fringe area if the variance would result in any increase in flood levels
during the base flood discharge.
         c.   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
         d.   Variances shall only be issued prior to development permit
approval.
         e.   Variances shall only be issued upon:
            (1)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
            (2)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would
result in exceptional hardship; and
            (3)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not
result in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, or
extraordinary public expense, create nuisance, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
      9.   A variance may be issued for solid waste disposal facilities or
sites, hazardous waste management facilities, salvage yards, and chemical
storage facilities that are located in special flood hazard areas provided that
all of the following conditions are met.
         a.   The use serves a critical need in the community.
         b.   No feasible location exists for the use outside the special flood
hazard area.
         c.   The lowest floor of any structure is elevated or floodproofed to
at least the flood protection elevation.
         d.   The use complies with all other applicable Federal, State and
local laws.
      10.   Washington County, Idaho will notify the State NFIP Coordinator of
the Idaho Department of Water Resources of its intention to grant a variance at
least thirty (30) calendar days prior to granting the variance.
      11.   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal Board may appeal
such decision to the court, as provided in Idaho Code 67-6535. (Ord. 82, 11-5-
2018)
7-1-5: PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION:
   A.   General Standards: In all special flood hazard areas the following
provisions are required:
      1.   All new construction, substantial improvements, and development
shall be designed (or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse, and lateral movement of the structure.
      2.   All new construction, substantial improvements, and development
shall be constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood
damage in accordance with the Technical Bulletin 2, Flood Damage-Resistant
Materials Requirements, and available from the Federal Emergency Management
Agency.
      3.   All new construction, substantial improvements, and development
shall be constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damages.
      4.   All new and replacement electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing,
air conditioning equipment, and other service facilities shall be designed and/
or located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of flooding to the flood protection elevation.
These include, but are not limited to, HVAC equipment, water softener units,
bath/kitchen fixtures, ductwork, electric/gas meter panels/boxes, utility/cable
boxes, hot water heaters, and electric outlets/switches.
      5.   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
      6.   All new and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into floodwaters.
      7.   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
      8.   A fully enclosed area, of new construction and substantially
improved structures, which is below the lowest floor shall:
         a.   Be constructed entirely of flood resistant materials at least to
the flood protection elevation; and
         b.   Include, in Zones A, AE, AH, AO, and A1-30, flood openings to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on walls by allowing for the
entry and exit of floodwaters. To meet this requirement, the openings must
either be certified by a professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed
the following minimum design criteria:
            (1)   A minimum of two (2) flood openings on different sides of
each enclosed area subject to flooding;
            (2)   The total net area of all flood openings must be at least one
square inch for each square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding;
            (3)   If a building has more than one enclosed area, each enclosed
area must have flood openings to allow floodwaters to automatically enter and
exit;
            (4)   The bottom of all required flood openings shall be no higher
than one foot (1') above the interior or exterior adjacent grade;
            (5)   Flood openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, or
other coverings or devices, provided they permit the automatic flow of
floodwaters in both directions; and
            (6)   Enclosures made of flexible skirting are not considered
enclosures for regulatory purposes, and, therefore, do not require flood
openings. Masonry or wood underpinning, regardless of structural status, is
considered an enclosure and requires flood openings as outlined above.
      9.   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction, or improvements to a
structure, which is in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, shall
meet the requirements of "new construction" as contained in this chapter.
      10.   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the repair, reconstruction,
or replacement of a building or structure existing on the effective date of
this chapter and located totally or partially within the floodway, flood fringe
area, or stream setback, provided there is no additional encroachment below the
flood protection elevation in the floodway, flood fringe area, or stream
setback, and provided that such repair, reconstruction, or replacement meets
all of the other requirements of this chapter.
      11.   New solid waste disposal facilities and sites, hazardous waste
management facilities, salvage yards, and chemical storage facilities shall not
be permitted, except by variance as specified in subsection
7-1-4E9 of this chapter. A structure or tank for chemical or fuel storage
incidental to an allowed use or to the operation of a water treatment plant or
wastewater treatment facility may be located in a special flood hazard area
only if the structure or tank is either elevated or floodproofed to at least
the flood protection elevation and certified in accordance with the provisions
of subsection
7-1-4C3 of this chapter.
      12.   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall be
consistent with the need to minimize flood damage and determined to be
reasonably safe from flooding.
      13.   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall
have public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water
systems located and constructed to minimize flood damage.
      14.   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall
have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood hazards.
      15.   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall
have received all necessary permits from those governmental agencies for which
approval is required by Federal or State law, including section 404 of the
Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, 33 USC 1334.
      16.   When a structure is partially located in a special flood hazard
area, the entire structure shall meet the requirements for new construction and
substantial improvements.
      17.   When a structure is located in multiple flood hazard zones or in a
flood hazard risk zone with multiple base flood elevations, the provisions for
the more restrictive flood hazard risk zone and the highest base flood
elevation (BFE) shall apply.
      18.   Fill is prohibited in the Washington County AE Zones and Floodways,
including construction of buildings on fill without a floodplain development
permit and an adverse impact study. The Adverse Impact Study is also commonly
called a Hydrology and Hydraulic Analysis which includes a No-Rise
Certification.
   B.   Specific Standards: In all special flood hazard areas where base flood
elevation (BFE) data has been provided, as set forth in subsection
7-1-3B of this chapter, or subsection D of this section, the following
provisions, in addition to the provisions of subsection A of this section, are
required:
      1.   Residential Construction: New construction, substantial
improvements, and development of any residential structure (including
manufactured homes) shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated
no lower than the flood protection elevation, as defined in section
7-1-2 of this chapter.
      2.   Non-Residential Construction: New construction, substantial
improvements, and development of any commercial, industrial, or other non-
residential structure shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated
no lower than the flood protection elevation, as defined in section
7-1-2 of this chapter. Structures located in Zones A, AE, AH, AO, and A1-30 may
be floodproofed to the flood protection elevation in lieu of elevation provided
that all areas of the structure, together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, below the flood protection elevation are watertight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water, using structural components
having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and the
effect of buoyancy. For AH and AO Zones, the floodproofing elevation shall be
in accordance with subsection F2 of this section. A registered professional
engineer or architect shall certify that the floodproofing standards of this
subsection are satisfied. Such certification shall be provided to the
Floodplain Administrator as set forth in subsection
7-1-4C3 of this chapter, along with the operational plan and the inspection and
maintenance plan.
      3.   Manufactured Homes:
         a.   New and replacement manufactured homes shall be elevated so that
the lowest floor of the manufactured home is no lower than the flood protection
elevation, as defined in section
7-1-2 of this chapter.
         b.   Manufactured homes shall be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement, either
by certified engineered foundation system, or in accordance with the most
current edition of the Idaho Division of Building Safety's "Idaho Manufactured
Home Installation Standard" in accordance with Idaho Code section 44-2201(2).
Additionally, when the elevation would be met by an elevation of the chassis
thirty six inches (36") or less above the grade at the site, the chassis shall
be supported by reinforced piers or engineered foundation. When the elevation
of the chassis is above thirty six inches (36") in height, an engineering
certification is required.
         c.   All enclosures or skirting below the lowest floor shall meet the
requirements of subsection B4 of this section.
         d.   An evacuation plan must be developed for evacuation of all
residents of all new, substantially improved, or substantially damaged
manufactured home parks or subdivisions located within flood prone areas. This
plan shall be filed with and approved by the Floodplain Administrator and the
local Emergency Management Coordinator.
      4.   Additions/Improvements:
         a.   Additions and/or improvements to pre-FIRM structures when the
addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications to
the existing structure are:
            (1)   Not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or
improvements must be designed to minimize flood damages and must not be any
more non-conforming than the existing structure; or
            (2)   A substantial improvement, both the existing structure and
the addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new
construction.
         b.   Additions to post-FIRM structures that are a substantial
improvement with no modifications to the existing structure other than a
standard door in the common wall shall require only the addition to comply with
the standards for new construction.
         c.   Additions and/or improvements to post-FIRM structures when the
addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications to
the existing structure are:
            (1)   Not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or
improvements only must comply with the standards for new construction; or
            (2)   A substantial improvement, both the existing structure and
the addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new
construction.
         d.   Any combination of repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation,
addition, or improvement of a building or structure taking place during a two
(2) year period, the cumulative cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent
(50%) of the market value of the structure before the improvement or repair is
started, must comply with the standards for new construction. For each building
or structure, the two (2) year period begins on the date of the first
improvement or repair of that building or structure subsequent to the effective
date of this chapter. If the structure has sustained substantial damage, any
repairs are considered substantial improvement regardless of the actual repair
work performed. The requirement does not, however, include either:
            (1)   Any project for improvement of a building required to correct
existing Health, Sanitary, or Safety Code violations identified by the building
official and that are the minimum necessary to assume safe living conditions;
or
            (2)   Any alteration of a historic structure provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a
historic structure.
      5.   Recreational Vehicles: Recreational vehicles shall be either:
         a.   Temporary Placement:
            (1)   Be on site for fewer than one hundred eighty (180)
consecutive days and be fully licensed and ready for highway use (a
recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking
system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities, and
has no permanently attached additions); or
         b.   Permanent Placement:
            (1)   Recreational vehicles that do not meet the limitations of
temporary placement shall meet all the requirements for new construction, as
set forth in subsection A of this section.
      6.   Temporary Non-Residential Structures: Prior to the issuance of a
floodplain development permit for a temporary structure, the applicant must
submit to the Floodplain Administrator a plan for the removal of such structure
(s) in the event of a flash flood or other type of flood warning notification.
The following information shall be submitted in writing to the Floodplain
Administrator for review and written approval:
         a.   A specified time period for which the temporary use will be
permitted. Time specified may not exceed six (6) months, renewable up to one
year;
         b.   The name, address, and phone number of the individual responsible
for the removal of the temporary structure;
         c.   The time frame prior to the event at which a structure will be
removed (i.e., immediately upon flood warning notification);
         d.   A copy of the contract or other suitable instrument with the
entity responsible for physical removal of the structure; and
         e.   Designation, accompanied by documentation, of a location outside
the special flood hazard area, to which the temporary structure will be moved.
      7.   Accessory Structures: When accessory structures (sheds, detached
garages, etc.) are to be placed within a special flood hazard area, elevation
or floodproofing certifications are required for all accessory structures in
accordance with subsection
7-1-4C3 of this chapter, and the following criteria shall be met:
         a.   Accessory structures shall not be used for human habitation
(including working, sleeping, living, cooking, or restroom areas);
         b.   Accessory structures shall not be temperature-controlled;
         c.   Accessory structures shall be designed to have low flood damage
potential;
         d.   Accessory structures shall be constructed and placed on the
building site so as to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters;
         e.   Accessory structures shall be firmly anchored in accordance with
the provisions of subsection A1 of this section;
         f.   All service facilities, such as electrical, shall be installed in
accordance with the provisions of subsection A4 of this section; and
         g.   Flood openings to facilitate automatic equalization of
hydrostatic flood forces shall be provided below flood protection elevation in
conformance with the provisions of subsections A8b(1) through A8b(6) of this
section.
An accessory structure with a footprint less than two hundred (200) square feet
and is a minimal investment of seven thousand five hundred dollars ($7,500.00)
or less and satisfies the criteria outlined in subsections B7a through B7g of
this section is not required to meet the elevation or floodproofing standards
of subsection B2 of this section.
      8.   Tanks: When gas and liquid storage tanks are to be placed within a
special flood hazard area, the following criteria shall be met:
         a.   Underground tanks in flood hazard areas shall be anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement resulting from hydrodynamic
and hydrostatic loads during conditions of the base flood, including the
effects of buoyancy (assuming the tank is empty);
         b.   Elevated above-ground tanks, in flood hazard areas shall be
attached to and elevated to or above the design flood elevation on a supporting
structure that is designed to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement
during conditions of the base flood. Tank-supporting structures shall meet the
foundation requirements of the applicable flood hazard area;
         c.   Not elevated above-ground tanks, that do not meet the elevation
requirements of subsection B2 of this section shall be permitted in flood
hazard areas provided the tanks are anchored or otherwise designed and
constructed to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads during conditions of the design flood,
including the effects of buoyancy assuming the tank is empty and the effects of
flood-borne debris.
         d.   Tank inlets, fill openings, outlets and vents shall be:
            (1)   At or above the flood protection elevation or fitted with
covers designed to prevent the inflow of floodwater or outflow of the contents
of the tanks during conditions of the base flood; and
            (2)   Anchored to prevent lateral movement resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy, during
conditions of the base flood.
      9.   Construction Of Below-Grade Crawlspace:
         a.   The interior grade of a crawlspace must not be below the BFE and
must not be more than two feet (2') below the exterior lowest adjacent grade
(LAG).
         b.   The height of the below-grade crawlspace, measured from the
interior grade of the crawlspace to the top of the crawlspace foundation wall,
must not exceed four feet (4') at any point.
         c.   There must be an adequate drainage system that removes
floodwaters from the interior area of the crawlspace. The enclosed area should
be drained within a reasonable time after a flood event.
         d.   The velocity of floodwaters at the site should not exceed five
feet (5') per second for any crawlspace.
      10.   Other Development In Regulated Floodways And Flood Fringe:
         a.   Fences that have the potential to block the passage of
floodwaters, such as stockade fences and wire mesh fences, in regulated
floodways and flood fringe shall meet the limitations of subsection E of this
section.
         b.   Retaining walls, bulkheads, sidewalks, and driveways that involve
the placement of fill in regulated floodways and flood fringe shall meet the
limitations of subsection E of this section.
         c.   Roads and watercourse crossings, including roads, bridges,
culverts, low-water crossings, and similar means for vehicles or pedestrians to
travel from one side of a watercourse to the other side, which encroach into
regulated floodways and flood fringe, shall meet the limitations of subsection
E of this section.
         d.   Drilling water, oil, and/or gas wells including fuel storage
tanks, apparatus, and any equipment at the site that encroach into regulated
floodways and flood fringe shall meet the limitations of subsection E of this
section.
         e.   Docks, piers, boat ramps, marinas, moorings, decks, docking
facilities, port facilities, shipbuilding, and ship repair facilities that
encroach into regulated floodways and flood fringe shall meet the limitations
of subsection E of this section.
         f.   Gravel and sand and their subsequent extraction on lands within
the special flood hazard area that encroach into regulated floodways and flood
fringe shall meet the limitations of subsection E of this section. A
Reclamation Plan bond for LOMR shall be posted by the mine/property owner with
Washington County, Idaho to cover the estimated costs of a Reclamation LOMR as
determined by the mine/property owner and shall provide supporting
documentation for the estimated LOMR cost. A Reclamation LOMR shall be
completed within one year of the completion of mining. Upon failure of the
property owner to obtain a Reclamation LOMR of the mining site within one year,
the Reclamation Plan bond for LOMR will be forfeited.
      11.   Subdivision Plats: Flood zones:
         a.   A note must be provided on the final plat documenting the current
flood zone in which the property or properties are located. The boundary line
must be drawn on the plat in situations where two (2) or more flood zones
intersect over the property or properties being surveyed.
FEMA FIRM panel(s): #160xxxxxxC, & 160xxxxxxE, etc.
FIRM effective date(s): mm/dd/year
Flood Zone(s): Zone X, Zone A, Zone AE, Zone AO, Zone, AH, Zone D, etc.
Base Flood Elevation(s): AE         .0 ft., etc.
Flood Zones are subject to change by FEMA & all land within a floodway or
floodplain is regulated by               chapter/section of the City/County
Code.
      12.   Critical Facilities: As a best practice, FEMA recommends protection
that exceeds code minimums. For example, FEMA 543, Design Guide for Improving
Critical Facility Safety From Flooding and High Winds (2007) recommends
protecting critical facilities to withstand at least a 0.2-percent-annual-
chance flood event (often called the "500-year flood event"). Flood elevations
for the 0.2-percent-annual-chance flood may be greater than the elevation
specified by ASCE 24. If Federal funding or other Federal action is involved,
the requirements of Executive Order 11988 - Floodplain Management may
necessitate protection of critical actions to the 500-year flood elevation
(critical actions may include the construction and repair of critical
facilities).
In existing facilities that have not been substantially damaged, it may not be
possible to floodproof or elevate to provide protection from the 0.2-percent-
annual-chance flood event. In those instances, floodproofing or elevating as
high as practical is recommended.
   C.   Standards For Floodplains Without Established Base Flood Elevations:
Within the special flood hazard areas designated as Zone A (also known as
unnumbered A Zones) and established in subsection
7-1-3B of this chapter, where no base flood elevation (BFE) data has been
provided by FEMA, the following provisions, in addition to the provisions of
subsection A of this section, shall apply:
The BFE used in determining the flood protection elevation (FPE) shall be
determined based on the following criteria:
      1.   When base flood elevation (BFE) data is available from other
sources, all new construction and substantial improvements within such areas
shall also comply with all applicable provisions of this chapter and shall be
elevated or floodproofed in accordance with standards in subsections A and B of
this section.
      2.   When floodway or flood fringe data is available from a Federal,
State, or other source, all new construction and substantial improvements
within floodway and flood fringe areas shall also comply with the requirements
of subsections B and E of this section.
      3.   All subdivision, manufactured home park, and other development
proposals shall provide base flood elevation (BFE) data if development is
greater than five (5) acres or has more than fifty (50) lots/manufactured home
sites. Such base flood elevation (BFE) data shall be adopted by reference in
accordance with subsection
7-1-3B of this chapter and utilized in implementing this chapter. The
applicant/developer shall submit an application for a Conditional Letter of Map
Revision (CLOMR) prior to preliminary plat approval and have obtained a Letter
of Map Revision (LOMR) prior to any building permits for structures being
issued.
      4.   When base flood elevation (BFE) data is not available from a
Federal, State, or other source as outlined above, the lowest floor shall be
elevated or floodproofed (non-residential) to two feet (2.0') above the highest
adjacent grade (HAG) at the building site or to the flood protection elevation
(FPE) whichever is higher, as defined in section
7-1-2 of this chapter. All other applicable provisions of subsection B of this
section shall also apply.
   D.   Standards For Riverine Floodplains With Base Flood Elevations But
Without Established Floodways Or Flood Fringe Areas: Along rivers and streams
where base flood elevation (BFE) data is provided by FEMA or is available from
another source but neither floodway nor flood fringe areas are identified for a
special flood hazard area on the FIRM or in the FIS report, the following
requirements shall apply to all development within such areas:
      1.   Standards of subsections A and B of this section; and
      2.   Until a regulatory floodway or flood fringe area is designated, no
encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial improvements, or
other development shall be permitted unless certification with supporting
technical data by a registered professional engineer is provided demonstrating
that the cumulative effect of the proposed development, when combined with all
other existing and anticipated development, will not increase the water surface
elevation of the base flood at any point within the community.
   E.   Standards For Floodways And AE Zones: Areas designated as floodways or
AE Zones are located within the special flood hazard areas established in
subsection
7-1-3B of this chapter. The floodways and AE Zones are extremely hazardous
areas due to the velocity of floodwaters that have erosion potential and carry
debris and potential projectiles. The following provisions, in addition to
standards outlined in subsections A and B of this section, shall apply to all
development within such areas:
      1.   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements, and other developments shall be permitted unless:
         a.   It is demonstrated that the proposed encroachment would not
result in any increase in the flood levels during the occurrence of the base
flood, based on hydrologic and hydraulic analyses performed in accordance with
standard engineering practice and presented to the Floodplain Administrator
prior to issuance of floodplain development permit; and
         b.   A Conditional Letter of Map Revision (CLOMR) has been approved by
FEMA. A Letter of Map Revision (LOMR) must also be obtained within six (6)
months of completion of the proposed encroachment.
      2.   If subsection E1 of this section is satisfied, all development shall
comply with all applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of this chapter.
      3.   Manufactured homes may be permitted provided the following
provisions are met:
         a.   The anchoring and the elevation standards of subsection B3 of
this section; and
         b.   The encroachment standards of subsection E1 of this section.
   F.   Standards For Areas Of Shallow Flooding (Zone AO, AH, AR/AO, Or AR/AH):
Located within the special flood hazard areas established in subsection
7-1-3B of this chapter, are areas designated as shallow flooding areas. These
areas have special flood hazards associated with base flood depths of one foot
(1') to three feet (3') where a clearly defined channel does not exist and
where the path of flooding is unpredictable and indeterminate. In addition to
subsections A and B of this section, all new construction and substantial
improvements shall meet the following requirements:
      1.   The lowest floor shall be elevated at least as high as the depth
number specified on the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM), in feet, plus a
freeboard of two feet (2'), above the highest adjacent grade; or at least four
feet (4') above the highest adjacent grade if no depth number is specified.
      2.   Non-residential structures may, in lieu of elevation, be
floodproofed to the same level as required in subsection F1 of this section so
that the structure, together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities,
below that level shall be watertight with walls substantially impermeable to
the passage of water and with structural components having the capability of
resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy.
Certification is required in accordance with subsections
7-1-4C3 of this chapter, and subsection B2 of this section.
      3.   Adequate drainage paths shall be provided around structures on
slopes to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed structures. (Ord. 82,
11-5-2018; amd. Ord. 92, 1-24-2022)
7-1-6: LEGAL STATUS PROVISIONS:
   A.   Effect On Rights And Liabilities Under The Existing Flood Damage
Prevention Ordinance: This chapter, in part, comes forward by re-enactment of
some of the provisions of the flood damage prevention ordinance enacted
February 19, 1987, as amended, and it is not the intention to repeal but rather
to re-enact and continue to enforce without interruption of such existing
provisions, so that all rights and liabilities that have accrued thereunder are
reserved and may be enforced. The enactment of this chapter shall not affect
any action, suit, or proceeding instituted or pending. All provisions of the
flood damage prevention ordinance of Washington County, Idaho enacted on
February 19, 1987, as amended, which are not reenacted herein are repealed.
   B.   Effect Upon Outstanding Floodplain Development Permits: Nothing herein
contained shall require any change in the plans, construction, size, or
designated use of any development or any part thereof for which a floodplain
development permit has been granted by the Floodplain Administrator or his or
her authorized agents before the time of passage of this chapter. Provided,
however, that when construction is not begun under such outstanding permit
within a period of one hundred eighty (180) days subsequent to the date of
issuance of the outstanding permit, construction or use shall be in conformity
with the provisions of this chapter.
   C.   Severability: This chapter is hereby declared to be severable. Should
any portion of this chapter be declared invalid by a court of competent
jurisdiction, the remaining provisions shall continue in full force and effect
and shall be read to carry out the purpose(s) of this chapter before the
declaration of partial invalidity.
   D.   Effective Date: This chapter shall become effective November 5, 2018.
(Ord. 82, 11-5-2018)
TITLE 8
POLICE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
ENTERTAINMENT ASSEMBLIES
SECTION:
8-1-1: Definitions
8-1-2: Compliance Required; Liability
8-1-3: Permit Required; Fees; Refunds and Rebates
8-1-4: Application for Permit
8-1-5: Conditioned Approval
8-1-6: Bond of Indemnity; Liability Insurance
8-1-7: Inspection of Premises
8-1-8: Permit to be Posted; Nontransferability
8-1-9: Restrictions on Operation
8-1-10: Prohibited Sales and Conduct; Crowd Limitation
8-1-11: Preservation of Order
8-1-12: Minimum Requirements; Nuisance Declared
8-1-13: Exclusions from Provisions
8-1-14: Violation and Penalties
8-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Chapter, the following terms and phrases shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this Section, unless context dictates otherwise:
 
                        Includes all assemblies of the public gathered either
                        indoors or outdoors for musical festivals, concerts and
ENTERTAINMENT ASSEMBLY: other musical entertainment; automobile racing,
                        motorcycle racing; horse racing; boat racing; other
                        racing events; and for other entertainment purposes.
HEALTH DEPARTMENT:      Means and refers to the Southwest District Health
                        Department and employees and representatives thereof.
                        Sheriff shall mean and refer to the Washington County
SHERIFF:                Sheriff, his duly authorized deputies and
                        representatives. (Ord. 1, 5-24-71, eff. 5-25-71; amd.
                        Ord. 89, 10-28-2021)
 
8-1-2: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED; LIABILITY:
It shall be unlawful for any person, corporation, organization, landowner or
lessor to allow, promote, conduct, permit or cause to be advertised an
entertainment assembly that said person, corporation, organization, landowner
or lessor believes or has reason to believe will attract four hundred (400) or
more persons, whether or not a charge or contribution is required for
admission, unless a completed application, in compliance with this Chapter, has
been submitted to the Clerk of the Board of County Commissioners for the
operation of said entertainment assembly. One such permit shall be required for
each entertainment assembly. Criminal or civil liability for failure to comply
with the provisions of this Chapter shall rest in all persons, corporations,
organizations, landowners or lessors who are responsible for obtaining permits
under this Chapter. (Ord. 1, 5-24-71, eff. 5-25-71; amd. Ord. 89, 10-28-2021)
8-1-3: PERMIT REQUIRED; FEES; REFUNDS AND REBATES:
No entertainment assembly shall be held in Washington County with the
anticipated attendance of four hundred (400) persons or more, outside the
limits of incorporated cities and towns, unless the person or corporation
sponsoring said entertainment assembly shall first obtain a permit as
hereinafter provided and shall comply with all regulations as herein provided.
The fee for said permit to cover the costs of inspecting facilities and issuing
and administering same prior to the event shall be in accordance with the
following schedule:
   400 to 1,000 persons reasonably anticipated to attend   $250.00
   1,000 or more persons reasonably anticipated to attend   $350.00
In the event that an application for a permit shall be withdrawn or denied, a
rebate or refund of the deposited fee may be allowed by the Board of County
Commissioners. If a request for rebate or refund is made by an applicant, any
affected agency or department may show expenses incurred with regard to the
particular application for permit. The Board of County Commissioners may deduct
such expenses from the deposited fee and rebate or refund to the applicant the
sum, if any, that may remain. (Ord. 1, 5-24-71, eff. 5-25-71; amd. Ord. 89, 10-
28-2021)
8-1-4: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
   A.   Application Procedure and Contents: Written application for each
entertainment assembly permit shall be made to the Clerk of the Board of
Washington County Commissioners thirty (30) or more days prior to the first day
upon which such entertainment assembly is to be or may be held by filing the
same with the Clerk of the Board of Washington County Commissioners. Said
application shall be signed by the person organizing and sponsoring said
assembly .
No person who has not reached the age of twenty one (21) years shall be
entitled to make application for permit or to sponsor an entertainment
assembly.
Each application shall state:
      1.   The names of all persons organizing, promoting or sponsoring said
assembly;
      2.   The dates, the number of days and the hours of the day of the
assembly;
      3.   The location to be utilized for said assembly; and
      4.   That the applicant or applicants will abide by all rules and
regulations of this Chapter and other regulations and law for the protection of
the health, morals and safety of the persons employed therein and for the
patrons or participants thereof and for the public. (Ord. 89, 10-28-2021)
8-1-5: CONDITIONED APPROVAL:
   A.   Submission of Application: Within five (5) days after the application
for said permit is made, the applicant shall submit a copy of the application,
together with other information as required by this Chapter, to the appropriate
affected agencies or departments as hereinafter enumerated. No permit shall be
issued, unless the respective agency or department has approved as to each
condition.
   B.   Preliminary Approval: When any type of physical facility is required or
subject to approval hereunder, preliminary approval may be granted based upon
specific plans proposed and submitted by the applicant. All such facilities
shall be in existence five (5) or more days before the event for which an
application is submitted and shall be subject to inspection by the approving
agencies or departments. Should the actual facility or construction fail to
meet the standards approved in the proposed plans, such preliminary approval
shall be withdrawn and any and all permits granted subject to such approval
shall be withdrawn. Said approval shall be on forms provided and shall be filed
with the Clerk of the District Court.
   C.   Conditions of Approval:
      1.   Sanitary Facilities: The Southwest District Health Department shall
have the responsibility for approving all sanitation and related facilities to
ensure that reasonable minimum standards have been or will be met by the
applicant. In this regard, the application must provide the Southwest District
Health Department with a sketch and other detailed information showing the
type, number and location or proposed location of all toilets, washing
facilities, water supply facilities, food preparation and food service
facilities.
Said approval by the Southwest District Health Department shall indicate the
number, type and location (when appropriate) of the toilet, washing and water
supply facilities. If food is to be served on the premises, approval must be
given as to the type of food preparation and food service facilities to be
provided.
      2.   Fire Protection Standards: No permit shall be granted hereunder,
unless the applicant has shown that the appropriate fire protection district
officer has approved fire protection devices and equipment available. Such
approval must extend to any building, tent, stadium or enclosure wherein or
whereupon more than ten (10) persons may be expected to congregate at any time
during the course of such entertainment, amusement or assembly for which a
permit is hereunder required, and to potentially flammable material in the
area, including but not limited to trees, grass and brush. If the site for
which the permit is applied is located outside a fire protection district, the
applicant must show approval from the office of the State Fire Marshal.
Approved minimum fire protection equipment for any type of motorized racing
event shall include three (3) five (5) pound CO2 fire extinguishers.
      3.   Medical Services: The local Emergency Medical Service (EMS) having
authority shall have responsibility for approving plans as to medical service
required for the entertainment assembly. Each entertainment assembly shall have
a minimum of one ambulance and a first aid station staffed by two (2) adult
individuals trained in first aid techniques. (Exception if within ten (10)
minutes of emergency medical services.)
All motorized racing events must have an ambulance with attendants present on
standby at the start of all races and during all races and time trials, or the
race or time must stop until the ambulance and attendants are present.
      4.   Public Safety: The applicant must submit his plan for public safety
at the entertainment assembly to the Sheriff for his approval.
         a.   Adequate traffic control and crowd protection policing must have
been contracted for or otherwise provided by the applicant. There shall be
provided one traffic control person for each two hundred fifty (250) persons
expected or reasonably expected to be in attendance at any time during the
event.
         b.   The applicant shall submit the names and necessary background
information on forms provided by the Sheriff for all traffic control and crowd
control personnel to be utilized during the entertainment assembly for
investigation by the Sheriff as to fitness. All such personnel must meet the
following minimum standards in order to be approved as suitable by the Sheriff:
            (1)   Be twenty one (21) through sixty five (65) years of age.
            (2)   Be in good physical health.
            (3)   Never have been convicted of a felony or misdemeanor
involving moral turpitude.
            (4)   Either have received reasonable minimum training in law
enforcement or have on the job experience in the law enforcement.
All of said policing personnel must wear an appropriate identifying uniform and
must be on duty during the entire entertainment assembly, unless a relief
schedule has been planned and approved. A relief schedule will be approved by
the Sheriff only when sufficient policing strength on duty has been maintained
to meet the above-described minimum strength standards.
It shall be the duty of said policing personnel to report any violations of the
law to the Sheriff, his deputies or representatives and to take whatever action
as can reasonably be expected of them to enforce the law.
      5.   Parking Facilities: The applicant shall provide the Sheriff with a
scale drawing showing adequate parking facilities have been made available
within or adjacent to the location for which the permit is requested. Such
parking facilities shall provide parking space for one vehicle for every four
(4) persons expected or reasonably to be expected to attend such event.
Adequate ingress and egress shall be provided from such parking area to
facilitate the movement of any vehicle at any time to or from the parking area.
Provided, that should buses be used to transport the public to said event, it
shall be shown that public parking or parking as described above is available
at any site from which buses are scheduled to pick up persons to transport them
to said event. (Ord. 1, 5-24-71, eff. 5-25-71; amd. Ord. 89, 10-28-2021)
8-1-6: BOND OF INDEMNITY; LIABILITY INSURANCE:
(On County property, access off county roads)
   A.   Bond of Indemnity: No permit shall be issued hereunder, unless the
applicant has on deposit with the Treasurer the following sum or bond as an
indemnity to save and protect the streets, pavements, bridges, road signs and
other property of the County from any and all damages that may be caused.
When attendance of 400 to 1,000 persons is reasonably anticipated   $ 5,000.00
When attendance over 1,000 persons is reasonably anticipated   $15,000.00
When attendance over 5,000 persons is reasonably anticipated   $25,000.00
When a dispute arises between the parties as to the number of persons
anticipated to attend, the decision of the Board of Commissioners thereon
establishing the amount of bond required and the permit fee shall be final and
controlling.
Provided, further, that should the licensed event require police, sanitary and/
or fire protection services in excess of services customarily supplied, such
added expense shall be recoverable from the principal and its surety out of the
cash on deposit and/or the bond. The deposit or its balance shall be returned
when the Board of County Commissioners certifies to the Treasurer that no
damage has been done and that the County did not incur additional expenses due
to said licensed event or that the cost of the above has been paid by the
permittee.
   B.   Liability Insurance: In addition, the permit applicants shall be
required to furnish evidence of liability insurance providing for a minimum of
one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) bodily injury coverage per person,
three hundred thousand dollars ($300,000.00) bodily injury coverage per
occurrence and one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) property damage
coverage, naming Washington County as an additional insured.
   C.   If the event is being held on County property the amount of liability
insurance required will be as follows: a minimum of one million dollars
($1,000,000.00) bodily injury coverage per person, three million dollars
($3,000,000.00) bodily injury coverage per occurrence and one million dollars
($1,000,000.00) property damage coverage, naming Washington County as an
additional insured. (Ord. 1, 5-24-71, eff. 5-25-71; amd. Ord. 89, 10-28-2021)
8-1-7: INSPECTION OF PREMISES:
The applicant shall, in writing upon the application for such permit, consent
to allow law enforcement, public health and fire control officers to come upon
the premises for which the permit has been granted for the purpose of
inspection and enforcement of the terms and conditions hereunder. (Ord. 1, 5-
24-71, eff. 5-25-71; amd. Ord. 89, 10-28-2021)
8-1-8: PERMIT TO BE POSTED; NONTRANSFERABILITY:
Any permit issued as herein provided shall be kept posted in a conspicuous
place upon the premises of said assembly. No permit shall be transferable or
assignable without the consent of the Board of County Commissioners. (Ord. 1,
5-24-71, eff. 5-25-71; amd. Ord. 89, 10-28-2021)
8-1-9: RESTRICTIONS ON OPERATION:
   A.   Location; Hours of Operation: No entertainment assembly shall be
conducted in the unincorporated areas of Washington County within one thousand
feet (1,000') of any residence between the hours of one minute after twelve
o'clock (12:01) A.M. and nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. and in all other areas
between the hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. (Ord.
89, 10-28-2021)
8-1-10: PROHIBITED SALES AND CONDUCT; CROWD LIMITATION:
   A.   Intoxicating Liquor Prohibited: No person conducting an entertainment
assembly nor any person having charge or control thereof, at any time when an
entertainment assembly is being conducted, shall permit any person to bring
into said entertainment assembly, or upon the premises thereof, any
intoxicating liquor nor permit intoxicating liquor to be consumed upon the
premises, and no person, during said time, shall take or carry onto said
premises or drink thereon intoxicating liquor. In accordance with Idaho
Statutes 1 , as amended, this provision shall not apply to the sale and
consumption of intoxicating liquor from a facility located on the premises of
an entertainment assembly when licensed by the State.
   B.   Narcotic and Dangerous Drugs Prohibited: No person conducting an
entertainment assembly nor any person having charge or control thereof, at any
time when an entertainment assembly is being conducted, shall permit any person
to bring into said entertainment assembly, or upon the premises thereof, any
narcotic or dangerous drug nor permit narcotic or dangerous drugs to be used on
the premises.
   C.   Crowd Limitation: If, at any time during said entertainment assembly,
the size of the crowd exceeds ten percent (10%) of the number of persons
expected to be in attendance, the Sheriff, or any of his deputies, shall
require the permittee or sponsor to limit further admissions until sanitation,
parking, fire, health, traffic, medical and crowd control requirements have
been brought into conformity with standards herein.
All entertainment assemblies operating without a permit under the terms of this
Chapter, due to the fact that less than four hundred (400) persons were
reasonably anticipated to attend, shall limit attendance therein to three
hundred ninety nine (399) persons. (Ord. 1, 5-24-71, eff. 5-25-71; amd. Ord.
89, 10-28-2021)
 
Notes
1 1. I.C. §23-901 et seq.
8-1-11: PRESERVATION OF ORDER:
The burden of preserving order shall be upon the operator of the entertainment
assembly. Any permit granted under this Chapter may be revoked at any time
without notice or formal hearing by the Board of County Commissioners and/or
the Sheriff upon their finding that any police, sanitary or fire rule or
regulation set forth in this Chapter and/or State law has been violated. The
revocation of any permit granted under this Chapter shall not preclude the
imposition of further penalties as provided for in this Chapter and State law.
(Ord. 1, 5-24-71, eff. 5-25-71; amd. Ord. 89, 10-28-2021)
8-1-12: MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS; NUISANCE DECLARED:
Compliance with the terms and conditions of this Chapter shall constitute
minimum health, sanitation and safety provisions, and failure to comply with
the terms and conditions of this Chapter and State law shall constitute a
public nuisance and shall be subject to all criminal, civil and equitable
remedies as such. (Ord. 1, 5-24-71, eff. 5-25-71; amd. Ord. 89, 10-28-2021)
8-1-13: EXCLUSIONS FROM PROVISIONS:
This Chapter shall not apply to any regularly organized and supervised school
district activity or program that takes place on school property nor to any
activity of a municipal corporation or government agency. A permit shall not be
required for nonrecurring assemblies of a duration not greater than one day nor
longer than five (5) hours during the day. However, no person shall conduct or
permit an entertainment assembly, as defined by this Chapter, unless notice, in
writing, of the event is filed with the Clerk of the Board of County
Commissioners at least ten (10) days prior to the event. Such notice shall
state the time, place, nature of the event and the names of the persons
responsible. (Ord. 1, 5-24-71, eff. 5-25-71; amd. Ord. 89, 10-28-2021)
8-1-14: VIOLATION AND PENALTIES:
Any person who shall violate or fail to comply with any provision of this
Chapter or who, having obtained a permit hereunder, wilfully failed to continue
to comply with the terms and conditions hereunder or who shall counsel, aid or
abet such a violation or failure to comply shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be punished, upon conviction, by imprisonment for not
more than six (6) months or by a fine of not more than three hundred dollars
($300.00) or both, pursuant to section 31-714, Idaho Code, as amended. A
failure from day to day to comply with this Chapter shall be a separate offense
for each such day. (Ord. 1, 5-24-71, eff. 5-25-71; amd. Ord. 89, 10-28-2021)
CHAPTER 2
MINORS
SECTION:
8-2-1: Runaway Children
8-2-1: RUNAWAY CHILDREN:
   A.   Short Title: This Section shall be known as an ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING
CONTROLS OVER CHILDREN UNDER THE AGE OF EIGHTEEN (18) YEARS CONCERNING RUNAWAY
CHILDREN IN WASHINGTON COUNTY, STATE OF IDAHO.
   B.   Running Away Unlawful: It shall be unlawful for any person under the
age of eighteen (18) years, living or found in Washington County to attempt to
run away or to run away from his parents, guardian or other legal custodian or
to be or remain a person who has run away from his parents, guardian or other
legal custodian or who commits or has committed any act or acts placing him
beyond the control of his parents, guardian or other legal custodian.
   C.   Abetting Runaways: It shall be unlawful for any person, by any act or
neglect, to encourage, aid or cause any person under the age of eighteen (18)
years to come within the purview of subsection B of this Section.
   D.   Penalties: Violation of this Section by a minor child shall bring said
child within the purview of the Youth Rehabilitation Act of the State 1 , and
violation of this Section by an adult shall be punishable by imprisonment in
the Washington County jail for a period not to exceed six (6) months or by a
fine not to exceed three hundred ($300.00) dollars or by both such imprisonment
and fine. (Ord. 5, 5-31-78)
 
Notes
1 1. I.C. §16-1801, et seq.
CHAPTER 3
LIQUOR BY THE DRINK AND BEER
SECTION:
8-3-1: Hours of Sales
8-3-1: HOURS OF SALES:
   A.   Liquor Sales: In Washington County, liquor sales, where previous
licenses have been issued, and in accordance with other applicable laws of the
Idaho Legislature currently in effect, sale of liquor by the drink on Sundays
is hereby allowed, and the hours of sale of liquor by the drink in Washington
County is hereby extended until two o'clock (2:00) A.M. (Ord. 19, 6-16-86, eff.
7-1-86)
   B.   Beer Sales: In Washington County, where previous licenses have been
issued, and in accordance with other applicable laws of the Idaho Legislature
currently in effect, the hours of sale of beer is hereby extended until two
o'clock (2:00) A.M. (Ord. 24, 6-29-87, eff. 7-1-87)
CHAPTER 4
FIREARMS
SECTION:
8-4-1: Unlawful Discharge Of Firearms
8-4-2: No Shooting Zones Established
8-4-1: UNLAWFUL DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS:
Any person who shall shoot or discharge a firearm within any "no shooting zone"
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and may be fined up to three hundred dollars
($300.00) and imprisoned in the Washington County Jail not to exceed six (6)
months or both except as set out in Idaho Code section 18-3302J. (Ord. 78, 2-
16-2016)
8-4-2: NO SHOOTING ZONES ESTABLISHED:
Shooting or discharging a firearm is prohibited in the following areas declared
to be "no shooting zones" except as set out in Idaho Code section 18-3302J:
(Ord. 78, 2-16-2016)
   A.   That portion of Mann Creek recreation area more particularly described
as follows:
All lands at the north end of Mann Creek reservoir that lie between Mann Creek
and the Mann Creek Road, from the designated campground and access road north
to the signed Mann Creek recreation area boundary.
All lands comprising the eastern shore of Mann Creek reservoir and adjoining
uplands between the water's edge and the Mann Creek Road.
The eastern face of Mann Creek reservoir dam and all contiguous lands lying
between Mann Creek Road and Mann Creek, and east approximately one-fourth (1/4)
mile to the Mann Creek recreation area boundary fence.
All lands on the southern end of Mann Creek reservoir between the water's edge
and the Monroe Creek Road.
All lands within three hundred feet (300') of designated camping sites, day use
area, and access roads. (Ord. 54, 10-4-2004)
CHAPTER 5
WATERWAYS
SECTION:
8-5-1: Swimming At Mann Creek Reservoir
8-5-2: Boats On Mann Creek Reservoir
8-5-3: Violation
8-5-1: SWIMMING AT MANN CREEK RESERVOIR:
Swimming within one hundred feet (100') of the boat launch ramps at Mann Creek
reservoir is prohibited. (Ord. 60, 7-31-2006)
8-5-2: BOATS ON MANN CREEK RESERVOIR:
All motorboats operated on Mann Creek reservoir shall do so in a
counterclockwise direction around the reservoir. (Ord. 60, 7-31-2006)
8-5-3: VIOLATION:
Violations of these provisions shall be an infraction punishable by a fine of
twenty dollars fifty cents ($20.50) plus court costs. (Ord. 60, 7-31-2006)
CHAPTER 6
GENERAL OFFENSES
SECTION:
8-6-1: Transportation Of Solid Waste
8-6-1: TRANSPORTATION OF SOLID WASTE:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to transport solid
waste upon the roadways open to the public within Washington County, Idaho, in
an open vehicle. All waste shall be transported within a closed vehicle or be
secured within a vehicle by a tarp or cover to prevent scattering, blowing, or
loss of waste during transportation. Individual containers shall be covered by
a tarp or cover to prevent loss of container lids or debris during transit.
   B.   Violations of this section shall be a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine
not to exceed three hundred dollars ($300.00) for each violation. (Ord. 61, 8-
7-2006)
CHAPTER 7
FIREWORKS REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-7-1: Sale; Use; Possession
8-7-2: Penalty
8-7-3: Liability For Emergency Response
8-7-1: SALE; USE; POSSESSION:
All fireworks sold, stored, possessed or used within Washington County must be
sold, stored, possessed or used in accordance with Idaho Code, title 39,
chapter 26. (Ord. 73, 6-9-2014)
8-7-2: PENALTY:
Any violation of this chapter shall result in a misdemeanor under Idaho Code
39-2613. (Ord. 73, 6-9-2014)
8-7-3: LIABILITY FOR EMERGENCY RESPONSE:
   A.   A person who uses, discharges or ignites fireworks is liable for the
expenses of any emergency response that is required by such use, discharge or
ignition. The fact that a person is convicted or found responsible for
violation(s) of this chapter is prima facie liability under this section.
   B.   The expenses of an emergency response are a charge against the person
(s) liable for those expenses pursuant to subsection A of this section. The
charge constitutes a debt of that person and may be collected proportionately
by the public agencies or other first responders that incurred the expenses.
The liability imposed under this section is in addition to, and not in
limitation of, any other liability that may be imposed. (Ord. 73, 6-9-2014)
CHAPTER 8
TOW POLICY
SECTION:
8-8-1: Definitions
8-8-2: Driving Tow Truck To Scene Of Accident
8-8-3: Soliciting Tow Business At Scene Prohibited
8-8-4: Response To Certain Private Calls Prohibited
8-8-5: Certain Remuneration Or Consideration Prohibited
8-8-6: Dispatch
8-8-7: Licensee Responsibilities
8-8-8: License Required; Expiration Date; Location
8-8-9: License Application; Inspections; Issuance
8-8-10: Random Inspections; Violations; Suspensions; Revocations; Hearings
8-8-11: Tow Truck Specifications And Capabilities
8-8-12: Fees For Law Enforcement Towing
8-8-13: Requirements And Operating Procedures For Emergency Tow Companies
8-8-14: Use As Emergency Vehicle Prohibited
8-8-15: Penalties
8-8-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms will have the following meanings:
ACCIDENT: Any occurrence in Washington County which results in a wrecked or
disabled vehicle, and which results in either the injury or death of any
person, or damage to property of any one person in excess of one thousand five
hundred dollars ($1,500.00), or both.
BUSINESS DAY: Monday through Friday excluding holidays declared by the board of
Washington County commissioners.
DISABLED VEHICLE: A vehicle which has been abandoned or rendered unsafe to be
driven as the result of some occurrence other than an accident including, but
not limited to: a) mechanical failures or breakdowns; b) fire; c) vandalism; d)
a vehicle which is in a safe driving condition, but the owner is not present,
able or permitted to drive; or e) any other occurrence which reasonably
necessitates removal of the vehicle by a tow truck.
DISPATCH: The person or persons in the Washington County sheriff's office
assigned by the sheriff to route law enforcement agency calls for tow truck
service by the use of tow truck rotation list.
EMERGENCY TOW COMPANY: A company to whom a law enforcement towing license has
been issued.
IMPOUND OFFICER: Any employee designated by the Washington County sheriff to
handle law enforcement towing duties.
LAW ENFORCEMENT TOW: Provision of a tow truck to the owner of a wrecked or
disabled vehicle by dispatch when a law enforcement agency has become involved.
LICENSEE: A person licensed to engage in law enforcement towing as called to do
so from time to time by dispatch.
OWNER: A person who holds legal title to a vehicle, or who has legal right of
possession of a vehicle, or legal right of control of a vehicle.
PERSON: An individual, assumed name entity, proprietorship, partnership, joint
venture, association, corporation, or other legal entity.
TOW TRUCK: A vehicle designed to be used primarily for removing wrecked or
disabled vehicles from any street.
TOW TRUCK ROTATION LIST: A list of qualified and licensed tow companies
maintained by dispatch and which is used to determine the priority of the tow
truck to be dispatched to the scene of a law enforcement directed tow. Only
those businesses which have been inspected and licensed and have tow truck and
tow truck driver located within Washington County shall be on the rotation
list. The business must also conform to subsection
8-8-8B of this chapter.
WASHINGTON COUNTY: That area which is within the jurisdiction of the board of
Washington County commissioners.
WRECKED VEHICLE: A vehicle that has been damaged as the result of overturning
or colliding with another vehicle or object so as to reasonably necessitate the
vehicle be removed by a tow truck. (Ord. 74, 7-28-2014)
8-8-2: DRIVING TOW TRUCK TO SCENE OF ACCIDENT:
No person may knowingly drive a tow truck, licensed or unlicensed, to the scene
of any accident in Washington County unless the tow truck has been called to
the scene by dispatch. (Ord. 74, 7-28-2014)
8-8-3: SOLICITING TOW BUSINESS AT SCENE PROHIBITED:
No person may solicit in any manner, directly or indirectly, at the scene of a
law enforcement tow in Washington County, the business of towing, removing,
repairing, wrecking, storing, trading, or purchasing a vehicle. (Ord. 74, 7-28-
2014)
8-8-4: RESPONSE TO CERTAIN PRIVATE CALLS PROHIBITED:
A tow truck shall not knowingly respond to a private request for towing service
within the county when an accident is involved. A tow truck may respond to a
private request for towing service to a disabled vehicle not involved in an
accident, or to a private request for other towing services not requiring the
involvement of a law enforcement agency; provided, however, if upon arrival on
the scene, a licensee discovers an accident is involved, the licensee shall
immediately notify dispatch. (Ord. 74, 7-28-2014)
8-8-5: CERTAIN REMUNERATION OR CONSIDERATION PROHIBITED:
Emergency tow companies are prohibited from soliciting or accepting any
remuneration or consideration of any type from any repair shop, garage or other
repair facility given for the purpose of influencing such emergency tow
company's decision as to where a disabled or wrecked vehicle should be taken
for repair. It shall be a rebuttable presumption that any such remuneration or
consideration was given for the purpose of influencing said decision. (Ord. 74,
7-28-2014)
8-8-6: DISPATCH:
If a law enforcement officer determines a tow truck is needed at the scene of a
law enforcement tow for a wrecked or disabled vehicle, dispatch shall call
either the towing service, whether licensed or unlicensed, indicated to the law
enforcement officer by the express preference of the owner, or, if the owner
does not of his or her own initiative expressly request a particular towing
service, the next available emergency tow company from either the Weiser city
tow rotation, county south tow rotation, or the county north tow rotation will
be called. The Weiser city tow rotation will be used for any emergency tows
inside the Weiser city limits. The county south rotation will be used for any
emergency tows south of Highway 95, milepost 99. The county north rotation will
be used for any emergency tows north of Highway 95, milepost 99. Dispatch shall
indicate to the emergency tow company the color, year, make, body and general
condition of the vehicle to be towed. Based on the information provided, the
tow company shall provide all necessary towing equipment. In the interest of
public health and safety the on scene law enforcement officer has the
discretion to dispatch the closest emergency tow service from any rotation
list. (Ord. 74, 7-28-2014)
8-8-7: LICENSEE RESPONSIBILITIES:
Tow truck companies licensed to perform law enforcement towing are responsible
for wrecked and disabled vehicles and the contents therein, from the time of on
scene pick up until the vehicle is removed from licensee's premises or is
otherwise released from licensee's custody and control. Any damage or loss to
said vehicle or contents while in the custody and control of licensee is the
sole responsibility of licensee and Washington County assumes no liability for
any such loss or damage. (Ord. 74, 7-28-2014)
8-8-8: LICENSE REQUIRED; EXPIRATION DATE; LOCATION:
   A.   No person may provide law enforcement towing inside the county without
first obtaining a law enforcement towing license. The license issued to an
emergency tow company authorizes the licensee and all its bona fide employees
to engage in dispatched law enforcement towing from the tow truck rotation
list. Only one license may be issued to each emergency tow company owner, and a
tow company owner can have no more than one tow company on the tow truck
rotation list at any point in time. Licensed tow companies may not subcontract
with other towing agencies, licensed or unlicensed, for the provision of law
enforcement towing services. Applications for law enforcement towing licenses
may be obtained at the Washington County sheriff's office beginning on May 1 of
each year, and all completed applications must be received by the Washington
County sheriff no later than May 31 of each year. Applications which have not
been completed will not be accepted. Tow service inspections for the upcoming
licensing year shall be conducted by the Washington County sheriff's office
during June of each year. All such licenses shall expire on June 30 of the
following calendar year. The fee for said license shall be set by resolution of
the Washington County board of commissioners.
   B.   Licensees shall maintain a permanent and established place of business
within Washington County, and shall promptly notify the Washington County
sheriff of any change of address. (Ord. 74, 7-28-2014)
8-8-9: LICENSE APPLICATION; INSPECTIONS; ISSUANCE:
   A.   Contents Of Application: A person desiring to obtain a Washington
County law enforcement towing license shall lodge with the Washington County
sheriff a written application upon a form provided for that purpose, which must
be signed by the applicant or his authorized agent. The following information
shall be required in the application:
      1.   Owner name, address to which all official correspondence may be
sent, telephone number and signature.
      2.   Company name, address and telephone number.
      3.   Number and types of tow trucks to be operated.
      4.   A statement as to whether or not the applicant wishes to participate
in the tow truck rotation list.
      5.   A copy of the applicant's public liability insurance policy.
      6.   A description of the applicant's impound yard and its location and
any available storage buildings and security equipment.
      7.   A copy of a valid driver's license of any person who may operate a
tow truck. This subsection places upon the licensee a continuing duty to
provide copies of valid driver's licenses.
   B.   Inspections: Upon the lodging of the application, the impound officer
shall direct the applicant to appear for an inspection of the tow truck(s) at a
time and place to be determined by the impound officer. The impound officer
shall conduct an inspection of the tow truck(s) and the business premises of
the applicant annually upon application renewal, and as necessary, to determine
if each tow truck and emergency tow company complies with this chapter.
   C.   Action On Application: The impound officer may, at any time, in his or
her discretion, require additional information from an applicant to clarify
items on the application. Failure to cooperate with the impound officer's
request for additional information may result in the denial of a license. Upon
completion of the processing of the application, the impound officer shall
forward the application and the impound officer's recommendation to the sheriff
for action thereon. This section shall not be deemed as placing any liability
upon Washington County or the Washington County sheriff's office. The county of
Washington shall have no liability under any theory of liability, for
permitting tow trucks to be operated on roads. Any person or company who
operates a tow truck is responsible for procuring liability insurance
sufficient to cover any foreseeable risk.
   D.   Issuance: The sheriff shall, within thirty (30) days of receipt of an
application for a law enforcement towing license, either approve or deny said
application. The sheriff shall issue a law enforcement towing license if the
sheriff finds that the emergency tow company meets the requirements of this
chapter. The sheriff shall refuse to issue or reissue a license if the sheriff
finds that the emergency tow company does not meet the requirements of this
chapter. Upon issuance of a license, the tow company owner shall be provided
inspection stickers for each vehicle which passes the required inspection.
Annual inspection stickers must be displayed on the driver's side windshield of
each licensed tow truck. If at any time during the license year, an emergency
tow company violates the requirements of this chapter, the license may be
suspended or revoked in accordance with this chapter.
   E.   Wrecker Service Responsibilities: Wrecker service will operate under
one name and upon sale, merger, or closing of companies, the wrecker service
will notify the impound officer of such activity. Failure to do so may be
grounds for dismissal or suspension pursuant to section
8-8-10 of this chapter. (Ord. 74, 7-28-2014)
8-8-10: RANDOM INSPECTIONS; VIOLATIONS; SUSPENSIONS; REVOCATIONS; HEARINGS:
   A.   Inspections: Any Washington County sheriff's deputy or the impound
officer is authorized to conduct random equipment and safety inspections of any
tow truck company licensed to conduct law enforcement tows.
   B.   Violations And Temporary Suspensions: The following violations shall
result in a written warning by the impound officer. Any repeat(s) of the same
violation shall result in an immediate temporary suspension from the tow truck
rotation list for a period not to exceed three (3) days. More than three (3)
repeats of the same violation shall result in the imposition of a license
revocation or suspension of more than three (3) days of licensee's law
enforcement tow license in accordance with subsection C of this section.
      1.   Failure to notify dispatch that tow company's on scene arrival time
will exceed thirty (30) minutes.
      2.   Failure to have the required equipment for each operating tow truck
and to have such equipment in good operating condition.
      3.   Use of magnetic striping/signage on tow trucks.
      4.   Charging tow customers in excess of the tow rates established by the
Washington County board of commissioners for law enforcement tows.
      5.   Subcontracting law enforcement tows through other tow companies,
licensed or unlicensed.
      6.   Failing to comply with subsection
8-8-9A7 of this chapter.
      7.   Failure of any licensee or driver to obey a lawful order of a
sheriff's deputy or other police officer at the scene of an event wherein a tow
truck driver has been requested by Washington County sheriff's office or any
other police agency.
   C.   License Suspensions And Revocations: If the impound officer finds that
any of the following violations have been committed, the impound officer shall
issue an immediate twenty four (24) hour suspension of the licensee's law
enforcement tow license, and make a recommendation to the sheriff or his
designee for revocation or suspension of said law enforcement tow license for
more than three (3) days:
      1.   Failure to respond to a dispatch request for a law enforcement tow
more than two (2) times in any calendar month.
      2.   Driving a tow truck to the scene of an accident without having been
requested to the scene by dispatch.
      3.   The solicitation of tow truck business by any licensee or employee
or agent of licensee at the scene of a law enforcement tow.
      4.   The failure to report an accident to dispatch for which a law
enforcement tow is required.
      5.   The solicitation or accepting of any remuneration or consideration
of any type by any licensee, employee or agent of a licensee, from any garage,
or repair shop or facility, for the purpose of influencing such licensee's
decision as to where a disabled or wrecked vehicle should be taken for repair.
      6.   Allowing the lapse or cancellation of the tow business insurance
required by this chapter.
   D.   Notice Of Intent: Within five (5) days of the impound officer's
recommendation, if the sheriff or his designee finds good cause that a
violation of subsection C of this section has occurred, the sheriff shall issue
a notice of intent to suspend or revoke a law enforcement towing license. Said
notice shall provide a general description of the alleged violation(s) and the
date(s) of the alleged violations. Depending on the nature and extent of the
violation(s), the sheriff, in his sole discretion, may permit licensee to
resume law enforcement towing pending any hearing on the matter.
   E.   Right To Hearing: A licensee shall have the right to a hearing prior to
the revocation or suspension of more than three (3) days of its law enforcement
towing license, in accordance with the procedures set forth in subsection F of
this section. If the licensee does not request a hearing, or does not follow
the procedures for requesting a hearing, said decision to suspend or revoke the
license shall be final, and shall be effective fifteen (15) days from the date
of the notice of intent. Any suspension shall be for a length of time as
determined by the sheriff, and any revocation shall be for the remainder of the
current licensing year.
   F.   Hearing Procedures: A licensee may request a hearing before the sheriff
or his designee prior to the suspension for more than three (3) days or
revocation of a law enforcement towing license, in accordance with the
procedures set forth in this section.
      1.   A licensee desiring such a hearing shall, within fifteen (15) days
of the date of the notice of intent to suspend or revoke a law enforcement
towing license, file a written request for hearing with the Washington County
sheriff, together with a statement setting forth the factual basis and reasons
for licensee's appeal of the decision. A copy of the request for hearing shall
also be delivered to the impound officer.
      2.   The sheriff or his designee shall conduct an informal public hearing
within thirty (30) days after a request for hearing has been filed. The
licensee and the sheriff may be represented by an attorney. The licensee will
be afforded the opportunity to present evidence and testimony. The licensee
shall have no right to cross examine or confront witnesses, except in the
discretion of the sheriff, nor shall the Idaho rules of evidence apply to such
hearings. In the sheriff's discretion, the record of any such hearing may be
held open for a period of time, not to exceed seven (7) days, for the receipt
of additional evidence.
      3.   The sheriff or his designee shall issue a written decision within
ten (10) days after the hearing. A copy of the decision shall be mailed or made
available to all interested parties. A record of said hearing and decision
shall remain in the custody of the sheriff. (Ord. 74, 7-28-2014)
8-8-11: TOW TRUCK SPECIFICATIONS AND CAPABILITIES:
   A.   Compliance: Each emergency tow company shall comply with all safety
provisions, rules and regulations required to be observed by motor carriers,
and, in addition thereto, shall comply with the requirements of this chapter.
   B.   Equipment: Each tow truck shall be equipped with only those winches and
booms that have been produced and constructed by a manufacturer of such
equipment that regularly produces winches and tow equipment of guaranteed
quality and be used with the size tow truck for the class for which the
equipment is designed. All related equipment shall be commensurate with the
total rating of booms or other towing devices.
   C.   Wrecker Service Name And Phone Number Displayed: Wrecker service is
required to have name of company and working phone number displayed on tow
vehicle.
   D.   Wrecker Service Inspection Permit Displayed: Wrecker service will
display annual inspection permit in a visible place, securely affixed to the
back window glass not to obstruct driver's view. (Ord. 74, 7-28-2014)
8-8-12: FEES FOR LAW ENFORCEMENT TOWING:
Fees for services provided by licensed emergency tow companies pursuant to this
chapter shall be set by resolution of the board of Washington County
commissioners. (Ord. 74, 7-28-2014)
8-8-13: REQUIREMENTS AND OPERATING PROCEDURES FOR EMERGENCY TOW COMPANIES:
Tow companies licensed to perform law enforcement tows must:
   A.   Maintain twenty four (24) hour towing service, available seven (7) days
per week, with the dispatch of such service to be from base stations or an
answering service.
   B.   Not refuse to provide a law enforcement tow more than two (2) times in
any calendar month.
   C.   Arrive at the accident within a reasonable time after having been
notified to do so by dispatch. Such response time shall not exceed thirty (30)
minutes unless approved by the deputy or officer on scene.
   D.   Maintain a tow truck and tow truck driver, at all times, within
Washington County.
   E.   Maintain its own separate locked, lighted and secured impound lot
bordered by a chainlink, steel, or concrete fence not less than six feet (6')
in height; provided further that said lot shall be insured for fire, theft, and
vandalism of the vehicles stored therein and further, shall be open for
business not less than from nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. to five o'clock (5:00)
P.M. during business days. An agent of the emergency tow company must be
available by phone and able to respond to the premises to conduct the business
of the tow company during the above stated days and hours.
   F.   The Washington County sheriff's office shall conduct an inventory of
all items contained in or on an impounded vehicle to be towed, on a form
provided by the Washington County sheriff, the completion of said inventory
form to be witnessed and initialed by a tow company driver on the scene. All
items inventoried which are not taken to sheriff's property, shall remain in
the custody and control of the licensee until released to the owner. If any
item(s) is of an estimated value of one hundred dollars ($100.00) or more, and
cannot be secured in the vehicle, the property shall be taken to sheriff's
property and a property invoice left in the vehicle or given to the vehicle
owner, if the owner is available, at the time the vehicle is impounded.
   G.   When authorized by the law enforcement agency, deliver, in every
instance, the wrecked or disabled vehicle to either a location of the owner's
choice or the tow company's impound lot. An itemized statement of charges shall
be provided to the vehicle owner upon request.
   H.   Report to the impound officer immediately all changes in tow trucks and
equipment used in the licensee's law enforcement towing service and make all
additional vehicles and equipment available for inspection by the impound
officer. A tow truck which has not been inspected by the impound officer is not
allowed to participate in the tow truck rotation list.
   I.   Before leaving the site of an accident, completely remove all resulting
wreckage or debris, including all broken glass.
   J.   Maintain two-way communications on a twenty four (24) hour basis with
the company's tow trucks.
   K.   Meet the following insurance requirements:
      1.   At their sole expense, tow companies shall procure and maintain in
full force and effect, insurance written by an insurance company or companies
with Best's rating(s) of A VIII or better. All insurance companies must be
authorized to do business in the state of Idaho. By requiring insurance herein,
Washington County does not represent that coverage and/or limits are
necessarily adequate to protect the tow company and such coverage and/or limits
shall not be deemed as a limitation on the tow company's liability under the
indemnities granted to Washington County through this license.
      2.   Certificates of insurance evidencing the coverage required herein
shall be provided to Washington County prior to performing any towing services
for Washington County. All certificates must be signed by an authorized
representative of the tow company's insurance carrier and must state that the
issuing company, its agents, or representatives will provide Washington County
thirty (30) days' written notice prior to any policies being canceled. Renewal
certificates must be provided to Washington County within thirty (30) days
after the effective date of the renewal.
      3.   Certificates shall be mailed to:
Washington County Sheriff's Office
262 E. Court St.
Weiser, ID 83672
      4.   Certificates must evidence the following minimum coverage:
         a.   Workers' compensation insurance meeting the statutory
requirements of the state of Idaho.
         b.   Employers' liability insurance providing limits of liability in
the following amounts:
 
Bodily injury by accident $100,000.00 each accident
Bodily injury by disease  500,000.00 policy limit
Bodily injury by disease  100,000.00 each employee
 
         c.   Garage liability insurance providing limits of liability in the
following amounts:
 
Auto only, each accident            $1,000,000.00
Other than auto only, each accident 1,000,000.00
Other than auto only, aggregate     1,000,000.00
 
The garage liability policy shall be written on a standard ISO policy form, or
an equivalent form, providing coverage for liability arising from garage
operations including premises, operations, completed operations, personal
injury, advertising injury, and liability assumed under an insured contract
(including tort liability of another assumed in a contract). Auto coverage must
show symbols 27, 28, and 29 or a separate business automobile liability policy
also must be purchased.
Alternatively, tow companies may produce a certificate of insurance evidencing
commercial general liability insurance providing limits of liability in the
following amounts:
 
General aggregate                         $1,000,000.00
Product/completed operations aggregate    1,000,000.00
Personal and advertising injury aggregate 1,000,000.00
Per occurrence                            1,000,000.00
Fire legal liability                      50,000.00
 
The commercial general liability ("CGL") insurance policy shall be written on
an "occurrence" form and shall cover liability arising from premises,
operations, independent contractors, products, completed operations, personal
injury, advertising injury, and liability assumed under an insured contract
(including tort liability of another assumed in a contract).
         d.   Business automobile liability insurance (required only if symbols
27, 28, and 29 are not shown for garage liability) providing bodily injury and
property damage liability coverage for not less than one million dollars
($1,000,000.00) each accident limit. Business automobile liability insurance
shall be written on a standard ISO policy form, or an equivalent form,
providing coverage for liability arising out of owned, hired, or nonowned
vehicles in connection with this agreement.
         e.   Garage keeper's liability insurance providing legal liability
coverage, including comprehensive and collision, of not less than one hundred
thousand dollars ($100,000.00) per location for customers' autos or auto
equipment while the licensee is attending, servicing, repairing, parking or
storing the customer's auto or auto equipment.
         f.   On hook/cargo insurance providing coverage for customers' autos
while being towed or transported by the tow company with limits in the
following amounts:
 
Light or medium duty truck $ 50,000.00
Heavy duty truck           100,000.00
Extra heavy duty truck     250,000.00
 
      5.   Washington County and its elected officials, agents, employees,
successors and assigns shall be named as additional insured under all policies
except workers' compensation and employers' liability.
   L.   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as obligating the emergency
tow company to transport a disabled or wrecked vehicle when weather or road
conditions make it impractical, impossible or dangerous to the operator.
   M.   Upon application for licensing, wrecker services with a distance
greater than ten (10) miles from city jurisdiction will be exempt from Weiser
police directed tows. (Ord. 74, 7-28-2014)
8-8-14: USE AS EMERGENCY VEHICLE PROHIBITED:
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to permit operation of a tow truck
as an authorized emergency vehicle. (Ord. 74, 7-28-2014)
8-8-15: PENALTIES:
Any person violating the provisions of sections
8-8-2,
8-8-3 and/or
8-8-4 of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction thereof shall be punished as provided by Idaho Code section 18-113
as it may from time to time be amended and/or retitled. (Ord. 74, 7-28-2014)
CHAPTER 9
ANIMAL CONTROL REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-9-1: Definitions
8-9-2: Barking Dogs
8-9-3: Dogs Running At Large
8-9-4: Female Dogs In Heat Must Be Confined
8-9-5: Penalty
8-9-1: DEFINITIONS:
AT LARGE: Means off the premises of the owner and not under the control of the
owner or a member of his immediate family, either by leash, cord, chain, or
under reasonable control of some competent person.
DOG: Means members of the canine species, both male and female. (Ord. 85, 5-20-
2019)
8-9-2: BARKING DOGS:
It is a violation of this Code to harbor, house or kennel any dog which barks,
yelps or howls in any way that disturbs the peace of a neighbor. Such behavior
is considered a disturbance of the peace and the owner of the animal can be
cited for maintaining a public nuisance. (Ord. 85, 5-20-2019)
8-9-3: DOGS RUNNING AT LARGE:
As stated in Idaho Code 25-2805, it is unlawful to allow an at large dog to run
across cultivated areas, gardens, lawns or any property not belonging to the
owner of the dog. (Ord. 85, 5-20-2019)
8-9-4: FEMALE DOGS IN HEAT MUST BE CONFINED:
Female dogs in heat must be kenneled, penned or confined in such a way as to
preclude them from attracting other dogs and potentially causing a public
nuisance. (Ord. 85, 5-20-2019)
8-9-5: PENALTY:
Any violation of this chapter or failure to comply with the requirements of any
part thereof shall result in the following penalties. The first violation will
result in a written warning and copy of said warning will be kept on file at
the Sheriff's Office. Second violation will result in an infraction punishable
by a fine of twenty five dollars ($25.00). Third violation will result in a
misdemeanor punishable by a fine of not more than three hundred dollars
($300.00) or up to six (6) months in the County Jail or both. Each day a
violation continues is considered a separate offense. (Ord. 85, 5-20-2019)
CHAPTER 10
OPEN BURNING
SECTION:
8-10-1: Definitions
8-10-2: Prohibition Of Open Burning, Enforcement And Procedures
8-10-1: DEFINITIONS:
BURN BAN: The term "burn ban" as used under this chapter shall mean any non-
exempt open burning, fire ignition or maintaining shall be prohibited between
June 1st and October 20th of each year. A County burn ban does not apply to the
exemptions listed under subsection
8-10-2 of this chapter.
FIRE PIT: The term "fire pit" as used under this chapter shall mean an
excavation of approximately sixteen inches (16") in depth in the ground;
surrounded with rocks, stones, bricks, or other non-flammable objects, that
protrude at least six inches (6") above the undisturbed ground level; located
in an area kept clear of trees, brush, and tall grasses; and with the excavated
soil kept nearby, along with a shovel, for the purpose of fire suppression or
extinguishment.
OPEN BURNING: The term "open burning" as used under this chapter shall mean
igniting or maintaining a fire outside of an enclosed building, dwelling
structure, or completely enclosed heating or cooking appliance, which shall be
defined as any outdoor fire, including but not limited to campfires, warming
fires, charcoal grill fires, fused explosives, out-of-season ground fireworks
(e.g., "firecrackers" or "roman candles"), as defined by Idaho Code title 39
chapter 26 - Fireworks, any special or aerial fireworks (e.g., "bottle
rockets") as defined by Idaho Code section 39-2602, firing of model rockets,
exposure to flame of any flammable, inflammable, combustible, or explosive
material or container (e.g., propane tanks, batteries, tires, or homemade
explosives), shall not apply to charcoal grill fires at private residences,
wild lands, trash and debris; but shall not apply to commercial fireworks as
permitted by Idaho Code section 39-2605, shall not apply to in-season fireworks
as permitted by Idaho Code section 39-2606, and shall not apply to permanent
fire pits (as defined herein) or fire grates located on private property,
developed picnic grounds, or campgrounds on public and private lands within the
County.
UNATTENDED: The term "unattended" as used under this chapter shall mean the
neglect of any outdoor fire by a lack of supervision, abandonment by the party
responsible for igniting the fire, or failure to use reasonable and proper fire
management precautions. Any failure to completely and fully extinguish all
flames, embers, coals, sparks, or hot spots such that they cannot reignite
shall be considered neglect and be "unattended" as defined herein.
UNCONTROLLED: The term "uncontrolled" as used under this chapter shall mean any
outdoor fire that is out of control; which is not burning within the confines
of cleared firebreaks; or that cannot be suppressed or extinguished with the
resources or ordinary tools commonly available to the responsible party. The
uncontrolled state of an outdoor fire may result from any intentional,
negligent, or accidental circumstance. (Ord. 83, 1-28-2019)
8-10-2: PROHIBITION OF OPEN BURNING, ENFORCEMENT AND PROCEDURES:
   A.   Open Burning Prohibited; Violations; Penalties:
      1.   Any expenses incurred by the County, any Fire District, or other
government entity, in combating, suppressing, and/or extinguishing any fire
resulting from a violation of this chapter shall be assessed to and borne by
any and all responsible parties.
      2.   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to limit any expense,
penalty, or liability assessed by any other local, State, or Federal
governmental agency.
      3.   A violation of any of the provisions of this chapter shall be a
misdemeanor, punishable by a fine not exceeding one thousand dollars
($1,000.00), or by imprisonment in the County Jail not exceeding six (6)
months, or both.
   B.   Exemptions: This chapter shall not apply to open burning under the
following circumstances. If any exemptions stated in this section conflict with
the definitions in section
8-10-1 of this chapter, the exemption shall be allowed.
      1.   For otherwise permitted agricultural purposes.
      2.   Engaged in pursuant to a permit or license issued by any other
local, State or Federal governmental agency of competent jurisdiction.
      3.   Engaged in by any employee, contractor or agent of any local, State
or Federal governmental agency in the course of performance of their official
duties or employment.
      4.   Warming and cooking fires within the boundaries of the United States
Forest Service when the fire is ignited or maintained in accordance with the
laws and regulations set by the United States Forest Service.
      5.   Commercial fireworks as permitted by Idaho Code section 39-2605, in-
season fireworks as permitted by Idaho Code section 39-2606.
While this chapter is not intended to restrict the burning of ditch banks, and
fence rows except during a County declared burn ban, burnings of those types
must also be attended and controlled. An unattended burning of this type that
is not controlled and damages the property of another is in violation of this
chapter.
   C.   Enforcement: The provisions of this chapter may be enforced by the
Sheriff and/or any peace officer of the State of Idaho authorized by the
Sheriff. In addition, the Sheriff and/or any peace officer of the State of
Idaho authorized by the Sheriff, is authorized to extinguish or cause to be
extinguished any open fire ignited or maintained in violation of this chapter
which shall include any permitted or exempt fire that is deemed to be
uncontrolled or unattended, with the full expense of such extinguishment being
assessed to and borne by the responsible parties.
   D.   Operation Of Other Laws Not Affected: Nothing in this chapter or any
permit shall exempt any person from the operation of or compliance with any
other State, Federal or local law, regulation or ordinance.
   E.   No Liability: Washington County, its officials, employees and agents
shall not be liable for any claim or cause, regardless of the nature thereof,
arising directly or indirectly from the granting or denial of any permit under
this chapter or performance of any official duty hereunder. (Ord. 83, 1-28-
2019)
CHAPTER 11
PRESCRIBED BURNING
SECTION:
8-11-1: Prescribed Burning Rules
8-11-2: Enforcement
8-11-3: Penalty
8-11-1: PRESCRIBED BURNING RULES:
All prescribed burns;
   A.   Shall comply with Idaho State DEQ rules and have an approved start date
and an out cold stop date.
   B.   Shall limit spring burning due to the smoke from burning wet materials
and the ability to control fires burning into summer. No prescribed burns would
be allowed during the wildfire season (June 1st to Oct. 20th).
   C.   Shall show that they have used best management practices before the
area is burned, such as logging, thinning and targeted intensive grazing of the
prescribed burn area.
   D.   Shall have the property owner's written permission to burn their
property, including but not limited to ; allotment owner's or permit holder's
grass and other private land holdings within the burn boundaries or those
directly adjacent to the intended burn area.
   E.   Shall be coordinated with the County Commissioners and the Sheriff to
proceed with the prescribed burn. (Ord. 86, 9-28-2020)
8-11-2: ENFORCEMENT:
The Sheriff has the authority to enforce these prescribed burn rules in
Washington County Code. (Ord. 86, 9-28-2020)
8-11-3: PENALTY:
A misdemeanor fine of one thousand dollars ($1,000) or one (1) year in jail or
both for anyone who does not comply with this code. (Ord. 86, 9-28-2020)
CHAPTER 12
COUNTY COORDINATION AND SHERIFF’S AUTHORITY
SECTION:
8-12-1: Road Closures On Federal Land
8-12-2: Enforcement
8-12-3: Penalty
8-12-1: ROAD CLOSURES ON FEDERAL LAND:
   A.   The Federal land administrators shall coordinate with the County
Commissioners and Sheriff to close any road under their management in the
county where the Federal land resides.
   B.   The Sheriff has the authority under this chapter to open roads and
areas on the spilt estate lands that are needed for public access and safety.
   C.   The Federal law enforcement officers operate under the Sheriff's
authority and shall not enforce any laws upon the citizens of the county
without permission of the Sheriff.
   D.   The county receives funds from the timber harvest, grazing and mineral
extraction from the spilt estate land. Therefore the Federal Land Administrator
shall allow and promote timber extraction, mining activities and grazing for
the benefit of the citizens of the county as stated in, FLPMA of 1976, NFMA of
1976, and the Organic act of 1897. (Ord. 87, 9-28-2020)
8-12-2: ENFORCEMENT:
The Sheriff of Washington County has the authority to enforce this chapter when
requested by the citizens of the county or need arises as determined by the
Sheriff. (Ord. 87, 9-28-2020)
8-12-3: PENALTY:
Failure to coordinate and comply with the Authorities of Washington County and
follow the terms set out in this ordinance is a misdemeanor and is punishable
with a one thousand dollar ($1,000) fine or one (1) year in jail or both. (Ord.
87, 9-28- 2020)
CHAPTER 13
FEDERAL LANDS
SECTION:
8-13-1: Rights Of Allotment Owners On Split Estate Lands
8-13-2: Enforcement
8-13-3: Penalty
8-13-1: RIGHTS OF ALLOTMENT OWNERS ON SPLIT ESTATE LANDS:
   A.   Allotment owners on split estate lands have the right to manage,
refurbish, repair and improve their grazing preference lands by thinning
timber, planting grass and other practices that improve their grazing value as
with any other private property they own.
   B.   Allotment owners are allowed to repair, refurbish, and improve the
water on their allotments as with any other private property they own.
   C.   Allotment owners are allowed to use the timber and stone resources on
their allotments for personal use as outlined in the Organic Act of 1897. (Ord.
88, 9-29-2020)
8-13-2: ENFORCEMENT:
The Sheriff of Washington County has the authority to protect the property
rights of the citizens of the County, from anyone that would endeavor to
restrict those property rights. (Ord. 88, 9-29-2020)
8-13-3: PENALTY:
A misdemeanor fine of one thousand dollars ($1,000) and one (1) year in jail or
both for anyone who restricts or does not allow an allotment holder to exercise
his property rights on his allotments. (Ord. 88, 9-29-2020)
CHAPTER 14
PUBLIC NUISANCES
SECTION:
8-14-1: Title
8-14-2: Authority And Purpose
8-14-3: Definitions
8-14-4: Public Nuisance Unlawful; Responsible Party
8-14-5: Civil Enforcement Procedure
8-14-6: Criminal Enforcement Procedure
8-14-7: Interference With Authorized Person
8-14-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the WASHINGTON COUNTY PUBLIC NUISANCES. (Ord.
91, 3-14-2022)
8-14-2: AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE:
This chapter is enacted pursuant to authority conferred by article 12, section
2, Idaho Constitution, and Idaho Code sections 31-714, 31-801, 31-828, 63-902,
and 63-1311. Its purpose is to provide for, and further, the health and/or
safety of the public by providing a procedure for abating public nuisances
which can create traffic safety hazards, fire hazards, health hazards, and
other harm upon the health and/or safety of the public. (Ord. 91, 3-14-2022)
8-14-3: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
 
ABATEMENT: The affirmative act of removing, repairing, or taking other steps as may be
           necessary to remedy a nuisance.
           A public nuisance is a condition or use of property which is harmful or injurious
           to, or creates a danger of harm or injury to the health, safety, or welfare of
           the neighborhood, community, or members of the public, or which is so offensive
           to the senses or such an obstruction of the free use of property as to interfere
           with the comfortable enjoyment of life and property by the neighborhood,
           community, or members of the public, including by way of example the following:
           A.   A condition or use of premises or property which creates a fire hazard or
           any traffic or safety hazard to members of the public.
           B.   A condition or use of premises or property which creates a health hazard by
           permitting, allowing, or fostering the harboring and nesting of rodents, vermin
           and/or insects, or which creates any other type of health hazard to members of
           the public.
           C.   A condition or use of premises or property which allows the open storage,
           deposit, or scattering of scrap lumber or wood, waste petroleum products, scrap
           or waste paper, trash, garbage, junk, boxes, recyclable materials or debris of
           any type.
           D.   A condition or use of premises or property which allows the open storage,
           deposit, or scattering of scrap, abandoned, discarded, or unused objects such as
PUBLIC     furniture, appliances, cans, containers, tires, tools, or mechanical parts.
NUISANCE:  E.   A condition or use of premises or property which allows the open storage,
           deposit, or scattering of dismantled or partially dismantled, wrecked, junked,
           scrapped, discarded and nonoperating motor vehicles or parts thereof, provided,
           however, that no public nuisance shall exist under this subsection unless two (2)
           or more motor vehicles or parts thereof not in operating condition remain
           standing on the property for more than thirty (30) calendar days.
           F.   A condition or use of premises or property which allows the growth of weeds,
           grasses, bushes, shrubs, trees, or other plant life to such a size and in such a
           condition as to cause, or reasonably threaten to cause a fire hazard because of
           their dried and unkept condition, or a traffic or safety hazard because they
           obstruct sight, applying the measurements and standards contained in Idaho Code
           section 49-221, at intersections or other points at which driveways, lanes, or
           highways come together.
           G.   A condition or use of premises or property which allows the growth of weeds,
           grasses, bushes, shrubs, trees or other plant life to such a size and in such a
           condition as to cause, or reasonably threaten to cause a health hazard because
           they provide nesting areas for rodents, vermin and/or insects, or the growth of
           weeds to such a size or in such a condition as to interfere with the free and
           comfortable use of adjacent and neighboring premises and properties.
SUMMARY    The abatement of a public nuisance by the County, or by a contractor hired by the
ABATEMENT: County, without obligation to give prior notice of the abatement action to the
           owner or occupant of the property.
WEEDS:     Undesirable or objectionable and nonuseful plant growth but shall not include
           noxious weeds as defined by Idaho Code, section 22-2402(17). (Ord. 91, 3-14-2022)
 
8-14-4: PUBLIC NUISANCE UNLAWFUL; RESPONSIBLE PARTY:
   A.   Unlawful: It is unlawful for any person to create, cause, maintain or
knowingly allow to exist a public nuisance on any premises or real property
which the person owns, rents, leases, occupies, manages or of which the person
has charge or possession.
   B.   Agricultural Operations: The application and enforcement of this
article shall not contravene title 22, chapter 45 of the Idaho Code in that no
public nuisance shall exist under this article if the use or condition of the
property exists pursuant to an agricultural operation in accordance with
generally recognized agricultural practices.
   C.   Administration And Enforcement: The Washington County Sheriff, and/or
designated Code Enforcement Officer(s), shall be responsible for the
administration and enforcement of the provisions of this article.
   D.   Responsible Party: Where a nuisance exists upon property that is
vacant, abandoned, and/or uninhabited; the owner of record, whether a natural
person or persons or an entity of any kind, shall be presumed to be responsible
for creating, causing, committing, maintaining, and/or allowing such nuisance.
Such owner of record shall be subject to any and all penalties imposed as set
forth herein, and shall be responsible for payment of any and all costs
incurred in abating the nuisance. The owner of record shall bear the burden of
rebutting this presumption. (Ord. 91, 3-14-2022)
8-14-5: CIVIL ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURE:
   A.   Request For Voluntary Compliance: If it is determined by a Code
Enforcement Officer that a nuisance exists on any property, the Code
Enforcement Officer shall cause a written request for voluntary compliance to
be issued to the owner, occupier, and/or person in control of such property.
Such request for voluntary compliance shall contain the street address and
parcel number of the property, describe the nuisance existing thereon, request
voluntary action to eliminate the nuisance, and establish the time period for
voluntary elimination of said nuisance, which shall be thirty (30) calendar
days from the date of the request for voluntary compliance.
   B.   Order Of Abatement: If, following the issuance of a request for
voluntary compliance pursuant to subsection (1) of this section, a Code
Enforcement Officer finds that a nuisance still exists on any property, the
officer shall cause an order of abatement to be issued to the owner, occupier,
and/or person in control of such property. Such order of abatement shall
contain the street address and parcel number of the property, describe the
nuisance existing thereon, order the abatement of the nuisance, establish the
time period for abatement, specify the penalty for noncompliance, and describe
the opportunity and time for appeal. The Code Enforcement Officer shall issue
such order of abatement to the owner, occupier, or person in control of the
property on which the nuisance exists in one or more of the following ways:
      1. By hand delivery upon such owner, occupier, or person in control of
the property; or
      2. By certified mail to such owner, occupier, or person in control of the
property, at the address shown on the last available assessment roll, or as
otherwise known; or
      3. By posting such notice and order at a conspicuous place on the
property.
   C.   Time Period For Abatement: It shall be the duty of the owner, occupier,
or person in charge or control of any property where any nuisance exists, to
abate such nuisance within fourteen (14) calendar days from notice pursuant to
this section, however, the Code Enforcement Officer may require summary
abatement of a nuisance condition where such condition presents an imminent
threat to human health or safety.
   D.   Summary Abatement: Nothing contained herein shall prevent a Code
Enforcement Officer from requiring, undertaking, or causing summary abatement
of a nuisance condition where such condition presents an imminent threat to
human health or safety.
   E.   Appeal: Within ten (10) business days from the date of service,
mailing, or posting of the order of abatement, the owner, occupier, and/or
person in charge or control of the subject property may appeal to the Board by
filing a written appeal with the Washington County Clerk's Office, which appeal
shall enumerate the grounds for appeal. The Board shall consider written and
oral testimony from the appellant and shall affirm, withdraw, or modify the
order of abatement. The decision of the Board shall be final. If the Board
affirms the order, the appellant shall have fourteen (14) calendar days from
the date of such affirmation to abate the nuisance as ordered.
   F.   Abatement Procedures: The Board, upon recommendation by the Code
Enforcement Officer and after providing notice as provided herein, may abate or
cause the abatement of any nuisance where the owner, occupant, agent or person
in control of property does not comply with abatement notice. If the Board
directs the abatement of the nuisance a service fee shall be imposed against
the owner of the subject property for services provided. The fees imposed
pursuant to this section shall be reasonably related to, but shall not exceed,
the actual cost of the service being rendered. The Board shall cause the fee to
be collected in the following manner:
      1.   Recovery Of Abatement Service Fee: DSD shall send to the owner,
occupier, and/or person in control of the subject property, by regular mail, a
billing statement requiring payment to cover the costs of abating the nuisance
and the administrative services as established by fee schedule. Unless paid as
voluntarily, as provided below, such charge shall be collected in the same
manner provided by law for the collection of real and personal Property Taxes.
      2.   Automatic Lien Of Abatement Service Fee: Upon abatement, an
automatic lien in the amount of the abatement service fee shall attach to the
subject property, and a notice of lien shall be recorded within seventy two
(72) hours. Upon payment of the charges in full the lien shall be released.
      3.   Certification Of Abatement Costs: If full payment is not made within
thirty (30) calendar days of the mailing of the billing statement requiring
payment of abatement service fee, the Board shall certify such charge to be
placed on the Property Tax roll.
   G.   Certificate Of Noncompliance: In lieu of abatement, the Board may
record a Certificate of Noncompliance detailing the violations existing on the
property. Such certificate shall be removed upon remedy of the enumerated
violation.
   H.   Injunction: The County may also take civil action to obtain an order
enjoining the ongoing maintenance of such property free from nuisance, and/or
to recover any and all costs enforcement and/or litigation including, but not
limited to attorney fees and court costs. (Ord. 91, 3-14-2022)
8-14-6: CRIMINAL ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURE:
Any person who allows the existence of a public nuisance to continue after a
request for voluntary compliance shall be guilty of an infraction. Each and
every day in which any such violation continues after thirty (30) days from the
date of the request for voluntary compliance may be deemed a separate offense.
Each violation shall be punishable with a fifty dollars ($50.00) fine plus
court costs as provided in Idaho Code section 18-113A. The Washington County
Sheriff and/or designated Code Enforcement Officer(s) shall have the authority
to issue citations to violators of this chapter. (Ord. 91, 3-14-2022)
8-14-7: INTERFERENCE WITH AUTHORIZED PERSON:
It shall be unlawful, and shall be a misdemeanor punishable as provided in
Idaho Code section 18-113, to interfere with the Sheriff, Code Enforcement
Officer, or any law enforcement officer in the performance of duties connected
with enforcement of this chapter. Such interference shall include, but not be
limited to, removal of notices posted on the property pursuant to this article
or impediment or harassment of the authorized person in the performance of
their duties under this chapter. (Ord. 91, 3-14-2022)
TITLE 9
COUNTY ROADS AND PROPERTIES
CHAPTER 1
COUNTY ROADS AND PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
9-1-1: Vehicle Size, Weight And Speed Restricted
9-1-2: Cattle Guards
9-1-3: Gates Across Roadways
9-1-4: Culverts
9-1-5: Violation And Penalty
9-1-1: VEHICLE SIZE, WEIGHT AND SPEED RESTRICTED:
   A.   Short Title: This section shall be known and cited as the WASHINGTON
COUNTY SPECIAL REGULATIONS ORDINANCE.
   B.   Purpose; Application Of Provisions: It is hereby declared to be the
duty of the board of county commissioners to establish guidelines for the
reduction of allowable weight, or size, or permissible speeds of vehicles
traveling on county highways if it is the opinion of the board of county
commissioners that operation of vehicles of legal weight or size, or at legal
speed limits will cause damage to the road by reason of climatic or other
conditions or will interfere with the safe and efficient use of the highway by
the traveling public.
These regulations shall apply to all county highways within the unincorporated
territory of Washington County.
   C.   Authority To Regulate; Signs Posted:
      1.   When, in the opinion of the road and bridge supervisor, that
operation of vehicles of legal weight or size, or at legal speed limits, will
cause damage to any roadways by reason of climatic or other conditions, or will
interfere with the safe and efficient use of the highway by the traveling
public, and such facts are made known to the county board of commissioners, the
road and bridge department shall be instructed to and shall erect and maintain
signs designating the limitations of weight, size or speed at each end of such
highway or section of highway and at major intersections. Upon posting of such
restrictions, it shall be unlawful for any person to drive or operate a vehicle
on such portion of the highway at a weight or size or speed greater than that
shown on the sign designating the limitations. Said limitations shall be in
effect until such time as the road and bridge department removes said signs.
      2.   Notice of reduced or allowable weight or size or permissible speed
of vehicles shall be given by posting of signs as herein provided, and in no
other way.
   D.   Violation And Penalty: It shall be unlawful and constitute a
misdemeanor for any person to violate any provision of this section, and any
person convicted of such violation shall be subject to punishment by a fine of
not to exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00) or by imprisonment in the county
jail for not more than thirty (30) days for each offense. (Ord. 13, 4-18-1983,
eff. 4-18-1983)
9-1-2: CATTLE GUARDS:
Cattle guards may be installed on public roads and streets upon approval of the
local highway agency having jurisdiction. Cattle guards shall require a permit
from the approving local highway agency in accordance with the highway
standards and development procedures for the Weiser Valley highway district and
Washington County, Idaho.
Cattle guards shall be constructed in accordance with the following
regulations:
   A.   The initial cattle guard shall be purchased by the owner, and not the
local highway agency, and shall be constructed of metal, and shall generally be
sixteen feet (16') in length; the exact length to be determined by the width of
the road; and a span of at least seven and one-half feet (71/2'). The exact
length and span will be determined by the local highway agency road supervisor.
   B.   Prior to purchase of a cattle guard by the owner, the owner must file
an application with the local highway agency commissioners setting out the
exact location of the cattle guard. The application form will include a
statement as to the length and span of the cattle guard to be determined by the
local highway agency road supervisor.
   C.   Placement of the cattle guard shall be made by the local highway agency
and shall be maintained by the local highway agency. After placement of the
initial cattle guard, the cattle guard shall become the responsibility of the
local highway agency. When replacement is necessary, as determined by the local
highway agency road supervisor, the local highway agency shall be responsible
for the cost of a replacement cattle guard. At replacement the initial cattle
guard purchased shall be returned to the landowner(s) including bases and side
supports. Replacement cattle guards are the property of the local highway
agency. Fences and gates attached to cattle guards are not the responsibility
of the local highway agency to maintain.
   D.   Any person in the act of rescue of livestock trapped within the cattle
guard that causes damage to the structure shall report the damage and reason
damage occurred to the local highway agency for repairs immediately.
   E.   If a cattle guard is deemed by the landowner in writing as no longer
necessary, or the reason for the original permitted intent of the structure no
longer exists, the local highway agency shall have the option to remove it and
use it for repairs or replacement elsewhere as determined by the local highway
agency road supervisor.
   F.   Upon approval of this section, all cattle guards currently in service
on county-maintained roads, easement and rights-of-way shall become the
responsibility of the appropriate local highway agency and shall thereafter be
maintained and/or replaced as set forth herein.
   G.    All cattle guards must meet Idaho H.S. 20 load ratings.
   H.   This section does not pertain to cattle guards owned or within the
boundaries of lands managed by the federal government, the state of Idaho, or
within a recognized heard district under Idaho Code Title 25 Chapter 24. (Ord.
78, 2-16-2016; amd. Ord. 94, 3-18-2024)
9-1-3: GATES ACROSS ROADWAYS:
No owner or lessee of any land shall place a gate or other obstruction across a
public road or highway without the prior written permission of the county
commissioners, or the commission of the local highway agency having
jurisdiction over the road or highway. Such gate shall remain unlocked at all
times and shall require a permit from the local highway jurisdiction in
accordance with the highway standards and development procedures for the Weiser
Valley highway district and Washington County, Idaho. (Ord. 77, 12-29-2014)
9-1-4: CULVERTS:
Installation of approach/driveway culverts or other culverts (e.g., irrigation
culverts, pipes, water lines, sewer lines, etc.) not owned by the local highway
jurisdiction shall require a permit from the appropriate local highway
jurisdiction in accordance with the highway standards and development
procedures for the Weiser Valley highway district and Washington County, Idaho.
(Ord. 77, 12-29-2014)
9-1-5: VIOLATION AND PENALTY:
Unless otherwise provided herein, violation of this chapter shall be a
misdemeanor punishable by imprisonment in the Washington County Jail for a
period not to exceed six (6) months or a fine not to exceed three hundred
dollars ($300.00) or by both such imprisonment and fine. (Ord. 17, 12-16-1985,
eff. 3-1-1986)
CHAPTER 2
WEISER CITY-COUNTY AIRPORT ZONING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-2-1: Short Title
9-2-2: Purpose and Authority
9-2-3: Definitions
9-2-4: Airspace Obstruction Zoning
9-2-5: Land Use Safety Zoning
9-2-6: Airport Zoning Map
9-2-7: Nonconforming Uses
9-2-8: Permit Requirements
9-2-9: Variances
9-2-10: Limitations
9-2-11: Hazard Marking and Lighting
9-2-12: Airport Zoning Administrator
9-1-13: Board of Adjustment
9-1-14: Appeals
9-1-15: Judicial Review
9-2-16: Conflicts
9-2-17: Severability
9-2-18: Recordation and Filing
9-2-19: Violation; Penalties; Enforcement
9-2-1: SHORT TITLE:
This Chapter shall be known as the WEISER MUNICIPAL AIRPORT ZONING ORDINANCE.
Those sections of land affected by this Chapter are indicated in the Weiser
Municipal Airport Zoning Map which is attached to the ordinance codified as
this Chapter and on file in the office of the Airport Zoning Administrator.
(1995 Code)
9-2-2: PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY:
The Weiser Airport Commission created and established by action of the City
Council of the City of Weiser pursuant to provisions and authority conferred by
article 12, section 2 of the Idaho State Constitution and title 21, chapter 5
and title 67, chapter 65 of the Idaho Code, as amended, hereby finds and
declares that:
   A.   An airport hazard endangers the lives and property of users of the
Weiser Municipal Airport and property or occupants of land in its vicinity and
also, if of the obstructive type, in effect, reduces the size of the area
available for landing, takeoff and maneuvering of aircraft, thus tending to
destroy or impair the utility of the Weiser Municipal Airport and the public
investment therein.
   B.   The creation or establishment of an airport hazard is a public nuisance
and an injury to the region served by the Weiser Municipal Airport.
   C.   For the protection of the public health, safety, order, convenience,
prosperity and general welfare and for the promotion of the most appropriate
use of land, it is necessary to prevent the creation or establishment of
airport hazards.
   D.   The prevention of these airport hazards shall be accomplished, to the
extent legally possible, by the exercise of the police power without
compensation.
   E.   The prevention of the creation or establishment of airport hazards and
the elimination, removal, alteration, mitigation or marking and lighting of
existing airport hazards are public purposes for which political subdivisions
may raise and expend public funds. (1995 Code)
9-2-3: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Chapter, unless the context otherwise requires, the following
words and terms shall have the meanings indicated in this Section:
AIRPORT: The Weiser Municipal Airport located in Section 17, Township 10 North,
Range 5 West of the Boise Meridian, Washington County, Idaho.
AIRPORT ELEVATION: The established elevation of the highest point on the usable
landing area, which elevation is established to be two thousand one hundred
twenty feet (2,120') above mean sea level.
AIRPORT HAZARD: Any structure or tree or use of land which obstructs the
airspace required for or is otherwise hazardous to the flight of aircraft
landing or taking off at the airport and any use of land which is hazardous to
persons or property because of its proximity to the airport.
DWELLING: Any building or portion thereof designed or used as a residence or
sleeping place of one or more persons.
HEIGHT: For the purpose of determining the height limits in all zones set forth
in this Chapter and shown on the Zoning Map 1 , the datum shall be mean sea
level elevation unless otherwise specified.
LANDING AREA: The area of the airport used for the landing, taking off or
taxiing of aircraft.
NONCONFORMING USE: Any pre-existing structure, tree, natural growth or use of
land which is inconsistent with the provisions of this Chapter or an amendment
hereto.
PERSON: An individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company, association,
joint stock association, or body politic and includes a trustee, receiver,
assignee, administrator, executor, guardian or other representative.
PLANNED DEVELOPMENTS: Refers only to those proposed future airport developments
that are so indicated on a planning document having the approval of the Federal
Aviation Administration, the Division of Aeronautics and the City of Weiser.
RUNWAY: Any existing or planned paved surface or turf-covered area of the
airport which is specifically designated and used or planned to be used for the
landing and/or taking off of aircraft.
SLOPE: An incline from the horizontal expressed in an arithmetic ratio of
horizontal magnitude to vertical magnitude.
Slope = 3:1 = 3 ft. horizontal to 1 ft. vertical.
STRUCTURE: An object constructed or installed by man, including but without
limitations, buildings, towers, smokestacks and overhead transmission lines.
TREE: Any object of natural growth.
VISUAL RUNWAY: A runway intended solely for the operation of aircraft using
visual approach procedures with no straight-in instrument approach procedure
and no instrument designation indicated on an approved planning document.
WATER SURFACES: Shall have the same meaning as land for the establishment of
protected zones. (1995 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See Section
  5-3-7 of this Code.
9-2-4: AIRSPACE OBSTRUCTION ZONING:
   A.   Airspace Zones: In order to carry out the purpose of this Chapter, as
set forth in Section
9-2-2 above, the following airspace zones are hereby established: Primary Zone,
Horizontal Zone, Conical Zone, Approach Zone and Transitional Zone and whose
locations and dimensions are as follows:
      1.   Primary Zone: All that land which lies directly under an imaginary
primary surface, longitudinally centered on a runway extending two hundred feet
(200') beyond each of Runway 12 and Runway 30.
The elevation of any point on the primary surface is the same as the elevation
of the nearest point on the runway center line. The width of the primary
surface is two hundred fifty feet (250') for Runway 12 and Runway 30.
      2.   Horizontal Zone: All that land which lies directly under an
imaginary horizontal surface one hundred fifty feet (150') above the
established airport elevation or a height of two thousand two hundred seventy
feet (2,270') above mean sea level, the perimeter of which is constructed by
swinging arcs of specified radii from the center of each end of the primary
surface of each runway and connecting the adjacent arcs by lines tangent to
those arcs. The radius of each arc is five thousand feet (5,000') for Runway 12
and Runway 30.
      3.   Conical Zone: All that land which lies directly under an imaginary
conical surface extending outward and upward from the periphery of the
horizontal surface at a slope of twenty to one (20:1) for a horizontal distance
of four thousand feet (4,000') as measured radially outward from the periphery
of the horizontal surface.
      4.   Approach Zone: All that land which lies directly under an imaginary
approach surface longitudinally centered on the extended center line at each
end of a runway. The inner edge of the approach surface is at the same width
and elevation as and coincides with the end of the primary surface. The
approach surface inclines outward and upward at a slope of twenty to one (20:1)
for Runway 12 and Runway 30. The approach surface expands uniformly to a width
of one thousand two hundred fifty feet (1,250') for Runway 12 and Runway 30.
The approach surface extends for a horizontal distance of five thousand feet
(5,000') for Runway 12 and Runway 30.
      5.   Transitional Zone: All that land which lies directly under an
imaginary surface extending outward and upward at right angles to the runway
center line and center line extended at a slope of seven to one (7:1) from the
sides of the primary surfaces and from the sides of the approach surfaces until
they intersect the horizontal surface or the conical surface.
   B.   Height Restrictions: Except as otherwise provided in this Chapter and
except as necessary and incidental to airport operations, no structure or tree
shall be constructed, altered, maintained or allowed to grow in any airspace
zone created in subsection A of this Section so as to project above any of the
imaginary airspace surfaces described in said subsection A hereof. Where an
area is covered by more than one height limitation, the more restrictive
limitations shall prevail. Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed as
prohibiting the growth, construction, alteration or maintenance of any tree or
structure to a height up to thirty feet (30') above the surface of the land.
However, this condition or interpretation of the severability clause shall in
no way foreclose the public right to acquire easements, through purchase or
condemnation, over such area when necessary. (1995 Code)
9-2-5: LAND USE SAFETY ZONING:
   A.   Boundaries of Safety Zones: In order to carry out the purpose of this
Chapter as set forth above and, also, in order to restrict those uses which may
be hazardous to the operational safety of aircraft operating to and from the
Weiser Municipal Airport and, furthermore, to limit population and building
density in the runway approach areas, thereby creating sufficient open space so
as to protect life and property in case of an accident, there are hereby
created and established the following land use safety zones:
      1.   Safety Zone A: All land in that portion of the approach zones of a
runway, as defined in subsection
9-2-4A hereof, which extends outward from the end of primary surface a distance
equal to two-thirds (2/3) of the planned length of the runway, which distance
shall be from the end of the primary zone to the Idaho-Oregon border from
Runway 12 and Runway 30.
      2.   Safety Zone B: Not applicable.
      3.   Safety Zone C: All that land which is enclosed within the perimeter
of the horizontal zone, as defined in subsection
9-2-4A hereof, and which is not included in Zone A or B.
   B.   Use Restrictions:
      1.   General: Subject at all times to the height restrictions set forth
in subsection
9-2-4B of this Chapter, no use shall be made of any land in any of the safety
zones defined in subsection A of this Section which creates or causes
interference with the operations of radio or electronic facilities on the
airport or with radio or electronic communications between the airport and
aircraft, makes it difficult for pilots to distinguish between airport lights
and other lights, results in glare in the eyes of pilots using the airport,
impairs visibility in the vicinity of the airport or otherwise endangers the
landing, taking off or maneuvering of aircraft.
      2.   Zone A: Subject at all times to the height restrictions set forth in
subsection
9-2-4B of this Chapter and to the general restrictions contained in subsection
B1 above, areas designated as Zone A shall contain no buildings or temporary
structures and shall be restricted to those uses which will create, attract or
bring together an assembly of persons thereon. Permitted uses may include
agricultural, light outdoor recreation (nonspectator), cemeteries and auto
parking.
      3.   Zone B: Not applicable.
      4.   Zone C: Zone C is subject only to height restrictions set forth in
subsection
9-2-4B of this Chapter and to the general restrictions contained in this
subsection B1 above. (1995 Code)
9-2-6: AIRPORT ZONING MAP:
The several zones herein established are shown on the Weiser Municipal Airport
Zoning Map consisting of one sheet prepared by Mal Miner and Associates,
approved by the Idaho Department of Transportation and the Federal Aviation
Administration and dated March 27, 1980, attached and made a part hereof by
reference and on file in the office of the Airport Zoning Administrator, which
map, together with such amendments thereto as may, from time to time, be made
and all notations to the ordinance codified as this Chapter, references,
elevations, data, zone boundaries and other information thereon, shall be and
the same is hereby adopted as part of this Chapter. (1995 Code)
9-2-7: NONCONFORMING USES:
These regulations are not retroactive. The regulations prescribed by this
Chapter shall not be construed to require the removal, lowering or other
changes or alteration of any structure or tree not conforming to the
regulations as of the effective date hereof or otherwise interfere with the
continuance of any nonconforming use. Nothing herein contained shall require
any change in the construction, alteration or intended use of any structure,
the construction or alteration of which was begun prior to the effective date
hereof and is diligently prosecuted and completed within two (2) years thereof.
(1995 Code)
9-2-8: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Future Uses: Except as specifically provided in subsections B and C
hereunder, no material change shall be made in the use of land and no structure
shall be erected, altered or otherwise established in any zone hereby created,
unless a permit therefor shall have been applied for and granted by the Zoning
Administrator, hereinafter provided for. Each application for a permit shall
indicate the purpose for which the permit is desired, be on the form provided
by the Administrator and with sufficient particularity to permit it to conform
to the regulations herein prescribed. If such determination is in the
affirmative, the permit shall be granted.
   B.   Existing Uses: Before any existing use or structure may be replaced,
substantially altered or repaired or rebuilt within any zone established
herein, a permit must be secured authorizing such replacement, change or
repair. No permit shall be granted that would allow the establishment or
creation of an airport hazard or permit a nonconforming use, structure or tree
to become a greater hazard to air navigation than it was on the effective date
hereof or any amendments thereto or than it is when the application for a
permit is made. Except as indicated, all applications for such a permit shall
be granted.
   C.   Nonconforming Uses Abandoned or Destroyed: Whenever the Zoning
Administrator determines that a nonconforming structure or tree has been
abandoned or more than eighty percent (80%) torn down, physically deteriorated
or decayed, no permit shall be granted that would allow such structure or tree
to exceed the applicable height limit or otherwise deviate from the zoning
regulations. Whether application is made for a permit under this subsection or
not, the Zoning Administrator may order the owner of the abandoned or partially
destroyed nonconforming structure, at his own expense, to lower, remove,
reconstruct or equip the same in the manner necessary to conform to the
provisions of this Chapter. In the event that the owner of a nonconforming
structure shall neglect or refuse to comply with such order for ten (10) days
after receipt of written notice of such order, the Zoning Administrator may, by
appropriate legal action, proceed to have the abandoned or partially destroyed
nonconforming structure lowered, removed, reconstructed or equipped and assess
the cost and expense thereof against the land on which the structure is or was
located. Unless such an assessment is paid within ninety (90) days from the
service of notice thereof on the owner of the land, the sum shall bear interest
at the rate of eight percent (8%) per annum from the date that the cost and
expense is incurred until paid, and shall be collected in the same manner as
are general taxes. (1995 Code)
9-2-9: VARIANCES:
Any person desiring to erect or increase the height of any structure or permit
the growth of any tree or use his property not in accordance with the
regulations prescribed in this Chapter may apply to the Board of Adjustment,
hereinafter provided for, for a variance from such regulations on the form
provided by the Administrator. Such variance shall be allowed where it is duly
found that a literal application or enforcement of the regulations would result
in practical difficulty or unnecessary hardship, and relief granted would not
be contrary to the public interest but do substantial justice and be in
accordance with the spirit of this Chapter; provided, any variance so allowed
may be subject to any reasonable conditions that the Board of Adjustment may
deem necessary to effectuate the purposes of this Chapter. (1995 Code)
9-2-10: LIMITATIONS:
The requirements established by this Chapter in no way pre-empt or waiver the
requirements for notification or review established by other public agencies,
such as those established by Federal air regulation and the Idaho Division of
Aeronautics and Public Transportation. (1995 Code)
9-2-11: HAZARD MARKING AND LIGHTING:
   A.   Nonconforming Uses: The owner of any nonconforming structure or tree is
hereby required to permit the installation, operation and maintenance thereon
of such markers and lights as shall be deemed necessary by the Zoning
Administrator to indicate to the operators of aircraft in the vicinity of the
airport the presence of such airport hazards. Such marking and lighting shall
be in conformance with existing published standards provided by the State or
Federal government. Such markers and lights shall be installed, operated and
maintained at the expense of the City of Weiser.
   B.   Permits and Variances: Any permit or variance granted by the Zoning
Administrator or Board of Adjustment, as the case may be, may, if such action
is deemed advisable to effectuate the purpose of this Chapter and be reasonable
in the circumstances, so condition such permit or variance as to require the
owner of the structure or tree in question, at his own expense, to install,
operate and maintain thereon such markers and lights as may be necessary to
indicate to pilots the presence of an airport hazard. (1995 Code)
9-2-12: AIRPORT ZONING ADMINISTRATOR:
It shall be the duty of the Airport Zoning Administrator to administer and
enforce the regulations prescribed herein. Applications for permits and
variances shall be made to the Airport Zoning Administrator upon a form
furnished by him. Permit applications shall be promptly considered and granted
or denied by him. Variance applications shall be forthwith transmitted by the
Airport Zoning Administrator for action by the Board of Adjustment hereinafter
provided for. (1995 Code)
9-2-13: BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT:
   A.   Members; Terms: The Board of Adjustment shall consist of five (5)
members, three (3) of which may be selected from the Planning and Zoning
Commission within whose jurisdiction the airport exists and two (2) members
selected from the Airport Commission. Each shall serve for a term of three (3)
years and until his successor is duly appointed and qualified. Of the members
first appointed, one shall be appointed for a term of one year, two (2) for a
term of two (2) years and two (2) for a term of three (3) years. Upon their
appointment, the members shall select a chairman to act at the pleasure of the
Board. Members shall be removable by the Weiser City Council wherein whose
jurisdiction they reside, for cause, upon written charges, after a public
hearing.
   B.   Weiser Airport Board of Adjustment Serve as: The Weiser Airport Board
of Adjustment for the Weiser Municipal Airport shall serve as the Board of
Adjustment for this Chapter.
   C.   Powers: The Board of Adjustment shall have and exercise the following
powers:
      1.   To hear and decide appeals from any order, requirement, decision or
determination made by the Zoning Administrator in the enforcement of this
Chapter.
      2.   To hear and decide special exceptions to the terms of this Chapter
upon which such Board of Adjustment, under such regulations, may be required to
pass.
      3.   To hear and decide specific variances.
   D.   Rules and Procedures:
      1.   Rules Adopted: The Board of Adjustment shall adopt rules for its
governance and procedure in harmony with the provisions of this Chapter.
      2.   Meetings: Meetings of the Board of Adjustment shall be held at the
call of the chairman and at such other times as the Board of Adjustment may
determine. The chairman, or in his absence, the acting chairman, may administer
oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses. All hearings of the Board of
Adjustment shall be public.
      3.   Minutes and Records:
         a.   The Board of Adjustment shall keep minutes of its proceedings
showing the vote of each member upon each question or, if absent or failing to
vote, indicating such fact and shall keep records of its examinations and other
official actions, all of which shall immediately be filed in the office of the
Zoning Administrator and shall be a public record.
         b.   The Board of Adjustment shall make written findings of fact and
conclusions of law giving the facts upon which it acted and its legal
conclusions from such facts in reversing, affirming or modifying any order,
requirement, decision or determination which comes before it under the
provisions of this Chapter.
      4.   Voting: The concurring vote of a majority of the members of the
Board of Adjustment shall be sufficient to reverse any order, requirement,
decision or determination of the Zoning Administrator or to decide in favor of
the applicant on any matter upon which it is required to pass under this
Chapter or to effect any variation in this Chapter.
      5.   Assistance: In the event that the assistance of the Idaho Division
of Aeronautics and Public Transportation is desired in acting upon any matter,
the Board of Adjustment reserves the right to request such assistance. (1995
Code)
9-2-14: APPEALS:
   A.   Any person aggrieved or any taxpayer affected by any decision of the
Zoning Administrator made in his administration of this Chapter may appeal to
the Board of Adjustment. Such appeals may also be made by any governing body of
a municipality, county or airport commission which is of the opinion that a
decision of the Zoning Administrator is an improper application of this Chapter
as it concerns such governing body or board.
   B.   All appeals hereunder must be commenced within thirty (30) days of the
Zoning Administrator's decision by filing with the Zoning Administrator a
notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof. The Zoning Administrator shall
forthwith transmit to the Board of Adjustment all the papers constituting the
record upon which the action appealed from was taken.
   C.   An appeal shall stay all proceedings in furtherance of the action
appealed from, unless the Zoning Administrator certifies to the Board of
Adjustment, after the notice of appeal has been filed with it, that, by reason
of the facts stated in the certificate, a stay would, in his opinion, cause
imminent peril to life or property. In such case, proceedings shall not be
stayed except by order of the Board of Adjustment on notice to the Zoning
Administrator and on due cause shown.
   D.   The Board of Adjustment shall fix a reasonable time for hearing
appeals, give public notice and due notice to the parties in interest and
decide same within a reasonable time. Upon the hearing, any party may appear in
person or by agent or by attorney.
   E.   The Board of Adjustment may, in conformity with the provisions of this
Chapter, reverse or affirm, in whole or in part, or modify the order,
requirement, decision or determination appealed from and may make such order,
requirement, decision or determination as may be appropriate under the
circumstances and to that end shall have the powers of the Zoning
Administrator.
   F.   A second appeal of any decision made by the Board of Adjustment may be
made directly to the County Commissioners or Weiser City Council having
jurisdiction over the appellant's property. Such second appeal shall be in
accordance with the procedures outlined in subsections A through E of this
Section. (1995 Code)
9-2-15: JUDICIAL REVIEW:
Any person aggrieved or any taxpayer affected by any decision of the Board of
Adjustment or appellant authority defined in subsection
9-2-14F of this Chapter or any governing body of a municipality, county or
airport zoning board, which is of the opinion that a decision of the Board of
Adjustment or appellant authority is illegal, may present to the District Court
of Washington County a verified petition setting forth that the decision or
action is illegal, in whole or in part, and specifying the grounds of the
illegality. Such petition shall be presented to the Court within thirty (30)
days after the decision is filed in the office of the Board of Adjustment. The
petitioner must exhaust the remedies provided in this Chapter before availing
himself of the right to petition the Court as provided by this Section. (1995
Code)
9-2-16: CONFLICTS:
Where there exists a conflict between any of the regulations or limitations
prescribed in this Chapter and any other regulations applicable to the same
area, whether the conflict be with respect to the height of structure or trees,
the use of land or any other matter, the more stringent limitation or
regulation shall govern and prevail. This Chapter may be coordinated with and
become an appendix to area-wide comprehensive zoning ordinances encompassing
the areas described. (1995 Code)
9-2-17: SEVERABILITY:
   A.   In any case in which the provisions of this Chapter, although generally
reasonable, are held by a court to interfere with the use or enjoyment of a
particular structure or parcel of land to such an extent or to be so onerous in
their application to such a structure or parcel of land as to constitute a
taking or deprivation of that property in violation of the Constitution of this
State or the Constitution of the United States, such holding shall not affect
the application of this Chapter as to other structures and parcels of land, and
to this end, the provisions of this Chapter are declared to be severable. Such
holding will not foreclose the public right to exercise its authority to obtain
title over land affected thereby through acquisition or condemnation action.
   B.   Should any section or provision of this Chapter be declared by the
courts to be unconstitutional or invalid, such decision shall not affect the
validity of the Chapter, as a whole, or any part hereof other than the parts so
declared to be unconstitutional or invalid. (1995 Code)
9-2-18: RECORDATION AND FILING:
Copies of this Chapter and the Airport Zoning Map shall be filed with the
Recorder, Assessor, the State Division of Aeronautics and Public Transportation
of the Idaho Transportation Department and the Community Affairs Bureau of the
Division of Budget, Policy Planning and Coordination. All amendments, permits
and variances granted pursuant to authority herein shall be recorded and filed
at County level in a manner prescribed and adopted by the zoning authority.
(1995 Code)
9-2-19: VIOLATION; PENALTIES; ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Every person who shall construct, establish, substantially change,
alter or repair any existing structure or use or permit the growth of any tree
without having complied with the provisions of this Chapter or who, having been
granted a permit or variance under the provisions of this Chapter, shall
construct, establish, substantially change or substantially alter or repair any
existing growth or structure or permit the growth of any tree except as
permitted by such permit or variance shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall
be punished by a fine of not more than three hundred dollars ($300.00) or
imprisonment for not more than ninety (90) days or by both. Each day that a
violation continues to exist shall constitute a separate offense.
   B.   The Airport Zoning Administrator may enforce all of the provisions of
this Chapter through such proceedings for injunctive relief and other relief as
may be proper under the laws of Idaho and other applicable law. (1995 Code)
CHAPTER 3
WEISER CITY-COUNTY AIRPORT TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-3-1: Federal Traffic Patterns Adopted
9-3-1: FEDERAL TRAFFIC PATTERNS ADOPTED:
Advisory Circular, Department of Transportation, Federal Aviation
Administration, AC No: 90-66, dated February 27, 1975, subject: Recommended
Standard Traffic Patterns for Airplane Operations at Uncontrolled Airports, is
hereby approved and adopted for all airplane operations at the airport owned
and operated jointly by the County of Washington and the City of Weiser. A copy
of said Circular shall be posted in a conspicuous place in the office at the
airport. Three (3) copies of said Circular shall be filed with the Clerk of the
District Court for inspection during business hours by the public. (Ord. 4, 6-
14-76)
CHAPTER 4
HISTORIC PRESERVATION CODE
SECTION:
9-4-1: Purpose
9-4-2: Definitions
9-4-3: Historic Preservation Commission
9-4-4: Preservation of Historic Properties
9-4-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this Chapter is to promote the educational, cultural, economic
and general welfare of the public of the County through identification,
evaluation, designation and protection of those buildings, sites, areas,
structures and objects which reflect significant elements of the County's, the
State's and the nation's historic, architectural, archaeological and cultural
heritage. (Ord. 22, 2-2-87, eff. 2-9-87)
9-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases, when used in this Chapter, shall have, unless
the context clearly indicates otherwise, the following meanings:
COMMISSION: The Historic Preservation Commission of the County of Washington.
COUNTY: The County of Washington, Idaho.
HISTORIC PRESERVATION: The research, documentation, protection, restoration and
rehabilitation of buildings, structures, objects, districts, areas and sites
significant in the history, architecture, archaeology or culture of this State,
its communities or the nation.
HISTORIC PROPERTY: Any building, structure, area or site that is significant in
the history, architecture, archaeology or culture of this County, State or the
nation. (Ord. 22, 2-2-87, eff. 2-9-87)
9-4-3: HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION:
   A.   Commission Created; Appointments:
      1.   Created: There is hereby created a Historic Preservation Commission
which shall consist of five (5) members who shall be appointed by the Board of
County Commissioners.
      2.   Appointments: Appointments to the Commission shall be as follows:
Two (2) from the Weiser area; one from the Midvale area; one from the Cambridge
area; and one from the unincorporated area of Washington County.
   B.   Qualifications: All members of the Commission shall have a demonstrated
interest, competence or knowledge in history or historic preservation. The
Board of County Commissioners shall endeavor to appoint at least two (2)
members with professional training or experience in the disciplines of
architecture, history, architectural history, urban planning, archaeology,
engineering, law or other historic preservation-related disciplines.
   C.   Terms of Office: Initial appointments to the Commission shall be made
as follows: one one year term; two (2) two (2) year terms; two (2) three (3)
year terms. All subsequent appointments shall be made for three (3) year terms.
Commission members may be reappointed to serve additional terms. Vacancies
shall be filled in the same manner as original appointments, and the appointee
shall serve for the remainder of the unexpired term.
   D.   Organization:
      1.   Rules: The Commission shall have the power to make whatever rules
are necessary for the execution of its duties as set forth in this Chapter.
Rules of procedure and bylaws adopted by the Commission shall be available for
public inspection.
      2.   Officers: The Commission shall elect officers from among the
Commission members. The chairman shall preside at meetings of the Commission.
The vice chairman shall, in the absence of the chairman, perform the duties of
the chairman.
      3.   Meetings; Records: All meetings of the Commission shall be open to
the public and follow the requirements of Idaho's open meeting laws 1 . The
Commission shall keep minutes and other appropriate written records of its
resolutions, proceedings and actions.
   E.   Powers, Duties and Responsibilities: The Commission shall be advisory
to the County Commissioners and shall be authorized to:
      1.   Conduct a survey of local historic properties.
      2.   Recommend the acquisition of fee and lessor interests in historic
properties, including adjacent or associated lands by purchase, bequests or
donation.
      3.   Recommend methods and procedures necessary to preserve, restore,
maintain and operate historic properties under the ownership or control of the
County.
      4.   Recommend the lease, sale, other transfer or disposition of historic
properties subject to rights of public access and other covenants and in a
manner that will preserve the property.
      5.   Contract, with the approval of the County Commissioners, with the
State or Federal government, or any agency of either, or with any other
organization.
      6.   Cooperate with the Federal, State and local governments in the
pursuance of the objectives of historic preservation.
      7.   Make recommendations in the planning processes undertaken by the
County, the City, the State or the Federal government and the agencies of these
entities.
      8.   Recommend ordinances and otherwise provide information for the
purposes of historic preservation in the County.
      9.   Promote and conduct an educational and interpretive program on
historic preservation and historic properties in the County.
      10.   Commission members, employees or agents of the Commission may enter
private property, buildings or structures in the performance of their official
duties only with the express consent of the owner or occupant thereof.
      11.   Review nominations of properties to the National Register of
Historic Places for properties within the County's jurisdiction.
   F.   Technical Assistance: The Commission may recommend to the County
Commissioners, within the limits of its funding, the employment of or the
contracting with other parties for the services of technical experts or other
persons as it deems necessary to carry on the functions of the Commission.
(Ord. 22, 2-2-87, eff. 2-9-87)
 
Notes
1 1. I.C. §§67-2341 et seq.
9-4-4: PRESERVATION OF HISTORIC PROPERTIES:
Under the provisions of Idaho Code section 67-4612, as amended, the County may
provide by ordinances, special conditions or restrictions for the protection,
enhancement and preservation of historic properties. (Ord. 22, 2-2-87, eff. 2-
9-87)
CHAPTER 5
RIGHT-OF-WAY ASSERTIONS
SECTION:
9-5-1: Purpose
9-5-2: Recording of Assertions of Rights of Way
9-5-3: Form for Filing Assertion of Right of Way
9-5-4: Fee for Recording
9-5-1: PURPOSE:
The vast majority of land in Washington County is managed by a Federal or State
agency. Ever since initial settlement of Washington County lands, owners of
private land and of private property interest have, of necessity, asserted and
used rights of way upon and across such federally managed and State managed
lands in order to obtain that beneficial and economically efficient use of
their private land and property interests which is vital to the commerce and
economic stability of Washington County. The purpose of this Chapter is to
promote and foster commerce and economic stability within the County by
authorizing the County Recorder to receive and record assertions of such rights
of way upon and across federally managed and State managed lands. (Ord. 36, 4-
11-94, eff. 4-18-94)
9-5-2: RECORDING OF ASSERTIONS OF RIGHTS OF WAY:
The County Recorder shall receive for recording and shall record assertions of
rights of way which are filed with the Recorder on a form to be provided by the
Recorder. (Ord. 36, 4-11-94, eff. 4-18-94)
9-5-3: FORM FOR FILING ASSERTION OF RIGHT OF WAY:
Any assertion of right of way must be filed on the form provided by the County
Recorder, and all information required by said form shall be provided by the
person asserting the right of way. The right-of-way form must be signed by the
person asserting the right of way and the signature must be notarized. The
assertion of right of way must be accompanied by a legal description of the
asserted right of way or a map which clearly designates the location of the
asserted right of way. The Recorder shall receive and record the right-of-way
form, the supporting legal description and/or map and other documents upon
which the assertion is based. (Ord. 36, 4-11-94, eff. 4-18-94)
9-5-4: FEE FOR RECORDING:
The County Recorder shall charge a recording fee in accordance with Idaho State
law. (Ord. 36, 4-11-94, eff. 4-18-94)
TITLE 10
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
NO SMOKING POLICY
SECTION:
10-1-1: Smoking Prohibited
10-1-2: Definitions
10-1-3: Violation; Penalty
10-1-1: SMOKING PROHIBITED:
No person shall, after the effective date herein, smoke within the confines of
any Washington County buildings. (Ord. 35, 2-10-92, eff. 3-16-92)
10-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
SMOKING: Includes carrying a lighted cigar, cigarette, pipe, or any other
matter or substance which contains tobacco.
WASHINGTON COUNTY BUILDINGS: Shall include the Washington County Courthouse,
the Washington County Courthouse Annex, the Washington County Road and Bridge
Department buildings, the Washington County Weed Control buildings, and the
Washington County Ambulance District building. (Ord. 35, 2-10-92, eff. 3-16-92)
10-1-3: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person who violates any of the provisions of this Chapter is guilty of an
infraction and is subject to a fine not to exceed fifty dollars ($50.00). Any
violation may be reported to a law enforcement officer. (Ord. 35, 2-10-92, eff.
3-16-92)
CHAPTER 2
SEPTAGE WASTE
SECTION:
10-2-1: Purpose
10-2-2: Definitions
10-2-3: Septage and Pumpable Waste Transportation
10-2-4: Septage Application
10-2-5: Pumpable Waste Disposal
10-2-6: Penalty; Civil Enforcement
10-2-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this Chapter is to regulate the transportation and disposal of
pumpable waste and land application of septage within the County limits of the
County of Washington in order to protect the health and safety of residents and
the environment in which they live. (Ord. 37, 9-6-94, eff. 9-12-94)
10-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
ANNUAL APPLICATION RATE: The maximum amount of domestic septage that can be
applied to a unit area of land during a three hundred sixty five (365) day
period.
DOMESTIC SEPTAGE: Either liquid or semi-solid material removed from a septic
tank, cesspool, portable toilet, Type III marine sanitation device, or similar
treatment works that receives only domestic sewage. Domestic septage does not
include liquid or solid material removed from a septic tank, cesspool, portable
toilet, Type III marine sanitation device, or similar treatment works that
receives either commercial wastewater or industrial wastewater and does not
include grease removed from a grease trap.
DOMESTIC SEWAGE: Waste and wastewater from humans or household operations that
is discharged to or otherwise enters a treatment works.
PUMPABLE WASTES: Nonseptage pumpable wastes which include materials from grease
traps, car wash sumps, service station sumps, industrial waste, commercial
cleaning waste, and municipal sludge.
SEPTAGE: Either liquid or semi-solid material removed from a septic tank,
cesspool, portable toilet, Type III marine sanitation device, or similar
treatment works that receives domestic, commercial or industrial sewage and
does not include grease removed from a grease trap. (Ord. 37, 9-6-94, eff. 9-
12-94)
10-2-3: SEPTAGE AND PUMPABLE WASTE TRANSPORTATION:
Septage, domestic or otherwise, and nonseptage pumpable waste shall not be
transported in Washington County except in compliance with this Chapter.
Specific requirements include the following:
   A.   All septage and pumpable waste in transit within the County shall be
transported by operators permitted as septage or pumpable waste haulers or
septage applicators by the district health departments with jurisdiction.
Septage and pumpable waste transport vehicle operator(s) must carry
documentation of the current permit(s) in the waste transportation vehicle
whenever in operation or in transit. Each such operator must carry proof of
necessary permit status in all transporting vehicles at all times, and must
provide proof of licensure upon demand to any peace officer, County employee or
official, representative of the health district jurisdiction.
   B.   Trucks and implements employed in septage and pumpable waste
transportation shall be kept externally clean, and tanks holding waste shall be
kept closed and mechanically locked to prevent opening under impact, whenever
in transit. No vehicle shall be permitted to exhibit any visible splashing or
leakage of septage that can drip off or be washed off by precipitation or by
splashed water.
   C.   Septage and pumpable waste transporter(s) shall maintain a progressive
manifest in each vehicle, acknowledged by the operator, incorporating a
statement of location of origin for each load, including the component parts
thereof, if more than one source contributes to the load. Each operator shall
also maintain coordinate records regarding the time and place of discharging or
disposal of any such cargo, with date and transporter's signature. Septage and
pumpable waste transporter(s) shall maintain copies of said manifests in their
business records for five (5) years and shall allow inspection of such records
upon written inquiry by County employees or officials. Failure to maintain
accurate and truthful records of this type shall constitute a violation of this
Chapter.
   D.   Any person who dumps, spills or otherwise allows septage or pumpable
waste to be discharged into the environment except in accordance with the
transportation and application provisions of this Chapter shall be responsible
for payment of all costs of clean up including the cost of emergency response,
repair or replacement of equipment, and such other supply and personnel costs
as may be reasonably incurred in remedying environmental damage and harm to
equipment by virtue of such discharge. The legal costs of enforcing compliance
with the terms of this Chapter shall be considered a clean-up cost for purposes
of reimbursement. (Ord. 37, 9-6-94, eff. 9-12-94)
10-2-4: SEPTAGE APPLICATION:
Septage collected in Washington County shall not be disposed of other than in a
municipally operated treatment works unless the following conditions are
complied with:
   A.   Septage land application on any location within the County may only be
conducted by an applicator with a septage application permit from the District
Health Department on a site with approval by local zoning authorities subject
to terms and conditions established by Washington County.
   B.   Domestic septage being temporarily stored for disposal will be
deposited only at publicly operated domestic septage transfer facility.
   C.   Domestic septage processing and handling shall comply with applicable
Federal regulations found at 40 CFR 1995 part 503.13(c), Application Rate;
503.14(e) (3), Management; 503.16(b), Minimum Site Monitoring Requirements and
Frequency; 503.17(b) Minimum Record Keeping; 503.32(b)(2) Pathogen Reduction;
503.32(b)(5) (i) through (v), Site Restrictions; 503.33(b) (12) Vector
Reduction.
   D.   All domestic septage will be pH stabilized by the addition of lime,
hydrated lime, or an alkaline agent that will elevate the pH to 12 (minimum)
and maintain the pH at that level for at least thirty (30) minutes prior to
land application.
   E.   Domestic septage shall be applied only to sites having appropriate
permit from the health district having jurisdiction and in compliance with
zoning requirements after treatment as required by this Chapter. No person
shall discharge or dispose of improperly treated or untreated septage contrary
to the terms of this Chapter.
   F.   Trucks and implements employed in land application of septage shall be
kept externally clean, and tanks holding septage shall be kept closed and
mechanically locked to prevent opening under impact, whenever in transit within
Washington County. Any visible splashing or leakage of septage that can drip
off or be washed off by precipitation or splashed water outside of the defined
boundaries of a land application site is hereby prohibited. (Ord. 37, 9-6-94,
eff. 9-12-94)
10-2-5: PUMPABLE WASTE DISPOSAL:
Pumpable waste shall not be disposed of in a manner or at a facility
specifically approved for disposal operations unless the following conditions
are complied with:
   A.   Land application of pumpable waste on any location within the County
may only be conducted by one with a land application permit from the Idaho
Department of Health and Welfare, Division of Environmental Quality or District
Health Department on a site approved by County zoning authorities subject to
terms and conditions established by Payette County. No person shall discharge
or dispose of improperly treated or untreated pumpable waste contrary to the
terms of this Chapter.
   B.   Trucks and implements employed in land application of pumpable waste
shall be kept externally clean, and tanks holding pumpable waste shall be kept
closed and mechanically locked to prevent opening under impact, whenever in
transit within Washington County. Any visible splashing or leakage of waste
that can drip off or be washed off by precipitation or splashed water outside
of the defined boundaries of a land application site is hereby prohibited.
(Ord. 37, 9-6-94, eff. 9-12-94)
10-2-6: PENALTY; CIVIL ENFORCEMENT:
Violation of the terms of this Chapter shall be punishable as a misdemeanor
criminal offense subject to a fine not to exceed three hundred dollars
($300.00) or confinement in the County jail not to exceed one hundred eighty
days, or both, for each violation. Washington County may also compel compliance
with the terms of this Chapter or recover costs of remedying violations of
terms of this Chapter by initiating civil action in a court of competent
jurisdiction. (Ord. 37, 9-6-94, eff. 9-12-94)
CHAPTER 3
ORCHARD PESTS
SECTION:
10-3-1: Purpose
10-3-2: Definitions
10-3-3: Orchard Review Board
10-3-4: Control Procedures
10-3-5: Right Of Entry
10-3-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to enable Washington County to more effectively
control and prevent the spread of orchard pests, and by these actions protect
the viability, productiveness, and competitiveness of the orchard industry in
Washington County, and ensure the industry's continued contribution to the
economy of the county. The authority to control agricultural pests is granted
to the county commissioners by Idaho Code section 25-2601. (Ord. 48, 5-6-2002)
10-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
BOARD: The orchard review board.
NEGLECTED OR ABANDONED: Any orchard or private orchard where standard orchard
or private orchard management practices as described in state and regional
publications are not being met and one or more pest, pathogen, disease, or
conditions of economic consequence to the particular crop being grown exist.
ORCHARD: An area that has fruit tree(s), wild or cultivated, and includes fruit
tree(s) growing in a fence row, ditch bank, or other location.
PRIVATE ORCHARD: Privately owned fruit tree(s), fruit from which is used solely
for the consumption of the owner's family members. (Ord. 48, 5-6-2002)
10-3-3: ORCHARD REVIEW BOARD:
   A.   Creation: Pursuant to the authority granted under Idaho Code section
25-2603, the Washington County commissioners hereby create an orchard review
board to control orchard pests. The orchard review board is vested with the
power to control pests as provided in this chapter, subject to review by the
Washington County commissioners.
   B.   Composition: The board shall be composed of five (5) members appointed
by the Washington County commissioners. Two (2) of the members shall be from
the commercial orchard industry, one shall be a private citizen and resident of
Washington County with no commercial ties to the orchard industry, one member
shall be a private orchardist or retired commercial orchardist or have some
background or knowledge of orchard management and fruit production, and the
fifth member shall be that person employed by the University of Idaho at the
Washington County agricultural extension agency. The board members shall serve
for a term of two (2) years and shall serve without a salary or other
compensation. All board members will be protected by Washington County errors
and omissions insurance while acting in his or her capacity as a board member.
   C.   Duties: It shall be the duty of the board to review and act on all
complaints involving orchard pests in orchards private or otherwise. When the
board cannot resolve issues leading to the complaint, the Washington County
prosecuting attorney and sheriff shall, at the request of the Washington County
commissioners, assist in the enforcement of this chapter.
   D.   Notification Of Complaint: Any notice to control pests identified under
this chapter shall be accomplished by ten (10) days' notice in writing, to
control pests identified; or if such land is unoccupied or owned by a
nonresident, or the resident cannot be located, such notice shall be mailed to
the owner's last address and posted upon the land or premises where such pests
are to be controlled. (Ord. 48, 5-6-2002)
10-3-4: CONTROL PROCEDURES:
   A.   Only signed written complaints shall be reviewed and investigated by
the board. Upon receipt of a complaint, the board shall immediately notify the
landowner of the complaint and name a board member to act as a contact for the
landowner. That board member shall arrange with the landowner a time for the
appointed investigatory team to examine the orchard or private orchard in
question.
   B.   The board shall appoint three (3) investigators to carry out the field
inspection of any orchard or private orchard under review by the board. The
investigatory team shall be composed of that board member named as the contact
person for the landowner, and that person employed by the University of Idaho
at the Washington County agricultural extension agency to act as an advisor.
The other member of the investigatory team shall be determined by the board.
   C.   The board in conjunction with that person employed by the University of
Idaho at the Washington County agricultural agency, any other agricultural
extension specialist deemed necessary, and a representative of the Idaho
department of agriculture, division of plant industries, will establish the
inspection procedures to be used by any board investigatory team. Such
procedures shall be reviewed by the Washington County commissioners and must be
approved by the county commissioners prior to implementation.
   D.   If the investigatory team finds that an orchard or private orchard does
in fact contain orchard pests, the landowner in question shall be given written
notice to control such pests within ten (10) days of receipt of the notice.
Such notice shall comply with subsection
10-3-3D, "Notification Of Complaint", of this chapter.
   E.   If the landowner fails to control the specified pest or pests within
ten (10) days, the landowner in question shall be given notice, not less than
seven (7) days before the hearing, to appear before the board to show cause why
the board should not initiate steps to control the pest or pests. Such notice
shall comply with subsection
10-3-3D, "Notification Of Complaint", of this chapter.
   F.   Unless the landowner can show that the agricultural pests do not exist,
or that they do exist but it is not necessary to control them, such landowner
shall be requested to enter into a contract with the board specifying a time in
which such pests will be controlled by the landowner, and any other provisions
determined by the board to be necessary for the fulfillment of the purposes of
this chapter.
   G.   In the event that the board and the landowner cannot reach an agreement
on how to resolve the situation, the board shall have the right to take action,
including, but not limited to, contract spraying, orchard or private orchard
destruction and uprooting, and chemical herbiciding of tree stumps.
   H.   Any landowner subject to an investigation by the board or under an
agreement with the board may at any time request through their board contact
person a hearing before the board.
   I.   If the landowner does not appear at the hearing, or does appear, but
refuses to enter into the contract as requested by the board, or fails to
comply with the terms of the contract, the board may cause control procedures
to be initiated as soon as practicable at the owner's expense. Collection of
said expenses shall be made through a cause of action brought by the members of
the board through the Washington County prosecuting attorney. (Ord. 48, 5-6-
2002)
10-3-5: RIGHT OF ENTRY:
Any agent authorized by the board to carry out an inspection on its behalf may
enter upon any property within the county for the purpose of administering this
chapter and any other power exercisable pursuant thereto, including the taking
of specimens, general inspection, and the performance of such acts as are
necessary for the controlling and preventing the spread of orchard pests and
diseases. Such entry may be without consent, and no action for trespass or
damages shall lie so long as such entry and any activities connected therewith
are undertaken and prosecuted with reasonable care.
Should any such authorized agent of the board be denied access to such property
where such access was sought to carry out the provisions of this chapter, the
board shall apply to the magistrate of the district court for Washington
County, Idaho, seeking an order directing the landowner to allow the board or
its authorized agent to enter the land to exercise any power under this
chapter. If such an order is made necessary by the landowner, such landowner
shall be liable for fees and costs associated with obtaining such order as
determined in the discretion of the magistrate judge. (Ord. 48, 5-6-2002)
